I'm really excited about opening this subject up for the next four MCMs. Now, this is called the Ministry Community Meeting. We've been having MCMs since 1992, maybe 91. And one of the things I was surprised at was when I was preparing for this, I was looking for, I remember a teaching I did with the small group leaders at the Ministry Community Meeting a long time ago on the subject of renewal and revival and prayer. I came to find out this is the first thing I ever spoke about whenever we got our ministry leaders together. And because, as you just heard, prayer was a - when you start a church, you're so scared. And the idea of getting the thing started in a place like New York City seems to be so impossible that you pray. And I think it's been a while since we had something in front of us that seemed impossible. And so we probably haven't prayed like we should. should. And now I think we do have some things in front of us. If we really, really want, really truly want to have a city-shaping movement of the gospel in the city, we are going to have to pray. Now, let's talk first of all about, look at it on the first page. I'm not going to go through, I'm not going to read this part. I'm going to say that if you read this yourself, you'll find that in the Old Testament, there was a history of revivals or renewals. Some of them were kind of leader-led and they were major renewals in which the children of Israel went back into the covenant, went back into the scripture, revisited their history, revisited their calling, and renewed their commitment to who God called them to be. This happened right before they went into the promised land. It happened before they built the temple. It happened before they crowned their first king. It happened after they came back from the exile. There were also grassroots kinds of revivals. You see them through the book of Judges all the time. That the children of Israel would fall under the oppression of a neighboring nation and they would cry out to the Lord. They realized that they had lost their first love and they would cry out and they would pray. And those were more kind of grassroots. And I say here in the third paragraph, if you really go through the whole Old Testament and look at all the places where there's been renewal or revival, If you look at the revivals, they're so different. Some are very formal. Some seem to be spontaneous. Some are led by a strong central leader. Some seem to bubble out of the grassroots and there's no leader mentioned. But the one thing that's stated over and over and over again is then the people cried out to the Lord. It's the one constant. No matter who's doing it, no matter what's happening, some of them are more priestly revivals, some are more prophetic revivals, some are more kingly revivals. But they always, that runs through all of them is the people cried to the Lord, not just said their prayers, cried to the Lord. Go to the New Testament, and you think, well, we're a lot better in the New Testament. Surely you don't need renewal and revivals. Well, just as the children of Israel are turned into God's people, they are constituted as his people at Mount Sinai in a covenant-making ceremony. And then throughout the next centuries, they have covenant renewal ceremonies. They have to get back to their roots, remember who they are, recommit to the vision. You go to the New Testament, and the people of God are constituted at Pentecost, the upper room. Down comes the fullness of the Holy Spirit. And then they are constituted, the church, God's people. if you look carefully through the rest of the book of Acts, in spite of the fact that they're filled with the Holy Spirit, there's a constant need for new fillings. And I make a long list of all the places where you see that the apostles, something happened, and they were filled with the Spirit, and they began to do this, and they began to do that. So it's not that you get filled once, and from then on, as long as you really work hard and you pray, somehow you don't need renewal, revival. That's not happening. Every chapter, every couple of chapters, there's a need for a new filling. Now, the thing that's actually distracting about the book of Acts is that some of the Pentecosts, some of these filling experiences are mighty spectacular. And you read it and you see the miracles and you see the tongues and, of course, there's a lot of controversy about those sorts of things. There are certain churches that say, yes, that should always be there, and others say no. But you can miss the forest with the trees. If you turn over to the back to page 2, down to look at every one of the places where there's another New Testament renewal, a new filling of the Holy Spirit, a new fullness coming down, you always see two things. And this is the first full paragraph. In summary, what all the incidents have in common, there is a continual need to renew the fullness of the Spirit. And the one thing that is always, always connected to an experience of the fullness of the Spirit is prayer. Sometimes there's tongues, sometimes there's not. Sometimes there's an apostle. Sometimes there's not. Sometimes it's a whole group of people. Sometimes it's just a couple of people or even one person. These fullness experiences, these mini Pentecosts. But the one constant that's always there is prayer. Okay? Old Testament, New Testament. Now let's talk about church history. Street. Do you know that in 1857 to 1859, there was a revival in the churches of New York? Now, New York City at that time was largely the lower part of Manhattan. When I first came here, I heard about this. It's called the Fulton Street Revival. And because I was still teaching part time occasionally at Westminster Seminary in Philadelphia and had access to a library, I remember after I'd heard about it here, I went down to the library and I looked up and found some very interesting things. There's some books in the Westminster Library, books, volumes of sermons by pastors from these revival years here in the city, and statistics. And here's something that's kind of hard for us to understand. But basically, across all of New York City, in a two-year period, all the churches grew in membership. We're talking about baptisms and membership, not just people who said they became Christians. It grew 50% in two years. All across the whole thing, across the whole city. And in the United States, during that same period of time, about a half a million people became Christians. in Northern Ireland the same three years one third of the population got converted there were 300,000 people there 100,000 people joined the church it's a revival now there have been a number of these kinds of revivals in the Christian world quite a few they've been in Africa they've been in Korea there's a great book called The Korean Pentecost it talks about the great revivals A Korean church got its power and its ball rolling back in the early part of the 20th century. Some of these revivals are preaching revivals, where you have some great preacher. Some of them, there's no preacher. Some are clergy-led. Some are lay-led. Some are-they're so different. And also, theologically, some are Calvinist. Some are Arminian. Some are Pentecostal. Some aren't. But there's always one thing. There's always one factor that's always there. Small groups, sorry, no. Expository preaching, no. This particular doctrine, no. Tongues and healing, no. There's always one thing. Corporate, prevailing, intensive, kingdom-centered prayer. Over and over again. Now, I want to go through what that is, and that's where I'm going to go line by line. So will you turn over to page three? See, I went pretty fast. If you go home and read this, you'll see, survey about revivals and renewals in the Old Testament, then revivals and renewals in the New Testament, then revivals and renewals since, you know, in church history. But now let's get down to what this is. I think I've almost proven, I guess if you can prove something like this, that not that this is the only thing that has to happen for Redeemer to really have our people come together and renew their vision to be who we are called to be in the city. Every renewal is a little different. I don't think, as far as I know, I've been studying church history, but I don't think the Internet has ever been used in a revival before. And maybe we will be the first. So, I mean, the methods change, but there's one constant. There's one thing that's always there. And this isn't just saying your prayers. And this isn't just individual prayer. This is, and I'm looking at the, page three, go down to where it says, how does spiritual renewal come? Biblically and historically, the one non-negotiable universal ingredient in times of spiritual renewal is corporate prevailing intensive kingdom-centered prayer. What is that? All right, let's go through that. First of all, it's prayer that's focused on God's presence and kingdom. Now, there's nothing wrong. In fact, nothing wrong. You have to pray for your personal needs. You have to pray for mommy, and daddy. You have to pray for everybody. You have to pray for your daily bread. You have to pray for health. You have to pray for your friends who are suffering. You have to pray for those kinds of needs. Absolutely crucial for spiritual vitality. God commands it. So I don't want in any way for you to think that I'm making this second-class prayer. All I'm saying is when it comes to renewal of a church, when it comes to renewal of a city, when it comes to the renewal of the body of Christ, that's not the prayer. that brings renewal. What brings renewal is corporate prayer. Prayer is focused on the kingdom and on the church and on the people of God. My old pastor in Philadelphia, Jack Miller, he used to talk about the difference between what he called maintenance prayer and frontline prayer meetings. Maintenance prayer meetings are short, they're mechanical, and they're totally focused on physical, personal sort of, you know, needs inside the church. Frontline prayer has three basic traits. First of all, it's a request for grace to confess sins and humble yourself. Now, I'm going to get back to that here in a second. But first of all, the kind of prayer that has really changed churches and changed cities always has this element. You do not, and I'll get back to this in a second. No, let me just say it right now. You have to be incredibly happy to be sad in the right way. Okay? Write that down. Why aren't you writing that down? This must be profound. It makes no sense. When the gospel is not just a concept, but when the love of Jesus for you, the unconditional love of Jesus for you, is so real to you and you are so certain of it that it's like a foundation, it's the foundation of stone beneath you. It's like, it's something that you know can never, you can never be shaken when you know that. at, that gives you the freedom to admit what's wrong with you, finally. When your identity is based on living up to standards, you can't admit what's wrong with you because your very foundations are being destroyed when someone criticizes you or when you criticize yourself. But when you have a different foundation, when the love of Jesus Christ is real enough to you, then you have the freedom to admit what's wrong with you in a way that doesn't destroy you. There's a kind of confessing, there's a kind of repentance that's sweet, actually. It hurts, of course, but in the context of your conscience being so strengthened and your heart being so strengthened by the love of God, finally you can get out of denial about what's wrong with you. and when you are able to have that this kind of repentance that is born of assurance of god's love it's the first step on becoming an attractive a spiritually attractive person it's the first step on beginning to repent of your sins and that is always the things that triggers more of the presence of god in the midst repentance it can't be morbid repentance it can't be you know, oh, how bad I am. It's got to be repentance born out of the joy and out of the assurance of God's love. And so, how does that come? You are not capable of it. You need actually a lot of his joy in order to become sad in the right way, to mourn and to weep over your sins in the right way, in a way that builds you up, in a way that humbles you, in a way that softens you, in a way that gets you closer to Jesus, in a way that gets you closer to the people around you. All the barriers come down. So the first thing is you have to ask for grace to confess sins and humble yourself. Secondly, you have to, in prayer, express a compassion and zeal for the flourishing of the church. You want to see it flourish. You want to see its peace. You want to see it grow. You want to see it mature. You want to see it beautiful. You want to see the bickering gone. You want to see the lethargy gone. You want to see the mechanical worship gone. You just want to see the church be what it's supposed to be. So you begin to pray for the church like that. And then thirdly, a yearning to know God and see his face and see his glory. That is the big request. Show me your glory, says Moses. I know it might kill me, but I would like even a glimpse of it before I die. Show me your glory. And what that means is I want to sense your presence. midst. I want to see you. I want to sense you with the eyes of my faith. I don't want you just to be a concept. I want you to be a reality to me. And I want you to be a reality to my church. Now, that's frontline prayer. And if you go read Acts 4, Exodus 33, Nehemiah 1, any of these places where there's some major renewal that happened, you'll see that's what happened in the prayer. This is not just a prayer for my needs and your needs. This is a prayer that is characterized by asking for grace for confession and repentance, praying the church into the shape it's supposed to be, and a passionate desire to actually have the glory of God manifesting itself in our midst, where you sense his presence. You can cut it like with a knife. Now, that's the first thing. That's kingdom-centered prayer. We want the kingdom. You pray that a lot, don't you? There's a lot of ways. I mean, I have not just exhausted the meaning of that, but at least when you're praying thy kingdom come, you're supposed to be kingdom-centered in the way you're thinking. Don't run on to your daily bread so fast, past kingdom come. Secondly, it's bold. It's very bold and specific. When you watch Moses or an awful lot of the people, even Job, Jeremiah, Samuel, the prayer leaders of the Old Testament, and this is the Old Testament, you know, when they didn't have anything like the assurance we had. It's amazing how they argue with God. They say, you've got to do this. This has got to happen. This will glorify you. The Psalms, so many of the Psalms are like that, don't you see? There's a boldness and there's a specificity. It means to pray for the Greeks of Astoria. you. It means to pray for the Russian Jews of Sheepshead Bay. That's specific. That's bold. To say, I want to see the gospel run through that group of people. Are we that specific? Are we that bold? Do we come after God like that? You know, the story I love to tell, some of you heard me do it before, but supposedly when Alexander the Great had one of his leading generals, One of his leading generals, his daughter was getting married, and Alexander the Great says, look, I'd be happy to contribute to the wedding. I know it will be expensive, so just ask for something. And the general wrote out a request for an enormous sum, ridiculous sum. And when Alexander's treasurer saw it, he brought it to Alexander and says, I'm sure you're going to be cutting this man's head off now for what he's done. The audacity of asking for something like this. Who does he think you are? Alexander says, give it to him. He says, by such an outlandish request, he shows that he believes that I am both rich and generous. He was flattered by it. And, you know, there's a little line in a John Newton hymn that goes like this, thou art coming to a king, large petitions with thee bring, for his grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. And lastly, and this is what I actually want to talk about next week. Week, pardon me. I always get this mixed up. MCMs every month. Next month. Why does God seem to want us to repeat ourselves? Why can't we just ask it once and that's it? Huh? Why does he need to be reminded? I've read a couple of sermons recently by Jonathan Edwards. They're two or three hundred year old sermons and they have really opened my eyes to why, in general, it's best for us that God waits and doesn't give us what we pray for until we've asked for a long time. Isn't that interesting? I'm not going to go into that now. I'm trying to get you to come back in October. So I'll just tell you about it. Here's what I know. This prayer has to be prevailing. It has to be not sporadic and brief, which shows a lack of dependence. It shows a self-sufficiency. We haven't really built an altar. and laid out the altar on which God can send his fire, unless we pray and pray together. It should be corporate. We keep each other hot, just like all the different coals of the fire. You bring them together, and the fire goes up. You spread the coals out, and the fire goes out. Kingdom-centered, bold, specific, prevailing corporate prayer. Now, here's how we're going to get started tonight. What are we going to do? Go over to the top of page five. One of the places where you see that Jesus Christ is trying to bring his disciples from the level they're at to a new level. I mean, the disciples were Christians, you know, before. But in Acts 1, Jesus is trying to raise them to a new level so he can send them out in the world and do much more than they ever could have before. And we see there, here's the image, is you can think of revival as not something you can pull off. It's not something you can push a button on. same time, you don't just wait back passively and say, well, when God wants to send a revival, he will. The best illustration I know of for revival is the idea of what Elijah did. He built an altar, he laid the sacrifice out, and down comes the fire. Now, you know what's good about that metaphor? On the one hand, God's fire doesn't come down into the mud. He's not just going to come down anywhere. On the other hand, building the altar doesn't bring about the fire. God has to send the fire. What does it mean to build an altar? To ask God to send down his fire. Four things, and we're going to pray about them right now. We're going to try to build the altar in prayer, I mean. First of all, a renewed church is vision-driven. In Acts chapter 1, verse 6 to 8, Jesus repairs their faulty vision of what he's going to do in the world. They say, Master, they say, are you now going to restore the kingdom? And Jesus says, no, no, no. And then And he begins to give them a little, he says, this is not what it's, I'm leaving and you're going to be my agents in the world. So he gives them a better understanding of the vision. He teaches them the Bible. Jesus spent 40 days with his disciples trying to move them to the next level before he ascended, studying the Bible with them. And that's one of the things we're going to be doing all fall. We're going to be studying what the word of God says about who we should be as a people. Secondly, it's Gospel-driven. And Gospel-driven, as I've tried to already show you, is a renewed church is Gospel-driven. Jesus' sentence of the Father in heaven and tells the disciples that now the knowledge of his ascension would empower them. I can't go into that, but you know. Without an understanding of the Gospel, this kind of prayer doesn't happen. Renewal doesn't happen. Number three, a renewed church is a prayer-driven church. And number four, a renewed

That's all in that chapter, and I don't have time to go into it, but let me just look at you. A lot of you do not think like your leaders. If you're sitting in this room, I have news for you. If you are willing to step up and do anything at all, which in a busy place like New York is doing a lot, the other people are going to be watching you. The way for us to become a renewed church is for the leaders to examine his or her, examine their lives, lives, to ask for grace, for repentance, to get happy enough to be sad, to humble yourself, to repent, to ask for God's fullness in your life and in the life of your church. You've got to do it first or the people won't do it.