Tonight's scripture reading comes from the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 11, verses 18 through 34. In the first place, I hear that when you come together as a church, there are divisions among you. And to some extent, I believe it. No doubt, there have to be differences among you to show which of you have God's approval. When you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper you eat. For as you eat, each of you goes ahead without waiting for anybody else.

of me. In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Therefore, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of A man ought to examine himself before he eats the bread and drinks of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep. But if we judged ourselves, we would not come under judgment. When we are judged by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be condemned with the world. Then, my brothers, when you come together to eat, wait for each other. If anyone is hungry, he should eat at home, so that when you meet together, it may not result in judgment. And when I come, I will give further directions. This is God's word.

Now, each week we've been pointing out that beliefs don't automatically produce behavior or character. you may really believe that God loves you. You may believe in God and believe God really loves you and yet be just as anxious, just as selfish, just as messed up as people who don't. So that belief that God loves you ought to make a huge difference. It ought to make an enormous difference. But in so many cases, it doesn't. It does not. Why not? Because beliefs don't automatically produce changed character. Beliefs must be turned into changed character through Christian practices is what we're calling them, or spiritual disciplines. Things that actually take your beliefs and shape your character with them. And maybe the Christian discipline par excellence is the one we're talking about tonight, which is observing the Lord's Supper. It's also called communion, also called the Eucharist. And through this text we just had read, there's a Greek word that actually shows up five times. it's called, the Greek word is synerkistai, which means to bring together, to come together, to unite or to connect together. Now, it's translated in different ways through the text, so when you're reading it in English, it's not as striking. But it's the theme. The theme is that communion connects things. The Lord's Supper connects things that otherwise would be fragmented. And in order to understand what it means to observe the Lord's Supper and to have it really shape your character and change your life. You need to know what some of those connections are. Let's just mention, let me just go over four that Paul talks about, four ways that the Lord's Supper connects things. It connects your past, pardon me, it connects the present to the past. It connects your soul to God. It connects the individual to community. And it connects your life story to the future. Four, look at number one. The first thing we learn here is the Lord's Supper connects the present to the past because it immediately connects you to the night in which he was betrayed. The night in which he was betrayed. Always, whenever we observe the Lord's Supper, we're not just talking about the present. We're remembering the last supper of Jesus with the disciples, the night in which he was betrayed. Let's go back to that night. of night was it? It was a Passover night. It was a Passover meal. And you know, at Passover, usually one of the kids is asked a question. Why is this night unlike all other nights? Why is this night different than all other nights? It's because it was referring back to the great act of liberation in which God brought the Israelites out of Egypt. Here's what happened at Passover. The Israelites were slaves. The king of Egypt, Pharaoh, would not liberate them. Therefore, God sent the angel of death to Egypt. And this angel of death was actually

judgment day scrolled forward. What God was doing on a mini scale, he was bringing down the sword of divine justice, which is something that at the end of time on judgment day is going Israelites. However, because of what Egypt had done, God allowed a sort of intrusion, a scroll forward of Judgment Day. Now, the Israelites were human beings, like the Egyptians. They were as subject to divine justice and divine judgment as anybody else. So how were they going to survive the angel of death? Here's what God said to them. in every town in every home the Israelite families must come together and must eat a feast of a meal they must slay a lamb eat the lamb and put the blood on the doorposts of their home they take shelter under the blood of the lamb the lamb dies instead of anyone inside the home And so when the angel of death comes and sees the blood on the doorpost, the angel of death will pass over the family and they'll be saved. And as a result, because they took children under the blood of the lamb, because the lamb died instead of anyone inside the home, the Israelites were saved and they were liberated and they were brought out. Passover. and Moses in Exodus 12 says, therefore there must be a perpetual memorial that must never be changed, that once a year this meal will remember that incredible, that wonderful, that great, that liberation.

Until the night on which Jesus was betrayed because on the night he was betrayed, it was a Passover night and he was celebrating the lower supper with his, the Passover, with his disciples exciting, but he immediately began to make changes, which is an incredibly audacious thing to do when you consider that Moses said, this must never be changed. We must look back to this great act of salvation. Because the first thing that Jesus did was he got up, he started talking about the bread. But instead of saying, as the presider might say, this is the bread of our affliction that we ate in the wilderness, he took the unleavened bread and said, this is my body. This is the bread of my affliction broken for you.

And when he said, here's the bread and here's the cup, that was natural, of course. The Passover, you had unleavened bread, you had cups of wine, but there was no lamb at the Last Supper. Why? Isaiah and all the great prophets knew that the angel of death had not passed over the Israelites, that the children of Israel's sins had not been put away by those sweet, woolly little bipeds. Quadrupeds, excuse me.

Why? Because as sweet as they were, they couldn't take away sins. And that's the reason why Isaiah says this in his famous place in Isaiah 53. We all like sheep have gone astray. We have turned each to our own way. and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth. Who is this? Now Isaiah doesn't tell us. He calls this one the suffering servant. But the point is Isaiah and the other prophets were saying those lambs did not take away the sin of Israel. They represented someone else, some other substitute. And on the night in which he was betrayed, Jesus Christ said, I am he. This is the night, unlike all of the nights, said Jesus Christ. Because when Jesus Christ says, this is my body, this is my blood, I'm the main course. course. What he was saying is, I'm the lamb that takes away the sin of the world. I'm the one. And therefore, on that night, Jesus Christ was saying, my death is the climactic event toward which everything in the history of salvation has been moving until now. Every sacrifice, every liberation, every prophet, every priest, every king, every deliverer has all been pointing to me. Because tonight, I'm not just going to deliver you from this or that slavery, that physical or social or economic or partial problem. I'm going to deal with sin and death itself tonight. This is the night, unlike all other nights. And when you take the bread and the cup, there's a direct connection between what's happening now and what's happening on that night. And secondly, the Lord's Supper not only connects your present to the past, but therefore it connects your heart to God. because when Jesus Christ says, this is my body and he puts something in your hand, this is my blood and he puts a cup in your hand, one thing is very, very clear and that is God is becoming accessible. It's an amazing statement. I am making myself accessible to you. I am giving myself to you. I am connecting to you. The Lord's Supper is not just about believing in general but communion, common union, real union.

It's about a deep connection with me. But now what is the nature of that connection? When Jesus Christ said, this is my body, what did he mean? And there's both a high view and a low view, it's called. High church, low church, Catholic, Protestant. There's two views on this. It's divided us for centuries. Got to be civil, respectful, and honest about this. The Catholic Church has always said that when Jesus said, this is my body, he was speaking literally. He didn't say this represents my body. He says this is my body. In the Latin Mass, This is my body. And he's not talking symbolic. It's not symbolic. When you get the body, when you get the bread and you get the cup, you're getting the literal, actual, automatic saving grace of God. And if you want eternal life, you've got to eat and drink it.

Literally, Jesus. Protestants have said over the years, no, it's symbolic. That Jesus, when he said, this is my body, wasn't saying this literally is my body. He was saying this represents my body. This symbolizes what I'm about to do for you.

Now, I'm a Protestant. We're Protestants here at the church. However, I'd like to point out that there's some problems with both views. views. First of all, the Catholic view. When the Catholics say, Jesus said, this is my body, he didn't say this symbolizes my body, there's a problem. Because the fact is that on the night in which he was betrayed, the night in which he actually said those words, his body was holding the bread, his actual body, and his actual blood hadn't been shed yet. And what does that mean? It means that when Jesus actually said this is my body, he must have been talking symbolically. He had to be, you know. His body and his blood were still intact. And so what he must have meant this represents my body. And there's a big problem with saying you only have eternal life if you eat and drink the bread and the cup. When you've got Book of John, you've got all kinds of places in the New Testament that say if you believe in him, if you receive him, if you believe in him and if you look to him, you have eternal life. and there's no mention about the bread and the cup. However, you've got places like John 6. And when you read John 6, you realize that the Protestant approach, it says this is just a symbol. This gives you no more grace and power from God than if you go home and have your quiet time, you know, open your Bible and pray. There's a problem with that too. For example, in John chapter 6, in verse 54, Jesus says, I tell you the truth, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. Now, when he says that, many people who hear him are offended. They say, what are you talking about? We have to eat your flesh and drink your blood? And they leave.

And the people who are still there start questioning Jesus. And Jesus actually says, he says, I'm not talking about the flesh. The flesh means nothing. The words I have spoken are fulfilled. The Lord fulfilled. understand what Jesus is promising in the Lord's Supper, we need to look at this little word, remember. See, Jesus says, why? What are you doing? What is the thing you're actually doing? He doesn't just say, eat it and drink it. He says, eat it and drink it, because then that would be, I think, the Catholic view that says you automatically have grace, okay? He says, eat and drink in remembrance. Well, you say, what's remembrance? The trouble with the English word remember, by the way, is it's kind of weak. It's lost its power. How so? Well, when you and I think of the English word remember, what do you think that means? You think it means recall. How nice, you recall. The English word remember means more than that. And the way to get back to the power of it, you need to realize what's the opposite of remember. Remember. Dismember. See, when you think of dismember, you're thinking of hands and fingers and arms cut off and legs, right? Right. Because the word member means a body part.

And to remember means not just to recall. It means to graft. It means to sew. It means to fuse. use. It means to take something that is actually not part of your being and make it part of your being again. If tonight you are bitter, you're despondent, you're filled with anxiety, it's either because you don't believe Jesus Christ gave himself for you, that the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, the Lord of the universe, valued you and was willing to lose everything for you. You either don't believe that or you believe it up here and you need to remember it. You need to eat it. You need to digest it. It needs to become part of you. It needs to saturate you. It needs to come in and shape the way in which you think of yourself and think of the world and think of the people around you and think of everything. And I believe Jesus in John 6 is promising that in a unique way, in a way that is not available any other place.

You eat and drink his words, his truth, the gospel. It becomes part of you. You remember that God will spiritually graft his truth, his gospel, his grace into you in a way that's unique, in a way you can't have in a quiet time. You can't have somewhere else. So the Lord's Supper, if you remember the past

connection, it will mean he's in your hands, he's in your heart, he's in your life. This is my body, this is my blood. So it connects you to the past, it connects you to God. Thirdly, it connects the individuals to the community. Now, one commentator, by the way, said the great thing about 1 Corinthians, we're so happy that the Corinthian church was such a mess because if it wasn't such a mess, As Paul wouldn't have had to write all these interesting things to the church to fix it, and we would not have known many of the things that we know. Here's one of the things that we learn about the Lord's Supper because the Corinthian church was a mess. Verse 18 says there's divisions in the church. And there were tremendous divisions. If you go back and read through the book of 1 Corinthians, you'll see there were egos. There were party strife. There were terrible conflicts and divisions. It was awful.

And what did this mean for the Lord's Supper? Well, back in the early days, the Lord's Supper was celebrated at the end of the service, like we do today, after the sermon. It was the climax of the worship service. But unlike today, it was a full meal. You brought your food with you from home. And when you got to that part of the service, you literally went out, you sat down at tables, you got your food out, and you had a full meal. in commemoration of the Lord's death. What was happening in this horribly divided church? We're told, when you come together, verse 20, it is not the Lord's Supper you eat, for as you eat, each of you goes ahead without waiting for anybody else. One remains hungry and another gets drunk. What's going on there? Two things. First of all, it means that some of the parties were so disdainful of other parties that when they got to the Lord's Supper, they gobbled their food down and left early.

which is just show their disdain and their attitude toward the others. Not only that, we're told some people had enough food to get drunk and other people didn't have enough to even, they left hungry. Why? Because, you see, you brought, if you were wealthy, you brought a lot of food. If you were poor, you had very little.

It was a community meal. that was supposed to be sharing. And Paul found that these party divisions were probably also to some degree class divisions. And therefore, the people who had were not sharing with people who did not have. And Paul, as a response, says some of the harshest things that is said to any church anywhere in the New Testament. He says, you call this the Lord's Supper? It's not the Lord's Supper. And then down here he says, if you eat and drink the cup of the Lord like this, you're bringing judgment upon yourself. For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord, without remembering that you're part of a community, eats and drinks judgment on himself. What is he so upset about? What he's upset about is the heart of the gospel is that you're saved by grace, not works. You're saved by what Christ has done, but not by what you do. And that levels people. That means you're a sinner saved by grace. Your performance doesn't matter. Your pedigree doesn't matter. In Christ, there is no slave or free. Jew or Greek. There is no male or female. That stuff doesn't matter anymore. And if you understand the gospel, you know that. And therefore, if you actually have, since divisions, what causes divisions between individuals? Pride. What causes divisions between classes and races? Pride. And Paul says, if you have those divisions and they even show up in the Lord's Supper, how dare you take that bread? How dare you take that cup? You're a walking contradiction of what all about because what it's all about is the grace of Jesus Christ. And the grace of Jesus Christ should take away that pride. And the whole point of the meal is it's a common meal. You're not discerning. You're not recognizing the body. What does all this mean? Then, by the way, by the way, no small aside, he says this, the reason, because you've done this, some of you have gotten sick and some of you have died. Falling asleep is a word for die. what does that mean and what it means is you cannot interpret this text as contradicting the clear teaching of paul in say romans 8 1 where it says there's no condemnation for those who are in christ jesus when you give yourself to christ all punishment for your sins past present and future has fallen on christ you're no longer punished for your sins however, the normal nastiness of life and the normal troubles and sufferings that we share with everyone else in the world, God may bring some of that into your path in a particularly vivid way if you are living in such a way that God says, I've got to wake this person up spiritually or I've got to wake this church up spiritually. And Paul says that's what's happening. Now, you know what this means practically? I'll tell you what it means. This means grace. This means unity. And that means if tonight. There's somebody you're not speaking to. Because you're so mad at them. There's somebody who you've. Harboring a grudge against. Because you're so mad at them. There's someone you're bitter against. And you're hoping bad things happen to them. Because you're so mad at them. What does that mean? It means you may believe you're a sinner. Saved by grace. But you're not living it. There's absolutely no way. a grudge and bitterness and still remember at the same time that if God was holding a grudge against you, you'd be toast. And therefore, to pick up the bread and to pick up the cup and then go out and still be bitter means you're not remembering. You're eating judgment on yourself, Paul says. Now, if tonight you know you've got a relationship that's bad or some relationships that are bad. Does that mean you can't eat or drink? Repent. Remember. Make a, in your mind, make a commitment to reconcile and ask God's forgiveness and get the grace you needed to go out and do that. But if you say, no, I'm not prepared to do that, then don't eat it. That's what Paul says. Because the Lord's Supper not only connects the present to the past and connects the soul to God, but connects the individuals to the community. Lastly, fourth, final, the Lord's Supper also connects your life story to the future. How?

It says, when you eat and drink this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Now, when he comes, what's it going to be? What's he going to bring when he comes? a supper. It says, and here's the end of the book of Revelation, then the angel said to me, blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, now the dwelling of God is with men and he will live with them. They will be his people and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain for the old order of things has passed away. way. Behold, he says, I'm making all things new. A supper. When we get to the new heavens and new earth, it's a supper. Why? Because pain is gone. Crying is gone. Tears are gone. Satiation. Finally, the deepest longings of your heart, whatever they are, will be completely satisfied. dissatisfied. You'll be full. See, no more emptiness ever again. A supper, the supper. So what's this? This is the hors d'oeuvres of your future bliss. And when you take the Lord's Supper, God is whispering to you. He says, I am unconditionally committed to getting you from here to there. In the Lord of the Rings, Pippin is in this city and he's besieged and he's sure he's There's all these horrible armies coming to besiege him. And at the last minute, he hears a distant horn, right? The horns of Rohan or something. Isn't that it? And when he hears the horns, then it turns out there's these knights ride to the rescue. And many of them die, but they break the siege and they save all the people inside the city, including Pippin. And in the book, in the Lord of the Rings book, not in the movie, we're told that for the rest of his life, Pippin could never hear a distant horn.

horn off in the distance without breaking into tears. Why? Because the horn was a physical and audible reminder of his salvation. And when he heard the horn, he relived his salvation. It connected him to the past. He remembered the sacrifices of the people who died to save him. And no matter how grumpy he was, he couldn't stay grumpy when he heard a horn. Why? Because it reminded him that every single moment of the rest of his life was a gift of grace. This is a horn in the distance.

This is a palpable horn. It's something you hear. It's something you taste. It's something you see. And it will connect you to your salvation and the one who sacrificed and died to save you. And it will change your life right now because it will remind you. Use your present with the knowledge that every single second now that you live is an act of grace.

Remember. Take. Eat. Let's pray. Thank you, Father. That's what Eucharist means. Thank you. This is a feast of gratitude. And, Father, the only people who are worthy to eat of it are people who know they're sinners saved by grace. To think that you are worthy is to be unworthy. To know that you are unworthy is to prepare you to receive it. And we come. And we ask that you would help us to remember and to feed on the words, your words of the truth that are spirit and life. And we pray that you would shape us by the observance right now of the Lord's Supper. Meet with us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
