John 15, 1 through 11. Jesus said, I am the true vine, and my Father is the gardener. He cuts off every branch in me that bears no fruit, while every branch that does bear fruit he prunes, so that it will be even more fruitful. You are already clean because of the word I have spoken to you. Remain in me, and I will remain in you. No branch can bear fruit by itself. It must remain in the vine. Neither can you bear fruit unless you remain in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. If a man remains in me and I in him, he will bear much fruit. Apart from me, you can do nothing. If anyone else does not remain in me, he is like a branch that is thrown away and withers. Such branches are picked up, thrown into the fire, and burned. If you remain in me and my words remain in you, ask whatever you wish, and it will be given you. This is to my Father's glory that you bear much fruit, showing yourselves to be my disciples. As the Father has loved me, so have I loved you. Now remain in my love. If you obey my commands, you will remain in my love, just as I have obeyed my Father's commands and remain in his love. I have told you this so that my joy may be in you and that your joy may be complete. This is God's word. If, well, imagine that you needed to go upstairs and the only way up was an elevator going down. How would you make progress in a situation like that? How would you make progress? Only through tremendously hard exertion. Breathtaking, breathless exertion. On the other hand, how in that situation would you regress? How would you lose ground? In a situation like that you wouldn't have to do anything wrong. You'd just have to do nothing at all. And you'd lose ground. Now, life is a down escalator. Everybody knows that there's a principle of decay in the world so that you don't have to do anything wrong in order to go bad. You just don't have to do anything at all. And you'd lose ground. Romans 8 tells us that the world, that creation is subject to decay. It groans. I think everybody knows this implicitly. Your body. If you do nothing with it, I don't mean you have to do anything bad to it. If you do nothing with it, your car, your home, your French, your tennis, if you don't do anything, it goes bad. I'm a trumpet player. I haven't been playing my trumpet in two years. Why? Because I'm afraid to pick it up now. Why? Well, I haven't done anything wrong to my trumpet playing. I just haven't done anything to it. And so I know what's happened to it. There's a principle of decay in the universe. Life is a down escalator. We know it. If you want to do better, if you want to move forward, if you want to make progress, hard work. If you want to make regress, if you want to lose ground, you don't have to do anything. Just do nothing. That's the way life is. In other words, you see, gravity isn't just physical, it's historical. Life itself, time, just the passing of time leads to decay. Now, how then can you make growth? How can you progress in your character? Now, what's your character? Your character is who you are when no one's looking, when you're not on, when no one sees you. How honest are you really? How confident are you? How joyful are you? How pure are you? That's your character. How can you make progress in your character? The answer is, we all know that it's extremely difficult. If you just aren't working on it, if you're not consciously working on improving your character, if you're not consciously working at growing, we all know what happens. Time itself just pulls you on down. You find that as time goes on in the early stages of your life, you can be idealistic about what you can achieve as you get older, you get more cynical about your own ability to change. You get harder. You get more cynical. You get more addicted. You get more anxious. So the question is, how can we grow in our character? And the answer is, with tremendous difficulty. In fact, a lot of us want to say it can't be done. Can the selfish become unselfish? Can the controller become a liberator? Can the self-pityer become a giver? Can those things happen? Can the hard become soft and tender? Can the wimpy become courageous? How can that happen? This is a tremendous issue. If you go into any bookstore, you will know it's a tremendous issue. The reason the books sell, all these books that say you've got tremendous potential and those books sell, you know why? Listen, anybody who's got a lot of potential doesn't have a lot of actual. Everybody who buys a book says, you've got a lot of potential. We all sense deep in our hearts a frustration that we're a bud that hasn't blossomed, that we're incipient. We're an egg that's got a hatch and yet not, or else go bad. We know we need to grow. We know the cards are stacked against us. We know we're swimming upstream. We realize that growth in character and progress in character is difficult thing. And the Bible gives us really more about growth than any book I know. The Bible is all about growth. The Bible is all about how you can escape the down escalator, how you can escape the natural tendency for you to get harder as time goes on, more anxious as time goes on. What this particular passage tells us is so rich that I'm going to have to divide it into two parts and not only look at it this week today, but also next week. Today, here's what I want to show you. The Scripture tells us that growth in Jesus Christ is not just possible, but it's inevitable. And this passage tells us why we can grow and how we can grow and why we must grow. Let's look at those three things. It tells us why we can grow and how we can grow and why we must grow. Look at it. First, why can we grow? This passage tells us right here that the reason that a Christian can grow and make change in character is because of the intimacy of our union with Christ. Look at the image that this entire passage is built on. I am the vine, you are the branches. Now what do we have here? This image shows us that our relationship is so incredibly intimate. A branch is only truly joined to the stem if the life of the stem, the juices, the chemicals, the moisture, that the stem gets out of the ground and that the branch has no access to the branch is not touching the ground but the stem does if the branch is truly joined to the stem than that life comes in the branch so the branch can grow

and therefore if the branch is not growing if there's no blossoms if there's no enlargement if there's no fruit if the branch is not growing then it's not truly joined to the stem it might be apparently joined it might be superficially joined but it's not organically joined. It might be cosmetically joined, but it's not actually joined. And therefore, growth is of the essence of the relationship between a branch and a stem. So there you have it. The stem pulls life out of the ground into the branches so that there can be growth. That is the image of our relationship with Christ, and it is a tremendously critical image to realize. Jesus says here, with this illustration, that his relationship to a Christian, his relationship to someone who has been converted and who has become part of his family, his relationship to a Christian is more intimate than a relationship of an employer to an employee or of a teacher to a student or even of a parent to a child or even of a husband and a wife. Why? Because you see, in all those illustrations I just gave you, you've got influence. In some cases you've got powerful and massive influence of one on the other. You see, the parent tremendously influences the child's nature. But in this illustration, in Christianity, Jesus says there's not just an influence. I don't just influence your nature, I enter your nature. There's an interpenetration. There's a transformation. There's a participation. This is more intimate than anything else, any other possible illustration. Jesus is saying, we are spiritually united. It tells us this in Romans 6, that we're united to Christ. We looked at earlier, at the end of last year, when we were going through John 14, we see that the Holy Spirit, the very lifeblood of God, when you're born again, comes into your heart, comes into your soul, comes into you. That's what it means to be a Christian. It's a participation of his nature into your nature, and a transformation of your nature. Listen, friends, this is tremendously intimate. The closest thing we've got to it on the human level is sex itself, in which you have a true inner penetration. And in that case, of course, the fruit of that is supposed to be a relationship of total one-life commitment, and in some cases, children. And yet, you see, Jesus brings us this illustration because even that's a sporadic interpenetration. This is a continuous one. That's the reason why you've got this tremendous statement. Here's Jesus, who is the stem, and his roots, in a sense, are in the Godhead itself. And therefore, the very life of the Godhead comes into our hearts and into our lives when we, as the branches, unite with the stem. That's why you've got, here's a verse, for example, from 2 Peter that has always glowed in the dark to me, even in the darkest time in my life. 2 Peter 1, it says, listen, His divine power has given us everything we need for life and godliness through our personal knowledge of Him. Through this you participate in the divine nature and escape the decay of the world. There it is. Look it. Here's the stem. You see, through this you participate in the divine nature. See, in Him. Here's the branches, and here's the fruit. Therefore, we have everything we need for life and godliness, that we may escape the decay that's in the world. The decay, that's the down escalator. Do you see that? Only by participating in the very life of the Godhead, by being grafted into the stem of Jesus Christ, can you possibly escape the down escalator. You soar over the down escalator. While you see other people are going to continually, inevitably find, along with their trumpet playing, and along with their French, and along with their tennis, and along with their body, their character decaying. You escape the decay that's in the world through participation in the divine nature. Gosh, I am divine. You are the branches. What could be more revolutionary than that? That's the reason why we say Christianity is not simply a set of beliefs to adopt, nor is it simply a set of ethics to subscribe to, nor is it even a cathartic mystical experience, even though all those are involved. What is it? No, it's an interpenetration of nature. It's a change of heart. The theologians call it Being born again is not just a mystical emotional experience. That's the way people understand it on the street. Being born again means that your heart has been uprooted and replanted into a new stem and into new soil. The very life of heaven has come into your life. Union with Christ is the basis for our growth. Now, by the way, before moving on. Now, that is a cataclysmic statement. That is a radical statement. You know, friends, Christianity can't be a little right. It is absolute insanity. It is absolutely crazy. Or it is everything. It cannot just be a little right. Whenever you see the claims, instead of just reading the Bible kind of casually and seeing it as like a bunch of Aesop's fables with nice little morals for a living, if you look and actually see what it says and what the claims are, it just has to change the whole way in which you think about everything, or else you have to reject it utterly. Now, before moving on, this is our first point. The basis for growth, the power generator for Christian growth, is our union with Him. He is the vine, we are the branches. Now, if this is true, let me just, before moving on to the other points, just apply this in a couple of cases. If this is true, here's a practical application in two. Christian friends, some of you have got to

prohibitions. It's the New Year's, right? Hey, it's 1992. It's time for New Year's resolution. Why don't you take a look at yourself and see that even though intellectually you believe what I've just said, practically speaking, you are living with things in your life that you shouldn't because you've given up trying to change them. There are things in your life that are hurting you, that are bothering you, that are creating misery and shame, and in some cases, in the lives of the other people around you. And you've given up on yourself. How can you do that in a situation like this? How can you do that in the light of these claims? You know, you see, in the middle of this text, Jesus says, if you abide in me, whatever you ask for, I'll give it to you. Now, I don't believe that Jesus is just giving some teaching on prayer in general. I believe that since he's talking about I'm the vine, you are the branches, in me you will bear fruit. Ask whatever you want. I think he's talking about fruit. I think he's trying to say, do you find that you're a despairing person and you want joy? Do you find that you're a hard-hearted person and you want tenderness? Do you find that you're an unforgiving person and you want to be a forgiving person? Do you find that you're an anxious person and you want to have peace? He says, ask for it. It's coming. I am the vine. You're the branches. My roots are in the very lifeblood of God. And if you're united with me, you can have any of these character qualities. Ask for them. See, what I'm suggesting to you, Christian friends, is there are people in this room, you have given up on yourself, you've gotten cynical. You have two, your ambitions for yourself and for your own beauty and for your own greatness are way too low. What God is saying to you here is this. your life could be so bad, what could be so stubborn, what habits could be so intransigent, what stain could be so deep that the life of God itself cannot lift it out? I am the vine. You are the branches. Oh, you say, I feel so weak though. I feel so, of course you feel so weak. It says here, I am the vine, you're the branches. Without me, you can do nothing. The problem is the branch is not attached to the ground. The branch cannot achieve the kind of life that you want, but you can achieve Christ. And He's the Vine. Without Him, of course you can do nothing, but with Him He says whatever you want, any kind of fruit that you want, you want love, you want joy, you want peace, you want self-control, you want humility, you want courage, any of those character qualities, He says ask of me. Draw it out from me. Give up your small ambitions. By the way, one other thing I'll tell you. Not only is it absolutely inconsistent for Christians to believe in basic Christian theology and give up on themselves, it's just as wrong to give up on other people and say that's a person that can never change. You can't write people off if you believe John 15 verses 1 to 11. In fact, see, the way Christians look at people is much more subtle and nuanced. Most folks, most people in the world, kind of divide the world into nice people and nasty people, into good people and dysfunctional people, that sort of thing. But a Christian realizes it's much more complicated than that. Here's A and here's B. And A is a calm, peaceful person, and B is a tremendously anxious person. So, we have to say A is a more together person than B. But a Christian realizes the analysis is more subtle than that. A Christian says, well, but is B regenerated? Is B only one half as anxious as he or she was last year? Does B have the life of blood of God in him or her? is B, moving toward the likeness of Christ. Because if that's true, then B has got a life and a potential that A doesn't have, even though today A is definitely a more together person than B. If you believe, John 15, 1 to 11, if you believe what the Bible tells us, that you can participate in the divine nature, that means you've got to stop treating yourself as not being able to change, and you've also got to stop looking at people and saying,

I am the vine, you are the branches. Whatever you ask of me, I can change anybody. Whatever is in their life, whatever is in your life, however deep the stain is, I can lift it out. Secondly, how can you change? So the first issue was, why do we grow? Why can we grow? And the answer is because of union with Christ. The second issue that Jesus deals with in here is how can we grow? Now, the answer that he brings up again and again is the branch has got to remain in the vine. Some of your translations will say the branch has to abide in me. And in the translation that I read, it says that the branch has got to remain in me. Now, actually, here's where we... Jesus actually tells us there's two ways that we grow. We grow because God does something, the gardener, he prunes us. And we grow because we do something, we abide or remain in him. I'm going to leave the pruning for next week. I'm just going to talk about what Jesus tells you and I to do if we want to grow. Well, now, what does it mean to remain in the vine? What does it mean to abide? I'm going to use those words interchangeably. It means to depend. Just as the branch depends on the vine, so we're supposed to depend on God. But now what does that mean? If you look carefully, I think Jesus actually two places gives you some specific, very practical ways to remain in him or abide in him. First of all, he says, if my words remain or abide in you, then you will bear fruit. And then secondly, he says,

You cling on to the vine and draw his love and draw his words and draw his life out. Well, how do you do that? Let's look at them. Number one, what does it mean to have his words abide in you? Well, friends, it's one thing to read the Bible for inspiration. It's one thing to read the Bible for doctrinal information. It's another thing to actually let these words dwell in you and abide in you. This is not the only place the Bible talks about it. If you don't get this down, you can stop complaining that you're not growing. Because unless you do this, unless you understand this, unless you're doing this, you're not in any way remaining in Christ, and you're not going to draw His life and juice and chemicals and moisture out, and you're not going to grow. What does it mean to have the Word of God remain in you, dwell in you? Paul talks about it in Colossians 3.16 when he says, let the Word of God dwell in you richly. The psalmist talks about it when he says, Your words are sweeter than honeycombs in my mouth. I ate them. There's a difference between getting inspiration, reading as for doctrinal knowledge, and letting the Word remain in you. And what it means is, it means to digest the Word. Just like the psalmist says. It means to let the Word come on inside and become part of you. It means to let the Word of God become part of your psyche, to look at yourself through it, to look at the world through it. You're all sitting around at lunch. Where you work. And everybody's saying, oh my gosh, I don't even know if any of us will even have jobs by summer. And everybody's scared. And what do you do? What do you do in your heart? You turn around and you immediately say to yourself, don't be anxious about anything. But instead, you know, the place where Jesus says, don't be anxious about anything, look at the birds of the air. God takes care of them. And as soon as you think about that, you begin to chew it, you begin to think about it. What does it do? It affects you. You're not looking at the world the way everybody else around you at lunch is looking at the world. What it means to have the Bible dwell in you richly, His words remain in you, means to let the Bible address you. Let the Bible argue with you. Let the Bible preach to you. Let the Bible come in and become part of you. That's what it means. Do you know how to do that? It's a discipline it's a discipline of meditation. It's a discipline of memorization. It's a discipline of study. It's a way of saying, how do I make this part of the way in which I think and breathe and live and look at myself? Do you know what it means to let his words remain in you? If you don't, you can kiss all these great promises goodbye about growth. Secondly, and just as important, Jesus says, let my love remain in you. Let my love dwell in you. Remain in my love. And maybe in some ways this is the most important thing I can tell you today. Listen. What does it mean to be a Christian? What it means to be a Christian is this. A Christian is somebody who has put his faith or her faith in Christ, received Christ as Savior. A Christian is someone who says, Oh, I see up to now I've been trying to be a good person. I've been trying to be my own Savior. But today I come to the Father and say, Father, accept me, receive me, wipe out my sins, not because of my works, but because of Jesus' works, because of what he did on the cross, because of his perfect life and death. And the minute you do that, friends, your sins are wiped out and pardoned. Jesus' perfect record is transferred to your account. You're adopted into the family of God and you're completely accepted on that day. At that moment, And at that moment, God not only pardons you, but loves you and sees you as in his son. He sees you as perfect and as ravishingly radiant and beautiful and great a person as Jesus is. Now hear this. A branch does not enhance the life of the vine. A branch only lives off the life of the vine. A Christian does not grow in how loved you are by God. Never. The first minute you believe, and I will die, God helping me, for this truth. I'd go to the stake for it. This is what makes Christianity different than every other religion. The minute you are born again, you are as loved on that day, you are as loved that minute, as delighted in by God, as pardoned, and as ravished. You're as ravishing to God's sight, you're as loved and delighted by God, as forgiven as you ever will be, and as any of the greatest saints in heaven are now. God's love for you knows no increase or decrease. It admits no degrees. In Christ you are perfect. And you don't get more loved on a day in which you've been good, and less loved on a day in which you've been bad. And therefore what it means to be in Jesus love is not obviously that Vine's life doesn't grow but the branch lives off of it so God's love doesn't grow but your awareness of his love and your living off of his love and your appreciation and enjoyment of his love and grace is what makes you grow I tell you this to remain in his love and to live off of his love means you've got to start looking at most of your problems to live out of that love. For example, you're having a personality conflict. Call it what it is. It's jealousy. And say, my jealousy comes from a refusal to see that the only person whose love really counts, I've got. Or you're afraid of something. You're anxious. Well, admit that you're trying to find your security in something and you're refusing to see that the only person whose love you really need and the only security you really need you've already got. The only way that you're ever going to grow is if you begin to see that so many of your sins and so many of your problems are really not the things you're calling them, but it's a refusal to live out of the gospel. It's a refusal to use the gospel on yourself. It's a refusal to continually say, if I am perfect in His sight, why am I acting like this? How do Christians handle criticism? How do Christians handle a bad childhood? How do Christians handle the fact that nobody has asked them out? or nobody's agreed to go out with them? How do Christians handle those things? They say, I am a son of the king. I am a daughter of the king. My father loves me with a great love. And the only riches that count, the only love that lasts, the only family that matters, I've already got. That's how a Christian handles things. That's living in his love. That's remaining in his love. You want to know how to overcome the self-pity in your life? The depression, the touchiness, the jealousy, the fear, the worry? It comes from this. Until you see that it comes from your refusing to remain in His love. Refusing to act on it and live out of it. Until you see that, until you call the things that are really wrong with your life what they really are, you're never going to grow. To remain in his love means to say the great debt's been paid. The great disease has been healed. The great relationship has already been sealed and all other debts and all other diseases and all of their broken relationships are tiny things. Can you remain in his love? You see, do you abide in his love and do you abide in his words? Those are the things that you have got to do. Those are the disciplines you've got to do. You've got to look at your life those two things on your life in that way, and you will grow in grace, and you will become like him. Well, I got to conclude. Last point, though. I said, why you can grow? Because of your union with him. How you can grow? Two ways. Abiding in his words, letting them dwell in you richly, abiding in his love, living off of it, seeing that most of your problems are because you haven't practiced what you know is true of you in the gospel. Thirdly, why do you have to grow? This is the last thing I'll say, and I can say it briefly. Jesus says, any branch that does not bear fruit in me will be cut off. See that in verse 2? Now be careful here. The fruit on the branch does not give the branch life, but the fruit tells you if you're alive. Right? if you see in your life that you are getting better, you're becoming less irritable, less self-conscious, less worried, you see yourself growing in love and in self-control and in self-forgetfulness and courage, unless you see yourself growing gradually, making real progress toward Christian character, toward being like Christ, unless you see that, you can't know you're a Christian. If there's no fruit on the branch, you can't be sure you're a Christian. Do you see that? Oh, if there's no fruit on the branch, it doesn't mean that you're not a Christian because you know there's winter times. There's times of the year in which all the branches are barren. There's times in the year in which even though the branch is real and alive and really hooked to the vine, yet during hard times, during dry times, during times of suffering and temptation, you may not see a lot of growth. But the fact is that winter is a season, and when the summer comes, the real branches eventually begin to bear fruit. What Jesus is trying to say is, if long ago you got baptized, or you made some decision, or you joined, or you were confirmed, or something like that, and you have not seen this growth in holiness, and this passion for God, and this desire for prayer, and this movement toward becoming like Christ, unless you see real growth in your life, you cannot assume that you belong to Him. any branch that bears no fruit, not in the short run because it might be winter, but in the long run will be cut off. It doesn't mean that your good deeds make you a Christian, but your good deeds, he says in verse 8, by this you show that you're my disciples. So what do I ask you to do? Look at yourself today. Some of you friends, some of you Christian friends might be in wintertime. You haven't seen a lot of growth lately. You've been going through hard times. Well, listen to I just want you to know that to not be growing because of hard times isn't wrong. All I can say is if you give up, if you give up seeking God during hard times, you could make your winter time a very long time, a very long time. Just please keep in mind that in some cases your growth is slow. G. Campbell Morgan, a congregational minister, once went to Italy and he saw a 600-year-old tombstone. There had been a tremendous, huge slab of marble put over the grave. But some years ago, an acorn that obviously had gotten into the grave had grown up, and out of it had come this tremendous oak, which had cracked the marble slab and rolled it off. That little acorn had cracked that marble slab. And G. Campbell Morgan said he suddenly realized that if God would put that kind of power of gradual biological growth in an acorn, just think of how much potential you've got in you. It's gradual potential. But God's life has been planted in you. And whatever your problems are, if you're willing to keep watering that acorn, who knows what slabs God can crack and roll off of you. So don't be discouraged. It might just be wintertime. On the other hand, my dear friends, if there's anybody here who's never seen this kind of growth, never seen these kinds of changes, in fact, when you step back and you listen to this whole sermon and you say, my goodness, I don't have that kind of organic relationship with God. I've always thought of Christianity as being a matter of being a good person. I've never really understood what it means to enter into that complete, intimate relationship with Him. I've never known what it's like for Him to be my Savior. What I say to you is go to Him today. When the bread and the cup comes around, if you know that you've never gone through this regeneration, this new birth, you've never had His life come into you, you've never given up being your own Savior and relied completely on what He did for you on the cross, if you've never given your life to Him, then give your life to Him. bread in the cup when it comes around, take him. But Christian friends, when it comes around to you, if you know you've been stagnant, if you know you've been cynical about just how much you really can be growing, then when you take the bread in the cup, say, Lord, I'm taking your life. This represents the life I now want to bring out of you into my life so that I can become like you. I am the vine. You are the branches. If you abide in me, you will bear much fruit. Let's pray. Now, Father, all we ask is that as we take the bread in the cup, that the bread we break will actually be a participation in your body. That the cup we drink will actually be a participation in your blood. That as we take these physical elements, you will actually nourish us spiritually. the life in us. That's what we ask about everything else. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
