These are the clans of Noah's sons, according to their lines of descent within their nations. From these, the nations spread out over the earth after the flood. Now the whole world had one language and a common speech. As men moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there. They said to each other, Come, let's make bricks and bake them thoroughly. They used brick instead of stone and tar for mortar. And then they said, come, let us build ourselves a city with a tower that reaches to the heavens so that we may make a name for ourselves and not be scattered over the face of the whole earth. But the Lord came down to see that city and the tower that the men were building. And the Lord said, if it's one people speaking the same language, they have begun to do this. Then nothing they plan to do will be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their language so they will not understand each other. scattered them from there over all the earth, and they stopped building the city. That is why it was called Babel, Babel. Because, that's, no, got it. Because there the Lord confused the language of the whole world. From there the Lord scattered them over the face of the whole earth. Now, we're going to look one more time. If you were coming before Christmas, we spent time going through the first 11 chapters of the book of Genesis. And we want to look at this part of the book of Genesis one more time. You know, the word Genesis in Hebrew actually literally means a seed pod. It's the book of origins. And it's a book in a sense of fundamental seminal things. Seminal, meaning seed. The seminal things of human existence. Genesis is here to tell us why things are the way they are and to give some seminal understandings of our relationship to work, to sex, to gender, to family, to power, to money, to culture, you know, to all these things we've been looking at. And today, one last thing we have to look at that the early chapters of Genesis tell us something very important about, another seminal fundamental aspect of the human condition, the city. Genesis 1-11 tells us a great deal about the City. The City, which is the most densely populated and most specialized version of human society. The City has always been part of the human condition. It's always had a big impact on human life. but now more than ever. The experts will tell you in the year 1800 approximately two and a half percent of the human population lived in what we would call a large urban area. By the way, large urban area in 1800 was considerably smaller and less densely populated place than it is now. But anyway, in 1800 2.5 percent of the world's population lived in what we would call large urban areas. And in the year 2000, it's just over 50 percent. Just over 50 percent of the world's population live in large urban areas. You can't escape the city anymore. Technology means that the kids in the farmlands of Iowa are getting immersed in the culture that is formed in the cities. You can't get away from them. And the problems of cities today dominate the region, dominate the societies in which those cities exist. There's no getting city. And the Bible has some profound things to say about how Christians should understand the city and what the city is all about and what it is. Now, what do we learn about the city? We learn three things, basically, in this text. In fact, I'm going to draw a little bit because, as you know, if you've been coming, we haven't gone through Genesis 1 through 11 verse by verse. And there are other places that talk about the origin of cities that we haven't looked at. But Genesis 1 to 11, the Bible tells us three things about cities. It tells us the need for a city. Verse 4, come, let us build for ourselves a city. Secondly, it tells us the problem. What is the problem the cities have? So that we may make a name for ourselves. And then thirdly, how God is healing cities, but the Lord came down. The need we have for cities, let us build a city. The problem we have in the city, which is we go there to make a name for ourselves, and the healing of the cities that God has inaugurated here, but later on we'll see more so, because God comes down into cities. God comes down. Now, let's look at these three things. The first thing we learn here is the need for cities. Look at this. Let us build ourselves a city. Why? Why did they come up with that idea? Where did that desire come from? Where did the idea come from? The desire to build a city in this text has three aspects. Let's look at them for a minute. First, there was a social aspect. It says, let's build a city that we may not be scattered. The first thing we see here is social The city was seen by this people as a way for them to not be dispersed, to not become vulnerable. It was a way of consolidating their corporate identity. It was a way of consolidating their people's power. So the first reason for a city was a place for social power, for social identity strengthening. The second aspect of their desire was for technological advance. Notice, technological advance, as always, is associated with cities. up with a new way of building. They said, let's make bricks and bake them thoroughly instead of stone. And evidently, whatever this is talking about, it's talking about a technological advance that enabled them to build higher and bigger, perhaps, than they'd ever been able to build before. And what did they immediately say? Well, we need a city to try this out in. We need to take this new idea and make a city with it. So the city is all, secondly, it's a place for technological advance. And then thirdly, it's a place for spiritual seeking. Because literally, they say, let's build ourselves a tower that reaches to the heavens. Now, in the Hebrew, it literally says, let's make a heaven-topped or a heaven-gated tower. And what they're building here, the archaeologists will tell you, was a ziggurat. And in the cities that were built in this time and the cities that were built in this area of the world, the Near Eastern cities, city. There was a ziggurat, a high tower. But it wasn't just a high tower. It wasn't just a building for people to rent. Instead, it was a temple. It was a place that sought to get you to heaven. It was a man-made mountain. And what you would do, it was the whole idea was to connect with a divine. You would go up to the top and you would build your, you would offer your sacrifices in the hopes that the gods would come down. I mean, you're going halfway. Why not? You know, how you meet somebody. You say, well, you know, shake on it. I'll do this and you'll do that. You meet a people halfway, right? So let's meet the gods halfway. And you build a ziggurat. And the city, at the heart of the city, was spiritual longing. At the heart of the city was the desire for spiritual connection. So you have the social aspect. You have the technological development aspect. And you have the spiritual aspect. Now, here's my first thesis. And I can understand why when I first tell it to you, it's not going to immediately be obvious from the text. My first thesis is that cities were not human inventions and cities were not bad ideas. The city is God's invention. The city is the ordinance of God. And it was given to us as a gift. To benefit us. And make life in a fallen world easier. It's God's invention. It's an ordinance. And it was a good gift. Given to us. By God. To make life in this world easier. Now, the reason you're not immediately going to say, oh, of course. And when you read the book of Genesis once or twice through and you're just getting acquainted with it, the reason that's not going to jump up at you is because the first two places you see cities built. First of all, in Genesis 4, where Cain goes and builds a city. Cain, you know, the murderer. And now here we clearly have a city in which they're doing something wrong. You know, you can sort of tell that from the text. You're not exactly sure what. They're doing something wrong. And of course what they're doing, you know quickly here. They're not waiting for God to come down on Mount Sinai. They're not waiting for a mountain in which God comes down in which God reveals his salvation by grace. They're trying to save themselves. They're trying to get to heaven by themselves. They're making their own mountain. And so we're going to save ourselves. And they're building a pagan temple. And so you look at the Tower of Babel. You look at this city and you look at the Cane city. And your first impression is, cities are bad places cities are places of sin ungodliness and evil and Harvey Kahn who was a teacher with me in when I was teaching at Westminster Seminary who taught me so much about the city he taught urban ministry he told me once about a after a lecture he gave somewhere some guy came up to him afterwards and didn't like anything that Harvey had just said And he says, let me tell you something. Of course, this made Harvey's blood boil. He says, let me tell you something. God made the country. And man made the suburbs. But the devil made the city. And, of course, Harvey never forgot that. It's in a few of his books. He never forgot that. The man was absolutely sure. And, of course, he says, look at this. Cain. Babel. You know, whose idea was the city? But if you actually read the Bible in its totality. You'll see that is utterly, utterly wrong. And what amazed me this time preparing for this sermon was that not only liberal commentators who tend to be more city-friendly, but even the most conservative commentators recognize something important. That in the very, very beginning, God told Adam and Eve to build a city. Hmm? Oh, yeah. Go to Revelation 21. No, don't. I'll take you. Revelation 21 and 22. When we get to the end of history. That's the end of the Bible. That's the end of history. The vision of the end of history. What's coming down out of heaven? And he showed me. The Holy City. The New Jerusalem. Coming down from heaven. Shining with the glory of God. And in the middle of the city. Was the throne of God. And of the Lamb. And there stood the tree of life. Now here's the point. God says to Adam and Eve. Multiply. And develop the earth. Remember that? That's what we. If you were here. And during this series. You saw that. God says to Adam and Eve. multiply and develop the earth. But they failed, of course. They failed to develop the earth in the name of God. But the new Adam, Jesus Christ, comes, and he does what the original Adam wasn't able to do. And he has come, and he, at the end of history, we're told when Jesus Christ gets the world in the condition God wants it. When the second Adam produces the world that God wants, it's a city. and in the middle of the city is the tree of life. What's the tree of life? That's from the Garden of Eden. What's that doing there? Because the holy city that Jesus Christ builds is the Garden of Eden. Developed the way God wanted it. Some of you have this shocked look. The idea of somebody taking a garden and turning it into a city. You say, what's the matter? Why would they ever do something like that? But that's exactly what God wants. If you understand, well, I'm going to try to show you here this morning. When God started history, he started it in a garden, but when he ends history, it's going to end in a city. The future of the universe is an urban future. And therefore, when God gave Adam and Eve the original mandate to develop the world, he was telling them, build the city that will glorify my name. But then they fell, and they fell into sin, and they fell into brokenness. Now what? Does God say, it's all off? No. We still find in our heart something that God put there. Just to show you what I mean by this, one of the most conservative commentators possible, he's an Old Testament professor. In fact, Kathy and I both studied with him, took a number of courses with him. I even learned Hebrew from this man. And yet I just came across some notes this week that I'd never read by him. This is Dr. Meredith Klein, and this is what he says about this stretch in Genesis. He always tended to use jargon, but I'll translate. In spite of the connections of the city with the rejected line of Cain, is an evil invention of ungodly fallen man. The ultimate goal set before humanity at the very beginning of time was that human culture should take city form. There should be an urban structuring of human historical existence. The cultural mandate given to Adam and Eve at creation was a mandate to build a city. But now, after the fall, the city is now still a benefit, serving humankind as a refuge from the howling wilderness condition into which the fallen human race, exiled from paradise, has been driven, to the top of the passage, they're still going east, east of Eden. And the common gray city, he says, has remedial benefits in a fallen world. It becomes the drawing together of resources, strength, and talent, not now just for the mutual complementation in the task of developing the resources of the created world, but now a pulling of power for defense against attack and as an administrative community of welfare for the relief of those destitute by reason of the cursing of the ground. I told you. Let me translate. He says, happen. God wanted the world to become a city. But now that we are in a howling wilderness because of our sin, now because nothing works right. Now, I can't go back over all that. Hopefully, some of you are here. We've been through all that because the world doesn't work right socially and physically and relationally and spiritually. Does that mean now, oh my goodness, now, you know, the city is off? No. He says now the city is still got wonderful benefits. The reason God originally invented the city still is very important. Well what are those reasons. Well let's go back to those three aspects. We just looked at. The three reasons the Babel builders built Babel. The same reason the Babel builders built Babel. This has to do with the three purposes. God invented the city. What did God invent the city for. Three purposes. Listen. First of all. And you'll see why Each of these purposes means the city is a great gift for us now in this broken world. Number one, the city is a refuge for the weak. Here's what I mean by that. The original cities were refuges. They had two things that you needed if you wanted to be safe. They had walls and they had numbers. And so it was a place of safety from wild animals. it was a place of safety for marauding. Bands of a, There was no justice out there. You were just going to be, the vigilantes would be after you. You had to go to the city to find objective people who would give you a trial. And a wall and enough order so that the people who were out for blood would have to stop and listen to what the jury and the judge said. The city was originally a place of refuge for the weak. But even today, you say, we don't have walls. You know, and things aren't like that, but listen to me carefully. when they're coming to a new country, why do they head for the city for a couple generations? Why do single people love the city? Why do you flock to the city? Why do gay people flock to the city? Why are poor people able to survive in a city in a way they could never survive in the suburbs? They'd just be scooping them up in wheelbarrows out there. Get rid of them. Why are people without power, why are minorities always able it easier to live in cities. Here's the reason why. Let me just choose one minority. There's a lot of here. Those of you who are single, where's the one place where you're not having people constantly taking you by the hand and patting it, patronizing when you say, oh, honey, we'll get you married. What? You're not married yet? Where does that happen? It doesn't happen here. In the city, there's enough of you that you don't feel like freaks. But see now, let's press this on. This is the reason why any group without power, any group that's not part of the dominant, you know, the dominant culture, that doesn't have the reins upon the dominant culture, in the city, the city is a more merciful place for people without power. Because in the cities, because of their very inherent nature, the density, you're able to mass together. You're able to have enough of you, not only so you don't feel like freaks, but to create communities that broker with a dominant culture. And as a result, cities are the only place, really, the only natural place on the face of the earth where you have all these minorities living together. Where you have this incredible diversity. Where you have all the nations of the world actually living together in such a way that the people you've read about and heard about are actual human beings to you. They're your neighbors. This is, God gave the city to be a refuge for the weak and therefore a place, the only place, where we can ever really forge practically and concretely unity and diversity and to get over the barriers that divide us culturally and racially in class. The city's a place where these people, all these other people in the world are actually your neighbors. Where else are you going to find that? And therefore, the city is, first of all, a place of unity and diversity in a world where cultural and racial barriers completely divide us. Secondly, the city is not only a place of refuge for the weak and a place of unity and diversity. Secondly, it's a place of human development. Remember technological advance? The city is the place, like no other place, that will tap the potentials of the human heart and nature in a way that nothing else does. How does that happen? Two ways. First of all, the city is the place. You come to the city. Don't live somewhere else out in the homogeneous, undensely populated places you came from. But you come into the heterogeneous, densely populated city. First thing you do, you're going to find is you're going to be surrounded by all kinds of people that are utterly different than you are. And that immediately, immediately means that you're going to suddenly find things that you never would have been challenged about. You live in a homogeneous life world out there. All sorts of things you would have just taken for granted. In the city, everything is challenged. You're seeing people that do things completely Think differently. Act differently. And suddenly, you've got all these opportunities for creativity you never had before. You have the ability to think new thoughts. You have the ability to partner with people who are utterly different in the way they compliment you. So, first of all, the city is a place of restless creativity. Giving you ideas and thoughts and stimulating to you to acts and thoughts of creativity you never would have otherwise because the city surrounds you with so many people who are unlike you. But secondly, it surrounds you like you. Back home, you were the best soprano in town. And you come to the city. And everybody's as good as you. You know, there's people in the subway singing. And they're better than you. What are they doing? What are they doing in the subway? Oh, my word. How am I going to make it here? See? In other words, the other thing that happens is back home, where you're the best at this or you're the best at that. You come to the city. And suddenly, everybody's as good as you, if not better. And you dig deep. I mean, the difference and the similarity. The people who are utterly unlike you and the people who are incredibly like you and better than you. You put all that together. And there is nothing that makes you dig down. Reach down. And pull out the very, very best. You're continually stimulated. You're continually pushed. You're continually energized by the city. It's exhausting. We'll get to that in a second. makes you produce. Like a city. And that's the reason why the technological advances and artistic advances. The arts. The sciences. Business. You know. Deals. It happens here. And even the internet. Is nothing but a virtual city. That's what they call it. Nobody calls New York a concrete internet. But they do call the internet a virtual city. And of course it's a city. With a part. Of what a city does. You see. Because it's a. It's a. Massing together. place of incredible human development. And the third thing, the third reason that God gives a city is not only for unity and diversity and for human development. That's what Dr. Klein was talking about when he said Adam and Eve were supposed to build a city because that's how you get into all the potentialities God put into the human heart and into the world. But thirdly, in this world, the city is the best thing for you spiritually. Originally, the city was always a place of spiritual searching. Even Babel, in the center of the city, is spiritual longing. And God invented the city to be a place where, as we read in Revelation 21, 22, he, his throne was in the center of the celestial city. We'll get back to that. But any city has got to have a God in the center of it. Any city has got to have spiritual longing in the center of it. And here's what I want you to see and it's going to take me a second to show it to you. Because of the fall all people come into this world alienated from God. Everybody has to be converted to find God. That's what the Bible says. And you're much more likely to be converted and the word convert means to be changed to have your mind changed. You're much more likely to be converted in the city than anywhere else. God put the city here as a way of helping people find Him. Because now in this falling world we need cities Because the only way anybody finds God is through awakening and turmoil and change and conversion. Out in the homogeneous world, out there, you believe what you're taught. Because everybody believes it. You know? If you come from a Buddhist non-urban world, everybody's a Buddhist. So you're just a Buddhist. If you come from a Catholic non-urban world, everybody's a Catholic. So you're just a Catholic. Or a Jewish. Or a Protestant. Or whatever. But in this city, everybody's different. And in this city, you're going to be challenged. be able to hold on to just because everybody does it. Because here, everybody does something else. And that means unless you make your faith your own in the city, you won't have a faith. Away from the city, you're not challenged. Away from the city, you just grow into it. It's environmental. You pick it up. You catch it like a cold. In the city, you're going to have to make whatever your belief is personal. You're going to have to grab hold of it. Don't you see that? But not only that, the city, because it's restless, because it's creative, because it's always making people, pushing people, it just creates spiritual asking of questions. Away from the city, people are always conservative. They don't like change. They're traditional. They don't want to think about new things. And that's the reason why St. Paul, when he was spreading the gospel around the Mediterranean, he didn't go to the countryside. side. He went to the cities because the people in the cities are more open always to new ideas and also to new spiritual ideas. Always. And that's the reason why the cities are the places where people tend to find God. They find a lot of other things that are bad. They put in the center of their life, but they also find a lot of sort of things are good. You know, away from the city, even if. Now, you know, I'm a Christian. I'm a Protestant Presbyterian minister, all right? If you're born in a small town where everybody's Protestant Presbyterian, you're not very likely to ever actually meet God there. Because you're just going to get what everybody tells you. It's not going to become your own. You're never going to think, well, why do I believe this? What is important about it? Do I really believe it? Is it really mine? No, but you're just going to go along with the flow. You're more likely to get converted to Presbyterian Christianity right here than you are if you grew up in a Presbyterian non-urban land. God invented this city to be a place of unity and diversity. To be a place of cultural and human development. And to be a place of spiritual searching and finding. Because in this broken world we need the city for all three of those things. And those things do not happen very well at all outside of cities. And therefore the city is a good gift of God for life in a broken world. And we can't do without the city. Now, having said all that positive stuff, well, you say, wait a minute. Wait a minute. Hold on. Cities have got a lot of bad things in them. Cities are dangerous places. There's crime. There's violence. There's racial strife. Cities are cruel places. Cities are unfriendly places. Cities are places where you come in and if you're not good, then, you know, get aside. You know, in small towns, it looks like you can't make it financially. People sort of, you know, they'll give you a couple extra months and they'll lend you some money. And here, you're out. This is New York. You know, you can't cut the mustard and get it. You know, aren't cities cruel places? Aren't cities difficult? Yes. But why? Because cities are bad per se? No. The second point, first point is we need cities. But the second point is the reason the cities don't work is because of what's in the human heart and why people go to cities. The Babylonians. The Babel builders built Babel. It says. Come let us build ourselves a city. A tower that reaches to the heaven. So that we may make a name for ourselves. Now. I wish. I could do the whole sermon. On this subject. I can't. What does it mean. To make a name for yourself. What does it mean. What does the metaphor mean. To the writers there. Well. You know. It's pretty close. To what it means. Today. What does it mean. To go make a name. name for yourself. That means two things. First of all it means. I want to know. I'm valuable. I want to know that. I'm not just a. Cog. I want. To. Know. That. I. Am. You. Know. I. Am. Someone. Special. I. Am. Not. Just. A. Little. You. Know. Just. A. Little. C. N. Machine. Not. Just. A. Cipher. Not. Just. A. Number. You. Know. Not. Just. Not. Just. A. Number. A. Name. Means. I. Am. Someone. Valuable. And. Someone. someone worthwhile. But secondly, it means I'm someone distinct. I'm not the same as anybody else. I've got a purpose. I know what I'm about. I know who I am. The Bible tells us when we're born, we don't know who we are. We're born nameless. And we have to go to a city to get a name. We cannot name ourselves. We've got to go to the city. We've got to get out into human society. We've got to find people who we impress. We've got to find people who we show. We have to prove to go. And yet, that is what kills cities. That's what actually deconstructs cities, and that's what actually means that there's all the destructiveness of the city comes from this. Well, how does that happen? Well, you can actually see it here, number one. First of all, and this is not something I noticed till this last couple of weeks, why is God mad at them? Well, you know, traditionally, people say because they built this tower to try to reach to heaven without God. That's true. But now look at the end of chapter 10. Why did I give you the end of chapter 10 before the end of 11? In the beginning of chapter 10, God says to Noah and his children, spread out and become all the nations of the earth. In other words, what God is saying is he is telling the children of Noah, I want racial and ethnic diversity. He says, I want you to spread out. I want you to, from these, He says, there are differences within your group that I want developed and accentuated into diverse cultures. I want you to become diverse cultures. I want human diversity. The world will not be what I want it to be. Human beings will not be what I want them to be. There's no one race. There's no one language group. There's no one cultural group that's going to be able to bring out all the splendor that I have put into the human nature. And therefore, he says, I want diversity. And what do they do in chapter one, two, and three? They said, we don't want to do that. And Miroslav Volf, a Croatian, reads this text in a way I had never read it before. He says, you know, he was Croatian, which he says, if you were part of the old Yugoslavia, if you were part of the old Romania, if you were ever part of a totalitarian regime that looked at the ethnic diversity out there and ignored it, and said, we are not several races, we are not several language groups, we're all speaking one language, We're all going to be one cultural group. He says, that's racism. Totalitarian racism says, we don't like ethnic diversity. And we're going to make you all like me. We're going to make you all like us. You're all going to talk like us. You're all going to look like us. You're all going to dress like us. And essentially, Wolf says, this city is filled with people who are saying, we are not going to become ethnically diverse. We are going to be ethnically homogeneous. diversity on the city. Isn't that interesting? Secondly, these people come and say, let us make a name for ourselves by using our technological stuff and turning it into a tower. Okay? But now this is what we're all doing. Can I just suggest something to you? Somebody says, well that's not the way things are. Maybe back then they built temples. The highest buildings in the city were the temples. That's not true anymore. Oh really? In New York City, what are the highest What are the cigarettes of New York City? Places where people go to make money. But go to Washington, D.C. They don't let them build them that high, do they? Oh, no. You know, the tallest building in every city is always, is always in honor of the God who will give you a name if you honor and work and serve it. In Washington, D.C. they won't let those big business office towers grow up. Why? You know why. Because they want the sky. buildings. Because you see, in New York, they say, if you make money, then you have a name. Then you're somebody. Then you'll know you're somebody. But in Washington, it's if you have governmental power, then you know you're somebody. You know, people serve you. You pass laws. You can do all these things. Every city. Has it ziggurat? Every city seductively promises that if you come to my city and you serve our God, power or money or sex or art. If you say, I'm going to the city to be Then I'll know I'm somebody. If you say, I'm going to a city. Why? To make money. Then I'll know I'm somebody. I'm going to a city to have power. Then I'll know I'm somebody. You are going to burn out. You are going to be empty. There is going to be a racial conflict. Because you're making a lot of a culture. So you put down a lot of a culture. That's what happened here. Or you're going to make a lot I walk out here. And this is New York. And I start making. I quote somebody. Next thing you know. I get an email saying. I'm doing a Ph.D. dissertation. On that man. And you misrepresented him. That's not what he believes. You quoted so and so. And that's not what he believes. That never happened to me. Outside of New York. This is a. You come to New York. I preach to people here. And I suddenly say. I better be good. I better. I better actually make sure. That my quotes. Are from those people. And that they really believe. That's what they. I better know my stuff. I prepare at least three times as much for a sermon here as I do anywhere else or ever did before. And unless I come to New York City already named. Unless I come to New York City deep down inside already knowing who I am. Already knowing I'm valuable because I have a name in the Lord. Because He loves me. Already knowing my purpose because I'm serving Him. Unless I come into the city already knowing my name. knowing who I am. The city will destroy me. The city will ruin me. And it will ruin you. All the great things about the city. The unity and diversity. If I'm trying to make a name by thinking about my race is better than anybody else's it's going to just the city will actually destroy itself that way. If I come needing to make a name the unity and diversity of the city will just be diversity and strife. You see. If I come in needing a name, the ability to really dig down and get into my potential will actually just burn me out and destroy me. And it will you too. And therefore, all the problems of the city not come because the city was made by the devil or there's something bad about the city. The city is an incredible gift to the human race. We cannot do without cities. We need cities desperately. But if you come into the city not knowing who you are and use the city to make a name for yourself. There'll be racial strife instead of racial diversity and unity. There will be, actually, people burning out and people killing each other, essentially, in business and in art and trampling on each other. There'll be a lot envying the people who are above you. Disdaining the people who are below you. Dog eat dog and you're going to have to leave constantly just to get your breath back. Why do people have to leave New York? Just to relax. And why do people leave New York just because they say, You're getting run into the ground. You're getting run into the ground by people who come here needing to make a name for themselves or maybe you're getting run into the ground because you need to make a name for yourself. Now lastly, what's the solution? If this is why we need cities and this is the source of the problem of cities, does that mean there's no hope? No. God comes down. Verse five. But the Lord came down. Now here's what we learn. God came down that time in gracious punishment. The first time somebody built a big city, God came down into that city. And what he did was he graciously punished. What do I mean? Well, first of all, it was a punishment. He confused their speech. And this is a natural consequence. What he says is, I'm going to show these people that if you come to the city trying to make a name for yourself, all that's going to do is isolate you. All that's going to do is you're not going to have harmony. You're not going to have love. You're going to have isolation. You're going to have competition. You're going to have strife. You're going to have stress. You're going to have the breakdown of communication. If you come in trying to save your own soul and prove to the world and to yourself that you're somebody special. If you come into the city without already having a name for me. If you look to the city rather than to me in a way to give you a name. You're just going to get all this kind of strife and this lack of community. So he comes down and he gives them natural consequences. It's a punishment. But it's also a grace. track toward the ethnic diversity. But this points to another time in which God came down in gracious punishment. Jesus Christ came down into the city, but where was he? Where was he crucified, class? Where was Jesus Christ crucified? Yes. Hebrews 13.12. Now Jesus also suffered outside the city gate to make the people holy through his blood, and we have any enduring city, but now we look for the city. Now we look to the city that is to come. Now here's what happens in Ephesians. This is what Hebrews 13 and 12 is saying. The city, you have to remember in the Bible is so positive. In the city is community. In the city is safety. You're behind the walls. To be thrown out of the city, the scapegoat, once a year, they put their hands on the scapegoat and sent him out. Why? That was a symbol representing the fact that anyone who to experience isolation from human community. Anyone who tries to be his or her own Savior and own Lord is going to be sent outside the city. What really happens is the city is what we really want. The city is the place where we really find community. The city is the place where we find safety. The city our hearts really want. We're going to lose if we come to the city in sin. Jesus Christ comes to the city of God, Jerusalem, but is crucified outside. Calvary. Outside the gate. Why? He was punished for our sins. He lost the city. So that we could become city. Citizens. Of the city to come. And the city to come tells us this. In Revelation 22. The city to come. It says. Revelation 22. Three. And the throne of God. And of the lamb. Will be in the city. And his servants will serve him. And they will see his face. And his name will be on their foreheads. And there will be no more night. and they will reign forever and ever. Now, let me put it like this. Jesus lost the city. That means he took the punishment for our sins so that when we believe in him, we can become citizens of the city which is to come, and that's the city where you get your name. When you believe in Jesus Christ and you know God loves you and accepts you, then you get your name. Then you know the only person who really counts loves you. You see? The only city that really matters. You're a citizen there. Frank Sinatra was wrong about the city you've really got to make it in. There's only one city that you said because I've made it there, I can make it anywhere. There's only one city that says because I'm a citizen of this city. Because I'm a landowner in this city. Because the Lord of this city knows me personally and loves me. And wouldn't it be great? Are you one of these few people in New York City that knows the insiders? That knows the people in power? that knows the people who kind of run New York City. And they invite you into their, you know, Park Avenue apartments. And they invite you into their offices, their corner offices. Don't you feel great? That's nothing compared to this. There is a city that you've got to go to get a name. A city where once you know you're a citizen there and you're on the inside of the mayor of that city and the lord of that city, that then you can look at every other city and here's what happens. If you know that Jesus lost the city so you could become citizens of the city which is to come, that frees you to enjoy and serve in the city that is. In Acts chapter 2, God came down. There was a rushing mighty wind. And here's what's so interesting. All the people there who actually were ethnically diverse, so they all spoke different languages, heard the gospel preached. And they all heard it in their own language. spoke one language but they couldn't understand each other. And on the day of Pentecost they all spoke different languages. They understand each other perfectly. What was happening. The Bible is trying to say that in the gospel. In the gospel. You really find finally the city that God wants. Christians who have a name from God. Can be ethnically who they are. And yet. Not racist. Because. Who I am ethnically is only part of my identity. So I can appreciate other groups. And I can also be critical of my own group. Christians who have a name for themselves To do their art. And to do their business. And to do their science. But it's not their name. It's not the main thing. They're not doing it. Out of desperation. As a result. They're not going to burn out. They're not going to go nuts. They're not going to be. Filled with envy. And filled with unhappiness. Because they are not. Making it. The way they want. You'll have. Margin. You'll have a margin. For serving. In a city. And you'll have. The ability. To enjoy. The city. Jesus. Lost. The city. Of God. He was. Crucified. Outside. The gate. So. We. could become citizens of the city which is to come, making a salt and light in the city which is. Are you ready for that? People told me before I came here, oh, you know, Christians, they said, the city's a terrible place. Nobody's going to want to, you know, talk to you. Your ministry will fail. And now people come to me and say, you know what? How do you get all those people into your church? Why, you know, I visited your church, and I sat down, and I talked to somebody next door, and that person was a Buddhist, What program do you use to get Buddhists to come to your church? Somebody recently said to me, I have been in small groups out in the rest of the country. I've been in a small group Bible studies all my life. 20 years. I moved to the city and I'm in a small group right now. There's a Buddhist in my group. There's an atheist in my group. And the other parts of the groups are Christian believers. But they're half divided between Catholic and Protestant. All in one Bible study. She said, In my whole life I've never been in a Bible study in which I had two people that didn't even believe Christianity, but there they are studying the Bible with me. And I never was in a group that was half Catholic, half Protestant. How do you do this? What program do you use to get these kinds of people together and to get this kind of creativity and to see all this stuff happening? I say, it's the city. No program. It's natural. Great things happen in the city. Terrible things happen in the city. But if you are a citizen of the city of God, spreading the city of God in the city of New York, place you can be. If you can stay there, stay there. If you can live here as that, live here as that. If you can't, go without guilt. Because not everyone's called to live in a city. But if you can stay here. You know, Tony Campolo, some years ago, he lives in Philadelphia. He was once confronted by a young man. He was sort of blonde. He was from California. And he was white. And he says, would it be dangerous for me to work in the inner city of Philadelphia? And Tony Campolo Paul said, not half as dangerous as working in the white affluent suburbs where you're from. And then he quoted him a Bible text. Do not fear those who can destroy the body, but fear the one who can destroy body and soul in hell. And then he said, cultural pride, materialism, and spiritual complacency, which you're very likely to find outside the city, are far more dangerous possibilities than being mugged. I don't mean, he said, that everybody has to live in a city, but the city's God-given benefits are so great, And many of us spiritually would have died without them. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would help us see that you gave us a city. That the city is filled with strife and difficulty. Difficulty because we come here without you. Because human beings are seeking to get a name for themselves from the city. Instead of getting a name from you. We thank you that your son lost a city. That we could become citizens of the city that is to come. which makes us salt and light in the city which is. However, Lord, a lot of us have to admit that we're not filled with that inner peace. We do not really sense your love. And as a result, we tend to be burned out by the city. Or we tend to be irritated by people who are different than we are. And we ask that in the Lord's Supper you could strengthen our understanding of what you did for us so that we can truly be salt and light in the city and really build the city and look to the city which is to come. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Thank you.