Please turn to the passage in the bulletin on which the teaching is based. It's 1 Timothy chapter 1, verses 13 to 19. This is a very special occasion for not just Jim Um, but for us all, because in the almost eight years, or will be eight years, of Redeemer's life, we've only had three services of ordination, three times in which we took someone and ordained them to the gospel ministry. Now, the passage I'm going to read is appropriate because down here in the end, as you'll see, Paul says, the reason I'm giving you this instruction is in keeping with the prophecies once made about you, so that following them you may fight the good fight. And the prophecies, that's a very strange reference, and you'll wonder about it unless I tell you now what it is. If you go back further on in the book of 1 Timothy, the letter of Paul to Timothy, in chapter 4, verse 14, he says, don't forget the prophecies that were spoken about you and spoken to you when the elders laid their hands on you. And so what he's talking about here is the same thing. When Tim, not Jim, when Tim was ordained, there was preaching, there were exhortations, there was a service just like today, and certain things were said. And Paul is reminding him of that. He's encouraging Timothy to be a minister, and he's encouraging him to be true to his ordination vows and true to his promises and true to his calling. And therefore, this entire passage is in some ways very curious because Paul basically gives his testimony. And because he gives his testimony, it's very applicable to everybody in this room. However, in the very end, he applies it to ministers and to new ministers or young ministers in particular, so you'll see it's very pertinent and appropriate for what we're doing tonight. Let me just read it to you. Paul says, even though I was once a blasphemer and a persecutor and a violent man, I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief. The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly, along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. Here is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst. But for that very reason I was shown mercy, so that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe on him and receive eternal life. Now to the king eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Timothy, my son, I give you this instruction in keeping with the prophecies once made about you, so that by following them you may fight the good fight, holding on to faith and a good conscience. Some have rejected these and so have shipwrecked their faith. This is God's word. Paul actually says

something very, very interesting here. A lot of people have struggled with it over the years, and first we're going to apply it to ourselves, and then we're going to apply it to ministers and new ministers in particular at the end. But what Paul says is really two things, and actually he slips in, if we look carefully, a third. He says two things and then he slips in a third or indicates it. First of all, he says, I am the worst. A lot of people struggle with that. He says twice, I am the worst. And then he says, because I am the worst, you have to look more carefully for this, he says, because I'm the worst, I'm the best. And once we get over that, first he says I am the worst, I'm the best. And he says this not just here, but three different places in the writings that we have of him. Finally, he will also see how this could be. So he tells us, I am the worst, and secondly, he tells us, because I'm the worst, I'm the best. And then thirdly, he explains how this could all be, and it has something to do with Jesus, of course. So first of all, let's look at this first statement that really has bothered people over the years. It's very, very blatant here in verse 15. He says, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the worst. The Greek word he uses here is protos, which means I am the first. In the old authorized version, he says, sinners of which I am the chief. And when John Bunyan, the guy who wrote Pilgrim's Progress, when he wrote his own spiritual autobiography, his own testimony of how he became a Christian, inspired by this verse. He entitled his spiritual autobiography, Grace Abounding for the Chief of Sinners, because that's the way it read in the old English. But this translation is just about right. It's really quite fair. What he's really saying is, of all the people I know, of all the sinners in the world, I'm the worst. Now, a lot of people have really struggled with this. I've got one commentator who said, if I can find it here, one commentator very unhappy with this, and he says there's only two possibilities. He says Paul's self-abasement is morbid or unreal. Morbid at worst, unreal at best. And, you know, these are the two views that people have of it. Let me give you the best one first. They're both wrong, of course. The best one is this. He says many people say Paul is just being, he's exaggerating. It's pious exaggeration. He's being unreal. Now, unfortunately, and this is another sermon, around Christian circles, in all religious circles, there's a tendency to pious exaggeration, to say, oh, I am the very worst of all, you know, or it was the greatest blessing. It was the most wonderful. There's a tendency to, you know, what is that, spiritual hype? Spiritual gushing? Actually, what it is spiritual posturing. and people tend to do this. And of course, somebody says, oh, the very best you could say is, come on, Paul, you are not the worst of sinners. You are not a serial killer. You are not a rapist. You are not the genocidal head of a particular head of state of some country. There's plenty of people worse than you. Get off of it. It's just the exaggeration. It's the thing that we hate so often in religious circles. It's this pious exaggeration. It's blather, you see. it's not. Not at all. Because Paul has really thought this out. Two other places Paul says this very thing. I'll read them to you. In 1 Corinthians 15, he says, for I am the least of the apostles, unfit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God, I am what I am. And his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I

though it was not I but the grace of God which is with me. And then in Ephesians 3, if you think, you say, wow. In Ephesians 3, the very same thing again. I'm going to show you it's the same thing here. I am the worst, therefore, because I'm the worst, I'm the best. First of all, secondly, this other place is Ephesians 3, and he says this. Listen. Of this gospel, I was made a minister. To me, though I am the least of all the saints, I'm sorry, I am the very least of all the saints, was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. That's a very strong statement, too. And you have to remember that the word saints, when the New Testament uses the word saints, it just means Christians. It doesn't mean the super Christians. It means any Christian. And he says, of this gospel I was made a minister, though I am the least of all Christians. This grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Maybe he's wrong, but this isn't blather, okay? This is not an exaggeration. Paul the apostle thought this out. Three times he says the very same thing, almost in the same language. This was a deep conviction. This was a well-considered position and an articulation of that position. So one thing you can't say that this is just sort of some kind of pious, as, you know, blather. Now, the other thing people say is it's morbid. And this is a much, much more serious charge and a very popular one today. This is morbid. This is psychologically pathological. This is the problem with Christianity. It makes people have low self-esteem and a low self-image and makes you beat your breast and talk about how bad you are all the time. And this is very bad. Today in the New York Times Book Review, a reviewer said something

Augustine. Now, St. Augustine was a great theologian and a great leader of the third, fourth century A.D. He was a man who wrote a book called The Confessions, which is one of, maybe, the most famous spiritual autobiography of all time, unless you, you know, if you leave out Paul's right here. And what, in that confession, there's one place where he actually he was when he was a little child, when he was a little boy, that he and a bunch of other boys went into an orchard that didn't belong to them, and he went in and they climbed a tree and they stole some apples. And many, many years later in his spiritual biography, St. Augustine talks about how bad he was and how sinful that was. Well, the reviewer puts it this way, and I know that this is how the reviewer would see Paul too, not just Augustine, but Paul. Here's what he said. He says about Augustine. He says, child of a dominant mother, victim of a guilt-ridden conscience, Augustine wrote the bewilderingly haunted confessions in which infantile peccadillos like stealing apples and adolescent fumblings with instinctive sexuality are bewailed with all the anguish of a frustrated perfectionist. He was trapped between the humility of acknowledging his own dependence on God and the arrogance of insisting that everyone else was equally tainted redeemable but by his grace. Now, you see, here's the view, not just of Augustine but of Paul. Here's the view. This view is this. Augustine, Paul, these are the guys that look at things like stealing apples and they say, oh, how awful. Oh, how sinful. Clearly, this is psychologically pathological. Clearly, it's a result of bad upbringing, low self-esteem, or something like that. And okay, that's your problem. But then, for them to turn around and say, we're all sinners. Hey, the rest of us are normal. We stole some apples. Kids do that. Lighten up, Paul. You know, what has Paul done that's so bad? Come on, Augustine, Paul. Christians, you know, just lighten up. You're morbid. You're obviously perfectionist. That's the reason why you're here. That's the reason why you need absolution. You know, go to a therapist instead. Work these things out. That's what the man is saying. And, you know, I don't think he read Augustine very brought it up. In fact, it made me go back and read it. And what Augustine says about the apples is exactly what Paul's saying right here. What is Paul saying? Paul says he's the worst. Why? Now, in the very beginning, he says, I was a blasphemer, I was a persecutor, and I was a violent man, but I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief. Now, some people say, how can he say that? And then a minute later, he says, I am the worst. If he was saying I was These three things. If you're ignorant, blasphemy could be done for good motives. You see, he blasphemed Jesus Christ. He talked about Jesus Christ in a bad way. Why? Because he didn't know that Jesus was who he claimed to be. And you know, you could really sincerely be trying to please God, but if you're just ignorant, if you just don't believe, you just don't know that Jesus is the Son of God, you'll say blasphemous things. And he says, well, I was ignorant. and therefore, in some ways, that mitigates the guilt. And then look at the second thing, a persecutor. He persecuted Christians, but he was trying to please God, and he was, again, simply ignorant. He just didn't believe that Jesus was who he said he was. And so, for very good motives, you know, just trying to please God and trying to submit to God and give yourself to God, if you just didn't know that about Jesus, the blasphemy and the persecution were certainly mitigated. The guilt would be mitigated by unbelief, but not the last thing. And unfortunately, there's no good way to translate this in one word. The last word, which is translated here as a violent man, is a Greek word that a lot of you have heard. He says, I was a hybristes, and it's the Greek word hubris, which is the Greek word for pride. But in that particular form, hubristus, it really does mean a trampler. Paul is saying that, of course, I was good. Oh, I was very, very good. I did not lie. I did not cheat. I was not an abuser of women or children or the poor. I went to church. I prayed my head off. I knew the Bible inside out. I obeyed. And underneath all that goodness was a different engine. I was doing all that because I desperately wanted to feel superior to everyone else. And because of my goodness, I did feel superior to everyone else, and therefore I trampled on people. Paul says that there was something in my heart much, much deeper than the external goodness. Now, Augustine's saying the same thing. And if you actually go back and read what Augustine says about the apples, you'll see he wasn't just upset about the actual stealing of the apples. he says in his autobiography this. He says, now this is great. He says, when I willed to commit theft of the apples, I did so not because I was driven to it by any need. I stole a thing of which I had plenty of my own and of much better quality. As a matter of fact, he says, they didn't eat them after they stole them. They threw them at pigs. So he obviously didn't steal the apples because he was hungry or because he needed apples. He says, no, I did it because it was forbidden. I loved my sin, not for that which I did the sin, but I loved the sin itself. Now here's what he's saying. You've been kids, all of you have been kids, unless you came from another planet or something. You've all been kids. Now what he's saying is I didn't need the apples, I didn't want the apples, I had no interest in apples, I had no hunger for apples, but then my mother said no. And the minute my mother said no, I wanted them. It's got nothing to do with apples. This is the reason why, interestingly, the edition of the confessions that I have, the editor put this down as the heading for that passage. He says, sins of childhood differ only in objects not in nature from the most terrible ones in later life. What Augustine is trying to say is, I didn't need apples. I needed to be the absolute ruler of my universe. Until my mother said no about the apples, apples meant nothing to me. But as soon as she said no, I needed to get them. Why? Because deep in my heart, says Augustine, there is not a desire for apples. There is a desire to be my own God, my own sovereign. I want sovereignty. I want I want, whenever I want it. I want it. And therefore, immediately, that was the need. The need. A one-year-old child who can't put a sentence together with their lips deep in their heart. You know what they're saying? You can see it. They're saying, it's amazing. They're saying, nobody's going to tell me what to do. That's the look in their eyes. It goes all the way down. And here's what Augustine and here's what Paul are saying. This is the essence of sin. Sins of childhood differ in their objects but not in their nature from the most terrible ones later on. Here's two acorns. One acorn falls into a place where there's no soil, where there's no moisture, into some kind of cistern or something. There's no soil. There's no moisture. Another acorn, same acorn, same kind of acorn, falls into a place where it's lots of moisture and lots of great soil and lots of nutrients in the soil. One comes up a mighty oak. The other one rots. Which acorn had more vitality? Well, they're the same. Which acorn had more strength? Well, it's the same. Well, why the difference? Had nothing to do with the acorn. Had all to do with the environment. Now, listen. The Bible says most as Ivan the Terrible or Hitler, but it's not for lack of talent. The Bible is saying, Augustine is saying, look at Paul and Augustine. Think about them. Augustine says, I was the worst. Paul says, I was the worst. But Augustine, before he became a Christian, was leading this incredibly licentious life, doing anything he wanted, not just immoral, but sort of amoral. And Paul was this absolute moralist, you know? Augustine was running around, would have been running around, organizing movements of sexual liberation, and St. Paul would have been running around picketing and bashing him. But the Bible says they're the same, they're the same, that underneath each one there was a violent pride that wanted to be own master, own savior, own Lord, to feel superior to everybody else, we were just using morality or immorality or religion or irreligion for the same end. And that's why what Paul is saying here is when he says, I'm the worst, what he says is my heart is absolutely no different in its principle and in its power than the worst of sinners. Yeah, my acorn hasn't shot up as big a tree as a lot of others, but the acorns are no different. It is only by the grace of God that I am what I am. In fact, that's true of everybody in this that you're as good as you are. It's the environment. It's the things around you. It's the influences that God's given you. When Paul says, I am the worst of sinners, that is absolutely realistic. Intellectually, Paul said, because I finally understood what the Bible says about sin and what the Bible says about grace, intellectually, I realize what sin really is. It's a desire to have everything in the universe revolve around me. Desire to be my own sovereign. And because of that, he says, I know that I am intellectually as bad as the worst sinner, and existentially, I feel worse because I know the deceits of my own heart

personally. So when you put together the intellectual understanding that the biblical theology gives you and the existential experience that acquaintance with your own heart brings you, Any Christian can say this. Any Christian should say this. Okay? Paul says, I'm the worst. But then he says, because I'm the worst, I'm the best. Now, this is something that we have a lot of trouble with because immediately when we see someone saying I'm the worst we think it's pathological and then when we hear him saying I'm the best we think that's pathological too. the absolute unique self-image the gospel brings. Look at these other passages. I already read them. He says, I am the least of the apostles. That seems, oh, come on, the least of the apostles. However, I'm the best. He says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. And this grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I work more fruitfully than them all. That's incredible. Here's Paul saying, you know, I am the most fruitful apostle. Now, you know, that was a simple fact. He planted more churches. He sent it out more. I mean, it really was kind of irrefutable. Of all the apostles, he certainly was. Look at what percentage of the New Testament is written by him. Now, you know, you can, all the other apostles, there are other apostles, they've written things, but Paul. And look at where he spread the gospel. He's able to say it. Are you afraid to say such a thing? You know the reason we're afraid to say such a thing? We have of both false humility and false pride. We don't want to come right out and say anything because we want people to think we're humble. On the other hand, we desperately cannot stand it if people don't notice us, which shows we're incredibly proud. Paul was neither. You see, because the gospel on the one hand says, you're the worst. You are the worst. You are no different. Whether you're a mafia hitman, okay, or whether, on the other hand, you are a paragon of virtue, a pillar of the community. You are essentially the same. You've been living your life trying to get away from God, and you are equally in need of grace. You're irredeemable without it. So the gospel, on the one hand, takes you all the way down, but then he turns around and says, I'm the best. Now, how can he say that? In this passage, he actually says it, only in a way that is kind of masked by it. and I was shown mercy, so that, what? In me, the worst of sinners, here it is, Christ Jesus might display his unlimited power as an example. Now, one of the problems with this word example, it's a wimpy word. It's a wimpy translation. And for a minute there, it even makes you think that it's referring to Christ Jesus as the example. But no, no, no. Both the grammar and the word, this is what it says. He doesn't just say that he is a tupos. Now, tupos is the word which means, from get our word type or typical, and it means a pattern. He doesn't just say, Jesus Christ showed me mercy so that I'd be a pattern for you, but the Greek word he uses is hypertypos, which means I'm the hyperpattern. He says, Jesus Christ has saved me, the worst of sinners, so that I could be the ultimate, and he is, the ultimate type of what a Christian is. Do you know that there is absolutely no, but he accepts Jesus. The crucifixion of Jesus Christ, there is no other event in the Bible that's lifted up and given as much airtime and as many verses and as much coverage as the conversion of Paul. Why? Because Paul indicates himself that Jesus Christ is going to make use of him. Because he was so bad, he is so good. Now, what do I mean? On the one hand, Because he was so bad, he's such an encouragement to anybody in this room to become a Christian, no matter who you are. You've got to remember something. Paul, because he was a persecutor, he put people to death. He put Christians to death. He put Stephen to death. He arrested Christians and he killed them. And then he became a convert and he went into the church. Now, think about this. For the rest of his life, I mean, the church was only so big. For the rest of his life, he'd be walking along and suddenly he'd see somebody whose son, whose brother, whose daughter, whose wife, whose father, whose mother, whose son or daughter he'd killed. Oh, there's Stephen's widow and their three little kids. I mean, how did Paul deal with his conscience? And the answer is, just read the rest of the New Testament, he says, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Paul is saying, if I could deal with my conscience, if I could come to Christ, if I could be turned around and turned into something great with all the things that I've done, what have you done that's so bad? In other words, I don't care what you think you've done that's so horrible. It's not like what I had to face. Paul says, I'm a pattern. I'm the hyper-pattern. Because I was so bad, because I was so far, because my heart was so hard, there's no reason in the world why you can't come. It doesn't matter what you've done. who you are, come, because I'm the worst, I'm the best. Here, let me give you another example. Look and see Paul's attitude. Why does he suddenly say, for this very reason I was shown mercy, that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his unlimited patience as an example for those who would believe on him and receive eternal life. Now unto the king eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. What's verse 17 doing

Is it a new point? Does it move the narrative along? No. What is it? It is an outburst. Paul can't think of what a terrible sinner he is without immediately becoming absolutely filled with glorious joy. If you think that you understand the gospel because you are such a horrible person, and you see how wicked you are, and you see how you're as a result, you're shy. As a result, you're always kind of depressed. As a result, you never put yourself forward. As a result, you never point to yourself. As a result, you never open your mouth and tell other people what's right or wrong with them. As a result, you're kind of a timid type. As a result, you're kind of anxious. You don't understand the gospel. Paul says, because I'm the worst, suddenly, look at this praise. This is the way he lived. This is his heart. He walks down the road, and he's always praising God. Do you remember the place? where Jesus meets Simon the Pharisee and the prostitute. Remember? The woman of ill repute in Luke 7. And Simon says, hello, Jesus, and asks him to come in and sit down. And the woman is just weeping and tears of joy and anointing his feet with her tears and with perfume. And Simon the Pharisee is kind of taken aback. Simon, you want to know why she kisses me and you just shake my hand? You want to know why you want an intellectual conversation with me and she is throwing herself at my feet? You want to know why you're interested in me and she absolutely loves me? She says, the one who's forgiven much loves much. The one who's forgiven much loves much. There it is. Jesus says, look at the history of all the 12 apostles. Of the 12 apostles, not Paul. disciples. Who blew it the worst? Peter. Who was the greatest? Peter. The biggest repenter is always the greatest. Why? The biggest repenter experiences grace. The bigger you know your debt to be, the greater you know the value of what God has done for you. And then of all the apostles, who's the one who really blew it the worst? It's Paul. And who was really the greatest? It was Paul. It's always the way. The one who's forgiven much loves much. That's the gospel. It's totally

the more you feel your weakness, the stronger you're going to be when you see who you are in Christ, which brings us to the last point. See, Paul says, I'm the worst, and because I'm the worst, I'm the best. And then last of all, how could this be? I'll tell you why. It's implicit, but it's here. Jesus Christ became the worst so that you could become the best. In 2 Corinthians 5.21, Paul writes, God made him sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Now you think of that. It says God made him, Jesus Christ, sin who knew no sin. It didn't say God made Jesus Christ sinful. It said it made him sin. I was reading, and you're going to hear about it again, I'm sure, because I got a lot out of it. I reread Robert Louis Stevenson's Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. and of course the way the plot works is because of this mysterious potion Dr. Jekyll becomes Mr. Hyde who is an absolutely and thoroughly evil person the only evil person in the world, thoroughly evil and anyone who meets him immediately just hates him and cringes and just stays away right? now you know there's nobody like that really but Jesus became like that. Jesus doesn't become a sinner, you know, mixed good and bad. On the cross, God treated him as if he was sin. He became the worst. He really was the worst. And you know how, when you see these stupid summer films, these stupid summer movies in which all the villains are cartoon characters, they're cardboard characters. And you know why? They're absolutely weird, they're always glaring, they're totally evil, they're not human at all because at the very end when they're decapitated or gored, they want you to cheer. They want them to be cardboard characters, not human beings. So you can cheer. They really want to make them sin, do you see, so that you want to pour all the justice out on them. That's what happened to Jesus on the cross. God made him sin. God treated him his sin. God made him the very worst person in the world. God made him the worst parts of all of us and poured sin out on him so that we might become the righteousnesses of God in him. And that's what Paul is saying when he says, the message that changed me is this, not that Christ came into the world to teach us, which is what Buddha and Confucius and Mohammed and everybody else did, not that Jesus Christ came into the world to help us save ourselves. Jesus Christ came into of the world to save us. Jesus Christ came into the world to be in our place. Don't you see,

way back in the Garden of Eden and ever since then, we did climb into the orchard and we climbed the tree and we ate the fruit. We took it. Does Jesus Christ come back and say, let me show you the way of salvation. Go back up that tree and put that fruit back. No. Remember what George Herbert says? Remember George Herbert, that incredible poem? He has Jesus Christ calling down from the cross and he says, Oh, all ye who pass by, behold and see, you stole the fruit, but I must climb the tree. A tree of life to all, but only me. See, the cross is a tree of life to you because he climbed it, but not to him. He became the worst so that in him you become the best. What do you mean what Paul says? This is the last thing I can say. Paul does not say, I was the worst. This is the most incredible. Paul, the man walking down the street, praising God, now under the King Eternal. Paul who says up here in verse 14, the grace of our Lord was hyperpored. He uses that word again. He's just superlatives all over the place if you read it in Greek. The grace of our Lord was hyperpored out on me along with hyperpored out love and faith. This is the man coming down who's willing to say I'm the best of the apostles, who's able to affirm that, who's able to speak with confidence, who's just filled with praise. He doesn't say I was the worst. He says I am the worst. How could that be? Just like what Luther said, the gospel is that you're more wicked than you ever dared believe and you're more loved than you ever dared hope at the same time because it's in Christ, because Christ climbed the tree for you, because Christ became the worst, Now in him, you're the best. God sees you holy and without blame. And Paul lives out of that, knowing that there's still wickedness in his heart, knowing to a great degree he's still got that acorn of sin down there. But he says, now, because of what Jesus has done, I'm the best. Now, you know, you say, what does this mean? I'll tell you what it means. He turns to Timothy, and here I'm going to turn to Jim, and any other ministers and any other leaders who are here. And he says, fight the good fight. And what is the good fight? He says, think of me and then fight the good fight. Hold on to the faith. And there he's talking about the object of gospel. Hold on to the truths. Hold on to the fact that Jesus came. He wasn't just a good man. He wasn't just born. He came. He's God. Hold on to the fact that Jesus Christ didn't come to teach, but he came to save us, atonement, resurrection. Hold on to the faith, objectively. Hold on to the gospel. Don't let anybody move you away. Don't let anybody say, well, parts of the Bible, we can't accept anymore. Hold on to it objectively, but then also hold on to a good conscience. Hold on to a good conscience. And that means hold on to the gospel subjectively. It's not enough just to believe the gospel intellectually. You have to be preaching it to yourself and into your heart so there's this great conscience, so that you walk down the street praising God, so you're not afraid of anybody. See, so the gospel is both yours objectively and subjectively. And if you do that, Timothys, if you do that, anybody who wants to reach out to anybody else, you will be a great heart. People will listen to you. And I'll tell you why. Because on the one hand, you'll have courage. You'll speak to people with courage. You'll speak to people with courage because you won't care what anybody else thinks. You won't care what anybody else thinks because in Him you're the best. On the other hand, you will always treat even the worst unbelievers as equals. Do you hear me? Equals. And if you speak to people the gospel and they can tell that you see them as equals, they will listen. In all the summer films, these cardboard villains. There's no such thing as villains like that. You know, John Malkovich in Con Air, he's such a terrible villain, so at the very end when he's decapitated, we can cheer. But I'll tell you something, in real life, in real life, there are no villains that are strictly evil all the way through and through. In real life, if you understand the gospel, you'll know that they're like you, that they had mothers who kissed their little baby toes, that there's There's turmoil in them, and there's fighting in them, and that they're not that different than you. And when you understand that through the gospel, you will speak to them as if they're equals, and they will listen to you. And if you don't know the gospel, and if you believe you're saved through your good works, you're going to treat people like the cabristas you are, like the proud person you are, and you're going to speak what you think is the gospel, and nobody's going to listen. You're going to say, oh, how faithful I am. But they're not there. You've got courage, but you don't have humility. Or maybe you have humility, but you don't have courage. But with the gospel, Timothy, I give you this instruction. Fight the good fight. Hold on to the faith and a good conscience. Don't reject these. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray that you'd help us to understand the greatness of what is being given to us, the tenderness of Jesus. If we have the tenderness and the humility of Jesus. We will have the greatness of Jesus. Paul was brought down to the depths so that he could come up and be a great heart. We pray that you would show us how after every death comes resurrection. The death is not the death of self, but of self-righteousness. And when self-righteousness dies, greatness of heart, praise, confidence, joy comes. Get us ready now, Lord, to ordain Jim, and not only that, to renew in our own hearts the facts and the truth and the power of the gospel so that we can all be Paul's and Timothy's, and we can all be representatives of your Son in this world who came not to be served, but to serve and give his life a ransom for many. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
