Tonight's scripture reading is found on page 8 in your bulletin, and it comes from the 17th chapter of John.

After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed, Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people, that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Now this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory that I had with you before the world began. I have revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me, and they have obeyed your word. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one Father just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me that they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you, and they know that you have sent me. I have made you known to them and will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them and that I myself may be in them. This is the word of the Lord.

Hey, well now, since Leo is doing a Q&A afterwards, I'll say every offensive and confusing possible thing that a preacher could say so he can answer your questions. And so, and actually perhaps it wouldn't be that hard to say at least confusing things tonight. And maybe I will. Because we're going to look for the second week in a row at the doctrine of the Trinity. That God is one being who eternally exists in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Equally God, who know and love each other. One being consisting of three persons. And I think I said last week that the doctrine of the Trinity, this idea that God is not one without one person and not three beings, but three persons in one being. And we said last week that most places in the Bible, the doctrine of the Trinity is in the background of the passage. in the foreground of any particular passage. But that's not true tonight. Because we actually have here in this high priestly prayer of Jesus Christ on the night before he was about to die in the presence of his disciples, he's talking about, he's praying to the Father and he's giving us insights into the actual relationship between the Father and the Son, not just here on earth as he's praying, but what that relationship was like before the foundation of the world, which he mentions And so we actually have maybe the only place where we get an inside look at the inner life of the Trinity from all eternity. And I think it's fair to say that this is one passage that could be entitled, though I didn't entitle it, The Deep Things of God. And by the way, you notice I did not actually entitle it Our Triune God Part Two. I entitled it The Glory of God Part 2 because we're going to see how the doctrine of the Trinity helps us understand true glory. So, deep things of God. Three things that we learn from the passage, and they are deep things. The ancient love, the ultimate hour, and the welcoming glory. The ancient love, the ultimate hour, the welcoming glory. glory. First of all, and we're going to see how the Trinity sheds light on our understanding of creation, our understanding of redemption, and so forth. First of all, the ancient love. Verses 1 to 5, I'm thinking about. And there we see, in verse 1, and then we see again in verse 4 and 5, Jesus says, Glorify me that I might glorify you. The Father's glorifying Jesus. Jesus is glorifying the Father. And that's happening now. But verse 4 and 5 shows us that's been happening from all eternity. Because the Father has been glorifying the Son, and the Son has been glorifying the Father before the world began. And therefore, the Father and the Son have been glorifying each other mutually and eternally. So what does it mean to glorify? And the glorify actually means these things. It means, first of all, to praise and appreciate, appreciate, to praise and adore someone. Secondly, to serve and please that someone. And thirdly, all out of love. Because see, Jesus says it twice, but down here, verse 24, I want them to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me. See, if you love someone, if you truly love somebody, one of the ways in which you express that love is you glorify them. You lift them up. You praise and adore them and you serve and please them. And we're told here that the Father and the Son have not only been doing that from all eternity, but if you actually go, and we can't, but if you actually go one chapter earlier into John chapter 16, verse 14, we see that the Holy Spirit's been participating in that too. And this is the teaching, that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit from all eternity have been pouring glory, love, and joy into one another's hearts. They've been communicating and pouring love, joy, and glory into one another's hearts in degrees that we cannot imagine, in amounts and in degrees infinite that we can't imagine. And that's what God has been doing since before there was time.

Now, what does that mean? That's the nature of God. So three things I'm going to get out of this. First of all, this means that God is infinitely happy. And there's really no other religion that probably has warned to talk about God as infinitely happy. Because the Eastern religions see God as impersonal. God is a force. It's the impersonal force and everything. God doesn't really have a personality, so it would be silly to talk about God as being infinitely happy. But even Western religions, or religions in which you have God, a personal God, but that God is unipersonal.

Well, you wouldn't talk about them. Before there was a world, before there were other beings, this unipersonal God could not have loved. I mean, love is something that one person feels and does to another person. And if there was only one person, if it was just God, before anything else was created, then that God could not have had this love and therefore would not have had this infinite happiness. See, when two people are in love, what do you do? You glorify each other. You praise each other. You tell each other what's so great about them. And you please them. You know, you say this. You say, what will make you happy? What can I get you? make you happy? I'm on it. See, that's the language of love. And what we have here are three beings, three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, three persons. And these three divine persons are not seeking their own glory, but they're giving glory to the other two. And if you know anything about that, there is no greater joy

than to have not someone love you because you've demanded it, but because you freely receive it. You know that. If you demand love, it's never as satisfying as when you get it freely. So the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, these three persons are not demanding love. They're not seeking their own glory. They're giving glory. There's no greater happiness than to say,

There's no greater happiness than the happiness of making somebody else happy. There's no greater joy than the joy of making somebody else joyful. And when you put your joy in them so that when they're happy, you're happy. There's no greater joy than to see that you have sparked their happiness. This is the kind of infinite. There is no greater joy than that. There's no greater love than this. When you're not demanding it, you're not taking it, but you're getting it. You're giving it freely and you're receiving it freely from the person you most love. That is infinite happiness, and God's had that from all eternity.

God is a being who consisted of three persons, and inside God, those three persons were knowing and loving and pouring joy into one another and seeking not the... Each person was not seeking his own glory, but seeking the glory of the others. And as a result, infinite happiness. So first of all, God's infinitely happy. Secondly, we now know probably, as best we can see, why God created the world.

Now the Bible doesn't directly say exactly any one verse why God created the world. That's the reason why I said we have a broad hint here why we probably can see it, but here it is.

Why would a unipersonal God create a world of worshipers? so he could get worship, so he could get servants, so he could get adoration. But a tri-personal God does not need that. The tri-personal God already had it. So why would a tri-personal God who's already got infinite happiness, who's already got infinite joy,

who's already got infinite love, why would a tri-personal God who's already got this mutual communication of joy and love, why would he create a world? not to get that mutual communication of love and joy, but to share it. He didn't create a world to get happy. He was already infinitely happy. He didn't create a world to get love. He was already infinitely filled with love. He created the world to share it. And you see it. Look, verse 22, Jesus is saying, I want them to have the glory that we have. In the later part of verse 22, 2 and the beginning of verse 23. I want them to have the unity, the love that we have. Verse 24, I want them to see the glory and the love that we have. And what Jesus is saying is the whole purpose of creation and the whole purpose of redemption is not for God to get love and to get adoration and to get glory, but to share it. To share it. And that leads to this. The most important practical thing you need to realize, if this is true, if this is how God created the world, then your absolute highest,

your purpose, your meaning, and the only way you'll ever be happy is if you are glorifying God above all other things. George Marsden wrote a biography of Jonathan Edwards. And in that, Jonathan Edwards was a congregational minister of the 18th century who wrote a book called The End for Which God Created the World, or The Purpose for Which God Created the World. And Edwards believed that the Bible taught what we just said, and what you see here in John 17, that God had perfect love, happiness, and joy, and therefore, since he already had that in himself, he didn't create a world of persons like us in order to get love and communication and joy so much as to share what he had. He wanted to share with us the infinite happiness that he had. And that means that it's our job to do, he created us in his image, and therefore we will only be happy as he is happy. And how is he happy? Each of the divine persons do not demand glory, and they don't live for their own glory, but they live for the glory of the others. And so Marsden, in his biography, tries to summarize this thesis, of Jonathan Edwards, which would be the thesis that I'm trying to get across. And here's how Marsden puts it. He says, it is consistent with the nature of a God who is essentially loving to create a world of beings and communicate that love and delight he had in himself to them. Perfect goodness, beauty, and love radiate from God and draw his creatures to ever increasingly share in God's joy and delight. How? We do so as we come to rejoice in divine glory as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit already do. We do so as we come not to seek glory for ourselves, but as we give glory to God as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit already are. This process of growth in happiness will go on forever, eternally increasing unimaginably. But did you hear what he sharing God's joy and delight. If we were created to share God's joy and delight, then we have to do so as God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit do. The Father, Son, and Holy Spirit already, what? Rejoice in divine glory. And they already live not for, each person does not live for his own glory, but for the glory of the others. And therefore, you will only be happy if you're doing the same thing. You're created to do exactly what they do and to have the happiness that they have. And the only way that'll happen is if God is the very center of your life, is if you give God glory and above everything else. Now, what does that mean? I know it sounds, well, listen, let's get really practical. The Bible says, God says in the beginning of the first commandment, worship me, God says, rather than something else. Now, would you please notice he doesn't hold out the possibility of worshiping nothing. He says, if you don't worship me, you will worship something else. There is no such thing as worshiping nothing. Why? Because you're made in God's image. You're made in the image of God. And what is God? God is tri-personal and he glorifies. Each person one person glorifies the other. You will glorify something. I don't care how much you say, oh, I'm a skeptic, I'm an atheist, you know, I'm a New Yorker. It doesn't matter what you say. You say, I'm not religious at all. You are glorifying something. You are worshiping something. You were made to. And therefore, for example, if you have recently felt like a failure where you've lost face and it's just eating you up. Or if you've been criticized really strongly and it's just eating you up. You know why? Because you're giving more weight, you're giving more glory and weight to what people think about you. Oh, maybe I believe in God. Maybe you believe God loves you in some kind of abstract way. But let me tell you what you're really glorifying. What you're really ascribing ultimate value to. What you're really worshipping is what people think of you. If you're more upset about gaining five pounds than you are about having a sinful habit in your life, then you are ascribing more glory to how you look, to your own beauty, than to what God thinks. and see when God's approval when God's will when God's service when his glory is preeminent in your life then and only then will you be happy it's the reason why you're being eaten up by your criticism it's the reason why you're going nuts because you gained weight why? it's because God is not number one in your life and you were made to have God number one in your life The Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit are infinitely happy because they glorify the others and they don't seek glory for themselves. As long as you're trying to get your own glory through success or through looks or through status or through popular opinion or whatever. If you're trying to seek your own glory or get your own glory, if anything is more important to you than God, you will never be happy. You know why? Because you were made for this. You were made for worship.

If you aren't worshipping God. And if he's not the number one thing in your life, you, not just in your head, but in your heart too, you're cut off from your real origins. You're cut off from your real design. You're going against the grain of your own being.

And therefore, the ancient love of God tells us, the ancient love tells us that God is infinitely happy. He created the world to share that infinite happiness. And the only way you will have that infinite happiness, is if you worship him and him alone and you give him glory. Me too. Number two. I said this not only tells you about the ancient love, it also tells you about the ultimate hour. Now here are, almost all of our English translations fail us a little bit. In the book of John, in the gospel of John, there is a particular Greek word for, well, it's the word for hour. Jesus is always saying, my hour has not yet come. when he changes the water into wine. And at one point he says to his mother, My hour has not yet come. And over and over he says, My hour has not yet come. And then, in chapter 12, and here, he says, Father, the hour has come. In the book of John, the hour means the hour of his death. For whatever reason, I don't know why, but many of the translators will translate it, My time, the time has come. and see what he says according to this translation, verse 1. He says, Father, the time has come. But actually, it's the word hour. And what he means is my death, the crucifixion, the hideous, painful death on the cross. And I want you to see, in light of the inner life of the Trinity, what that death means. Because he's bringing the relationships within the Trinity to bear on what that hour means. First of all, in verse 5 it says, Glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Now what that means is he's lost his glory. And that's not a surprise to us. Philippians 2 tells us he emptied himself of his glory. When he came to earth, when he took on a human nature, he emptied himself of his glory. You didn't need sunglasses to look at him anymore. He became completely ordinary. extraordinary in fact we're told in Isaiah in the suffering servant narratives or the prophecies about the coming Messiah Isaiah said he had no beauty that we should desire him which means that even as a human being he did not only lose his divine glory he didn't even have human glory he wasn't good to look at he wasn't physically attractive and we're told by Isaiah, and of course we would know this anyway, that when he was being killed, when they beat him, when they speared him, when they, you know, put thorns on his head, he was beaten to a pulp. And Isaiah says, his visage, his face was so marred that we could not bear to look upon him. So Jesus Christ lost all of his glory. He had it before the foundation of the world, but he came to earth to die on the cross, to pay for our sins, and he lost all of his glory. But now what is he asking for? In both verse one and in verse five, he says, Father, the hour has come. Glorify me. Give me that glory back. When? Now. At my hour. See, at first you might look at that and say, no, wait a minute. Maybe what he means is this. I've lost my glory and now I'm going to die. I'm going to be beaten to a pulp. It's going to be shameful. It's going to be painful. It's going to be ugly. The opposite of glory is ugliness. Jesus is going to be beaten to a pulp. It's going to be horrible. It's going to be repulsive. We're not going to be able to look at it. So maybe what he's saying is, Father, the hour has come. I'm about to die. As soon as the death is over, as soon as the shame and the horror of the death is over, then glorify me. me. Resurrect me. The resurrection, the ascension, the session at the right hand. See, that's the glory. So at first we said, well, what he must mean is I'm going to die. And as soon as that's over, then glorify me. That's not what he says. He's saying, glorify me now, glorify me at this hour. And to be sure that we're right, you go back to chapter 12, verse 23, where Jesus says, the hour has come now for the son of man to be glorified. And do you know what this means? means? Pretty amazing. Jesus is saying, I want to be glorified in the cross. Notice he says, glorify me that I might glorify you, verse 1. Later on, he says, glorify me on the cross so that they can see my glory. In other words, Jesus Christ's ultimate glory, glory, the ultimate expression of God's glory is not after the shame of the cross. It's in the shame of the cross. A friend of mine, Don Carson, wrote a great commentary on the book of John. And I know he says about this verse, this is amazing. Because what Jesus is saying is, he says, glorify me now. I'm going to be glorified now. When I'm lifted up and I'm beaten to a pulp and I'm repulsive and I'm giving up everything and I've lost everything, that will be the ultimate expression of the glory of God. The glory of God does not follow the shame of the cross. It's displayed in the shame of the cross. And what does that mean? It means that there's no greater glory than to give up your glory to glorify somebody else. There's no greater beauty than to give up your beauty to beautify somebody else. And it shows us that this is what's in the heart of God.

In the heart of God from all eternity, each person has been, has been seeking not his own glory, but the glory of others. And therefore, what Jesus Christ is doing on the cross is something that is actually showing us the heart of God. Now, he's doing something different. Because, you know, inside the Trinity, even when you didn't seek your own glory, but the glory of others, the others gave you glory and joy. Joy, what happens when you seek the glory of people who are killing you? It's different, and I'll get to that in just one second. Just give me one second. But the point is, and there's nobody who said it better than C.S. Lewis in The Problem of Pain. When Jesus Christ went to the cross, he was doing what the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit had been doing inside the Trinity in a sense forever, which was each deferring to the other, each seeking not their own glory but the glory of others. And therefore, there's an unselfishness in the heart of God. there's an other orientation in the heart of God that is profound here's what the way C.S. Lewis put it I don't think I've ever seen it matched he says in self-giving if anywhere we touch the rhythm not only of all creation but of all being for Jesus gives himself in sacrifice and not only on Calvary for when Jesus was crucified he did, listen carefully

Did you hear that? See, inside the Trinity, Jesus has already been doing this. From all eternity, he's been submitting. He's been not seeking his own glory, but the glory of others. We know this. He says, It says, from before the foundation of the world, he surrendered begotten deity back to begetting deity in obedience. And what that means is when he went to the cross, and it was such a vivid way to put it, he did in the wild weather of his outlying provinces that which he had been doing at home from all eternity in glory and gladness. In other words, when Jesus Christ went to the cross, he was showing us something about the very heart of God that had been there forever. To give up your glory for the glory of others. To give up your joy for the joy of others. And you know what that means? It means when... Even in the heart of God, the way up is down. The way to get joy is to seek the joy of others. The way to get influence is not to seek power, but to serve. The way to have eternal fame is to not care about promoting yourself at all, but to serve the needs of other people. And so, we learn two things. When you see, do you see how the Trinitarian love of God helps us understand the death of Jesus on the cross? You learn two things, and here's the first one. I want you to see the infinite cost that Jesus Christ bore for you. And if you don't understand the life of the Trinity, you will not understand what he did for you. John Flavel, a 17th century Puritan, British guy, wrote a sermon years ago, and I read it years ago. not that many years ago, but I read it 20 years ago. He wrote it like 300 years ago called the ancient glory of Jesus Christ. And in it is the first place I'd ever, ever seen anybody say that from all eternity, the father, the son, and the Holy spirit had been pouring love and joy and glory to each other, which means God, every person of the Trinity was perfectly happy. And then he said, now, do you have any idea what happened when Jesus Christ And here's the best way to explain this. If one of you who I don't know, let's just say you're a guest or a visitor, I've never met you. If afterwards you catch me on the way out the door and said, I hate you and I never want to see you again. I hated everything about this whole service. I never want to see you again. Well, I would feel, of course, I've never known you before, but I'd still feel pretty bad.

But if one of you is a friend of mine, somebody I've known for years, come to the church for years, I've been your pastor. If one of you would catch me and said, I hate you I'd feel a lot worse. And if one of my three sons caught me after the service and said, I hate you and I never want to see you again, I'd feel even worse. No offense to those of you who are my friends.

And if my wife did it for me, I'd feel the worst of all. If she did that to me, I'd feel the worst of all. And the psychologist will tell you that there is nothing worse than a death of a spouse or a divorce to lose. Why? Because the longer and the deeper and more profound the love relationship, the more searingly painful it is when you lose it, right? Of course. I mean, when you lose some love relationships, you never get over it. You're scarred forever. And yet, and I don't want to, listen, I don't want to give anybody the impression I take what you've been going through lately, because a lot of you have gone through some horrible things. People who meant so much to you that you lose them. Either they die or they reject you. It's horrible. But nobody on the face of the earth has experienced anything like what happened God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Because he had a perfect, infinitely perfect, eternal love relationship. You know, the best, I don't care if you've had the best marriage in history of the world. Somebody did. Somebody must have had the best marriage in the history of the world for 40 years. The most perfect love relationship, and yet you haven't even come close to what he had, and he lost it. And therefore there was infinite pain, infinite torture. We can't understand it and yet we must believe it. We must believe it. Do you see? And only if you understand the inner workings of the Trinity do you understand what it cost Jesus Christ to save you.

But that's not the only thing. The other thing we learn from this point, this very important point, hour is that servanthood is the meaning of life. You and I live in a culture that blasts us with the idea that what's most important is to be true to yourself. Whatever else you do, be true to yourself, follow your dreams, do what's really important to you. And you can serve people and you can have friends, but in the end, you've got to do what's important to you. Now, you know where that came from? Basically, it's a Western idea. It came from the Enlightenment. And whenever you The books of history of intellectual. Thought in the west. They always say. Well what was the enlightenment. And they usually have to do with rationality. The importance of science and rationality. Not really. The essence of the enlightenment. Was there is no authority. Outside of the self. There is nothing more important. Than you being true to yourself. There's no more. There's nothing more important. Than what you think is right or wrong. What you think is right or wrong. For you. The self must be sovereign. And yet. We're told here. That is an utter lie.

that servanthood's in the heart of God,

that each of the three persons have always deferred to the other, they've always surrendered to the other, and you were made, and you will only be happy not when you seek your own selfish interests and live for yourself, but when you say to God, thy will be done, not mine. When you put God first, when you put your neighbor first. The irony, I mean, this goes on, this is C.S. Lewis going on For in self-giving, if anywhere we touch the rhythm not only of all creation but of all being. And then he says this. From the highest to the lowest, self then exists to be abdicated. And by that abdication becomes the more truly self. To be there upon the more abdicated and so on forever. This is not a heavenly law which we can escape by remaining earthly. Nor is it an earthly law which we can escape by being saved. What is outside the system of self-giving is not earth nor nature nor ordinary life. hell. The more selfish you get, the more unlike God you get, and the more like Satan you get, and the closer you get to hell. Look, there are ways of looking like you're giving to people and sacrificing for people that are really selfish and ways of manipulation. We could go into that. I don't have time. I'm trying to give you the main point. The main point is the life of the Trinity shows that self was meant to be abdicated. When I say I'm not going to live for myself, but for God and for other people. I find who I am. That's why Jesus Christ says, lose yourself to find yourself. If you try to find yourself, you say, oh, there's parts of the Bible I can't accept because it doesn't fit me. There's things that I'd like to do with my family but I'm going to have to move away from it because it doesn't fit me. What's important is me. I'm more important than God. I'm more important than the Bible. I'm more important than other people. Me. You're on your way to hell. Literally and also figuratively. Sorry to be so strong. You're going against the grain of the universe. You're going to be alone and forlorn. Jesus says, if you seek to find yourself, you'll lose yourself. And if you lose yourself in service to God and other people, you will finally know who you really are.

Lastly, and very lastly, remember I talked about the welcoming glory?

At the end, Jesus says this. Father, verse 24. Well, first of all, verse 20 says, My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. is? That's us. Jesus says all these prayers are not just for the disciples in the room, but for the people who will believe in me through the disciples' message. And that's us. Isn't that neat? And then in verse 24, he says, Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory. The glory you have given me because you love me before the foundation of the earth. What does that mean? I don't know. But it means that is your future if you believe the Father through the Jesus Christ. Someday we're going to get into the center, you might say, of the Trinity. Oh, I don't mean you're going to merge with God in some kind of mystic way. I'm not talking about that. In fact, I'm not totally sure what he's talking about, but it's great. For he says, Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am. And where am I? Well, he says, I want them to be in the circle in the middle of this incredible love and joy that we've have had forever. I want them to see our glory, my glory. I want them to receive the glory. I want them to have all that. And C.S. Lewis, in his Weight of Glory address, puts it like this. He says, we all pine. There's a longing we all have because we sense that in this universe, we're strangers, that we were cut off from something. We try so hard. We try so hard through love and romance. We try so hard through art. We try so hard to somehow get it, you know, fills. There's something missing. There's a joy and a love and a glory that's missing, and we're trying to fill it. We can't find it. And then Lewis says, therefore, from this point of view, the promise of glory in the sense described becomes highly relevant to our deep desire. For glory means good report with God, acceptance by God, response, into the heart of things. Welcome into the heart of things. When Jesus Christ says, I want them to know that in me, you love them even as you have loved me. We are going, God is going to love you. God loves you even now in Jesus Christ, as much as he loves Jesus Christ. And someday we're all going to be where Jesus is in the center of all that love. In other words, as C.S. Lewis puts it, Into the heart of things. Through faith in Jesus Christ. You are going to get into the heart of things. That's your future. And every other person. Every other brother or sister. Who's on their same journey. Into the heart of things. Is your brother and sister. So be one with them. Love them. Know his love. And be excited about the future. Because the glory of God will welcome you. You're going to be where he is. You're going to see his glory. glory, you're going to finally get the thing that you've been searching for all of your life here. And you don't even know what it is in many cases, right? Welcome into the heart of things. These are the deep things of God. And they're all ours in Jesus Christ. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for this tour of some pretty profound things. We get pretty profound looks into the past. And we see this eternal love, ancient love, before the creation of the world. And now here we also get this incredible picture of the future. That we're going to be O Lord Jesus Christ with you where you are in the inner workings of the Trinity. That infinite happiness is going to be ours. We're going to be bathed in it. We're going to be standing in the middle of it. We're going to be welcomed into the heart of things. O Lord, let us give up our small ambitions and our petty problems and help us to sometimes breathe that air, that high mountain air, that future air of what's in store for us so that we can just shake off the many things that bother us and the many petty things that hamper us. Oh, Father, let us be shaped by all these great things that we have learned tonight so that we can be more and more conformed to the image of your son, Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.
