One more Christmas talk by Tim Keller.

In Matthew chapter 1, we have the gospel according to Joseph. In Luke 1, we have the gospel according to Mary. Mary, both Joseph and Mary got an announcement and an explanation of Christmas and the coming of the Messiah. And what the angel said to Joseph was this, after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. What's all this fuss about the name?

In the very beginning of the gospel records, there's a lot of fuss over the name. John the Baptist is born, and the angel comes and says to his father-to-be, Zechariah, explains what his name is. Zechariah doesn't believe that at his age and at his wife's age, Elizabeth's age, that they are going to be able to have a son. And the angel strikes Zechariah dumb. Can't say a thing until the child is born. The angel had told Zechariah that his name was going to be John. So when he was born, even though Zechariah was still unable to speak, everybody came around and said, well, what are we going to name the kid? Are you going to name him Zechariah? What are we going to name him? and Zechariah gets out a scratch board and writes down his name is John and immediately his tongue was loosed and he received a speech back. What was so important about submitting to the name that God had given this boy? Then when it comes to Jesus the same thing happens. The angel comes and says to Joseph, Joseph Mary will give birth to a son and you are to give him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. I would just like to take you through what wonderful stuff there is in this annunciation, this announcement. The things we learn about Jesus from his name are at least three. First of all, his name is unmanageable. We're told here that Jesus is unmanageable. And what I'd like to first of all get across to you is Christmas teaches that Jesus is unmanageable and you better get used to it.

See, when I first came to New York, this is an interesting thing. This is just for those of you who are trivia buffs, and a couple of you are. When I was first asked to come to New York to start a church. Actually, in the beginning, some of you might remember this if you've heard me go through it, I was just asked to be part of a group of people who were looking at New York to see whether we should start a church in the city. Our denomination, an association of churches, asked me and a couple other people to come and just look at it. We were just thinking about it. And there was a day, I don't remember what day it was, it was a day in October 1987 that three of us came to visit New York and to talk to people who were already in ministry here to ask them some questions about what ministry was like here and asked what they thought the prospects were for a new church. Those first three people, just for trivia butts, one of them was Glenn Klankeneck. The second one was Ron Fraser. Pretty good first start, I thought. And the third one was a woman named Barbara Benjamin Arkela who had been here for years. And she told me something on that was very, very helpful. I learned lots of things on that day. But one thing that I'm bringing up here today is she looked at me and she said, one thing you've got to learn, I've ministered in a number of cities around the world, but the thing you have to know if you're in New York is New York is unmanageable.

If you're going to minister in New York, you've got to respect it. You've got to weep over it. You've got to cry over it. You've got to live in it. You've got to serve in it. You've got to care for it. The one thing you know, you've got to realize is you will never get on top of it. It's bigger than you. You will never knock it down. You will never get on top of it. Things will always be running amok.

And that's just the way it is. New York is unmanageable. You'll never be in charge, ever. Now, I feel like I got some good advice. In fact, I've seen other people who've come here to try to do ministry who weren't told that. Didn't realize how much different New York is from other places, and I'm really glad that I learned about that, and it's helped me quite a bit. I've seen people approach New York and not realize how unmanageable it is. In the same way, I've seen people approach Jesus, and nobody tells them, but I see now you've heard tonight, so I want you to know that you can't plead ignorance. As you approach Jesus, you have The problem is that you really do have to know that he is unmanageable. The one thing you can say about New York City and Jesus Christ, the one thing that Jesus Christ and New York both have in common, you can go home and tell people that you learned this tonight. You can say, what does New York City and Jesus Christ have in common? And people will say, I don't know, what? And you can say, really, you're never in charge when you're in them. see in the Old Testament back in Genesis there was an interesting incident God brings Adam in front of all the animals or better yet God brings all the animals to Adam and he asks Adam to name them now today to name something is nothing more than labeling you build a new subdivision and you gotta have names for the streets you name them after your father-in-law, your mother-in-law your nephew that's how developers name streets have a name for the database, you know. But that was very, very different in the Bible, because to name something meant that you assumed management of it. To name something meant you assumed management. To assume management does not mean you own it. As a matter of fact, it was normal in the Bible not to manage that which you owned. If you owned a pile of money, if you owned an estate, if you owned a farm, You would give it to someone else to manage it. Now, the manager didn't own it. That's even true of a lot of you. A lot of you manage money that you don't own. You manage people, certainly, that you don't own. What is a manager? A manager is someone who looks at what you've got and seeks to perceive the potential, the gifts, the capacities. And then you assume authority without assuming ownership and you try to bring out the potential in that which you're managing. When Adam was looking at the animals and naming them, he was seeking to perceive what they were built to do, what their calling is, what they would be good at. In the Bible, your name is an expression of your calling and what you're good at, what your potential is. That's why when a nature was changed and a direction in life was changed, your name was changed. For example, here is Saul, that proud scholar, but he becomes a humble man when he realizes that in spite of all of his pedigree, he's just a sinner, and his only hope is Jesus, who died for him. And because he was humbled and became a humble man instead of that proud scholar that he was, his name was changed. A new direction in nature is expressed by a new name. Instead of Saul, he became Paul, which means little. Or here's Simon, one of Jesus' disciples, vacillating, always moving around, always changeable, never constant, cowardly. And Jesus looks at Simon and says, I'm coming into your life and I'm going to turn you into a leader. I'm going to give you a holy stubbornness, which is what leaders need, a holy clear-eyed stubbornness. You're going to be like one of those stony crags on the coast that the entire ocean itself hurls itself at the crag to no avail. It breaks over the crag and it holds its ground. I'm going to turn you, Simon, into a rock. Therefore, I call you Peter. A new name goes with a new, you see, a new direction in life. Your name was an expression of your inner being, your gifts, your potential. and the work of a manager, as Adam was brought those animals, was not to own the animals, not to abuse the animals, but to manage them, to cultivate them, to bring them out, to turn them into all they were supposed to be. To name something means to manage it. Now, this particular doctrine has many, many applications, and we can't look at them all tonight. For example, one of them, of course, is if human beings, in light of the story of Adam, are to be managers of nature. That means on the one hand, we can't act like owners. We can't exploit it. We can't exploit nature. And we can't decimate nature. We don't own it. We can't do what we want to do. We can't abuse it. On the other hand, we can't be passive toward it either. Ah, that was a great sermon, but that's for some other time. What does it mean to name? What does it mean to manage nature? that we can't look into tonight, but gives you the understanding of what this all means, is the fact that Adam names Eve, too. And one of the things it means, though we can't unlock that now, is that in marriage, your duty and your power in marriage is that a spouse can look at the other person and you have the power to perceive who that person is, to see the potential gifts and capacities and greatness, and to draw it out. who have ever come, any of you who have ever come to any of my weddings that I do, and I do seem to do a lot of them, know that I tell a little story. I say, you know what the power of a spouse over his or her mate?

If your spouse says you're ugly and everybody else in the world says you're beautiful, it doesn't matter. You feel ugly. And if your spouse says you're beautiful, when everyone else in the world says you're ugly, it doesn't matter. You feel beautiful. What is that? That's the power of naming. The power to look in to someone else's heart. That's one of the beauties and the dangers of marriage. That power gets put into your hands when you marry somebody. And you can look into that person's heart and you can affirm and you can program to a great degree who that person thinks he or she is. To name means to peer in and draw out and develop. develop, but in a sense to take authority. Now, what does this tell us about Jesus? Jesus' parents are not allowed to name him.

What's that mean? Oh, it means a lot. Parents always name their children. Parents have the right to name their children. Who else would name their children but their parents? Because see, See, parents are managers of your children. You're not owners of your children. It's your job to see what is this child good at and to help that child into whatever he or she should be, to find their talents, to find their capacities, to develop them, to bring them to fullness. It's a wonderful thing, and that's another sermon, of course, but the point is that these parents are not allowed to name their own son. Why not? Because Jesus is the owner. you can't name Jesus. He names you. No human being can manage Jesus. He manages you.

Of course, voluntarily, as Jesus is growing up, he voluntarily gives himself, in a sense, to obey his parents. We know that. He obeys his parents. He perplexed his parents quite a bit, and that's in the scripture too. The point is because he was here to fulfill all righteousness. He was here to live a perfect life. He was here to obey the law. He was born under the law, Galatians 4 says, to redeem us from under the law. So voluntarily, he was an obedient son growing up, obeying his parents, even as the Ten Commandments say. but the point is it was only a voluntary thing. Right here in the beginning, God shows who he is. No one in their relationship with Jesus can manage Jesus. No one. When you come into a relationship with Jesus, he manages you. You don't manage him. He names you. You don't name him. He develops you.

Now, application. There is something wild and unpredictable about Jesus, and when he comes life. You never know what he's going to do. Let me tell you, Christianity is not a self-improvement program. Christianity is not just a philosophy. It's not like a diet. Christianity is not something that you come in and you sort of work it out and you do it. No, Christianity works you out and does you. And anyone who's a real Christian understands that's exactly what's happened. You've brought something into your life that's out of control, that's doing things to you that you can't imagine. One Christian writer puts it this way, and it's just a classic illustration. And everybody in this room who understands, everyone in this room who's really received Christ and has a relationship with the real and vital and living Christ knows what I mean. And if you don't know what I mean, and if this doesn't ring true at all, I think it's because you are worshiping a false, tame Jesus. The writer says, says becoming a Christian is sort of like asking a man, a construction worker, to come into your house and fix it because your roof leaks, because the door jams don't close, because drafts come in and it's very cold when the wind blows, and because when it rains the water comes on in. And so he comes on in and you look, you say, look, I don't know a whole lot about this. Fix it. it. Here's my house. Fix it. Do whatever is necessary. And in the beginning, he does. He starts to plug up the leaks so the water doesn't come in, and he starts to fill up the holes so the draft doesn't come in. And that makes sense. And then he begins to knock out walls. And then you come home one day, and you find out that three rooms are gone. You come home another day, and there's scaffolding all over the back. back. And you look around to turn on the light, and there's no switch there. The next thing you know, you see new wings are going up and towers are going up, goes the illustration. And courtyards are being planned. And you suddenly realize all you wanted him to do was to turn you into a nice, secure little cottage. And he's turning you into a palace fit for a king. And you see, of course, when you're turning a little cottage into a palace, there's a lot of incongruity. Because on the one hand, you have a hole plugged over here and then a whole wall gone over here. And you say, yes, that's what it means to become a Christian. He comes into your life and he fixes certain things and then other things seem to go crazy. He's not a tame lion. You can't manage him. There's something wild. There's something unpredictable about him. there's an adventure to being a Christian you know, in all of the great old stories, and almost all the decent stories, all the adventure stories in the beginning, the hero or the heroine whoever is the key figure, in the beginning, is invited into an adventure, the person's a librarian you know, the person's got a normal life safe life, right? but then something comes in and that person is invited into a new situation. In every good adventure story, in the very beginning, there's the call away from security.

And you know, if I go through that door,

you know, I know if I go in that trip, anything can happen. But that's how the stories go. They hear the call away of security, and suddenly they're on an adventure, and in the end, hidden treasure. And they didn't have to listen to that original call. They could have stayed safe. Christian is to listen to the call away from security. I tell you. Oh, in the long run, of course, the one who has called you to obey him and love him and submit to him is the one who is in charge of the universe. He's the owner. He's not, you know, that's the reason why he can't be named. That's the reason why you can't tell him how he has to be. You can't tell him what he has to do. You're not in Christianity to have him serve you, but you're in Christianity to serve him. of course since he's in charge of everything there is nothing more dangerous than to ignore him but in the short run, in the short run, in the long run, there's nothing more dangerous than to ignore him, but in the short run there is nothing more dangerous than to obey him you heard it here laughter

there's a wildness, there's an unpredictability he is unmanageable he gets in there and he starts tearing things up because he's turning you into a palace Oh, people say to me, but if I really give him my life,

I'm afraid he will ask me to do things that I don't want to do. Of course he will. Oh, if I really give him my life, I'm afraid that he won't do everything I ask him. Of course he won't. He's not a tame lion. You can't manage him. You can't name him. It's so natural for people to have Jesus come on in I live a decent life, if I live a moral life, if I go to church and I obey the Ten Commandments and I read my Bible and I try my best, why aren't things going right? What is he doing?

He should do what I ask. In other words, you want a pussycat, not a lion in your life. He's a lion of the tribe of Judah. Lions are not pets. You want that, don't you? Don't don't you want the adventure? Don't you want to be a palace? You know, there's nothing more painful than to watch a child turn into an adult.

Because you see on the one hand, they want to be adults, but they want to be children. They want the freedom of adulthood and they want the security of childhood. Well, there's nothing more painful than to watch a soul approach Jesus Christ. They want God in their life, but they don't want God in their life. They want a God who's got the power, but they don't want a God who's God.

he's unmanageable you can't name him you're not allowed to

but here's the promise if you stop trying to name him he'll name you if you stop trying to manage him he'll start to develop you don't you see if you stop biting and kicking and screaming about the fact that he's not tame and you submit to him then he can start to tame you have to lose yourself to find yourself you have to let him be God in your life you have to say like Mary behold the handmaiden of the Lord let it be unto me according to thy will you know when she said that this is when somebody shows up and says you're going to become an unwed mother

cast. You're going to have a child who's older than you are. I'm coming on into your life, Mary, and it'll never be the same. She doesn't know what's going on. She doesn't know if it's a hallucination. She doesn't see how it can be possible. She knows that there's going to be all kinds of terrible things that happen. You know, later on, Simeon looks at her and says, this child will be set for the falling and rising again of many in Israel and to be a sign which is spoken against so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed and a sword will pierce your soul also. If you love Jesus, there'll be a sword. If you love Jesus, there'll be pain. You're out of control now, Mary. And what does Mary say? Behold the handmaiden of the Lord. Let it be unto me according to thy will. The other thing I just want to show you from this wonderful naming of Jesus is the name itself. The first thing we see is he's unmanageable because you're not allowed to name him. But the second thing is you look at the name himself, the last thing I'd like to tell you that you learn from Christmas is that his name signifies splendor in the ordinary, magnificence in the common. The name Jesus is a translation of the Hebrew name Joshua or Yeshua. Now, what's interesting about the name Joshua, back in the Old Testament, there was a Joshua. He was a lieutenant of Moses. Originally, his name was Hosea, which means salvation, deliverance.

But when Joshua began to work, when Hosea, his name was Hosea, began to work for Moses, Moses changed his name to Yah-Hosea. Joshua, because he took the name Yahweh, the Lord, and he put it in front of salvation, so that the word Joshua doesn't mean Hosea means salvation, but Joshua means salvation is of the Lord. Now, on the one hand, what's amazing about this name is it was perhaps, and it still is, one of the most common Hebrew names possible. I mean, to put it in American terms, Jesus was not named Percival. He was named John Doe. It was his way of identifying with the ordinary. He lived in the most ordinary of families. He was raised in the most ordinary of venues. He was a common man, had a common trade, a common job, lived among common people. In every way, he looked completely un-extraordinary. Oh, Mary knew, but he grew up Extraordinary. He was a poor man. He was a simple man. He was an uneducated man. He was an unsophisticated man. He was an untraveled man. Joshua. John Doe. But on the other hand, inside this most common name was Yahweh himself. See, in the heart of Joshua, and the heart of Joshua was the word, the salvation is of the Lord. This one Joshua is the one that all the other names pointed to. This, says the angel to Joseph, is God with us. God in the ordinary. In the midst of this very, very common, un-extraordinary looking person comes God himself. And therefore, the name Joshua, the name Jesus, is perfect. Salvation is of the Lord. That's the name, that's the meaning of the whole Bible, that's the whole gospel complete. You don't make yourself a Christian. You can't make yourself right with God. Salvation is not of you. Salvation is not of that or of that. Salvation is completely of the Lord. You can't make yourself a Christian. You are what you are completely by grace when you're a Christian. And this radical grace comes to you in the ordinary. My final point. Very often, when you first become a Christian, especially since a lot of us hear dramatic testimonies about people who move from darkness to light almost overnight. Horrible, terrible, debilitating habits broken in a minute. Great. I know God can do that. I know he does that. It's a great token of his power when he does that. That's probably not the normal way a person moves from darkness to light. Ordinarily, when God first comes into the world, he comes in without a lot of fanfare. Not really. The shepherds, the wise men, that seems like a lot of fanfare, but you have to

Really, nobody knew. There wasn't an unveiling at the Jacob Javits Center. You see? There was no hoopla. There was no media event at all.

He slipped in. Joshua, John Doe. Ordinarily, when God comes into your life, the changes will be gradual. It's more like the acorn planted, implanted, which eventually turns into a giant oak that can turn boulders into dust. Eventually, you watch what happens. It's God inside you. It's God with you. And yet, it's God come into the most ordinary parts of your life. Very often, God does not come with a lot of fanfare. You sit down. You say, I'm going to pray the prayer tonight. I'm going to say, all right, I stopped naming you. All right, I stopped trying to control you. I stopped trying to manage you, I give myself to you tonight. Salvation is of the Lord, so I make you my Savior and my Lord. Do that tonight, and you will see he'll slip into your life just the way he slipped into the world, without a lot of fanfare. Tomorrow, you may not see a whole lot of difference, just like the day after you plant an acorn. You plant an acorn in a barren piece of land, you've changed that place forever. Come back in a hundred years, and you will see how everything's different, but not the next day. It won't look that different. In the same way, Jesus' name means splendor in the ordinary, extraordinary power in the ordinary walk of life. Becoming a Christian means in comes the power of God. In comes the Holy Spirit himself but you have to recognize that it may take time. You have to cultivate. It's God within you. You have to read the Bible. You have to pray. You have to obey. You have to trust. try to manage him, but let him manage you. And wait till you see what happens. It's all there in the name. Salvation is of the Lord. I remember some years ago, and this is not supposed to be an advertisement. I remember some years ago, there was a man in one of my churches, and he really, really overworked. Everybody knew it. And eventually, he got a handle on the gospel, and his life began to change. And at one point, he turned down a promotion, which is amazing because he was working less time and he was spending more time with his family. And I sat down with him one day and it was right after Christmas some years ago. And I said, he worked for a tobacco company named Philip Morris and he overworked. But things had been changing in his life. And I sat down and said, it's great to see you're here at church more often. You're spending more time with your family. costing you financially. He says, yeah. He says, yeah, but it wasn't the finances. He says, I finally realized salvation is not of Philip Morris. Salvation is not of my bank account. He says, when I started to say that to myself, salvation is of the Lord. He says, I got freedom. Have you got freedom tonight? He's unmanageable. Don't try to manage him. His splendor comes into to the ordinary parts of life. Don't expect a lot of fanfare. But his name means radical grace. Salvation is of the Lord. Like Mary, take these things and treasure them in your heart and ponder them till they catch fire in there like little acorns. They will change you forever. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you'd help us to worship you in truth this Christmas and that these truths would be planted in our hearts like the acorns this is your word, and you have said, is not my word like a rock that breaks, the hammer that breaks the rock in pieces? Is not my word like a fire? Let this word that we've looked at tonight, let these truths about Christmas come into our hearts and break up the stony places. Make us, give us hearts of flesh. Make us tenderhearted. Make our hearts gardens, where beautiful things grow in your service. We thank you for these things. Apply them to our heart, we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
