Let me read to you from the passage. We're going through the book of James, and in the book of James, we've come to a new chapter. We're beginning it tonight, and I'm going to read it to you. It's actually, the passage is on the importance of words, the importance of speech in the tongue. We're going to start it tonight, and we're going to conclude it next week. But let's read the first six verses out of this passage. Not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue is also a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It can corrupt the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. This is God's Word. Now, we're going to start looking at this passage tonight. This is a new part of the book of James. We've been moving through the gospel, pardon me, the epistle of James. And if you want to know what the book of James is about, actually every week I try to say something in the introduction, and it takes me weeks. This is why it takes so long to get through a book like this. It takes me weeks to figure the book out. And I think right now, this is James is an eminently practical letter, and its purpose, or its subject, or its theme is to show you the difference between a mere profession of faith and a real possession of faith. So he's trying to show us the distinction, the difference between having a mere profession of Christian faith and having a real possession. And his whole point all the way through, and we saw in a way that his classic statement of his thesis last week, his main point is, It's one thing to just profess to believe, but if you have saving faith, if you have real faith, it will show itself in a transformed practice, a transformed practical life. So that's how you know the difference between a mere profession and a real possession of faith. So what he's doing here is he's outlining what that practice is, what a Christian lifestyle is. And actually, he gave us...and if you go back, and the book of James is not very long, and I hope that during this time, if you're interested in really getting the gist of it, that you'll go back and read it every so often. I know some of you are studying it in small groups. And if you go back, there's actually a table of contents of the whole book at the end of chapter 1. Because at the end of chapter 1, James says, true religion is this. If anyone considers himself religious and does not keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself. Religion that our Father accepts as pure and faultless is to look after orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. So at the end of chapter 1, he says, if you're a real Christian, your practice will change in three areas, how you use your speech, how you treat the poor, and how you relate to the world systems. Three things, the poor, the tongue, and the world. And actually, once that's done, if you look at chapter 2, it's mainly about the poor. And if you look at chapter 3, it's mainly about the tongue. And if you look at chapter 4 and after, it's mainly about how to get along and how to live a distinctively Christian life in the midst of the world. So, actually, there you have the table of contents. And when you get to chapter 3, you get into a new passage, and the new passage is about the tongue. Now, if we look at chapter 3, we see that James starts off in verse 1 by trying to show us the seriousness of our speech, the importance and the seriousness of words. Right after that, he gets into showing us, and that's the only part we're going to be able to see a little bit tonight, is not only are words serious, but they are the master key to your life. His thesis is, if you can master your words, you can master your whole life. That's his thesis. And then, that we haven't looked at tonight. We don't have it printed. We're going to get to it next week. He gives practical how-tos, how to heal your speech, how to get on top of your words, how to master your speech so that you can master your life. So, verse 1, the seriousness of words, 2 to 5, verses 2 to 5, that's where he brings out this thesis that it's not just that words are serious and God's going to take them seriously, but they are crucial to self-control. If you can master your speech, you can master your life. And then from verses 6 and on, he tells you how. So, the seriousness of speech, the cruciality of speech, and the proper use and the healing of your speech. And that's how you can break out the chapter 3 mainly. Now, tonight, it's just as well we do this tonight. I'm going to show you verse 1 and then get into the rest of it. But verse 1, though it's only an introduction, is in a sense a sermon by itself. And there's enough. This is particularly an important verse for those of us who have been Christians for a while and those of us who have some responsibilities. So it's an introduction to the whole, but it's a very interesting verse, and I'm going to stay with it for a little bit. That means that there's a lot of text. When I read commentaries and sermon series and so forth, many people take this verse all by itself and spend an entire chapter, entire sermon just on this verse, and you can see why. Look at it. Verse 1, not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. There's a lot in there. Do you see that? There's a lot. Let me show you what this is. Don't forget, he's mainly trying to tell us the seriousness of words because that's what he gets into next. In other words, he's saying people who make their living by speaking are going to...words are so can see it in that people who speak the most are going to be judged the most. God is going to judge us by our words. That's His main thing. But let me show you some things that are embedded in here that are important. What do we learn from this? First of all, we learn that Christians are judged. You see, not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged. So the first thing we learn here is Christians are going to be judged that right away raises a whole lot of questions, does it not? Because certainly people who know something about the Bible, certainly people who have been here at Redeemer for a while, they're going to say, wait a minute. I thought we were saved not by our works. In fact, I thought that we were exempt from judgment. I thought that because we're saved by our faith, God no longer brings us into judgment for our works. What is this? It's saying that on the basis of our works here on the way in which we do things, we're going to be judged. And the answer to that is it depends on what you mean by judged. You see, for example, on the one hand, in Romans 8, 1, one of my favorite verses, one of my life verses, I guess, and this is where Paul says, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. See, that's one kind of judging, to condemn. And what it really means here is Christians, if you are a real Christian, if you've received Christ as your Savior, you will never be judged for your sins. Never be judged for your sins. You have many sins, and if you were judged for your sins, you'd be gone. But Paul says, Jesus was judged for our sins. Jesus is the judge who was judged, and that's why He's the only one who's got the right to judge. Jesus is the one who took our condemnation, and because He took our condemnation, we won't be condemned. And we spent... there have been many times we've gotten into that, so I won't go any further. So Paul says Christians will never be judged for their sins, so they'll never be condemned. But then Paul, this is the same guy, that's why I'm going to show you the other side to what the Bible says here. Paul himself says in 1 Corinthians 3, 12 to 15, and I quote, if a man... he's talking about Christians, as you will see... if a man build

What? What's he talking about? And the best I can tell from a good while of thinking about this is simply this. First of all, he says, what you build are, look, what you do in this life, what you do with what God has given you. He says there is a sense in which you will be never judged for your sins, but you will be evaluated for what you do with what God gave you. As a Christian, you're secure. You see, he says the believer will be saved, and yet there will be some sense in which God will show you whether you've done well or whether you haven't done well. Now, if that sounds a little contradictory to you, it's because you're not thinking about parenting. You know, either you have been parents, or you are parents, or you have been parented to some degree. And this is what I know as a parent. My children's place in the home is never in doubt. My sons, there's never an issue. I am never deciding whether or not that they can be my sons, whether or not I will love them tomorrow, whether or not they can stay in our home. I don't think about that. On the other hand, I evaluate what they're doing and particularly what they're doing with what they've got. So one of the things that continually rankles my oldest son, who is almost six years older than my youngest son, is that when they get in a fight, if they get into a spat or a fight or they call each other names or something like that, I will take my oldest son aside and say, you are more guilty. What do you mean I'm more guilty? You know, he started it. I said, that, okay, you're 17. He's 11. What are you talking about? You have more cognition. You have more experience. You have more maturity. You've heard many, many...you've had six years more lectures from your parents. You have all this knowledge. You see all this great knowledge, you know. You should know better. It's not an issue whether I love you. It's not an issue of whether your place here is secure. I am not condemning you for your sins. I'm evaluating you for what you're doing with what we've given you and what you've got. Now, this is natural. Do you see that? And here's what James is saying. Well, that's the preliminary point. Christians are not going to be judged for their sins. They're going to be evaluated and held accountable for what they do with what God's given them, which leads to the second point. So that's the first point. There's a judgment. There is some evaluation. There is evaluation, okay? And the second point is, James is basically just applying a principle that's brought out elsewhere in Luke chapter 12, whom much is given, much will be required. The principle is the reason the teachers are going to be judged more harshly is because they have more gifts, especially they have more knowledge. If you're a teacher, it means you know. The more you know, the more you have, the more God holds you accountable. And, you know, you have to stand back a little bit. He's applying it to the teaching office, but the principle is there. And here's what the principle is. Have you had, you been in good churches? Have you been a redeemer? Hopefully you'd consider this a good church. Have you been in other good churches? Have you had loving parents? Have you had a good home? Have you had a pretty good upbringing? Have you had a good education? Do you have a nice career? You know what I'm getting at? What I'm saying is God holds you more accountable for a consistent, balanced, disciplined life than somebody who has not had those things. That's just, you know, that is actually common sense. That is equity. But that's something that has to be brought out. What is the purpose of saying this? I'll tell you what the purpose is. And this is what's so wonderful about Christianity. Here's one of the places that I love. The reason that James is saying this is he wants to humble the blessed. See, in the Christian faith, the more blessed you are, the more humbled you must be. It's different in other systems, other philosophies. The more blessed, the more brilliant, the more gifted, the more knowledge you see and all that, the more you can say, look at me, but not in Christianity. Here's what I mean. If you take this seriously, this is how you can... You're sitting in a Bible study, and you hear somebody next to you say the stupidest thing. Show ignorance, show that there's... in fact, and even reveal that they are struggling with some of the most basic elements, not just of Christian belief, but of Christian conduct, that they don't have any control over their tongue, they don't have any control over their sexuality. You can just see this. And you see that. Now, what do you do? What if you got it you've been all through that. It's been years since you struggled with things like that. What if you really understand what the Bible passage means? Here's what you're supposed to say. You're supposed to say, Lord God, you may be far more pleased with this person tonight than you are with me. This person might be using what he or she resources, what they have. He or she may be using resources to the nth degree, and I'm only using a percentage of what you've given me. You may be far more pleased with them than me. Think about that. You're supposed to think about what it's saying is, oh, you blessed ones, be humbled. Don't be insecure. You're secure in God's love, but you must be humbled. You see a couple of people who clearly are having trouble. I mean, you know, this goes all over. You're Christian parents, and your kids are under control in public, and you come to church, and you see Christian parents whose kids are not under control. What are you supposed to do? You say, gee. Maybe somebody ought to have a talk with them. Or do you say, I have no idea what kind of background they have. I have no idea what pressures are on their lives. I have no idea what kind of parenting they had. They may be doing far more, far better with what they've got than I'm doing with what I've got. You see, we will be judged more harshly. From whom much is given, much will be required. See the wonder of Christianity? This is to humble the blessed. You're blessed. So, of course, that's wonderful. You praise God for that. You're blessed. You've got it together in so many ways. But the more together you are, the more humbled you need to be if you understand this principle, which is perfectly common sense. From whom much is given, much will be required. So there's the second thing we learn. One is Christians are going to be judged, but secondly, to whom much is given, much will be required. Thirdly, third thing we learn here is do not envy or resent teachers in the church. Do not envy or resent teachers in the church. Now, in fact, take a look at this verse. It says, not many of you, my brothers, should presume to be teachers because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. It almost sounds like what James is saying is, don't lead a Bible study, don't teach a class, and by all means, don't enter into full-time Christian work. Don't you dare. That's what it sounds like he's saying. And you know, if this is the only place in the Bible about this, of course, we might wonder. There's another side to this. There's a place in 1 Timothy where Paul says to Timothy, he says, you know, the man who desires the office of bishop desires a good thing. In other words, Paul is saying, if you've got somebody who wants to be a bishop, great. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be a bishop. Maybe God's leading you to be a bishop. James is really not saying don't ever pursue teaching. But here's what he's really saying, of course, he is saying be extremely careful. And this is a particularly good thing for people in New York to know. You see, in New York, and I've known this because I've ministered in a normal town and I ministered in New York. I was the pastor of a normal place in Virginia for nine years, and now I've been a pastor of New York. And I know that almost any other place, people are much slower to put themselves into the position of being Christian experts. But see, in New York, everybody's an expert. And it's true you are, by the way. I would say the majority of people who come here to New York are coming here because they want to be experts, because they think they are experts, because they're aspiring to be experts. You're coming here to study. You're coming here to learn, you know. You're coming here, why? Because you want to dance, and this is the place for the best dancers. You want to write, it's the place for the best writers. You want to practice law, and this is the place, you know, where, you know, this is the legal center. In other words, you come here because you are, or you want to be, very good at what you do, very good. So there's a much higher percentage of people in New York when they become Christians who are used to the spotlight, and they're used to public communication, and they're used to being in front of people, and they're used to talking and consulting and giving advice and dispensing advice. You're used to it. But what James is trying to say is don't you dare get into the position of being a teacher, an expert on Christian doctrine or an expert on Christian morality and so on until you are absolutely sure that you are called by God, until you're absolutely sure that you've got the moral character to back it up, until you're absolutely sure that you really understand the Bible and you understand Christian truth, be very careful. Why? Because teachers will be judged. This isn't just talking about God. This is across the board. If you put yourself in the position of being a Christian leader, people are right to be disillusioned by behavior in you that they would consider in other Christians to be excusable. They have a right to be disillusioned. If they see you blowing up at somebody who criticizes you, you know, and people get very disillusioned because after all, you're a leader, you're a teacher, you might say, well, I'm a sinner like everybody else, but you're a teacher too. And James says here, people have the right to judge you. People have the right to say, what are you doing in a position of an authority if you don't have your life fairly together, at least more together than a lot of the rest of us? You know, James is trying to say, if you can't stand the heat, why are you trying to get into the kitchen? There's heat. There should be heat. You cannot expect your teachers to be perfect and certainly not to claim perfection. But on the other hand, you have a right to judge us. And therefore, have the natural aptitudes, some of you have the natural talents to jump into the role of being a public communicator. I mean, person for person, percentage-wise, a place like New York has far more potential teachers, leaders, and so forth than other places. He's saying, be very careful. See the reasons? He says, be very, very careful. You will be judged. You know, they have a right to judge you. But remember I said, therefore, don't be too envious. I am not saying that you shouldn't seek it at all. I'm just saying, James is just saying, be careful. Think, okay? Watch out. That's all. And remember I said this point is not just that you shouldn't envy, but I said you shouldn't resent. Now, this verse also has something to say to many of you, and boy, it humiliates me, humbles me, I guess, humiliates me as a member of the clergy. It saddens me. It grieves me. But over the years, especially in New York, but over the years as I've talked to Christians, I've talked to person after person after person who's, I guess, guilty of, they've been victims of teacher abuse, Christian teacher abuse. Now, what do I mean by that? Well, a lot of you have been deeply disillusioned or worse by people in Christian leadership positions who have done a number of things. One is some of these folks are obviously dictators. You didn't see it at first, but really what they just wanted was they wanted a following. They submit to everything, and you came to see them as being controlling and manipulative and dictatorial, and you left. Some of you have also found that some people, some of these folks weren't so manipulative, but they were well-meaning, but they really set themselves up as teachers before they really understood Christian truth, and they got you into some of the quirkiest, craziest teachings that really fouled your life up. I mean, I've known people, I've had some friends who, under the influence of teachers, it was some years ago now, you know, took their glasses off. And the teacher says, do you realize that you are not trusting God for your healing? What are you wearing your glasses for? You mustn't wear glasses. You should take them off. This is an absolute insult to God. God doesn't want you to have eyes that don't work. Take those glasses off. Throw those contact lenses out. In other words, some people are well-meaning. I think that's well-meaning. That is not necessarily a person who's a dictator, manipulative. It's just somebody who was set up before they really mastered the body of Christian truth. And they start to teach things that are clearly out of accord with the overall consensus of the Christian church and the Christian truth as it's been understood by the church through the ages. And they have hurt you. And then, of course, you've got the cheats. And the cheats are people who have cheated, maybe financially, maybe sexually. They just cheated. They've been hypocrites, or at least they've been double-minded. And these people have deeply disillusioned you, as I said, or worse. And you come here, and it doesn't surprise me some of you never join, considering what you've been through, you know? It doesn't surprise me some of you really don't trust. It doesn't surprise me that you're disillusioned. Well, here's what James is trying to say. Basically, the implication is, don't resent them. Don't be bitter against them. They will be judged. They will be judged most harshly. See, John Newton put it this way. John Newton was a, you know, he wrote Amazing Grace. He lived in the 18th century. Somebody once wrote him a letter who had been very disillusioned by a couple of preachers and wrote John Newton a letter and said, I'm just disillusioned. I don't know what to do. And John Newton, who was a minister, wrote back and said, let me just tell you something. If these people are real Christians, God will expose them. They will be humiliated. They will be exposed so that they can't hurt themselves anymore and they can't hurt you anymore. God will bring them down. God will. They will come down. Absolutely. Their sins will find them out, and it will be terrible for them. And yet, God will do it to reclaim them, to bring them to repentance, and to protect the church from them. God will do it because though they're Christians, they are wrecks, you know, and God will bring them down. Or they may not be Christians at all. They may be wolves in sheep's clothing. Not, you know, stupid sheep, but wolves in sheep's clothing, in which case judgment day for them will be horrific. So John Newton says, why? Teachers will be judged more harshly. So if you've been abused by teachers in the church, don't sit around, you know, walking around in your imagination, sticking little pins in them? You don't have to. What does God say? God says, Judge, vengeance is mine. That's what He says. You don't know what these people... First of all, remember this, you do not know what those people have had to put up with in their lives. You do not know what level of responsibility they have. Remember that? If you've been so blessed with your decent knowledge and perspective, just remember, when you look at other people who seem to be messed up. Your job is to be humbled because you're blessed, saying, God, you might be much more happy with them than me. They may be doing more with what they're doing. In other words, you don't know what they really deserve, but you don't have to sit around hoping that somehow they would get their comeuppance. They will be judged more harshly. Well, now, the last thing we learn, and this is, let me just give you a little introduction to the rest of the passage because it's so important. The main thing is not the thing that I've mentioned in this verse, and particularly for those of us, and I don't usually, how do I say it, I don't usually in our services address largely, that's who I'm addressing, largely people who have been Christians for a while, people who are leaders, people with responsibility. That's who I'm really addressing tonight. I don't usually get a chance to do that. The main point of this is not just to teach us that there is judgment for Christians, though it does. The main point is not just to teach us that you should be very slow and careful to get into the spotlight. It's not just to teach that those of us who are more blessed should be humbled. The main job is to say words are serious. How do we know words are serious? Because the people who have the most words will be judged the most. And then he moves on and says, we all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal. Or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. So the tongue is a fire, a world of evil among parts of the body. It can corrupt the whole person and set the whole course of his life on fire. Now, what this is saying, I said it in the beginning, I'll say it now and set you up for next week, but it's an important thing because I'm actually going to give you an assignment. This says, if you can master your tongue, you can master your whole life. If your tongue is inflamed from hell, he says, the whole course of your life is inflamed from hell. See, that's the bad example down in verse 6. But up in verse 2, it says, if you could be faultless in what you say, you would be faultless as a human being. You'd be perfect. This is actually extremely surprising. This is not really what you'd expect. You expect God to maybe give you a little list of things you should and shouldn't do with the tongue, you know, and we'll talk about that next week, sins of speech and so forth. But this is going beyond that. It's saying, if you could master your tongue, you could master your life. And here's why. It's going to tell us, we're going to see, that this passage is telling us, on the one hand, if you don't master your, you need to master your tongue because, on the one hand, your tongue reveals who you really are. And on the other hand, your tongue, if you control it right, can redirect who you are. It reveals who you are, and it redirects. If you don't come to grips with your words, if you don't examine them, watch them, get to know what your tongue is like, and begin to get control of it, you really don't know who you are. It both reveals and it redirects. It's a way to understand yourself, and it's a way to change yourself. See that? Now, when I say it's a way to reveal yourself, and I really am winding down here. I'm not starting a new sermon after 30 minutes. Don't worry. But something I'll get back to next week. Friends of ours, Jack and Rosemary Miller, teach a class, a course they call Sonship, and it's a way of trying to get across to people that though they think they believe that they're saved by grace, they don't believe it. The whole purpose of the course is to show you that in your heart, you really don't believe you're a sinner saved by grace. You don't believe you're accepted by grace. You don't believe that at all. And most people say, yes, I am. Of course I am. I believe that. What are you talking about? And they say, well, we're going to give you the tongue test. And this is the tongue test. They say, for the next week, we want you to absolutely keep, it's called a tongue assignment, excuse me, you have to keep this tongue assignment. And the tongue assignment is this. For one week, write these six things down and keep it with you and just do not complain or grumble, number one. Number two, do not boast about anything at all. Number three, do not gossip or repeat bad information about somebody else. Number four, do not run somebody down even a little bit. Number five, do not defend or excuse yourself no matter what. And number six, do always affirm other people. Now, the tongue assignment is keep that. And if you go an hour, you're a better man than I am, Gunga Dean. But you know what? If you do go more than an hour, you're not allowed to boast about it, see? Well, what's the point of the test? The point of the test is until you come to grips with how hard it is, until you start to actually see what you do with your tongue, you don't realize what's really going on in your heart. You don't know who you are. The tongue assignment reveals who you are. You'll never master yourself if you don't look and deal with your tongue because in dealing with your tongue, you'll learn who you are. But then on the other hand, your words redirect your heart. Your words come from the heart, but then the words go to the heart. The words, on the one hand, express the heart, but your words also redirect the heart. If you have an angry, bitter thought and you clothe it in a word, you give it so much more power over your heart. The thought comes from the heart, but then when you clothe it in a word, it goes back and it strengthens itself. And therefore, when you feel angry, you know, when the Bible says, when you are cursed and you want to curse back, bless. Why? It changes your heart. And see, ultimately, as we're going to see, the ultimate way to heal your words and therefore use your words to heal people, is going to be a mystical one. Ultimately, you have to come to Jesus. Jesus was the Word. And on the one hand, He's your example. You see, as an example, never man spake as He spake. But more than an example, it is the worship and the adoration and the praise of His beauty that will move into your heart and heal your words. Jesus has this one incredible place. religious leaders say, stop them from praising you. And what does he say? If they don't praise, what? The stones will... See, even the stones, even the stones will get wonderful tongues in the presence of Jesus. It's in the presence of Jesus. It's taking in His beauty. It's worship that will heal your tongue. If you're willing to worship Him with your tongue, it will change your heart. It will heal your heart. It will heal the pollution in there. And so, ultimately, if you can master your tongue, you'll understand yourself. You'll redirect yourself. Now, do you remember what that is? Try this for a week. Do not complain or grumble. Do not boast about anything. Do not gossip or repeat a matter. That's one, two, three. Do not complain or grumble. Do not boast about anything, do not gossip or repeat a matter, do not run someone down, even a little bit, do not defend or excuse yourself no matter what, and do always affirm one another. It's going to be very hard. But as you come to grips with that, you will come to grips with yourself. It'll drive you to the one who can heal your words and heal your heart. Let's pray. Our Father, it's clear our words are important. Let us go out into the world this week and watch help us to be like your Son. Never man spake as he spake. And if we don't get ourselves in the position where we're able to watch our words and heal our words just in day in and day out life, we'll never be in a position where we can be teachers. But, Lord, I do ask that you would raise up teachers in this church. You would raise up teachers in the churches of this city. You would raise people up who are qualified and able to teach. Father, I pray on the one hand that the text we looked at tonight who are gifted and who aspire to leadership. But I pray, on the other hand, it would not keep us from reaching up for these things, but it would humble us so that we reach in a chastened way, in a dependent way, and in a way that will make us far more effective when we grasp it. So now, Lord, we pray that you grant what we've asked because we believe it will glorify you, and we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.

