A lot of water to draw out of this well, and we're going to spend some weeks on these 16 verses. The reason it's so important to talk about these, and they start here when we talk about what it means for the Lord Jesus to really be Lord of your life, is because Paul is on a collision course with the modern consumer mentality. mentality. After World War II, when the manufacturing economy of the United States was just geared up to a fever pitch, everybody, I think, began to realize that we really had to keep things going. We had to keep our economy going. And the best way to do that was by advertising. advertising. Now, there was a major change. My father, by the way, is a career advertising man, and so if anything I say here sounds detrimental, I want you to realize that I love advertising. And some of you may know, you can just sort of sense, right? And my father and I have just spent years criticizing and applauding TV commercials. And my wife would tell you that I'm an advertising man's dream because I've memorized commercials from 1962 and onward. I know them, you know, I can, I can tell you all these things. But what advertising has done in a detrimental way, it has redefined continually, its goal really, is redefining what it means to have a need. You see, we didn't, it used to be that refrigerators was a great thing to have, a need. It is a necessity. Who said it's a necessity? It was defined. The definition of a necessity was changed. What about a TV? It was a luxury. It's a necessity. What about one car? It was a luxury. Now it's a necessity. Two cars. I know where we live, but the rest of the world, all right? The rest of America. The VCR. In other words, as long as Americans were continually turn more and more into consumers who Felt that they had greater and greater needs the economy could continue to move on You know like this the great engine that it really is but the consumer mentality has had some tremendously detrimental effects It's turned us all into consumers. You know the reason the Islamic countries hate Western countries and call us the great Satan It's mainly because of that It's mainly because they find that when their people ever get into contact with Western culture, they begin to become incredibly need-oriented. They become incredibly selfish. They become incredibly need-driven. And why do you think the advertising is different now to get people to go into the military? Remember when Uncle Sam wants you? It's your duty as a red-blooded American to sign up? Now, can you imagine trying to get people to go that way? Now, what do they say? Be all that you can be. That's why you should sign up. I mean, do you realize what an incredible difference that is from the 1940s or the 1930s? Unbelievable. In other words, see, before you used to say you should sign up because you should stop thinking about yourself. and if for just one minute you realize who you are and what the situation is in your place as a citizen, you realize that you should stop thinking about your needs and sign up. It's your duty. And everybody knows today that no one would ever sign up for that kind of thing today. No one. You have got to prove it's profitable. Be all that you can be. You can do it. Now, you don't think this is rubbed off on American Christians? You don't think this is erupt off in the church? Oh my. Absolutely. American Christians have demanded that the church become a commissary rather than a ministry center. One of the things we did, you know, oh, I like marketing and I like surveys. I like marketing surveys and all that. But sometimes it does make you laugh. I remember some marketing guy said, look, we can help your church grow. going to go around. We're going to survey all the people in a particular part of this community. And we're going to say, what do you really want from a church? Okay. And when they tell us, we're going to ask all the unchurched people what it is. Then we're going to come back to you. And then all you have to do is you have to restructure your church in such a way that the unchurched and non-Christian people will now flock in because you have been sensitive to market research. And I knew a minister that said, this is great. This is great. So they went out and did the survey. And everybody, you know, there was a number of things that everybody said. But there was one that everybody said. It was just, it was the top thing. The one thing they wanted more out of a church than anything else. And you know what it was? We want a church that never asks us to do anything. That never makes any demands on us. That never calls us to any kind of commitments. Or ever makes us feel accountable serve anybody. That's essentially what they said. But the main thing is, I want a church that never asked me to do anything. Oh, great. Now all we have to do is structure a church so that everybody will come flocking in. What's happened is the consumer mentality is such that we want choices. We want inventory. We want to make sure our needs are being met. We're not interested in being asked to serve. We're not interested in being asked to minister. We want to be ministered to. too. That is a head-on collision with the one who said, I came not to serve, not to be served, but to serve. Remember? Mark chapter 10, verse 45. I came not to be served, but to serve, and to give my life a ransom for many. Now, Paul is also on a collision course with the consumer mentality. And I could spend time, I won't, on how the modern consumer mentality has changed the way in which the Church operates. Even the way in which our Church is operating. But let's just get into what Paul is saying. What Paul is saying is that the Church is a body. And a body, of course, has got parts. And those parts are not just committed to each other. But they are knitted to each other. And it's one of the very few comforts that I've got in life. life, one of those few certainties I've got even in Manhattan, that when I wake up in the morning, my hand will probably still be there. Probably. That it will not have decided to take a vacation, or that it really wants to go to Bimini for the weekend, but rather it'll be there, committed and knitted to my arm and to the rest of me. Paul starts talking about the church as a body, and he starts talking about the responsibility of every Christian to minister. It's the area of

gifted people. And what we're going to simply do is we're going to hook into it to a certain degree. I don't know what I can cover. I doubt I can cover the outline. I've even got here this week. But we're going to spend a couple weeks on it. I can tell you what we won't get to tonight. We won't get to how to discover and understand your gifts. We won't get into the whole area, which I have to cover at some point. So why not here in that whole area of charismatic gifts versus the charismatic churches, non-charismatic churches, and so on. We won't get even into the get a ministry started in this town and in this church. Not tonight. What we're going to do is we're going to start with the theology and we're going to start with what Paul says here about the body of Christ. And I'll just keep watching the clock until it's really time to go. And I'm more tired than anybody else here in this room, I can tell you. So I'll go on my own. I use my own alarm clock. So let's go at it this way. First of all, Paul explains that the body of Christ means, the fact that we are a body, not just an aggregation of people, means that there's unity and diversity, and then there's also diversity and unity. Take a look. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace, for there is one body, one spirit, one hope, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father. So the first section, this first part, first six verses, he's stressing the fact that because we're a body, we're one body, we are one. He's stressing the unity. We're different, extremely diverse in so many, many ways, and yet we're one. Now, he stresses that in a couple ways. First of all, he says, we must maintain the unity of the church in the bond of peace. It says make every effort to keep the unity. He doesn't say to find it, to grasp it, to create it, or to gain it. He says we keep it. Now, the reason he says that is because he's likening the church to a body, a physical body, and you know, you can sit around and think, and I have done this for hours and hours and days and even years, and find more and more and more ways in which the body is a perfect reflection of what the Church is. See, for example, take a look at your body. Look at your hand. You'll know that was not sewn together. That was grown together. One part grew out of another part, grew out of another part. It was an organic process. He is saying here that the unity of the body, the unity we have together between one another is so supernatural. It's not something that you can attain. that you can gain. You can only keep it. It's a gift. It's been given to you. It's a supernatural thing. Have I told you the story about Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones, who lived in Britain in the early 1900s, back when, you know, the British world is still more class-conscious than the American world, and back then it was even more so. And he was an educated man, and he was a leading surgeon. surgeon, and he eventually left medicine to be a preacher, and he went and he took a church, he took a small mission church in a poor area of Wales, and all the people in his church tended to be extremely poor people and very humble educationally, and, you know, he found that one day he was realizing that he was coming under the accusation of the devil, which meant he was starting to ask himself, well, what makes you think you're really a Christian? He heard the little voice, you call yourself a Christian. What makes you think you're a Christian? And any real Christian has heard that voice. It's sort of our version of Tokyo Rose. Hanoi, Hannah, and who's the one in Iraq now? I've forgotten this. call yourself a Christian? And he turned to the voice and he said, explain for me this then. He says, I would rather spend three hours talking about the Lord to the humblest fisher woman on the shores of Wales than I would sit and talk about philosophy and talk about history and all the things I was educated with people of my own class who don't share the Lord. What he was saying was, he says, how do I explain the fact that I feel more of a unity with somebody utterly different than me, culturally utterly different, socially utterly different, racially utterly different, than I do with my own kind that don't share Christ with me. How do you explain that, he said to the voice, and the voice fled. What he's trying to get at, and what Paul's trying to get at, is the unity of the body is something that is kept. It's a gift. And the reason it's a is he mentions, he goes right on and says, there's one body because, why? There's one hope, there's one calling, there's one spirit, there's one baptism. What he's saying is, our experience of conversion is what creates a unity that we have to keep, but we could never manufacture. Now, the experience of conversion is, to me, I mentioned it down here, and I'll just do a quick run through. To me, the pivotal verse in my own understanding of what it means to become a Christian is actually John chapter 16, verse 8, where it says, The Spirit of God has come into the world to convict the world of three things, of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment. And I would love, as you can tell, and as you could probably guess, I would love to preach a sermon on that verse. I just haven't gotten there yet, and it's way off in the future of my series on John. But what do those three things mean? It means that if the Spirit of God has come into your life and converted you, you are so unique and you only share a way of thinking about yourself and the world with other Christians. See, to convict you of sin, you remember the famous place where C.S. Lewis says that he's never really met a non-Christian who admitted conceit and pride? He says, you know, non-Christians will admit that they drink too much. Non-Christians will admit they can't keep their head about men or can't keep their head about women. Non-Christians will admit a lot of things, but he says, I've never heard anybody but a Christian admit to overweening pride, arrogance, self-centeredness, and conceit. And it's true, because you see, you see, it's not that hard to confess sins and be convicted of sins. Heck, they get you in trouble all the time. You know, you tell a little lie here, you're disorganized too, trouble, but it's sin without the S. It's the attitude of self-centeredness. It's the desire to live your own life your own way, to be a self-made man and worship your creator. That sin, and only the Holy Spirit convicts a person of that. And as we've said, and I hope you've, you know, here's one of those few things that you're just getting it, right? Anyway, it's a long day. It's one of those few things that I hope if I say it enough, people who come to Redeemer will know it by heart. The unique self-image of a Christian comes because the gospel says you are far more evil and self-centered and depraved than you ever dared believe, and you're far more loved and accepted and welcomed and valued than you ever dared hope. At the same time, that's the gospel, because of what Jesus has done. You have a unique self-image. You're convicted of sin, and you're also convicted of righteousness. That means you're not only convicted that your sins are bad, you're also convicted, when you're converted, that even the best things you could possibly do will never make you acceptable before God. See, Pharisees were constantly, the Pharisees, you know, the legalistic, moralistic people, they were always confessing and repenting for their sins, but they refused to repent of their righteousness. Are you following that? They said, yes, we do a lot of sinful things, but there's all kinds of ways in which we can be acceptable. And they tried this and they tried this, and they refused to say, but even our best deeds, even our greatest efforts, they are never going to make us acceptable. This poet I've been reading so much of lately, George Herbert, at one point says, I have considered it, and I have found that there is no dealing with thy mighty passion. For even if I were to die for you and give my life for you, I would still be behind, and my sins deserve the condemnation. There is no dealing with thy mighty passion. What he's saying is, you know, if right this minute I turned around and never sinned again, and did everything for you and loved you completely and even gave my life for you, I'd still be behind. I still would have, how could I possibly pay for my sins? And besides that, he says, I know I couldn't possibly live a life like that. The difference between a Christian and a moralist is a moralist is self-righteous because though he or she confesses sins, is convicted of sin, they're not convicted of righteousness. That means they still think that there's things that they're doing that make them acceptable. The Christian realizes even there, oh no, that I have to rely wholly, completely, from first to last on what Jesus Christ has done in my behalf, as my substitute. He's been great for me. He's loved the Lord as God and with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind for me. He's loved his neighbor as himself for me, and I rely completely on what he's done. See that? Convicted of sin, convicted of righteousness, he becomes precious to you. To you who believe he's precious, if I were to say to you, if you knew you were dying of a disease and I said I have a medicine that will cure you, absolutely. And it's the only cure. But it's very expensive. What you would do is that medicine would be so precious to you that you'd sell everything in order to get it. Because you'd say, well what good is it for me to have any money in my bank account if I don't have that medicine. That medicine is so precious to me. Everything else is expendable. Well now. When a person has not just been convicted of sins. But been convicted of righteousness. Jesus Christ becomes utterly precious to you, and everything else in your life becomes eternally and utterly expendable. And that's why Christians, again, are so unique. First of all, they're very generous. They sit loose to the things in their lives. There's a kind of easy-come-easy-go attitude to Christians. They say, yeah, here's money. Oh, well, we might as well give it to you. I mean, it's not the end of the world if I lose it, because you see everything becomes, it looks pale compared to the riches that you have in Jesus. It means troubles that come. You sit loose to them. This hurts, but it's not the end of the world. You know, I just lost something very important, but my pocket's been picked, but my gold is safe at a drunken home. A Christian is convicted of sin, convicted of righteousness, and also convicted of judgment, and I'm pretty sure that means that you're also convicted that Jesus Christ is your judge and you realize that holiness and godliness and a life of obedience is the way in which you want to go. If you're convicted of sin and convicted of righteousness, that doesn't mean, hey, I can live any way I want. You're also convicted of judgment. And you really begin to say, I want to do, I'm going to be ruthless. I am going to pay any price in order to act like Jesus Christ and be holy because I want to be able to face him on the final day. Now, when you have That utterly changes you. And that's why David Lloyd-Jones, David Martin Lloyd-Jones, could turn around and say to the voice that was accusing him, hey, you explain to me why another believer, I feel this kinship and fellowship with another believer in spite of the great chasms, the cultural gaps and the social gaps between us, and yet people, my own peers, my own type, my own class, my own social status, I sense a distance. Why? because I'm one body with this person, because I've had an experience, and she's had the experience. And you know what it's like to meet another Christian? It's like, imagine being in an absolutely foreign country where everything was strange and all the customs were strange, and you run into somebody from your native country, and you know what, even though you've never met one another, it doesn't matter. You go out to eat. You spend time. You talk. You talk to each other. You talk the language, finally, say apple pie and coffee, you finally have somebody that you can talk to from your heart. That's really what it means. It doesn't matter whether that person from your country would, in the home country, look socially very different or far away. Now that you are together in this foreign country, your similarities are so overwhelming that you are just drawn to each other. And that is the unity of the body. It is not something you can develop. It cannot be worked out in committees and through task forces. It says in Acts 2, every day when they were converted, it doesn't just say they were converted in Acts 2. It says every day the Lord added their number to the church, those who were being saved. The unity of the church does not come from something you do. The unity of the church is done to you. It's something that happens to you. Now, therefore, with all this diversity, there's unity. but that's not the end of it. It also, the concept of the body teaches that inside all the unity, there's tremendous diversity, and that's what we have to explore for a while. And here's where we're going to go. Actually, I started teaching about this back in August, and I remember the first night that I gave a real general overview of spiritual gifts, I got a lot of people coming up, smoke trailing out of their ears, saying, hmm, I had never heard any of that stuff. I need to hear more. Here we go. Some of it you have certainly heard. First, spiritual gifts mean that each of us has got a ministry ability that's part of the ministry ability of Christ. See, it says, for example, in verse 16, from him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Now, when you think of my body, And when you think of your body, you realize that you're in all of it. You know, the life, your life is in every part of it. You don't cut a finger off and say, oh, well, that wasn't me. That was just a finger. You know, well, where are you? Well, I guess I'm in here. Well, you want me to cut that? No, I guess I'm here. Well, I guess I'm here. You know, where are you? You're in every part of you. And you can't afford to lose any of you. The concept of the body, it means that the ministry powers and abilities of Jesus Christ have been divided up, and they are resident in different parts of the body, just like your different capacities are resident in different parts of your body. In other words, your brain, as wonderful as it is, can't tie a knot in your shoe, and so forth. So then your abilities are all spread out and so on, and that's the reason why we're able to say, and I think I used it the other night, a mosaic is a great example of what the spiritual gifts are. If you have a mosaic and here's a picture of Jesus Christ, it's made up of little tiny pieces. When you put them all together, you have a beautiful picture of Christ. You take any one of them away, they may be beautiful in themselves, but they're actually incomprehensible. They're like a piece of a puzzle. You can't tell what they are. They don't really, they really don't, they don't serve a function, you might say. say. Therefore, we say that when you're all together, you really have got tremendous power to do what Christ has done. You know, Acts chapter 1 is a fascinating, there's a fascinating verse at the very beginning. The physician, the doctor, Luke, originally wrote both Luke and the book of Acts for a friend named Theophilus. And Luke, of course, is all about Jesus, and the book of Acts is all about the works of the apostles and the disciples of Jesus after Jesus had gone to heaven. There's a first, in one of the first verses, Luke says, O Theophilus, you remember in my last narrative I told you of all the things Jesus began to do and teach. Now I will tell you about this. and the clear implication is that the book of Luke is about what Jesus began to do and teach, and the book of Acts is about what Jesus continues to do and teach, because he is continuing to minister through us. That's why I even put down here this tremendous little offhanded verse that I read for years and years before somebody pointed it out to me. In Ephesians 2, verse 17, Paul says to the people he's writing to there in Asia Minor,

and that's why you know him. Well, now, Jesus never went to Asia Minor, which is today Turkey. Jesus never went there. How in the world could Paul talk about Christ coming and preaching peace to them? What he means is that when some Christian came and preached to you, Christ came and preached to you. Now, what does that all mean? I'm going to jump on down a little further. I think maybe the best thing to do would be to turn over to the back. You have a front and back? Turn over to the back. I'm looking at my time, and what I think I'm going to have to do is I'm going to give you a kind of quick outline of what spiritual gifts are. Then I'll come on back to Ephesians 4 and look at it verse by verse, maybe next week, because I don't think we'll have time. But here on the back, I've got a quick guide to what spiritual gifts are. And here's what they are. Number one, spiritual gifts are an enablement to meet the needs of people. Secondly, that it's given by the Holy Spirit on the basis of God's free grace. And thirdly, notice it's one verse, it's one sentence, in such a way that people are brought more into the Lordship of Christ with the result that the body of Christ is built up in quality and quantity. It's a long sentence, but it's a definition, and every part's important. important. First, spiritual gift is an enablement. That means it's something you do. In 1 Corinthians 12, we're told that spiritual gifts are manifestations. Have you heard that? It says, to each the Spirit gave a manifestation. Now, what's a manifestation? Right away, some people think it means something miraculous. No. A manifestation is something visible. I may be angry. But if I don't manifest it, you don't know. But if I punch you in the nose, that's a manifestation of what's in my heart. The manifestation is an action then, not the attitude. A spiritual gift is not what you are, it's what you do. It's not talking about something on the inside, it's an ability, right? It's a visible thing that you do, and it meets people's needs. means. Or, the way the Bible puts it in 1 Corinthians 12, it edifies people. It builds people up and builds people into Jesus. In the Old Testament, in the New Testament, whenever you see the word edify, you've got to realize it's a very, very important word. Oikodome, it means to build somebody into the house, the house of God. Think of the church, another way to think of the church is as a living temple. Every human being who is a Christian is built into the temple and finds its place and is mortared on in there. To be built up means to reach your potential, to find out who you are in Christ, to be built and brought closer to Christ, and therefore a spiritual gift is the ability to meet people's needs and bring them under the lordship of Christ. It's given by the Spirit on the basis of God's free grace. Now look at this little quote from J.I. Packer. The ability to speak or act in a particular way, performing ability as we call it, is only a charisma, that's a gift, it's only a spiritual gift, if and as God uses it to edify. Now here's what I'm, listen closely. Some natural abilities or talents that God has given, he never uses this in this way, while sometimes he edifies through performances that to competent judges seems substandard. What constitutes and identifies a charisma is not the form of the action, but the blessing of God. Now, he's English, he speaks in complete sentences, and therefore it's hard for us Americans to understand, so let me explain. I'm saying he speaks in complete sentences, there's subjects and predicates everywhere, and they match up, I know, it's hard. So let me explain. What he's saying is what makes a gift a gift is that God uses you. Sometimes your abilities may seem substandard. A talent is not the same thing as a gift. See, a talent is God's way of enriching people at the level of creation. A talent is one of the ways in which God beautifies and enriches the world through his common grace. God creates a world. Sin has sullied it. God tries to keep, through common grace, world from being as bad a place as it ought to be. By throwing out into mankind lots and lots of wonderful gifts, people who can do things great musically, athletically, verbally, socially, and a talent enriches people at the, you might say, the creation level, the natural level. But a talent doesn't necessarily edify someone spiritually and bring them into the body and bring the healing, which I didn't have a chance to get into tonight, but I'll get into next week. that comes when you bring somebody under the kingship of Christ. Ephesians 4 is actually telling us, and here's a brief allusion to it, that when Jesus Christ ascended and sat down at the right hand, that is when he gave gifts to human beings. We read that tonight. Why? That means Jesus Christ, when he began to reign, gives us gifts, and these gifts are kingdom powers. They're more under the lordship of Christ where they're healed. I mean, to give you the most easy one to understand is if I tell you something because I have got a gift to communicate, right? And I say, look, the Bible says, have no anxiety about anything. Well, you've read that a hundred times, but because if I am used by God, if God blesses what I say to you, you say, oh my word, why am I worrying like this? God just seems to leap out at you, what's happening is, in some small but significant way, you've been brought by the blessing of God through a gift, more under the lordship of Christ, and you begin to experience healing. Because the more you are obeying him, the more you find that the consequences and the problems in your life through sin are healed. And you find yourself worrying less. Now, that's a pretty obvious example, but there we go. What J.I. Packer is saying is that is what makes something a gift. Some people with great talents are not finding that God uses the talents as a gift. And some people with lousy talent in a particular area find that God does use it as a gift. For example, take two of the great preachers of the 19th century. century. In America, Dwight Moody was based in Chicago. In England, Charles Spurgeon was based in London. Both Baptists, by the way. Oh well. You know, Presbyterians got shut out of the top two preachers of the mid part of the 19th century, but you can't win them all. All right, now anyway, so one guy in Chicago, one guy in London. If you ever heard Spurgeon, I understand, it was a very hard person. He's a hard person not to be enraptured by. He was an incredible orator. He began preaching when he was 16. He never went to college. I don't believe he even finished what we would call high school education. He just, you know, people came out, people whose lives were changed. He was an incredible orator. And somebody said if he hadn't gone into the ministry, if he'd never been converted, he could have very easily become prime Minister, because he had this tremendous power to sway crowds. He had a talent. He had an incredible talent. On the other hand, Dwight Moody, he was also untutored, very unlettered, not very educated at all, but it showed. Very bad grammar, a stammerer, a stutterer, poor tone. You know, he did everything wrong that the public speakers would tell you, and yet God just the way he mightily blessed Spurgeon. What's going on here? What's going on here is in Moody's case, he had no talent as the basis for his gift. In Spurgeon's case, he had a marvelous talent as the basis for his gift. And it's up to God. God's Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit is sovereign. He's like the wind. He blows where he wills. But do you see what Packer is saying? What makes a gift a gift? What makes a gift a gift is the blessing of God. If you've got a gift of teaching, it doesn't matter whether you can project. It doesn't matter whether your gestures are right. It doesn't matter whether you speak clearly. It doesn't matter whether you have round tones. It doesn't matter. Do people learn? If you've got a gift of counseling, it really doesn't matter how many degrees you've got. Are people helped? Now, see, that's the idea. And that's what a spiritual gift is. marvelous thing. It's the power to bring people in under the Lordship of Christ so that the consequences of sin in their life, their own sin and the sins of others against them, are healed. Your gift is like a light treatment, like a radioactive helpful light treatment on the tumors that are growing in people, and it shrinks those tumors down. That's what a spiritual gift is. And it's a marvelous thing. Now, take a look. Kind of quick. He gives gifts, the Bible tells us, the Holy Spirit, to every Christian. We're told that again and again, including here in Ephesians, but it's very clear in 1 Corinthians 12 and 1 Peter, to each one is given a manifestation of the Spirit. And not only that, B, gifts are given at regeneration. That means that spiritual gifts are given when you become a Christian. Just like I think talents are given when you're born, gifts are given when you're born again. Oh, wait, somebody says, what about the place in 1 Corinthians 14 where it says pray for the gift of prophecy? But actually, if you look carefully in Greek, it's you plural. It says you as a church pray for the gift of prophecy. That means you as a body of people pray that God will send folks with a certain gift into a church. it's not, I don't think it's saying you personally have to say oh Lord, throw a gift down on me that's when I want. Okay, number three. There are more, oh, gifts are lifelong. By the way, it doesn't mean that you might not have latent, a gift may be latent during a period of your life and overt at another period of your life. So for example, there's certain, one of the reasons that I went into teaching and got out of the pastorate. I was a pastor for ten years. I went into teaching for five. And I'm back in the pastorate for a long time. The reason I did that was because I could tell there were some gifts that were latent in the pastorate that I wanted to use. That I couldn't use. And I wanted to do it in a teaching. Setting. And it's exactly what happened. But it wasn't long before my old gifts that were getting latent and not being used in the teaching setting began to itch and say, Hey. Hey. You know, I want to be used. Flex me. Do something here. And I felt the call that way. Gifts are apparently light and long. And by the way, again, one of the few certainties and joys and comforts I have in life is to know that when I go to bed tonight, when I wake up tomorrow, my hand will not have become a kidney. And my spleen will not have become a foot. It's one of the few things that I really don't have to worry about tonight. There's many other things that I do. God sovereignly gives gifts. I believe that they come in when you're converted, just like your talents come in when you're born the first time, physically. And they're with you, though some may come out much later and be drawn out by a situation. We'll talk more about that next week. Gifts are given in clusters. Nobody has got one gift. And I can prove that biblically. We read it tonight. It says he gave some to be apostles, some to be what? What? Prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be. It says pastors and teachers. But in the Greek, it doesn't say and. It says pastor-teachers. And yet we know that the teaching gift can be alone. In 1 Corinthians 12, it says he makes some people teachers. It's possible to be a teacher who's not a very good pastor. And we all know who they are. They teach at seminary. See, now you see, there's teachers. who are not very personable. They're not the kind of people that one-on-one you feel like you can talk with. There's a teacher who's not a pastor. And there's pastors who are not teachers. And there's people who are pastors and teachers. It's very obvious that it's possible to have clusters of gifts, and that virtually all of us do. But further diversity is seen in this. in 1 Corinthians 12 it says there's many gifts but one Lord there's many ministries but one spirit and there's many energizing but one God and what this is telling us is really something great you may have a gift like say the gift of encouragement the gift of exhortation the gift of exhortation is close to being like a gift of counseling but I'll say something more about that in a second the gift of exhortation but that doesn't tell you what your ministry would be. Because you see a ministry is a kind of people need that you apply your gift to. You might find you use your gift of encouragement as a counselor. Or you may find you use your gift of encouragement as a group leader. Or you may find that you use your gift of encouragement by leading a ministry to single parents who need a lot of encouragement. Or you may find that you go to your pastor and say, I'm just pretty good, I think, at really encouraging new believers. So whenever somebody has just recently come on into the faith, let me spend some time with them. Those are four different ministries. Same gift. You know, some people have got a great teaching gift, but they're not very good at working with kids. Some people have got a great teaching gift, but they're great at working and teaching with kids. One gift, different ministries. Then on top of that, you've got different energizings, which means, you know, you've got different levels of potency. You may have a wonderful teaching gift, but somebody else has got a teaching gift that's more potent than you. And that's fine. We need all kinds. So you begin to realize, look, you don't just have one gift. You've got clusters of gifts. You don't just have clusters of gifts, but you have different ministries. And then you don't have just different ministries. You have different energizing. My dear friends, every person in this room is as unique as a snowflake. As unique as a thumbprint. This means that there are some people in the world that only you can help. Because then on top of the fact you've got different clusters and you've got different ministries and you've got different energizers, you've got different age. You're from different age groups. Some of you are men. Some of you are women. Some of you are younger. Some of you are older. Some of you are professional. Some of you are not. Some of you are from other countries. Some of you are from this country. Don't you see that there are some people that you and you alone can do and reach. That's the reason why God says that God has prepared good works for you beforehand to walk in them. That means there are certain people who only you can be used by God. He's prepared you for them. Only you can bring into the kingdom. Only you can heal. Only you can help. Only you can work with them. Unique as a snowflake. Unique as a thumbprint. Okay, a couple other things, then we've got to close. I already mentioned that gifts are not natural talents, right? Oh, well, no, when I say about unique, let me just, quick, let me show you how unique I mean. I mentioned something about counseling. There is no gift of counseling. You know why there's no gift of counseling? Here's why. Because, you see, some people, I ought to know this about, you know, there were some times in my life where I needed somebody to just listen to me and just be as patient and not really give me a lot of advice and just put an arm around me. And there were other times in which I desperately needed a punch in the chops from my counselor. I needed somebody to say, suck it up. Grow up. Stop blubbering. Life is tough. Stop feeling sorry for yourself. It'll kill you. You need somebody who does it. Now, the fact is, that means sometimes you need a counselor with a gift of teaching. Sometimes you need a counselor with a gift of admonition. Sometimes you need a counselor with a gift of mercy. There really is no person who has all the gifts, and therefore there's no counselor that can deal with all the problems. And that's one of the reasons when people say, I need a good counselor, I say, well, check things out. In other words, because all Christians are unique, that means you might say there's a counselor right now in the world, a Christian counselor here that's got a bullet with your name on it, In other words, who can help you. And don't get discouraged if the first person punches you in the chops when you really need a lot of mercy. Go find somebody who can really help. Okay? We're as unique as a snowflake. Gifts are not talents. Secondly, gifts are not spiritual fruit. And I think I'm going to have to stop with this one, but this is very important. Every Christian is supposed to have all the fruit. his patients, and so on. But no Christian is all the gifts. Because spiritual fruit is what you do. And gifts are what you... Pardon me. Spiritual fruit. It's the other way around. Spiritual fruit is what you are. And gifts are what you do. But listen to me, friends. Fruit without gifts are like tires without air. You can be fooled by your gifts. It's especially bad for people like me. And any of you who do Christian ministry. Now listen to me. Any of you who are full-time Christian workers. Look out. You may be in your spiritual fruit. In your walk. In your real nearness to God. Just going. Getting worse and worse. Things are getting colder and colder. You're getting further and further from God. But you go on a retreat. And you have to speak. Or you have to counsel. Or something like that. And your gifts are drawn out by the condition. Your gifts are drawn out by the situation. Because your gifts operate. And even though you're not close to God. You may find as you speak. to people, your gifts are, you know, you wax eloquent and you feel the fire beginning to go, and you might actually help somebody. You might actually change somebody's life. And you say, I'm back. And you're not back. Because you see your fruit's continuing to deteriorate. And temporarily, have you ever noticed that your tire can be losing air, but it's not until you stop the car that it suddenly goes. As long as you're active and active, you get masked for a while, the fact that your tire was losing air and then it's gone. And for a good while, your gifts can operate apart from the fruit, but eventually you crash. And then you say, how could that person who did so many wonderful things run off with the church secretary? Never mistake the operation of gifts for fruit. There are people that God gave gifts to who are not even believers because Judas went out and cast out demons and healed people. And you don't see, in fact, Paul 13. He says you may have tongues, you may have prophecy, you may have all these gifts, and that doesn't tell you anything about whether you're a real Christian or not, in a sense. Because see, your talents, without real spiritual help, can operate and look like gifts for a long time. By your fruit you shall know them, Jesus says, not by your gifts. Well, listen, somebody is out here saying, oh my, oh my, I can see what you're saying. Every Christian's a minister. Every Christian has got to find out what it is that God has for them to do in the work of the kingdom. I've got works that only I can do. And you say, but I'm so tired. I feel so weak. I need to be fed. Can't I just come and be fed? And of course, in a sense, there are seasons. And of course, there's times to take in and to heal and to repair and to grow. But let me tell you something. Output is as important as input for health, isn't it? If you say, I feel so tired, I'm too tired to exercise, and you never exercise, you'll get tireder and tireder. The way to get your win back is actually to do the very thing that you don't feel you can do. You have to go through output as well as input. And on the last day, the Bible tells us in Matthew 25 that Jesus is going to get Christians together, and he's going to say, I gave you ten talents. That's like your gifts. Have you borne fruit in the kingdom of God through them? And the one servant says, yes, here's my ten and here's my ten back. Another one says, here's my five and here's my five back. See, God's just asking you to produce fruit at the level at which he's endowed you. He's not asking you to be like this or that hero. Just be true to what your endowment is. And one servant says, I knew that you were a hard master. And I knew that you'd be hard on me. So I buried my talent in the ground. And here it is back. and what does Jesus say? He doesn't say, oh, you poor scared guy. He says, you wicked lazy servant. Some people on that last day are going to say, my spiritual what? I don't want you to be one of those. Let's pray. Our Father, help us to avoid the consumer mentality. Help us to understand what it means that every one of us has been gifted to be a prophet, a priest, and a king through which your son Jesus Christ can actually come and heal people. And the kingdom power can come rushing through us as channels. We want that.