I'd like to call your attention to the words of Psalm 19. I'm reading the whole psalm from verses 1 to 14.

The heavens declare the glory of God. The skies proclaim the work of his hands. Day after day they pour forth speech. Night after night they display knowledge. There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard. Their voice goes It goes out into all the earth. There were as to the end of the world. In the heavens he has pitched a tent for the sun, which is like a bridegroom coming forth from his pavilion like a champion rejoicing to run his course. It rises at one end of the heavens and makes its circuit to the other. Nothing is hidden from its heat. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy, making wise the simple. The precepts of the Lord are right, giving joy to the heart. The commands of the Lord are radiant, giving light to the eyes. The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever. The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous. They are more precious than gold, than much pure gold. They are sweeter than honey, than honey from the comb. By them is your servant warned, and keeping them there is great reward. Who can discern his errors? Forgive my hidden faults. Keep your servant also from willful sins. May they not rule over me. Then will I be blameless, innocent of great transgression. May the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pleasing in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. This is God's word. Word. Psalm 19 tells us there's two ways to know God, to know about Him. The theologians look at verse 1 to 6 and then verses 7 to 14, and the theologians say the two ways, they give them technical terms, common revelation and special revelation. But without going into what those words exactly mean, let me say, verse 1 to 6 says it's in nature. Nature a great deal. Creation tells us a great deal about God. And the psalmist says, night after day pours forth speech. Can't you see, he says, all the information you get about God by looking at his creation. But as great as nature is, verse 7 and following says, the law of the Lord is perfect. The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy. The ordinances of the Lord are right. Right. The precepts of the Lord revive the soul. The psalmist says as great as nature is, the knowledge you get from nature cannot provide a transformation, a revolution internally. The law of God provides the reviving of the soul. The soul is dying. The soul is dead. And now it's revived. It's brought back to life. It's brought into joy, into sweetness. And so the psalm tells us that the law of God is the way in which you actually undergo this internal revelation, revolution, and really come to understand God completely.

Now, you see, here's what the problem is today. I'm already wrestling with it, though I've already tried it once today. There is nothing that people today, modern folks, want to hear less about than the law of God. There's nothing that our modern culture is more allergic to than the law of God. Talk about God's love and mercy and they're with you. Talk about his love. Fine. Talk about his law. And, you know, suddenly it's like your face looks like, faces look like shutters closed on the inside. Excuse me. And you heard them close?

This text says the law of God is perfect, reviving the soul. The thesis of the day is, modern people are losing their souls because of their allergy to the law of God. And the remedy for it is here. Losing your souls, I'm going to explain what that means. Your souls are atrophying. Your souls are shriveling. The law of God is like water to the soul. The law of God is perfect, reviving the soul. So we are losing our souls. Our souls are atrophying because we think the law of God is an oppressive thing. We think the law of God is a harsh thing, an external thing. Instead of seeing what the text tells us, and that is the law of God is actually an expression of God's character. A work of art is actually the expression of the inner being of the artist. In the same way. The law of God is an expression of God's. It says here. Righteousness. Wisdom. And love. The reason. We are losing our souls. Is because we don't see the law of God. As his righteousness. As his wisdom. As his love. I would like to show you. Many of your personal problems today. Are because you don't see the law of God. As right. Wise. and love. Let's look at those. I just named them. Our three theses, or sub-theses, I guess you could say, is because the law of God is an expression of His righteousness, it's a straight edge for us telling good from bad in life. Because the law of God is righteous, it's a straight edge helping us understand how we should go. Secondly, because the law of God is wise, it's a compass enabling us to make decisions. And thirdly, because the law of God is love. Yeah. It's food. It's sweet. It's not just food. It's dessert. It's honey. And it helps us grow into greatness. And unless you see the law of God in those three perspectives, you will not understand it. You will not take it into yourself. You know, I know I'm talking to modern people. College professors wouldn't be caught dead with a textbook that's more than five years old. And if you're working on a computer six years old, you feel like you're ready for a museum, and yet Jesus has the audacity to say that the law of God, thousands of years old, is the thing that you've got to build your life on. I tell you the truth, he says, heaven and earth will not pass away, but not a jot will pass away, but not a jot or tittle of the law will pass away till all is fulfilled. Heaven and earth, the mountains are papier-mâché compared to the law of God. God. They're fluff. And you and I will pass away too. We'll be nothing but a smudge on the brightness of the air. We'll pass away with the mountains unless the law of God is written in our hearts and its substance and its righteousness, wisdom, and love becomes part of us. And we become the righteousness and wisdom and love of God through it. The law of God. Look, first, First, the text tells us that you miss out, you lose your soul, if you don't see the law of God as righteous. His ordinances, it says there in verse nine, are altogether righteous. Now, the word righteous means, I mean, literally, if you were reading this in Hebrew, the word righteous and the word straight are the same. The Hebrew word for righteous is translated righteous in English is the word straight edge. a straight edge as opposed to crooked. If I am trying to build a house or make an article of clothing, I've got to have a measuring instrument. And a measuring instrument has got to be something that enables me, whether it's a ruler or tape or whatever, it's got to be something that enables me to get perspective on different objects. I go to a store and I say, I think I can buy this refrigerator, and I'm pretty sure it'll fit through my door. But I don't want to go on my judgment, my subjective feelings. You know, it looks like it's going to fit in my door. What do I do? I get out a ruler. I get out a measuring tape. I get out something, because as soon as I put that measuring tape out, and I measure it, and I measure the door, it enables me to classify objects. Get perspective on objects. See what they really are like. There's lots of optical illusions. Things look big in some settings that are small in other their settings, and I can't tell what they really, really are unless I use a measuring instrument. I can't have a piece, I cannot really make a piece of clothing, I can't build a building, I can't do things without a straight edge. It's got to be straight, though. If it's crooked, you know, a crooked thing does not enable me to make the measurement and to compare object to object. When the Bible says God's law is righteous, it is saying that this is the straight edge by which we measure all decisions, all events, all lives, all motives, all actions. This is the way you determine what is right and wrong, what is good and bad, what is decent and decadent, what is compassionate and cruel, and this way only. If there was some other way than You see, that would be the law of God. The reason that God, the reason, when we say God is righteous, what we're meaning by that is that God has not got any law above him or outside of him that can judge him, but God's nature is the straight edge by which we measure everything else. The reason that we believe truth is right and lying is wrong is because what? Because God is truthful. The reason we believe that love is right and selfishness and hatred is wrong is because God is love. And if anyone here would dare to say God is unjust, you would have to be doing it by some higher straight edge than God, which would be God anyway.

The law of God is righteous means that he is the measuring stick. He is the straight edge by which everything else is measured. Only through him can we understand objects, whether this is good or bad, and how good and how bad it is.

When the Bible says the law of God is perfect, reviving the soul, it's saying that unless you've got a perfect straight edge, unless you've got some objective standard, unless you've got moral absolutes, your soul dies. Do you think that's an overstatement? One of the most interesting things, I think, about the so-called fall of the communist civilizations in 1989, when all the communist civilizations collapsed, over here, most of us simply applauded because it says, well, that shows that socialism doesn't work, and that could be. But you have to understand that inside those countries, the way a lot of those people see it, it wasn't so much that socialism failed, but that secularism has failed.

In 1917, you had the beginning of the first civilizations in the history of the world that decided to build a culture on a secular basis. Up to then, every culture always said, how do we know right and wrong? We look for the divine straight edge. Well, all the cultures were different. You had Confucianist cultures and Buddhist cultures and Muslim cultures and Orthodox and Catholic and Protestant cultures. though they differed on what that straight edge was, agreed that there would be no basis for morality if there wasn't a divine straight edge. There'd be no way to build a society just like there's no way to build a house without a straight edge. There's no way to build a society without it. And then along came the 20th century and a mindset of modernity, we call it, that said you don't have to believe in God or know what God says. You don't have to believe in religion to know what's right and wrong. and the first societies that tried to do it were the communist societies. They did it in a formal way, but we're doing it in an informal way. They started in, say, 1917. We didn't start until pretty much after World War II. But we better take a look at what happened. They collapsed from the inside because of their rottenness. Now, you know, one of the things that a lot of people always accuse me of only ever quoting C.S. Lewis, just to show I read other things, I'm going to quote to you the Prime Minister of Bulgaria, that's a change, who last year was in Washington, and he made a speech that I think is absolutely stunning. Listen, he says, what we need is a return to normalcy in our country, meaning not just to consensual politics and rational economics, but to a civil society functioning on the basis

as you listen to this, I want you to see that there is no more stunning and amazing illustration of Psalm 19, verse 7. He says, Moral confusion under communism was accompanied by an utter confusion of values and their meaning at all levels of societal activity. People thought nothing of cheating and stealing. There was no faith to lean on since religion and belief in God were considered outdated and unscientific. This state of mind is reminiscent of Dostoevsky's character Ivan Karamazov, who exclaimed, If God does not exist, everything is permitted. The whole history of mankind has proven that without God, or a higher moral authority, the things most precious to us humans are often denied us. Because it's our nature that for true achievement and emotional fulfillment, we need a higher intensity of purpose than everyday concerns can provide. Now, despite all this, I look to the future of our people with great optimism. Why? There is a new and intense striving of many Bulgarians, especially younger generations, to find the moral foundations of their existence, to rediscover age-old values and ideals. There's a renewed interest in religion, the church, and spirituality in general. And here's the kick. This was much more than a political revolt. This was a revolt of the soul against soullessness. It may be followed by spiritual enlightenment and a new higher moral imperative. Is there anybody here who thinks the idea of a God who reveals Ten Commandments, absolute moral principles that everyone must obey regardless of their feelings, that we have to submit to, that he spoke it from Mount Sinai, that he spoke it through the prophets. That idea is unscientific and outdated? Do you think it would be a great idea if most people in our society felt like you did?

We've already seen what a society like that looks like. He just told us about it. He's not saying, and I'm not saying, that an individual who doesn't believe in God or doesn't know what he believes about God, that an individual like that can't be a heroic person and can't, in many cases, rise up and decide, I'm going to be moral and do it. What he's saying is the masses of a society who are told there is no truth, there is no right and wrong, there are no moral absolutes, there is no God, cannot possibly see a basis for morality. You can't build a society on that. He even goes so far as to say, if all you're living for is human society, you can't have a human society.

this was a revolt of the soul against soullessness. It's a pretty amazing statement. What better illustration of this? The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. They're going back and saying there's got to be a divine straight edge somewhere, or there is absolutely no way that we're going to even have any idea of how to treat each other. There is no way we can expect people to be decent. Expect people to be honest. How dare we expect people if there really isn't such a thing as honesty in a divine reality by a divine straight edge. There's a professor of philosophy at Boston College. I read an article. He believes in the moral absolutes. He believes in the divine straight edge. He believes the law of the Lord is perfect. And he teaches philosophy at Boston College. Which means that in his first philosophy class, he always asks them, what do you believe about morality? And 95% of them always say there are no absolute principles, that morals are simply your personal subjective value, and that you cannot impose morality, your morality, on anybody else. And then every year he says he does this. He says, fine. And then he says, now, since you believe that all morality is just personal I would like to share with you my personal subjective feelings about how I grade in this class. He says, I want you to know that all women will be getting a flunking grade. Immediately, people say, that's not fair. He says, wait a minute. If you just told me that your personal subjective concept of fairness differs from my personal subjective concept of fairness, and that you don't like how my concept makes you feel, that's fine, but you didn't say that. What you have just said is that my particular view of fairness is wrong. And then he goes on and he says this. You know in your deepest of deeps that there is a universal objective absolute value called justice and it stands judgment over both you and me and you can invoke it against me when I say all the women in this class are going to flunk. However, you have no basis for doing it. Don't you see? You can't live by your own philosophy that all morals are relative. If you were consistent, you would have said, I don't feel like I like your value. But instead, you said it's unfair. So in practice, you have no soul unless you believe in the law of the Lord. Now, there are some people who are consistent. You've got Jean-Paul Sartre, who when the Nuremberg trials were going on, said, In print, you can't judge the Nazis because if there is no God, there is no way to know what's right and wrong and you have no right to judge them for what they did. They saw things their way. That's consistent. It's also moral bankruptcy and more than moral bankruptcy, it's not consistent because he says you don't have a right to judge them. What is he appealing to? He's appealing to a straight edge. There is no way, the Bible says, for you to avoid the knowledge of moral absolutes. You do have to believe in them. You can't live without them. You can't make a decision without them. You can't take a class without them. And yet when you say, I don't know if there's a God and I don't know what he says, you have no right to the very belief that you base your life on. The law of the Lord is perfect. It revives the soul. Without it, your soul dies. Secondly, do you see the law of the Lord is righteous? Do you see that if there's a creator God, he has the right to tell you what to do? Do you see that righteous laws are absolutely necessary for you to even have a soul, for you to even have a life, for us to have a culture, to have a society?

Secondly, you have to see, the law of God is not arbitrary, it's right. Secondly, the law of God is not arbitrary, it's wise.

the second verse, after the law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul, says, the statutes of the Lord are trustworthy, making wise the simple. I don't know how to put this. I don't know how many times I've had people come to me and say, I think, I know what I'm doing is against traditional Christian morality. Now, usually that means I'm sleeping with somebody, buddy, I'm not married. I know that what I'm doing is against traditional Christian morality, but I want to know, do you think, I mean, do you think God's going to punish me for this? I've had many people ask me that. So I believe in God, I think, and I believe, I guess, there are moral absolutes. I guess there have to be. See, point one, only a fool really believes that there are no such thing as moral absolutes. Only a hypocrite believes that, because you're using anyway. All right, so now a person says, okay, I believe in God and I believe there's moral absolutes, but I really want to sleep with this person and I'm doing it. I want to know, you think God's going to punish me? I always look at him like this and I sit down and I say something like this. Why are you afraid of running afoul of the wrath of God and you're not afraid of running afoul of the wisdom of God? You're a little bit like somebody who's about to jump off of a 22 story building and you're saying well I want to break the law of gravity but I'm afraid maybe somebody's gonna give me a ticket.

You don't need to give people a ticket for jumping off the 22 story building. You don't need to make breaking the law of gravity illegal. Breaking the law of gravity is not illegal. It's stupid. The reason for it is that it goes against the fabric of the way things are. It goes against the fabric of the law of fabric of your being. And the punishment is inherent in the violation. The law of the Lord is wise. It's wise. What does that mean? I look at a person and I say, if you really think, gosh, if I sleep with this person, do you think maybe I'll lose my job? Do you think I'll break a leg? Do you think my horse won't come in? You know, what will God do to me? And the answer is, you don't understand, do you? The law of God is not arbitrary. It's wise. when you move against the law of God, you move against yourself.

In the modern milieu, the common wisdom, the moral compass that people use to make decisions is a very simple one. You know what it is? You can hear it anywhere, anywhere. It's in the books, it's in the most brilliant scholars, and it's in the person on the street. Basically, they say this. Anything that your heart desires that makes you happy is right for you as long as it doesn't hurt somebody else. talk shows. That's what they tell you in Philosophy 101. That's what they tell you. Anything. There are no moral absolutes, they say, though we've shown that nobody can live that way. There's no moral absolutes, so you have to find what is right for you. Follow the desires of your heart, as long as it doesn't hurt somebody else. That is absolute nonsense. May I say? There is no wisdom in that at all. First of all, follow the desires of your heart. Which desires of my heart? I don't know about you, but if you know yourself, you know that the desires of my heart are conflicting. They want different things. How do I decide which one of the desires of my heart are actually going to be the right ones? As soon as you ask that question, do you know what you've just done? You're looking for a straight edge above your heart.

As soon as you admit that you can't look to your heart to decide what you want to do because you've got all these conflicting desires, you say, well, how do I decide which ones are right? As soon as you ask first standard outside of your own feelings? Because you've got to have one. Not only that, this idea that it's right as long as it doesn't hurt somebody. Friends, everything hurts somebody. I've had people come to me and say, you can't tell the truth. If you tell the truth, I'm ruined. Now, according to the modern standard, I shouldn't do something that hurts somebody else, so I shouldn't tell the truth. But if I don't tell the truth, I'm hurting the person I'm lying to. Now what do I do? You know why I'm stuck? I shouldn't be stuck. divine straight edge which says don't bear false witness. But if I go by the moral idea, I mean, the morality of the modern milieu that says anything is good as long as it really satisfies your desires, as long as you don't hurt somebody else, I'm in gridlock. And I always will be in gridlock because I've got to have some wisdom above my own heart. And I certainly have to have some wisdom that enables me to know what to do right or wrong. I certainly can't say as long doesn't hurt somebody else because you're going to hurt somebody else no matter how you live, no matter what your standards are. Do you see the wisdom of the law of God? I was driving, trying to get back into Manhattan. I was coming down the Palisades Parkway, and I was using my own perspective, and I looked ahead, and I said, this time of day, boy, there's no way the Lincoln Tunnel is going to work, but I think that George Washington Upper Roadway might, and I looked, and it looked like it was clear. Then I suddenly heard from the GW Bridge is backed up for 40 minutes. Take the Lincoln Tunnel if you use the local approaches. Well, that went completely against both my instincts and my perception. Because from what I could tell, it looked like it wasn't backed up. And everything I knew at the Lincoln Tunnel was not that this time of day, there's no way that those approaches would be open. And then I had to decide. Well, even though I have a lot of experience, and even though I had my own perspective,

has wisdom from above. He can see ahead. He can see behind. And so I went with him. And sure enough, you see, as soon as I went by the turnoff for the George Washington Bridge, I suddenly was able to see the back up. And as soon as I got down Lincoln Tunnel, inexplicably, it was exactly as he said. And I went right through. I have no idea why, but I know this. How do you decide when you look at your own heart which of your desires you should follow and which ones you should chuck? How do you know when you know that no matter what you do you're going to hurt somebody which choices you should make? You need somebody who's got a perspective that can see your whole heart, can see your whole future can see the whole fabric of reality. Who's got that perspective? Who's the only one in the helicopter?

Sometimes I'll have to sit down with my little one and say, I know you don't want to go to school, but if you don't go to school, you fall behind. If you fall behind, you don't do well in school, you're not going to have a very good life. Your autonomy will eat up your freedom.

I've got the perspective. I'm in the helicopter. I'm 40 years old. You're 7. Please listen to me.

when you refuse to see that there is no way you can make a decision unless you get wisdom from some other perspective than your own. And unless you see that it makes sense that if God's your creator, not only does he have the right to give you the law, but he has the wisdom. Not only do you owe it to him, but he alone knows how you're designed, and he knows how you work. And therefore, the Bible has always said, to move against the law of God is to move against yourself. To shoot at the law of God is to shoot at yourself. To destroy the law of God is to destroy yourself. The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The statutes of the Lord are trustworthy, making wise the simple. Lastly, now, finally, the psalmist also starts to go into rapture here.

The law of the Lord is right, and we need a right standard. The law of the Lord is wise, and we need a wise standard. But then suddenly he says, and sweeter than the honeycomb. A joy to my heart. A delight to my soul. And at that point I think all thoughtful people start to say, whoa. Wait a minute. They say, now look. Maybe you've followed me so far. And you've seen at least you have to admit the first point. That there has got to be a standard. A moral absolute standard. There has to be a law of the Lord that's right. You say, okay, I guess it's there. I don't know what it is. And secondly, you might even be willing to admit so far that God is wise. But the idea that the law of the Lord is an expression of his love, that the law of the Lord would be something you would eat like a honeycomb, that it would be sweeter, melt in your mouth, that it would just help you grow and you would eat it like food and you would see it as an expression of your love, you're going to say, I can't get into that. I can admire the law for being right. I can respect the law for being wise. The law of God is hard. I can be impressed with the law of God. It says, share what you have with the poor. It says, be compassionate. Be hospitable. It says, always tell the truth. Never steal. It says, love everyone. Hate no one. Forgive people. The law of God is wonderful, but it's hard. And you're going to fail. fail. And so how can you look at the law of God except with a sense of admiration and also fear and trembling and a certain dread? So let's respect the law of God and let's even dread the law of God, but how can you love and delight in it? And the answer is in verse 14. It's a secret deeper than even David, who wrote the book, understands. It says, may the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. You see, I'll go this far, and I'll ask you to test yourselves here. There's three kinds of people in the world, the immoralist, the moralist, and the Christian. The immoralist hates the law of God, despises it, says, let's get rid of it. It threatens our freedom. It's oppressive. The moralist says, I admire the law of God as right and wise, but I'm scared of it. It burdens me. It always makes me feel guilty. It's always condemning me.

secure, and the Christian delights in the law of God. The difference between a Christian and a moralist is that the Christian delights, finds it sweet. It never makes the Christian feel terrible. There's no terror anymore. Can you tell whether you're a Christian or a moralist? Well, somebody says, okay, tell me, how in the world does the law of God become a delight like this? In Galatians 4, it's in fact it talks about Christmas it's something we're going to be celebrating in a month or so in Galatians 4 Paul says when the time had fully come God sent his son born under the law to redeem those under the law you know what that means? Jesus came to earth and came under the law that's the reason why when John the Baptist was about to baptize him he says to Jesus why am I baptizing you? you know you're perfect and Jesus says it is important for us to righteousness. And that means Jesus Christ came to obey the law. He loved God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind. He loved his neighbor as himself. He loved. He never hated. He forgave. He was compassionate. He never lied. He never stole. He never was impure. Why? Here's why. Everybody in this room knows you ought to be perfect. Everybody. Many of you have been to counselors trying to deal with that. And maybe you dealt with it, but I want you to know it's still down there, that sensation. It's just a sleep. Sometimes it wakes up, you know. Do you admit the emotional reality? Everybody in this room knows we should be perfect. I showed you. We all know that there's a moral absolute, and we all know we fall short of it. Now, every other religion refuses to deal with that emotional reality. Every other religion, every other philosophy refuses to take it seriously, because every other religion and every other philosophy says this about that sense that you should be perfect. It says, lighten up. Don't take it so seriously. Loosen your conscience. Everybody does it. In other words, the only way other religions and other philosophies can deal with that sense that you should be perfect, is to desensitize you morally, is to dehumanize you morally, is to say morality and the law and righteousness don't mean as much as you feel. Every other religion has to say, just try your best. One of you this week came to me and said, I think all God wants for me is to try my best, and if I just try my best, I think he'll do the rest. And you remember what I said to you? I said, you know, you've never tried your best, and you never will. Everybody in this room knows they've never done their best at anything. How are you going to live with that? You can either dehumanize yourself or you can turn to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And the gospel of Jesus Christ says, no, you don't have to just try your best and God overlooks the rest. Jesus Christ came to be perfect. Jesus Christ came to deliver what you know you owe. You know what you owe, perfect obedience. Jesus has come and done it. He stood in our place, and now he says, if you trust me, and if you stand before God not saying, look at my accomplishments, but instead look at what Jesus has done for me, he's satisfied the law. He's fulfilled the law. I am perfect in him. Only Christianity deals with that emotional reality. Every other kind of faith, every other kind of philosophy says, forget what the law says. Oh, the law is too exacting. Oh, your conscience is too exacting. I can know that I am just and justified. That's the reason why, if you want to know what it means to be a Christian, to be a Christian means to be able to sing that first hymn that we sang today with complete joy, knowing that this is what I build my life on. Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us praise the Savior's name. He has hushed the law's loud thunder. He has quenched Mount Sinai's flame. But especially verse four, Let us wonder. Grace and justice. That's the law. Join and point to mercy's store. When through grace in Christ our trust is, justice smiles and asks no more. He who washed us with his blood has secured our way to God. Let us wonder. Grace and justice. Join and point to mercy's store. When through grace in Christ our trust is, God is just as smiles and asks no more.

A moralist stands before the law of God and says, don't hurt me. I know I haven't really satisfied you. And a Christian stands before the law of God and says, you don't scare me anymore. You can't save me. Jesus has fulfilled you. And therefore now, a Christian looks at the law of God without terror and says what? I want to obey you now. I'm not afraid of you anymore. The reason I want to obey you is to say thank you to the one who saved me. And the reason I want to obey you is because I see now the law of God as the way in which my Father cares for me, the way he guides me, the way he gives me wisdom from on high. I suddenly see the law of God as love because he's telling me all kinds of things that help me know how to step this week. And not only that, the more I obey it, the more I obey its righteousness and its wisdom and its love, God's righteousness, wisdom, and love comes into me because the Holy Spirit every day writes it in my heart. I don't want to forgive, but when I decide I'm going to obey the law of God and forgive, and I rest in what Jesus has done for me, not afraid of being condemned by my imperfect obedience to the law, but go instead and say, Lord, by your Holy Spirit, help me to forgive. The Holy Spirit writes that law in your heart, the Bible says. And so the greatness of God passes into you through the law. A Christian looks at the law saying, finally, here's how my Father loves me, by guiding me and by changing me and by showing me the way to go. A Christian looks at the law of God and delights in it. Don't you see the difference? Psalm 1 says, what's the mark of a godly man? Not that he prays day and night. Not that he goes to church day and night. Not that he witnesses day and night on the street corners. What does it say? He delights in the law of God, and upon it he meditates day and night. He feeds on it. How can anybody be delighted in the law of God? Doesn't it condemn you?

Let us wonder. Grace and justice. Join and point to mercy's store. When through grace, in Christ our trust is, justice smiles. Asks no more. Two kinds of people here. On the one hand, Christians, I want you to know that if you give yourself to real obedience,

knowing that the law can't condemn you, but now it can only heal you, it's the only way to really let the greatness of God pass into you. You know how every week I tell you about how God loves you? Okay, because he loves you, you've got to obey. You know, this is the God who scatters universes with two hands like we scatter sand. He's in your life. Now, how do you treat him? He's not just your advisor. He's not your secretary. He's not your assistant. He's got to be your Lord, and his greatness will only pass into you when you start to get serious about obedience. Now, I know obedience always looks like a death. death. To obey when it's hard means I'm going to die, but that's the way to resurrection. Jesus Christ says, unless a seed goes into the ground and dies, it can't erupt with all its potentiality. And sometimes to obey him when it's hard feels like going under. It's like you, the seed, going under his law. And it feels like a death. But I tell you, it's the only way, if you put yourself under his royalty and under the righteousness and wisdom of his law? Will you really erupt with all of your potentialities? He knows how you're built. Christian friends, don't be afraid of the death that obedience seems to be because there will be a resurrection on the other side and it's the only way to resurrection is through death. John 14, 23. Jesus says, if you obey my words, I will come to you and make myself real to you.

Lastly, there are some of you here that I imagine realize that you're not Christians because you don't delight in the law of God. All you've ever seen it being is a kind of moralistic, scary thing. I hope you see today that until you let the law of God point you beyond it, self, you're not a Christian. Do any of you feel swamped by the law of God? Do you feel like in the past I tried to be a good Christian and all it made me do was feel condemned and guilty? that's how the law is supposed to do. The law is supposed to show you that it can't save you. The law points beyond itself and says, there's got to be a better way. It's Jesus. It's the one who fulfilled the law. If you think that I'm telling you that you'll be a Christian by being good, friends, ethical behavior doesn't make you a Christian any more than barking and eating dog food makes you a dog. What makes you a dog is the DNA. The nature. What makes you a Christian put into your heart, the new birth, the Holy Spirit that comes into your heart the day you acknowledge that Jesus Christ has hushed the law's loud thunder and you can't do it. May the words of our mouths and the meditations of all our hearts be acceptable in his sight. Oh Lord, our rock and our redeemer. Let's pray. Father, as we listen to the music, as we take up the offering, give us a moment to think about what it will mean for us to apply this text. I pray that Christians here will see areas where they are not acknowledging the righteousness and the wisdom and the love of your law. They're seeing it as an impressive thing. They're denying it in certain areas of their life. They think they're smarter or wiser or more loving than your law. And as a result, they are missing on your reality that you give us when we obey. Father, I know there's people here like that. Show them that your law is not an oppressive thing, but your law is sweeter than the honeycomb. But on the other hand, Father, I pray for people who might be here crushed by the law. Maybe they've left the whole Christian church because they see the law as what salvation is all about. Show them that it's not. Show them that you, O Lord Jesus Christ, have fulfilled the law, and asks no more if we trust in you and in your grace. Let everyone here, by your Spirit, apply this word to their hearts that we might become righteous, wise, and loving in you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
