Oh my, you know, ever since September to the book of Galatians and this is it. This is the end and starting next week we'll have our summer series which we do every year. We choose another subject and we team teach it in the summer because there's a lot of coming and going in the summer, at least I'm coming and going. And so the pastoral staff will be going through this summer the first part of Genesis, Genesis

So I'll start with Genesis 1 next week, so you can come with your, gee, I don't know. But anyway, it'll be interesting. But we have to complete Galatians, and I'll be real, yeah, let me be frank. This is leftovers. You know, sometimes you go to the refrigerator, and you really don't cook a new meal. You have to use up the leftovers. And I would like to look at two. Two, they're not unrelated because they're in the same book, but two very interesting statements that are very easy to overlook. And in many ways, we could have just moved on to Genesis tonight, and we could have said, well, these aren't all that important. Yeah, but they are. There's really no part of Scripture that's unimportant. And what I'd like you to do in particular is read this section with me. This is the end of Galatians. Chapter 6 is the last chapter. Let me read to you a section from earlier in the chapter, verses 4 to 8, and then verses 16 to 18, okay? Each one should test his own actions. Then he can take pride in himself without comparing himself to somebody else. For each one should carry his own load. Anyone who receives instruction in the Word must share all good things with his instructor. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. A man reaps what he sows. The one who sows to please his sinful nature, from that nature will reap destruction. The one who sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. peace and mercy to all who follow this rule even to the Israel of God finally let no one cause me trouble for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit brothers amen okay now just there's two statements here well you might say there's two There's two challenges here for us. Paul challenges us to do two things. Sowing in the Spirit. See? The one who sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. Sowing in the Spirit. But the other thing he's telling us to do here is learn in community. Anyone who receives instruction in the Word must share all good things with his instructor. Now, those aren't unrelated, as I'll show you, but they're two things that are very easy to miss, important, especially for those of us who are really trying to think out what does it mean to live a life in accordance with the gospel, which is really what the whole book of Galatians has been about. Let's take a look, first of all, at sowing to the Spirit. There is a very, this is a jarring note in the book of Galatians. The book of Galatians tells us that Christianity and the gospel is different than any other religion. How? Well, let's say it one more time. all other religions basically say do the right thing or you'll get it. Do it or you'll be judged. Do right or you'll be judged. That's it. Christianity comes along and says no, no. The essence of Christianity is not do. The essence of Christianity is done. The essence of other religions is do or you'll be judged. The essence of Christianity is Jesus was judged for you. you. It's all done. Now believe and rest in that. And so Christianity has this very different cast to it, and yet suddenly you come up against verse 7 and 8, and it almost seems like Paul is just talking just very differently than he's been talking to the rest of Galatians. It seems to breathe a different spirit. He says, what? Isn't this great? This is the sort of thing you expect a preacher to say. You know, this is your first night here at Redeemer. You know, this might fit in with your stereotypes of what a preacher would say. God cannot be mocked. A man reaps what he sows. The one who sows to please his sinful nature, from that nature will reap destruction. The one who sows to please the Spirit, from the Spirit will reap eternal life. And it sure sounds like, what is he doing? Oh, it sounds like what he's saying is very simple. Do the right thing. Don't sin. Don't go along with your sinful nature. Don't sin or God will get you. Do the right thing and then you'll go to heaven. That's what it says. That's what it seems to say. But look, we can't assume Paul's an idiot. We can't assume that he would completely contradict in one sentence everything else he's been saying. You don't write a whole book. You don't write a whole book on why America and France should be friends. You don't write an 800-page book on why America and France should work together. And then at the very end say, okay, and in conclusion, let me just remind you I hope America and France go to war together. Thank you very much. I mean, you don't do a speech that, in summary, completely contradicts everything you said. Or if it sounds that way, you have to say, well, if it sounds that way, obviously he might mean it a little differently than the way it looks on the surface, and that's the case. What Paul's actually telling us here is something pretty important, pretty interesting. If we put it in context, it's actually a very interesting way of looking at life. He's really telling us under this heading The structure of the universe First of all Now look, he says A man reaps what he sows The one who sows to please his sinful nature From that nature will reap destruction The one who sows to please the spirit From the spirit will reap eternal life Now Paul is saying something that's actually Flies right in the face Of Western society Right in the face of what the average person In Western culture believes Right in the face Here's what he says He says, just as there are objective principles at work in physical nature that you have got to adapt to, so there, not only is there an objective natural physical order, so in the realm of morality and spiritual things, there's an objective moral order. So, put it this way. Whatever you reap, that will you sow.

Whatever, whatsoever a man sows, that will he reap. Well, it's saying two things. First of all, it's saying whatever you sow, you will reap. If you sow corn, you will not reap tomatoes. It doesn't matter how much you say, I hope this will be tomatoes. I hope this will be. It doesn't matter how much you believe it. It doesn't matter how much you feel it. It doesn't matter how deeply in your gut. It's an objective fact. If you sow corn, you'll get corn. If you sow tomatoes, you'll get tomatoes. If you sow nothing, you'll get nothing. If you sow poorly, you'll get a poor crop. If you sow well, and so on. No matter how much you believe, this is really going to come up tomatoes. It'll come up corn if it's corn. So whatsoever you will reap, you sow, you will reap. But then secondly, whatsoever you sow, you will reap. That's the other part. It will come up. It may look like it's nothing. Nothing's happening. It may be very Eventually, it will come in. Now, this is very different than what most people think. Most of your friends think, and probably very different than what many of you think. In the physical realm, we say, even if you don't believe in gravity, gravity is still true for you. If you say, I don't believe in gravity, I'm going to jump off the top of the building, you'll still fall. Even if you don't believe in gravity, gravity is still true for you. Even if you don't believe these are corn seeds,

true. In a way, it doesn't matter what you believe. But when it comes to the area of morality and spirituality, we think it's very different. We say, if you don't believe that is immoral, then it's not immoral. If you believe it's immoral, then it's immoral for you, but it's not immoral for me. If you think this action is wrong, fine. You have your beliefs. I have my beliefs. But the fact is, whatever I believe about this action makes it. If I believe it's moral, it's moral. And vice versa. We would never say, Western people just do not believe that there's an objective moral order the way there's an objective physical order. And that whether or not this is right or wrong, in your mind, it's either right or wrong really. Now, so basically that's really what Western people say. And what Paul is doing is he's coming right in the face. saying, no, there is an objective moral order just like there's an objective physical order. Very, very strong. Now, we have to move on because I want to, you know, I do want to finish the book of Galatians. But here, now, I could just leave it at this, and Paul doesn't make any arguments, and therefore I probably shouldn't either. But it's hard not to, if you're out there saying, yeah, of course. If you think something's wrong, then it's wrong for you, but it's not wrong for me unless I think it's wrong for me. That's not true. I'm sorry. It's not true. And you don't believe it. Well, you say, what do you mean I don't believe it? Well, you know, the way you find out what a person really believes is not to look at their claims, but at their deeds. You see, for example, if the politician in town says, our public schools are wonderful, they're just fine, and then The politician puts their kids in private school. You know, you say, well, you claim you believe, but you really don't. You know, it doesn't really matter what you say. I'm going to watch what you do. If the doctors say, ah, the water here is fine. But then if you know the doctors are, you know, shipping in bottled water from somewhere else, you say, well, it's one thing what they claim, but let me watch how they actually live. That's what you really believe. What you really believe is how you live. Now, you may say, I believe all morality is relative to you, that there is no such thing as objective moral order. And yet, the fact of the matter is, do you really think rape's just impractical? Or is it wrong? Is it wrong no matter what the rapist believes? Oh, yes, well, that's different. Why is it different? as you're willing to say, there is not just moral feelings, but there's moral obligation. A moral feeling is a subjective thing. A moral obligation is something that's wrong for that person, whether he or she believes it or not. As soon as you see in the way you act, you don't just get unhappy. You don't just say, yes, we need to have people stop raping. You're outraged. And why are you outraged? Because what's happening is wrong. It doesn't matter what the rapist thinks.

And therefore, the fact is, Paul's right. and it doesn't matter, you can claim, I believe that everybody has to make up their own mind about what's right or wrong for you, when actually in your actual actions, you don't see it that way at all. You know, deep down inside, there really is an objective moral order. Then Paul goes on and tells us something else that's important to know. Not only does he tell us there's an objective moral order, but he also tells us it's an organic moral order. Now, what does that mean? Well, Well, notice, he says God cannot be mocked. You know, that kind of, I think that lends, I mean, gosh, he's Paul, he's the apostle. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that. But when we first read it, we almost immediately get in our minds the wrong picture, a picture that's very different than the picture that Paul's really painting. We immediately think of God, a cranky God. And we think what Paul is saying is, if you disobey God, God's offended and will send, you know, thunderbolts. He'll make you sick. He'll let your job collapse. You see, you've done something right. Actually, it's amazing. People believe there's plenty of people who aren't Christians at all. When something goes wrong in their life, they immediately say, what have I done? Am I not living right? Why is this happening to me? Thunderbolt. You know, maybe I did something wrong. Or, you know, even, you know, in Sound of Music, at Julie Andrews when, you know, the admiral or whatever he is, what is he? Anyway, the guy asked her to marry him, and she sings, you know, somewhere in my youth or childhood, I must have done something good. People think that there's a God in heaven. You do something good. He says, okay, fine, I'll have, let's see, now what can I make good to go good in their life? Look what he, look what they did. I'll let things go well. Look what they did. I'll make things go badly. But you see, the God is not mock thing is just a stern way. I mean, this is Paul's way of saying what Moses said many years ago in Numbers chapter 32 where he said, your sins will find you out. You can't treat God lightly. God is not mock simply means you just cannot shrug. You can't be flippant. You can't treat God lightly. But the actual picture of the moral order in the universe is an organic one. cultural metaphor. Why? Because what he's trying to say is that the judgment that comes upon you is a natural judgment that comes when you break the fabric or the design of what God has created. See, for example, if you sow poorly, you'll starve. It happens gradually, but it's the punishment and the reward are completely linked. One leads to the other. One grows out of the other. If, for example, you eat fatty foods, lots of fatty foods, you may have a heart attack. Why? Because what you're doing is the heart can't bear that much fat. It can't process that much fat. It's just not designed for that. When you go against the design, the heart breaks down. down. If you buy a car and it says change the oil every 3,000 miles and you don't change it for 20,000 miles, it breaks down. Why? It's not like, there's not, you don't need somebody walking around saying, how can I punish people who never change oil in their cars? You don't need to fine people. You don't need to put them in prison. You don't need to do that. Why? Because their cars will, you know, fall apart at some point at 60 miles an hour, and they'll die anyway. You see, there's natural consequences to so many of the things that we do wrong, and Paul goes this way. Paul says, this is what happens when you break the moral order. Now, look, God has made your heart in a certain way. For example, you know when the Bible says you must forgive. Now, in light of what Paul's saying, that's not busy work.

God has not just said, how can I make these people's lives miserable so that, know, it cost them something to get to heaven. I'll think of all these rules. That way I know that if they've got to heaven, they've really had to work hard. I got one. I'll make them forgive. That'll be hard. But that's not the way he does it. If he says in his word, you must forgive, I command you to forgive. Whether you want to forgive or not, you have to forgive. It's a sin to hold a grudge. Why is he doing that? Now you know why, don't you? He's coming and saying, it's going to hurt you. I didn't build the human spirit to work that way. See?

Sow bitterness and reap horrible loneliness. And so what he's really, see, God's not in heaven saying, oh, that person is bitter. What am I going to do? I'm going to have to do something. I have to punish that person. I'll make them sick. See? I'll let their son flunk out of high school. what I'll do. No. Paul says, if you understand the will of God along these lines, whenever God says anything for you to do, he's not all that concerned. Well, he's concerned about his honor, but he's just as concerned about your joy. He says, this is the way it works. This is how your heart works. If he says, you must forgive. Here's another one. He says, you must give your money away. Don't spend it all on yourself. Give lots of it away. He said, did God say, aha, there's That's a great rule. See, these people have got to suffer a little bit if they're going to get to heaven. And that will make them kind of miserable, and that's good. No. He's saying, if you spend all your money on yourself, it will hurt you. It will ruin your heart. You won't be like Jesus. You were built to be like my son. Where do you see the joy of generosity? Where do you see the freedom of forgiveness? See, God never tells you anything. It may be very hard, but he's never telling you anything except that which is built for your joy. He wants your joy.

And by the way, what this means…Well, let's just apply this…I have to move on…If this is the case, it really means that when you see something that…in the Bible…the Bible says this is wrong and you don't get it…you say, that doesn't make any sense to me…I want you to not just throw it away…I don't…because you see two things…first of all…the Bible says…if you don't understand this…you may not understand the particular reason it's wrong. You may not understand the particular reason. I mean, as Debbie Boone sang so long ago, it can't be wrong if it feels so right. And there's an awful lot of things the Bible proscribes, that means forbids, in the sexual area that feels just absolutely right when you're doing them. Absolutely right. But you see what's going on here. Paul is trying to say, if God has said something, if God says, don't do that, he's not come up with a set of rules to make your life

I built sexuality. Sexuality is a great thing, but it's not going to work if you use it like that. I built your heart. I built relationships. I built the human spirit. Please trust me. You may not know the specific reason that something is forbidden by Jesus, but you can always know the general reason. It's for your joy. It's to make you everything you ought to be. But you know what? There is, yeah, of course there's a warning side. whatsoever you sow, you will reap. Very few of the things that God says not to do feel bad right away. I mean, forgive, right? Well, I'll tell you something. If you're mad at somebody, it feels awfully good to sit for about 15 minutes and hate them and think about the things you would like to see happen to them and find a friend and say, let me tell you what's so really bad about that person. It feels good. Why? Of course, because sin is a seed. In the early stages, it doesn't seem to do anything. I mean, it's what you reap eventually. I mean, for Paul to use this metaphor is to say, of course, you don't throw the seed down a womp, tomato plant. Oh, that's not how it works. You don't think, do you, that just being bitter right away, your life is destroyed. You don't anybody you feel like is right, anybody you feel like you can, that's going to reap destruction right away. No. The whole idea, of course, is that whatsoever you sow, you will reap. And whatsoever you sow against the will of God is also against the fabric of your being. That's what I'm trying to say. And that's what the text is trying to say. To move against the will of God is to move against yourself. In every single instant. In the short run, because sin is like seed, in the short run, you may not see much in the way of corruption and destruction and disintegration. But this word destruction means disintegration. The car disintegrates when you don't honor its design. The heart disintegrates when you don't honor its design. And your spirit disintegrates when you don't honor its design. eventually, whatsoever you reap, you will, pardon me, whatsoever you sow, you will reap. Now, one more thing. The organic nature, this is wonderful in that what the Bible tells us is sin is now defined. Sin is that which moves against, well, there's a number of ways of defining sin, but here's one of the biblical ways. Sin is that which moves against your design. sign. When you break one of the rules that God gives you, those rules should be seen not as busy work, but as an owner's manual to your heart. And as I said, when you buy a car, the owner's manual, you don't just say, owner's manual, who cares? I mean, you want to know. You want to know what can do what you have to do. And so therefore, of course, sin is defined in terms of design. Sin is going against that which you were purposed, you were made with a purpose to do. what this means? If you're out there saying, well, you know what? I'm not even sure I believe in God. And I don't know how relevant this whole sermon is to me. Maybe there's a God. Maybe there's not a God. I know there's some things that are wrong. I know rape is wrong. I know racial hatred is wrong. I know murder is wrong. I know there's some things wrong. But I don't even know if I believe in God at all. Well, would you think about this for a second? There's a man named Alistair MacIntyre who's a Catholic philosopher. He's written a couple of books. His most famous is After Virtue. I would not go out and buy them and read them because they are very hard to read. He's a philosopher and he's not writing even for college students. He writes for other philosophers, but he does an amazing job of dealing with a person who says, well, I don't know if there's a God, but I know there's a right and wrong. He says, are you kidding? He says there is, and he's, he makes this case. There is no right or wrong without design and purpose. He says, for example, it is a nonsense question to say, is this a good watch? Well, it's not nonsense for most people because you understand when I ask you that question or when you ask me that question. I immediately understand that you're not saying it's good for hammering nails. It's not good for hammering nails. It's not good for holding off wild beasts in the jungle. Is this good? Yes. Back Simba. No, it's not good for that. It's lousy for calling up your son on the phone. Come in. No. When you ask me if it's a good watch, no. You're asking, does it tell time? Does it tell time accurately? Does it tell time under all conditions? Because as Alistair MacIntyre says, there's no such thing as abstract good or bad. Things are only good or bad for a purpose. If there is no God, we are accidents. If there is no God, there is no purpose for us. There's no design, and therefore, it is impossible to talk about right or wrong for beings that are accidents. If strong people beat up and kill weak people, that's just the way it is. You can't say that's wrong unless you can say, because why? What's the purpose? We have no purpose. You see, there's an order. Paul defines sin as going against the natural fabric, going against the design. And if there is no design, then there's saying if you don't know that, if you don't believe in God, I'm not saying you can't be moral. What I'm saying is you can't be consistent. In fact, what I'm actually asking is I'm not questioning your morality. I'm not questioning your decency. I'm questioning your indifference to God. Because the way you know what a person really believes is not by what they claim. They say, well, I don't know if there is a God and everything is relative. But by your deeds, you show that you know that human beings have a dignity, that some things are right and some things are wrong, that there is a purpose, and therefore you know there's a creator. I'm just asking you to consider your consistency. Now, lastly, Paul, in this passage, does not only say that there's an objective moral order, and he doesn't only say that it's an organic moral order, but he shows how to fulfilled it. What does he say fulfilled it? He says, don't sow to the sinful nature, please the sinful nature, or you'll reap destruction. The one who sows to please the spirit will reap eternal life. Now, Well, you say, it's simple. It means you have to obey. You have to do good. Don't sin. If that, no, it doesn't mean less than that. Of course, it would mean that. Of course, it would mean that if I give in to bitterness, I'm going to destroy something. I'm going to reap destruction. If I give in to selfishness, I'm going to reap. Of course, it means that. But it can't mean only that. It can't mean only that. Otherwise, we're toast. And here's what I mean. There are religions that say at the end of life there'll be judgment day and there'll be these... I mean, there are religions who literally say this and there will be these scales. And if you have more good deeds than bad deeds, eternal life. That's not what Paul's talking about. Paul's talking about the fact that judgment is organic. It doesn't just come at the end of life in some kind of abstract and inorganic or mechanical way. It's happening all the time. The judgment of God comes automatically as you ruin, as you go against the fabric of things. And therefore, if all this means, if sowing to the Spirit versus sowing to the sinful, if all this means is being good versus being, you know, be good, don't be bad, we're all toast because we're all sinning. And we're going to have all kinds of destruction and all kinds of awfulness in our lives. But Paul doesn't actually say this. And here's, unfortunately, in the next 120 seconds, if you have not been to any of the other sermons on Galatians, this might be a little bit hard to understand. But Paul has already defined back in chapter 5 what the flesh is. It's translated here in verse 7 and verse 8, excuse me, the sinful nature. But in the original Greek, he says the flesh. What is the flesh? Is it the body? No, we've talked about that. like gossip and pride are not bodily sins. Is sewing to the flesh, does it mean simply that part of you that wants to do bad? Well, yeah, but you see, the flesh is that part of you. The reason it wants to do bad is it's that part of you that wants to be God, and it wants to be your own Savior, and it wants to be your own Lord. And therefore, Paul always contrasts the flesh with the gospel. You know, there's that one place pardon me, in Galatians 5, verses 16, 17, and 18, where he says, don't sow to the flesh, sow to the spirit, something like that. He says, don't walk according to the flesh, walk according to the spirit. Don't be under the law, but walk according to the spirit. To be under the law, to be trying to earn your salvation is to sow to the flesh. And here's what this means. And here's the reason why you have to listen carefully. It would be very possible for you to say, oh my gosh, I got that. I got to forgive. give. I've got to start being unselfish. I've got to start giving. I've got to start being good. I've got to start reading my Bible. I've got to start obeying the Ten Commandments. I've got to start doing all this. You could be doing this. The next two or three months, you could try to renovate your life and be absolutely sewing to the sinful nature. You see? And you would be beginning to reap destruction very quickly. I know a lot of people that say, I have been irreligious and I need God. I have been skeptical and I need God. And they start to come to church and they get real and they start to read their Bible and they start to obey the Ten Commandments and they turn over hundreds and hundreds of new leaves. It looks like autumn in New Hampshire in their life. All these things are happening. And you know what? Pretty soon your non-Christian friends are going to say, Boy, you were a lot better as a non-Christian. You were a lot happier. You were a lot more tolerant. You were a lot more joyful. And they'd be right because you haven't really become a Christian yet.

You're worse off. I have to tell you by and large you will be, there will be more destruction in your life if you're religious but haven't understood the gospel than if you're either irreligious or you do understand the gospel. Because you see, if you decide, oh, I'm going to turn over all these new leaves because I don't want destruction in my life. You're still maybe, you're still sewing to the flesh. What really it means to sew to the spirit means to understand the gospel and begin to understand not do but done to live from that, to get rid of the fear that drives you and to get rid of the selfishness that drives you because you say, look at what Jesus Christ has done for me. I'll give you one quick example of this, but then we have to take a look at least briefly at the other principle. You know, Jonathan Edwards wrote a book called The Nature of True Virtue. And just like Alistair McIntyre's, I mean, look, go ahead, read it if you want, but please don't go out of the bookstore or go to our book table right away and say, I want Alistair McIntyre's After Virtue and I want nature of true virtue because they're not easy to read. And not only that, they're about $40 or $50 a volume. So I just thought I'd keep you, at least let you know ahead of time. And they're hard books to read. But in Edward's book, Nature of True Virtue, he does a remarkable thing to me, a remarkable thing. He says there's a huge difference between common virtue and true virtue. And this is very important in the light of this. Common virtue and true virtue. He says, says, in common virtue, the heart is restrained. In true virtue, the heart is changed. In common virtue, you are generous and honest, but only because you've restrained the pride and the fear of the heart. But in true virtue, you're generous and honest because you've dissolved and destroyed the pride and fear of the heart. You say, well, how does that work? Well, Edwards would sort of say it like this, if I could paraphrase him. He says, well, look, there is a way without really changing the inside of the heart to make a person honest or to make a person generous. And here's, one is you can do it out of fear. You can say, I don't want to get caught. Unfortunately, I tell you something, even in these great business schools, even in Harvard Business School and Yale Business School, when you take ethics courses, essentially, that's what they say. They say, here's how you can be ethical, meaning here's how you can make sure you don't get caught because if you're ethical, you'll make more money and your business won't blow up. And that is the definition of common virtue as far as Edwards is concerned. You're not getting rid of the fear. You're using the fear. See, lying usually comes from fear. I lie because I'm afraid. I'm afraid. What if people see? I'm afraid because I'll lose money. So I lie. I'll lose face. So I lie. Ah, but in common virtue, you take fear and you take pride and you jury rig it. it, and you use it to make a person honest or generous. So fear is one reason that you're honest and generous. You say, well, you know, I don't want to be caught, and I want to have a world in which people are generous, and I want society to go well. And you can also use pride to make somebody honest and generous. What do I mean? Well, in pride, you say, I'm honest. I'm not like those liars and those cheaters. I'm an honest person. I come from an honest people. people. I come from an honest family. And so, you see, you can jury-rig pride and fear so that it makes you a virtuous person, at least superficially, but you haven't done anything about the pride and the fear, which is the root of sin anyway. And what Edwards would say is, look, we have to understand that common virtue is very important because the vast majority of people in the world are good out of common virtue. And think of how awful the world would be without it. Most people are good simply because of pride and fear. You've jury-rigged the heart. You haven't changed it, but... Ah, this is the great part. Do you realize how fragile it would be? I mean, you know, you haven't really done anything about the roots of lying and... You know, you haven't done anything about the roots of evil. You've just jury-rigged it. And this is the reason why very often, not only will you be surprised, but even the person is surprised. Every so often, you're totally shocked because somebody who was unbelievably a moral, upright citizen suddenly does something incredible. I mean, sometimes they get out a gun and they shoot people. Sometimes you suddenly realize that, you know, the boss ran away with your wife. And he was incredible and she was incredible. And wait a minute, they went to church and they were so good? I mean, the world is filled with this. You're always shocked because they were so virtuous. It was common virtue. It was a jury rig. It's a fragile thing. because you haven't really done anything about the pride and the fear. But in true, and therefore, listen, if you decide I'm going to be good now out of fear, out of fear,

God will get me. People will get me. People will see. I want to feel good. I want to know I'm going to heaven. So I'm going to be a real good person. You know what that does? You're operating out of fear and it will fill you with pride. Next thing you know, you look around, your non-Christian friends a prude and a bore by now, and they're right, but you'll look at them, and they'll say, oh, they don't understand. They don't understand the truth. I'm a good person. I don't do the things that they do anymore. And you'll be sowing to the sinful nature, and you'll be reaping destruction, because one of these days, some temptation will come along, and it will just knock you flat, because the real pride and fear in your heart has never been dealt with. What will deal with it? The gospel. The pride is dealt with by the gospel that says, you're so sinful, you will never earn heaven. So don't even try. But your fear is dealt with because the gospel comes to you and says, but God loves you so much that he would give his son for you. And unless you see that you're so sinful and so loved that you can't possibly earn your way to heaven, when you see that, and only when you see that, ironically, will you start to start, a free life and a good life only then when you start sowing to the spirit

fascinating now yeah look at this now my second point

well I want to just show you one thing it's scary because you see if what I just said is true I hope it is I've been giving my life to it and a lot of you So I hope you haven't totally wasted your time. If the gospel is true, that it's not just moral effort, not moral reformation, but spiritual transformation through an experience of the grace of God through Jesus Christ, who destroys the pride and fear, and the only way it can be done, that any other religion will just actually feed it by restraining it. You know, getting rid of your external sins, but actually feeding the inner selfishness and pride and fear. where. Now, if that's true, that means that sewing to the flesh and sewing to the Spirit, they're more complicated. See, maybe you thought sewing to the sinful nature means I'm obeying the rules, and sewing to the Spirit means I'm obeying the rules, and sewing to the sinful nature means I'm breaking the rules. And it's very simple. But no, it's not. This is the reason why back in chapter 2 of the book of Galatians, you've got this incredible thing. When Peter forgets the and that means that everyone is a sinner, and everybody's saved by grace, and therefore we're all equal before Christ. And he falls back into racism. Do you remember that? In Galatians 2. And Paul does not confront Peter and say, Peter, you're breaking the rules. Racism is against the rules. Well, it is against the rules, but that's not what he says. He says, you are not in line with the truth of the gospel. He says, you're not thinking it out. The gospel gets rid of the pride. It doesn't restrain the pride. It dissolves the pride when you see it. Peter and Paul, come on. I mean, when you see that Peter was not sowing to the Spirit, but was sowing to the sinful nature, you start to say, oh my gosh, if Peter can miss it, if Peter can screw up, if Peter can forget, what hope is there for me? Well, here's the hope. Anyone who receives instruction in the Word must share all good things with his instructor. Now, you know what that means? You need to be a student in the gospel. This word, instruction of the Word must share all good things with his instructor. You know what the word receive instruction? That's a translation of the Greek word hokatikoumenos. You ever heard of a catechism? A catechism is a body of truth, usually in question and answer form, that a person memorizes and somebody drills you with. And what this is trying to say is you will never, ever, ever be able to grow in the gospel all by yourself. And the word hokatikoumenos really means a major disciple, a major student. Now, do you know the difference between a student and an auditor? An auditor is somebody who basically pays to come to classes, right? But there's no papers, unless you want to, and there's no test, but there's no accountability. You're not in a degree program. You're an auditor. I want you to know that this is not what we're talking about here. And coming to church, even where you think the preacher's good, that's just auditing. it says, anyone who receives instruction in the Word must share all good things with his instructor. And that word, share all good things, is the word koinoneo. This says, now, some people read it this way, and I think this is part of it. It means, if you are under great instruction, give financially and support it. But you know what? Even though it's probably involved in it, that's really missing the boat. And it's a rather self-interested way to preach the text, I must say. Well, here's what it's saying. If you are going to grow in grace, and if you're going to understand the gospel, you have got to not just be auditors, but students. That means you've got to find people who can really instruct you. And this does not just mean coming to church and listening to a preacher. Because in almost any church of over 40 people, the preacher is not going to be able to be your instructor. It means you need people who know more about the gospel than you, to whom you're accountable, and with whom you are in fellowship. Koinoneo. It means not just simply you're going to a class and somebody's giving you books, but they're people who you're in partnership with and you have relationships with. This is the reason why we always say, if you're not in a small group, you're almost not in the church. Because in a small group, what's going on is you've got more mature and less mature people in the gospel who are in a community and they're instructing each other. Now, are you an auditor? You know, we live in a consumer society and Christians are very, very influenced by it. You just come when you can. end? You just come and you say, well, but I get so inspired. I listen to tapes. Does that make you a whole catacuminos? No. You need to find people and develop a koinonia, a relationship with them. You've got to learn in community and you've got to say, help me because even Peter went off. And notice what he got. He got instruction in fellowship from a friend. And we all need that. We all need it. And by the way, if you want to know something about how to, Here's one little last thing. Look at the very end. It says, Finally, let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. Now, nobody really completely knows what that means, but here's what it probably means, his scars.

See, he is an instructor. He is a preacher. He is a teacher. He's out there instructing people in the gospel, and as a result, he's got scars from the whippings, from the stonings.

Now, if you want to be an instructor, if you want to be a teacher, expect scars. And if you, I'll put it another way, if you would like to find somebody who you think can help you understand the gospel for your own life, find somebody who's been through The Ringer.

The only people who are really good at showing you how to understand the gospel for your life are not people that just know the Bible inside out, but people who know the Bible inside out, but the Spirit has taught them the marks of Christ are on their body. Find people who've suffered and are still joyful and who understand the gospel better than you. Get into fellowship with them and say, help me. Let's pray. Our Father, we don't want to be like Peter, but we will be. We're going to make mistakes. I pray that you will send into our lives Pauls, not preachers necessarily, though preachers are wonderful, but people who've been through the ringer, people who understand the gospel, through and are not bitter, but they're filled with joy. They have the marks of Jesus on their body, but they're still talking about the gospel like Paul. I pray that you would help us to have people in our lives that can teach us how to sow the Spirit so that we really develop real virtue, real Christ-like character in our lives. We thank you that these things are possible, and we thank you and ask that you would send them through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
