Acts 2, 1 to 12, and since I'm going to refer to the verses right after that anyway, I'm going to read on a little bit. I'm going to read a couple of verses on, so don't be shocked or upset or think I've done something wrong when I read all the way down to verse 18. So Acts chapter 2, when the day of Pentecost came, they were all together in one place. sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that separated and came to rest on each of them. All of them were filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit enabled them. Now there were staying in Jerusalem God-fearing Jews from every nation under heaven. When they heard this sound, a crowd came together in bewilderment because each one heard them speaking in his own language. Utterly amazed, they asked, are not all these men who were speaking Galileans? Then how is it that each of us hears them in his own native language? Parthians, Medes, and Elamites, residents of Mesopotamia, Judea and Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, Phyrgia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya near Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and converts to Judaism, Cretans and Arabs, we hear them declaring the wonders of God in our own tongues. Amazed and perplexed, they asked one another, what does this mean? Let me go on just for a moment. Peter stood up with the eleven, raised his voice and addressed the crowd. Fellow Jews, these men are not drunk as you suppose. It's only nine in the morning. No, this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel. in the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Your young men will see visions. Your old men will dream dreams. And even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy.

This ends the reading of God's word.

Now, you know, through the morning services all the way since the fall, we've been looking at the life of Jesus. in a sense, follows the church calendar that moves in its holidays through the life of Jesus, from Christmas to Good Friday to Easter to Ascension. And you can't really look at the whole gamut of Jesus' life unless you also look at Pentecost. Now, Pentecost, what is it about? I think it's actually great that Pentecost comes along every year, right about now, when everybody's getting out of New York absolutely drained, absolutely tired, a whole year of working extremely hard. Whenever I get to this time of year, I feel pretty drained. And I always think about that interview I read with Tim Allen, you know, the TV comedian a couple years ago. He said that the year in which he had a number one movie, a number one television program, a number one book, he said it was the most empty year he'd ever had. When he was at the height of his creative success, he said, I felt utterly drained, totally empty, in complete despair. Sounds like New York to me. The height of your creative success, doing so much but drained. Now, I don't know what Tim Allen did about it. I don't know if he ever did anything about it. But Pentecost is what God does about it because it's about being filled. It's about being absolutely filled, not in despair, but overflowing. And therefore, who in their right mind wouldn't want to at least look at what Pentecost is about? It's about filling. And it always gets here right around the time that I need it. Now, listen. What is Pentecost about? Now, before we begin to answer that question, we have to notice something that's kind of not noticed. In verse 1, as we've been reading, it says, when the day of Pentecost came. Now, notice, it doesn't say when the day that later would be called Pentecost came. When the day of Pentecost came. In other words, the day this event happened, we already had a feast day. Pentecost was already a holiday. It was already a feast of observance. Even before the great events of that day. What did Pentecost refer to then? If we don't understand that, we won't know what Pentecost means for us now. And here's what it meant. Originally, you know the word Pentecost is from the word for five or Pentagon, you know. And Pentecost really meant 50 days after Passover. Pentecost originally in Israel, which was, of course, an agrarian society, Pentecost was simply a harvest feast, the feast of the first fruits. When the harvest began to come in, you brought in the very first batches of grain and you ate it in celebration. And it came 50 days after Passover. Passover, of course, was that celebration by which the people of Israel remembered the Passover meal before the exodus to Israel out of Egypt into the promised land. But what happened over the years is that the Pentecost, the harvest feast, happened at about the time that God appeared to the people of Israel through Moses on Mount Sinai. Because you see, the appearance at Mount Sinai happened about 50 days after the first Passover. And by the time of the early church, by the time of Jesus, Pentecost was a day on which Israel remembered God coming down on Mount Sinai and through Moses giving the law which created out of that aggregation a new people.

There was a mountain. Now, if you go back and read about the first Pentecost, it's extremely interesting and very awe-inspiring. And if you go back, you can read about it in Exodus 18, 19, and 20. And in Exodus 18, 19, and 20, you will read, first of all, that the children of Israel came to Sinai, and God came down on the mountain in wind and in fire. And the mountain shook. And God began to seek to give the message of the Ten Commandments to the people of Israel, and he began to speak. If you go back there and you read, you find this very, very interesting place in Exodus 20, where it says this, When the people saw the thunder and lightning, and they saw the mountain in smoke, and they saw the fire and the wind, they trembled with fear. They would not draw near, but they said to Moses, Speak to us yourself, and we will listen, but do not have God speak to us, or we will die. Now here's what happened. God came down on this mountain to meet the children of Israel, The children of Israel got far away from that mountain. They couldn't stand the wind. They couldn't stand the fire. And they said, we want to know what God wants to say, but we can't bear the nearness of God. We can't bear the being of God. So Moses, you go up on the mountain. You brave the fire. And you bring us back the message. And that's what Moses did. He alone went up. He alone met God. He alone went on the mountain. And he alone, therefore, knew the message. And he brought it down. And it was the Ten Commandments. and when the children of Israel received the commandments, they became not just a loose aggregation of wandering Bedouins, but they became a new nation, a new people. A mountain, a ministry, which is the ministry of the law through Moses, and then they became a new people. And that's what the first Pentecost was. But that's all that Pentecost meant on the day that we're looking at here, on the day the sun rose. But when the sun went down on that day, it meant something completely different. It meant something greater. infinitely beyond it. Because what Pentecost means is that there's a new mountain, there's a new ministry, and there's a whole new people that God has brought into being. There's a new mountain, a new ministry, and a new people. Now here's what I mean. First of all, the new mountain. It's in verses 1 to 4. We've already read it. You see, when the day of Pentecost came, a sound like the blowing of a violent wind came from heaven and filled the whole house where they were sitting. They saw what seemed to be tongues of fire that to rest on each one, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, the only reason that you and I read that thing and we're not fainting is because we don't have as high a view of God as those ancient Jews did. There are people, by the way, in New York that have that view. They're Orthodox Jews. They most certainly live in Brooklyn. And they know the outrageousness, the unbelievable outrageousness of the claims of these verses. They know. Most of us don't. So we're going to have to do a little bit of work. God came down, he came down in fire. When he was a pillar of fire, when he came into the bush, a burning bush, he came down to lead the children of Israel, a pillar of fire. He came down on Sinai. Fire. Why? Because fire told us who God was. First of all, fire expresses power. And it tells us of the power of God. Secondly, fire expresses purity. It purifies, it refines, and it shows the holiness of God. Thirdly, fire expresses beauty. And it shows us the satisfying beauty of God, the satisfying delightful glory, the delighting glory and satisfying glory of God. But most of all, most of all, fire shows that God's not safe. Fire shows an inaccessibility. When something's on fire, you can't touch it. You can get near it, but you can't touch it. Fire means inaccessibility, and therefore fire was not just a way for God to say, I am powerful, I am holy, I am the glory you've been looking for, but also to say, and there's a barrier between us. See, the trouble with fire for us is we need fire, but not too close. We need fire close enough so that we're warm and we don't freeze to death, but if it comes into our lap, it destroys us. It's too purifying. It'll purify your bones of your flesh. The flesh will melt. We're too weak for it. And this is what God is saying. God is saying that there's a weakness in you and you can't come near. Now listen. This isn't so highfalutin. This shouldn't be so esoteric. This shouldn't be so odd. First of all, studies will show and common sense will show that most people are religious a little bit. The polls will show most people believe in God. Most people read their Bible actually. People pray. And around the world, most people are religious, but not too religious. Because you see, if you get too close, and you start to think about what you might really owe God, and you begin to sense a kind of losing of control. Listen, I don't have to give you a highfalutin philosophy and highfalutin theology. Most people want God out there, near, but not in the lap. And the fire of God just tells us that. We desire the beauty of God. We want the power of God. We get threatened because we realize we are going to lose control. We can't stand the fire of justice but we want the fire of beauty so we are stuck.

But that day the fire of God came down on the mountain and they were able to get near God. The justice of God meant you couldn't get all the way in but the beauty of God was there. They said we want to know Moses but we can't bear it.

that was the first Pentecost but on the second Pentecost God came down again there was wind and fire again but where's the mountain now here's the thing that is so outrageous where's the mountain where did it come down it came down on his followers it comes down on us we've become the mountain you see the wind the fire

every person in that room became a burning bush fire Do you see? It came down and separated. I never noticed that little word in the first couple of verses. The fire came down, but this time it separated. And it went on to every one of the believers. And suddenly what this meant was every single person who was a believer of Jesus Christ, their life became a mountain of meeting, a place to meet God. Their life became a tabernacle of the glory of God. Their life became a temple of the Shekinah glory of God. And you know what? In a way, there was a hint of this at Mount Sinai Many years before the Exodus, God met Moses in the foothills of Mount Sinai in a burning bush. Remember that? For the first time, Moses met God face to face. And the bush burned, but it was not consumed. And it was not transformed, in a sense. Because it didn't become a graceful palm tree or a mighty oak. It was still a bush. But the power, the holiness, the holiness and the beauty of God indwelt that bush. and burnt out through it. You see, it indwelt the bush without consuming it. And there, there was a hint, an amazing hint, that the incredible nature of God could come into another being without destroying, without consuming, and burn brightly, shine through it. Now, what is the point? The first point, you are a mountain of God if you are a believer. You are the place where God comes down. In the Old Testament, there were places where the fire of God came down on the temple, and the priest couldn't go in. The priest couldn't stand a minister because the temple that's the very thing that comes into you now. That's what the claim is. That's the claim. No religion in the world would dare to say what 2 Peter 1, verse 4 says, that we have become partakers of the divine nature. Partakers. The lifeblood of God. The spirit of God. The heart of God. The glory. The attributes of God. The glory. The holiness. The beauty of God comes into you and now something shines through you even though you stay a bush. Even though you stay something weak and yet there's something that you can't account for. burning on through. I've got to move on here. But that's the first of the three points. The mountain. We are the mountain. That's the reason why Hebrews 12 says, you have not come to a mountain that can be touched. That was Mount Sinai. But you've come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, to the children of God whose spirits are made just and perfect.

Astounding. Before we leave, let me apply this in two ways. Christian friends, what was here and he was reading this text and if he was in this room, he'd run down front and he'd get up and say, do you know what you're offered? Do you understand it? The thing that I wasn't allowed to see but I had to stand in the cleft of the rock, the thing the priests couldn't get near, the thing the people couldn't get near, it actually comes in you. The fire of God's beauty and power now, and we'll get to this in a minute, and even His holiness can come into you. And Moses would say, are you not overwhelmed with the is now inside you. Do you, are you melted with spiritual understandings of that? To the degree that you are, you have power to be like him. Moses would say, do you understand who you are? Do you understand what you've got? Are you living in holy consciousness of it? Are you melted by spiritual understandings of what it is? Do you understand how, listen, that bush was still a bush, but when the fire of God came on that bush, it was the most beautiful bush in the world. and it was the most powerful bush in the world and nobody could touch it. No little parasites were on that bush. You are safe. You are protected. You've got him in you. Okay, but by the way, there's people here always, and I'm very glad that you're here, who are exploring. You're exploring Christianity. You're not sure what you believe about it or you don't know what you think about it. Let me just say something to you. If you were raised in any kind of religion or any kind of faith like I was, really, as you were growing up, every so often, you know, you heard the stories and you heard the morals and so on. And every so often you'd ask somebody, when does this start to get real to me? When does the penny drop? When do I feel something? And you know, your priest, your rabbi, your minister, your Sunday school teacher, you know what they usually say? They say, now listen, don't worry about your feelings. Just take it on faith and just do the right thing. And far be it for me to say that you're not supposed to do the right thing, going against that. But here's what I'm saying. When the Spirit of God is present, the Spirit of God is a wind and a fire. You feel something. There is absolutely no way that the Spirit of God can be in your life without you being moved. The wind, the fire. If you're outside and you feel absolutely nothing and not even a blade of grass is moving, there's no wind. The Spirit is the wind of God. If there's not motion in you, if you're living a life like this, if you're saying, saying, well, I've always believed, and I always get a little inspiration from God. And you don't know the Spirit of God. The Spirit of God moves you. I mean, even if somebody comes to me and says, I want to know God. I want to do real. I feel dead inside. I feel like I don't know him. Yeah. There's distress. There's tears. There's unhappiness. There's the Spirit. I mean, unless there's a struggle for the experience of the reality of God, or an actual experience of the reality of God, there is no Spirit. Don't stop until you know what that means. Don't stop with inspiration. Don't stop with enlightenment. Don't stop till you know the Spirit. The second great thing that Pentecost shows us is not just that we're the mountain, that we're the one on which God comes down. We're the mountain. But secondly, not only is there a new mountain, but there's a new ministry. What's so astounding about the contrast between the first and the second Pentecost, in the first Pentecost, only one guy goes up. The rest stay back. Only one guy has an experience of God, Only one guy gets the message. And when he comes down with the message, here's what the message is. The message is the law. And what is the law? The law is do this. The law is be honest, be generous, be loving. See, be faithful. That's right. Do this. And therefore, the law is all about your great works. But there's a whole different thing going on. At the second Pentecost, first of all, notice what it says in verse 4. They all began to speak. to this is the last point. People really get excited about the fact and get amazed by the fact of the miracle of tongues. They all began to speak in tongues. And as you read the text, you'll see that the miracle was that there were 20 or 30 different language groups present. And when these people got up to begin to speak, everybody heard them in their own language. That's a miracle. But you know what? We look at that place about, you know, we read the verse. We got all excited about the words that say, began to speak in other tongues. But we don't says all of them began to speak. It doesn't say just the apostles. If you go back to chapter 1, you'll see there were 120 disciples in this room. They all began to speak, every single one of them. And what did they begin to speak about? Well, you got to go down, don't you? They brought a different message, or we should say a more full message. They came on down, and it says, we hear them, we hear them. Phrygia and Pamphylia and Egypt, we all hear them. declaring the wonders of God in our own tongue. Now, this is one of those places where the New International Version, I don't think, does as good a job as they could on translation. The wonders of God is a word, megaleia, which means the great mega deeds, the great works of God. We hear them praising, singing, wondering, declaring the great works of God. What does this mean, they said? And Peter comes, and we read this, Peter comes and says, let me tell you, This is what was prophesied by the Apostle Joel. There's not going to be one prophet anymore. There's not going to be one or two. There's not going to be an Elijah, or, you know, then comes along an Elisha, then is a Moses. No, no, no. The Prophet Joel said, your young men will dream dreams. Your old men will have visions. Your sons and your daughters, they will all prophesy. What is he talking about? Here's what he's talking about. First of all, unlike the first Pentecost, we all go up on the mountain. We all. And beyond what Moses did. the fire. We received the fire. And now, not only does every single one of us speak, but when we come down, we come down with a different message of sorts because, you see, the first message was the wonderful works of you. You have to do many, many wonderful works. Be honest, you see. Love. Do not kill. Do not steal. Do not commit adultery. Do not envy. The wonderful works of you. But these people come off this mountain and they're declaring the wonderful works of God. What does that mean? There's only two kinds of religions in the world. There's a religion that says the essence of meeting God is to follow his teaching. The essence of meeting God is the wonderful teachings of God, the wonderful things that we have to do. The gospel comes and says, oh no. The way you meet God is not to look at the wonderful teachings of God. They didn't come down talking about the wonderful teachings of God. They came down talking about the wonderful works of God. They came through and they said, no, no. The great good news is not what you must do, done. Not what we must do, but what he has done. Not the teachings of God, but the works of God. Those are two different religions. And historically, I can almost prove to you what they preached. The early Christians brought the good news to the poor and to the slaves. And if you bring news to the poor and the slaves like this, love one another, that doesn't change them. They don't say, oh, I should love one another. I should obey the golden rule. I should, Great. That changes my life. Oh no, it didn't. It doesn't. Common sense. But what they did was they didn't come down with the wonderful teachings of God. They came down talking about the wonderful works of God. They didn't come down talking about what we must do. But what he has done. They said to the poor and to the wretched of the earth. The early Christians went all around the Mediterranean saying this. God has broken in. The wonderful deeds of God. God. And in Jesus Christ, he went to the cross and he took the guilt that you feel and he destroyed that guilt. That's how much he loved you. He took it. He paid it himself. That's how much he loved you. And now you can be, through him, adopted into his family and you can rule and reign in the new heavens and new earth that are coming. And that's what changes people. That's what brought the poor and the slave up. You see? They didn't come down like Moses did and like every other religion, every other philosophy of the world did, talking about the wonderful works of us. It came down talking about the wonderful works of God. And therefore, we're back to what we've seen a couple times this year. Remember when Jesus Christ said this incredible thing? He says, do you see John the Baptist? This is the greatest prophet in the history of the world. Yet I say unto you, the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. This is what Peter is saying. saying, Peter is saying, the prophets yearn to know what every Christian does now in fullness. And the message of the prophets was always partial. Now every single Christian goes out into the world filled with the Spirit, showing people this absolutely transforming and healing message, the gospel. God made him sin, who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Not the teaching of God, the works of God. Not what we must do, but what

now let's apply that before we go on to the last point what does this mean what does this mean well it means a couple things number one first of all it means the job of the spirit is to get you to have the same attitude toward the gospel that the angels do there's this wonderful interesting verse in the beginning of 1 Peter in 1 Peter 1 we read this Peter says to his readers concerning this salvation listen The prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come searched intently with great care, trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit was pointing. They were not serving themselves but you when they spoke of the things which have now been told to you, get this, by those who have preached to you by the Holy Spirit the gospel, into which angels longed to look. Into which angels longed to look. Angels are pretty smart people. They're smarter than anybody in this room. Angels have wisdom. Angels have insight. Angels have greatness of being. never, ever, ever tire of looking into the gospel. They never tire of looking into the implications of the gospel, into the wonders of the gospel, into the riches of the gospel. Do you? If you're filled with the Spirit, you have the same attitude as the angels. That's the reason why people who are filled with the Spirit sing about this. They can't stop talking about this. This is what it means to be filled with the Spirit.

God made him sin. Who knew no sin. him so that now in him we stand before God righteous. Do you say so? You're not filled with the Spirit. Do you say, well, I know that. I mean, doesn't everybody know that? God, Jesus died and he forgave his sins. You're not filled with the Spirit. Because you see, the Spirit is the thing that brings out what the prophets wanted to hear, which even John the Baptist didn't understand. And now we understand that makes us, in our healing power The least power and our ability. The least in the kingdom of God. Greater than he. And. It means that now. Our hearts are filled with it. When we look into it. And we see. All of the relentless riches. And implications of it. We never stop looking into it. Angels long to look. Every day. The angels get up. And they look at the gospel. That's what it says. They never get over it. And that's the job of the Holy Spirit. That's one of the ways. You know where the Holy Spirit. Is working on you. That's the way. You're going to be fulfilled. You go. And look at this. All the wonders are in there. And then. It also tells us. That every one of us. telling you, wants to talk about this to other people. You can't get over this. Now, for Christians, you know, one of the things that's interesting to all of us who do weddings around here, one of the joys is you're doing a wedding and the people who are doing the wedding say, would you do me a favor? When you're doing the wedding, would you please slip in the gospel? And we say, well, yeah, I know. Okay. But, you know, we're doing a wedding here. It's all about, yes, I know. But there's so many people who are there. My friends and my family that don't know the gospel, would you please get the gospel blend. What does that show? That shows these people are filled with the Spirit. That's what the Spirit does. That's the job of the Spirit. Now, for a moment, and before I go to this last point, there's people here who surely have this belief, and it's rational from a certain perspective. And this belief goes like this. Look, you say, this is one of the things I hate the most about Christianity. In fact, it's the only thing I hate. It's It's one thing to be Christian and to have all this wonderful spiritual experience. But when you try to convert other people, that's the problem. When you try to convert other people, you're showing a sense of superiority to them. You shouldn't do that. I beg you to look at this. If a person who thought they were dying takes medicine and they're cured and they run out into the street and they try to find everybody else and say, this medicine has cured me. And they try to find everybody else who's sick and say, this medicine has cured me. Is that a sense of superiority?

See, this Holy Spirit, we can't help ourselves. This is what the Holy Spirit is going to do to us. I hope you can understand that.

My favorite example of that is the great story of in 1866 when Korea was closed to foreigners. Foreigners were not allowed to go there except on pain of death. A single American ship tried to sail up the Taitung River into Pyongyang and almost everybody on that ship, they were Americans who were desperately hoping that when they got to Pyongyang they would trade with them anyway. Because if they did it, it was terribly dangerous, they were risking their lives, but if they got Korean goods and brought them back to the West, everybody on that ship would be a zillionaire forever. They'd be set up for life. So they all risked their life hoping to get rich, except one guy. One guy was risking his life for something else. His name was R.J. Thomas. He was a Welsh missionary. Things didn't go well because the Koreans lined up both sides of the river The river. And they wouldn't let the ship land. And the ship ran aground on the rapids. In the middle of the river. And the ship caught fire. And they realized they had to get to land. So everybody on the ship except one. Got their guns. Got their knives. And they came in. And they tried to fight their way through. And they came in shooting and killing. But they were all clubbed. They were all killed. One guy came without a gun. Without a knife. His arms were filled with books. It was R.J. Thomas. to the bank, waiting with his arms full of books. As they clubbed him, as they killed him, he kept putting these books into their hands. They were Bibles. Now, is this the way a man acts when you feel superior to somebody? You don't die for people you feel superior to. You don't let them control you. You try to control them. Why was he doing that? As St. Paul says, the love of Christ constrains us. And therefore, those who live, henceforth do not live unto themselves but unto him who died for them. The Holy Spirit makes us do this. The Holy Spirit, listen, friends, if you find it offensive that Christians try to convert others, this is no excuse for them doing it coercively. This is no excuse for us doing it tactlessly. This is no excuse for us doing it in inappropriate times. This is no excuse for doing it condescendingly. it. We have to. And if you're filled with the Spirit, you'll feel that compulsion.

Lastly, the first Pentecost gives us a new mountain, and then it gives us a whole new ministry. We're all our prophets. Oh, you know what? I better tell you this one. When Peter says, your sons and daughters will prophesy, would you think about this for a second? Christian friends, I am very, very, very happy to talk to as many people as I can possibly get into my week. I cram you in, I do as much talking to you as possible, and I love it. But there's a sense, is there not, on the part of a lot of people who say, well, you know what, I really need somebody to bring the Word of God and the Spirit of God to bear on me for my problems, and I need him. Why? He's the prophet. He's the Moses. He's the speaker. He's the guy with the microphone. But you see, Pentecost says that there's not one dude that goes up to the mountain and comes down with a message, and everybody else are the great consumers who sit at his feet. Your sons and daughters will prophesy. Every Christian's been on the mountain. You've got Christians around you. They have got the message. They have got the healing balm. They can bring it to you and to each other. You see? This is the death of clericalism. I'm not against... We need ordained ministers. people, we need quality control so that what you get on Sunday is good stuff. We shouldn't just have anybody up here telling anybody with any kind of level of speaking ability, with any kind of background in the Bible. I'm not saying I'm against ordination and some people being officers. I'm not against that, but what I'm trying to tell you is this is the death of clericalism. Your sons and your daughters will prophesy. They won't literally have dreams and visions every night. It means that you've gotten a supernatural revelation from God and you don't have to wait

Now, lastly, there was a new people that was created by this remarkable event. In the first Pentecost, what happened? Down comes the law, and the people of Israel became a nation. But this time, down comes the gospel. Not the teaching, but the work of God. Not what we must do, but what he has done. And there's actually a much, much more incredibly and deeply significant thing that happens, because this event is not just looking back to Mount Sinai. It's looking back to another mountain. It's looking back to another event. If you go back to Genesis 10, you will see a table of all the nations that looks just like this table of the different nationalities in verses 9, 10, and 11. And then in Genesis 11, you'll read that there was a day many, many years ago in which the peoples of the earth got together and said, let's build a tower to the sky. Let's build an incredible city, and let's build this incredible skyscraper. And it says, let us get together and build a city name for ourselves. Let's go to the city and make it big, and let's all live there for our own glory. And you know what happened at the Tower of Babel? Though they had one language, they couldn't understand each other. With dog-eat-dog, they hated each other. And that's a picture of every human city. Why did you come to New York? Let's be honest, a lot of you came to make a name for yourself. Headshots, resumes, you came to make a name for yourself. That's what everybody else is doing here, and Babel is a perfect picture of what the cities of this world are like. People coming where they make a name for themselves and hating each other. Class against class. Race against race. Person against person. Dog against dog. Eating dog.

This tells us, though, that when we unite to try to make a name for ourselves, though we may all have the same language, there'll be incredible disunity. But this also tells us that it's possible that if we unite not to make a name for ourselves, but in his name, even if we have a hundred languages, there'll be incredible unity. The Bible tells us that the gospel can and does heal the hatred between the races and the cultures. So that all the different languages understood it together, understood the same message. The gospel cuts right through all of those barriers. That's what the miracles of tongues is. The gospel comes right through all that. It's the reverse of the curse of Babel. And what does that mean? Well, I'll tell you what that means. First of all, you know why they were so amazed that these guys were Galileans? Galileans were culturally parochial. You see verse 7? It says, aren't these Galileans? Now, why were they so shocked about that? See, Galileans were culturally parochial, like Americans. Over in Europe, there's a joke that goes like this. If you know three languages, you're trilingual. If you know two languages, you're bilingual. And if you know one language, you're an American. American. Galileans and Americans are culturally parochial. They're not interested in the news of other places. They're not interested in other cultures. We're pretty famous for that. When the Spirit of God comes upon you, first of all, the gospel utterly changes you because it says you're not saved by your works, by His works. Not by your goodness, by His goodness. Not by your past, but by his past. And that means that you no longer... There's a deep security. You no longer have to prove yourself. You no longer have to... There's a lack of defensiveness now. And there is an openness to other cultures. And there's an openness to other people. You don't have to feel superior. You don't feel superior to them. You've been humbled into the dust by the gospel. And therefore, the gospel produces culturally sensitive people. People who are no longer culturally parochial. At least if you're fulfilled with the Spirit, that will be the end of being culturally parochial. It will be the end of being culturally superior. It will be the end of all that. It has to be.

And if you're fulfilled with the Spirit, and if we're fulfilled with the Spirit, then in the church we will find people who outside the church could never get along. Never, never, never, never. The curse of Babel is reversed. And this is a sign of the fullness of the Spirit. Not just, number one, what we said, we're new mountains, which means we experience God. Not just, number two, that because we're ministers We love the gospel and we can't stop talking about it. But number three means we can get along with each other inside the gospel in particular. And even the gospel changes your heart to people who are not Christians, who are utterly different than you.

Are we filled with the Spirit? Notice one other thing, one other little application of this last point. One little application is Jesus Christ, by his Spirit, does not heal the cities of this world with a non-city, but with a new city. It says in Hebrews 12, which is all about Pentecost, these two Pentecosts, Hebrews 12 at the very end says, you have not come to a mountain which can be touched, but you have come, what? You have come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God. God is not going to build a farm. He is not building in the new heavens and new earth a suburb. He's not building a village, he's building a city. And here's why. Why? Where but in a city do you have a list of people like this? And where in a city will you ever see the miracle of tongues? Where will you see this incredible demonstration of the power of the gospel but in a city? Where else will the world see it? Christian friends, we have to live here. And we have to show what the world can't understand. from the outside. Anybody outside the gospel, anybody outside Christianity, by definition, does not understand that we're saved by grace. That's why they're out there. They cannot understand we're saved by grace. They believe you're saved by works. And when they hear Christians saying, I'm not just trying to know God. I know God. I'm not just trying to reach heaven. I'm adopted. They have to believe we're arrogant. They have to. We have to be understanding to them. They have to believe we're arrogant. And therefore, they have to believe that Christians will look down their nose at other people, at other races, other religions, other cultures, and other practices. They believe we have to. They can't understand the inner logic of the gospel, which makes us more sacrificial, more humbled than anybody in the world. So there's no use telling people we're going to be good citizens. We've got to be good citizens. There's no use telling people that Christianity makes us love all people in new ways, respect other cultures, and learn from them. There's no use in saying that. We just got to do it. And there's no other place you can do it. But in a city. God is creating a new city. He's building a new city. Through the ministry of the gospel. When he comes down into your hearts. How is this all possible? I'll tell you why. How did the early. The first Pentecost. How did they get what little they had? They had something. They got the message. Not all of it. They got the presence of God. But not all of it. But you know what they got? They got what they got. because they said, Moses, go up and be our man on the mountain. Face the fire for us.

And that's why, because Moses was the man on the mountain and he faced the fire for them. That's the reason why they got what they got. But a greater than Moses is here. We've got a man on the mountain too. We've got one who said to his disciples, I came to bring fire on the earth. Can you be baptized with the baptism with which I'm going to be baptized? Can you drink the cup that I'm going to have to drink? What is he talking about? Jesus Christ was our man on the mountain. He was our mediator. He was our go-between. See, they came to Moses and they said, We can't bear the being of God. Be our go-between. We'll have a relationship with God through you.

But when that first man on the mountain went up there, God put him in a cleft of the rock and he says, Let me tell you who I am. He says, I am the Lord. I am compassionate and loving. I forgive wickedness, rebellion, and sin, but I will never let wickedness go unpunished. and the first man on the mountain said wait a minute you just said you forgive wickedness, sin and rebellion but you'll never let wickedness, sin and rebellion go unpunished that doesn't make sense either you are ultimately and utterly holy but you're relatively loving or you'll be utterly loving or you'll be relatively holy but you can't be holy and loving together but when our man on the mountain Jesus Christ went to the cross at the same moment you didn't have to choose God finally didn't have to choose between love and law. But on the cross, Jesus Christ received all that we deserved. And so when God poured out the fire of justice, Jesus didn't just face the fire. He was baptized in the fire. He drank the fire. He became a holocaust for us. He didn't just face the fire. The fire consumed him. And you see, when Jesus Christ faced that fire, and when Jesus Christ became our man on the mountain, What did that mean? It means he got the fire of justice so we could have the fire of beauty. It means that instead of law and love always being eating at each other, they were both fulfilled together. That's the reason why we're going to sing. We're going to sing. As we end here, what are we going to sing? Let us wonder. Grace and justice join and point to mercy's store. When through grace and Christ our trust is, justice smiles and asks no more. He was our man on the mountain, the mountain. We can receive the fire of God. It purifies, it protects, it empowers. Now listen, why did the early church spread like this? Why did they spread? Do you know why they spread? Because they understood this. They saw it. They recognized it. They lived as if it was true. Do you see it? Do you recognize it? Do you live as if it's true? Let's pray. Give us, Lord, your fire, fill us with your spirit, let us understand the Pentecostal power.

We thank you that we have this tremendous promise. Forgive us for not fainting when we read it. Forgive us for not being amazed by it. And we ask that you would help us to experience these very, very same manifestations of your spirit. Help us to experience you personally. Help us to Stand the gospel so that we have to cry out, O 4,000 tongues to sing my great Redeemer's praise, the glories of my God and King, the triumphs of his grace. Make it possible for us to do that and live lives in accordance with that. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
