Tonight's scripture reading is found in Luke, chapter 24, verses 15 through 27. As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them, but they were kept from recognizing him. He asked them, what are you discussing together as you walk along? They stood still, their faces downcast. One of them, named Cleophas, asked him, are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened there in these days? What things, he asked. About Jesus of Nazareth, they replied. He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem us from the sin of the world. He said, I will redeem Israel. And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. In addition, some of our women amazed us. They went to the tomb early this morning, but they didn't find his body. They came and told us that they had seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. He said to them, how foolish. How foolish you are. And how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. This is the word of the Lord. In the New York Times book review this morning, there is a book that is reviewed by a man who is a Christian. An Oxford professor who has written a new history of Christianity. And the professor, the author, is quoted as saying this. I live with a puzzle of wondering how something so apparently crazy can be so captivating to millions of other members of my species. And I can't speak for all Christians, but I can speak for an awful lot of Christians. The thing that captivates them is they get convinced that Christianity is true. I mean, if you decide something is true, you've got to believe it. You're captured by it, as it were. And though maybe not everybody would put it this way, the reason that millions of other members of his species feel captivated by Christianity is they've come to the conclusion that it really happened. It's really true. Why? How? Or maybe I should say how. How do you come to the place that you believe something is true? How do you get certain about something? How do you know something? You get to certainty through a process that always combines two factors. The objective and the subjective. The intellectual and the kind of personal. So, for example, if you, let's just say, you have to hire a new staff person. You're in charge. And five people apply for the job. And you have to do the hire. Well, what do you want to do? You're trying to find out the right person for the job. So you look at all the candidates. And you do the interviews. And you look at their tests. And you call their references. And when you're all done, can you say, I know. I know that's the right one. No. Because intellectually, you can only get to the place, you can only reason to the place of probability. You can only get to the place where you say, this is probably the right one. Then you know you've got to do something. And it's a frightening thing. It makes you incredibly vulnerable. It could be one of the worst things you've ever done in your life. You actually have to hire one of those five people. And when you hire somebody, as you all know, by the way, that is a scary thing to do. You have to make that commitment. And then, six months later, maybe a year later, you can look back and say, now I know that was the right person. You can only reason to the place of probability. Then you have to commit to get to the place of certainty. It's always a combination of both rational and personal, both intellectual and visceral. And both of those aspects are here. Because the answer to the question, for most, for most Christians, how do you know Christianity is true, revolves around the issue of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. But there's two aspects to the resurrection that are given here. The two things the text shows us are, on the one hand, we're taught that the resurrection of Jesus Christ objectively happened. And secondly, we're taught what the resurrection of Jesus Christ personally means. That it happened and what it means. Those are the two things this text tells us. And they've got to come together if you're going to get to certainty. So, first, that it happened. You know, a biblical scholar studying this, a skeptical biblical scholar studying this passage years ago, wrote this, Emmaus never happened. And then he said, Emmaus always happens. Emmaus never happened. Emmaus always happens. And that's his way of saying, this is a legend. It never really happened. But it's a wonderful symbol. And it tells you how good eventually triumphs over evil. So it's a useful truth and it's a wonderful symbol, but it never really happened. But the writer of Luke, the gospel writer Luke, in fact, the writers of all the New Testament documents and all of the early Christians, all agree that's not true. They would vehemently disagree with that statement. Luke goes to the most remarkable, remarkable pains in this passage, and not just this passage, but all of Luke 24, to say this is not a legend. This was not a vision. This was not a dream. This is not a nice story. This is a shocking, one-off historical event. It really happened. Now, how does Luke get that across in this part? Well, three ways. First, first thing is we learn here that the form of this account is not one of legend, but of oral testimony. Did you notice here in verse 19 or 18, it says, and one of them named Cleopas asked him. So there's two main characters, the two disciples on the road to Emmaus. Only one gets a name. Richard Baucom, the other one's unnamed. Richard Baucom, world-class historian, scholar, professor at St. Andrews in Scotland, wrote a book called Jesus and the Eyewitnesses. And he says what we modern readers might not see as we're reading through this is the significance of when the account gives you a proper name. If you were writing a story, a fictional story, a legend, you'd give both the characters names or neither character's names. Why is there just one name here? In fact, Richard Baucom says, why is it that when you get the, when you get the name, when you see John, the Gospel of John, telling you about the Roman soldier who gets his ear cut off in Gethsemane, we get a name, Malchus. But when Matthew, Mark, and Luke are talking about it, they don't give you a name. Or why is it, I always love this one, why is it that in Mark chapter 15, 21, in fact, in all the Gospels or most of the Gospels, we know that when Jesus was on the road to Emmaus, pardon me, on the road to Calvary carrying his cross, he couldn't keep it up. He just kept collapsing. And so they grabbed a man named Simon of Cyrene and they asked him to carry the cross. But only Mark tells us this, Mark 15, 21. A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country and they forced him to carry the cross. Why does Mark just throw in Simon of Cyrene? You know. The father of Alexander and Rufus. See, you would never put in Alexander and Rufus unless you knew that the readers would know who that person is. What's going on? Bauckham says, when you and I write a historical document and we want to help the readers to do fact checking on us, we put in what they call footnotes. And footnotes give you the original sources so that if you're just writing something, you don't give footnotes, people can't check out whether or not what you're saying has any backing. But if you put in the footnotes, it's your way of saying to the readers, go to the source, check it out, and see if what I said isn't true. And Bauckham says, in those days, they didn't have footnotes. When you were writing a historical document, you put in the name of the living eyewitnesses whose oral testimony is the basis for the account as a way of saying, these people are still here. Bauckham makes all these points. See, the point is that when you see this word, cleopas in here, this is Luke's way of saying, this is what happened, and if you don't believe me, check with cleopas. This is what happened, Simon of Cyrene carried the cross, and if you don't believe me, check with Rufus and Alexander. They're still alive. You can still go talk to them. In other words, the very form of this is not a legend. In every way, this is oral testimony, eyewitness testimony, this really happened. These people really saw it, and if you want to check it out, look up cleopas. In other words, cleopas wouldn't have been named unless he was alive when Luke was writing. Secondly, not just the form isn't legendary, but secondly, the nature of the witnesses themselves attest to the reliability of this historical account. And, you know, this is pointed out a lot. I'm going to do it again because it's worth pointing out. You notice in verse 20 and 22, who saw Jesus the first time? Who were the first eyewitnesses? Our women. The women said. And by the way, earlier in Luke chapter 24, these women are given names. They are also eyewitnesses. Their oral testimony can be checked out. And it's often said, and it's worth saying again, is in those days, in that time, because of the bias of the time, women were not considered reliable sources of information. They could not give testimony in court. Their witness was not admissible testimony. They were not considered reliable sources of information. And so if you were making up a story like this, you know, Matthew, Mark and Luke are written to try to get people, readers to believe and come into the church. If you're making this up, you would never make women the first eyewitnesses to the resurrection of Jesus. Never. There'd be nothing that could undermine your credibility more than to say it was women who saw him at that place and time. And therefore, the only possible reason that Luke puts down here that women saw Jesus, would be if the facts forced him to. He was a man of his time. He would have been probably very happy to leave it out. But he couldn't. Why? Because it happened. There's no other good explanation for why they're there, except they did see him. See, this is eyewitness account, oral testimony, not a legend. It's got all the marks that this could not have been made up. The third point that shows here that this is reliable objective event reporting is the cluelessness of the disciples. You know, down here in verse 25, And he said to them, How foolish you are and how slow of heart to believe. Isn't that eloquent and rhetorical? How foolish of heart. That's how they talked back then. But of course, just let me just translate. You jerks. It's the same thing. You jerks. But I want you to know that Cleopas and this other guy are by no means the most clueless disciples in the Gospels. The people who are, I don't know how to put this. The people who are the most clueless, the most feckless, and the most cowardly. The people who are culpably stupid. The people who are constantly letting Jesus down, and in the end, betraying him, abandoning him, and denying him, are the leaders of the Christian church when this was happening. This was written. It's the apostles. They're the leaders. They were utterly clueless. They were constantly letting Jesus down. Before Jesus' death, they were always letting him down. Constantly. But after Jesus' death, they became world-class leaders that never let him down. That literally changed the world. And eventually they all died

to professing their faith in the resurrected Christ. You know, you say, well, how do we know that they were really as bad as the gospels say? Maybe that was just put in there. Listen, historians all say, if these people were alive, and they were, if these were the leaders of the church, and these documents are public documents that came out to try to get people to believe in Christianity, there is no way that Matthew, Mark, Luke could have written those negative things about the apostles unless they happened, and unless the apostles let them write it. Unless the apostles were the source of it. Why in the world would you try to promote an organization, the church, and show that all the leaders were cowards, were essentially criminal in the way in which they betrayed their master? Why would that be in there? It's in there because it's true. And it's just as true that after the death of Jesus Christ, they were utterly changed. Totally changed. Didn't let him down. Changed the world. Why? Or maybe another way to put it is, what could have created that kind of change in their lives? And the answer is, they were not. I think we ought to listen to what they say. They saw him. Now put all this together. Let's take Paul as a case study. Alright, he's a perfect case study. Let me show you how this all starts to work together toward moving us toward belief in the truth of Christianity. Paul was a devout Orthodox Jew. And as a devout Orthodox Jew, he had a slew of objections and questions that made Christianity not only untenable, but also a but offensive. Now, I've been in New York for 21 years, and secular New Yorkers also have a whole pile of questions that make Christianity untenable or in many cases absolutely despicable. Many, many people are offended by Christian teachings. It's a different reason, set of reasons, than Paul had. But Paul was every bit as offended. He was every bit as skeptical as any of you, anybody in New York. For example, as a devout Jew, one of the things Paul would have said is, when I listen to the Gospel, what they're saying is that like half the Old Testament is obsolete now. The tabernacle and the temple worship and the sacrificial offerings and all the clean laws and all the ceremonial laws, all these things that God prescribed in detail and enjoined upon us, and you're talking about just like half the Old Testament. Ploop! Obsolete. What's that about? How could that be? That's a pretty big objection, don't you think? Sure it is. Here's another one. He would hear the Gospel. He probably heard the Gospel and he said, okay, let me get this straight, says Paul. Jesus is God. Don't we already have a God? Oh, there's three gods. Oh, there's not three gods. There's one God in three persons. That's ridiculous. That's blasphemous. In other words, Paul had every bit as many objections. He was every bit as offended by Christianity as anybody in New York City. Then I have a question. What turned him into a Christian leader overnight? Overnight! Just like that. He was an intellectual. Intellectuals don't change like that. They take time. They go to seminars. They write papers. They write papers, and then somebody critiques their paper, and then they write a response, and they're a little different. They change a little bit like this. Very, very slowly. Intellectuals change, but they take long periods of time, and they have lots of questions, and we want a lot of answers. Is it possible that overnight, Paul could have suddenly gotten his answer to the question, what's the relationship of the Old Testament to the New Testament? Do you think overnight Paul could have gotten an answer to the question, what is this Trinity thing, this whole idea of three gods and one, you know, three persons and one God? No! He couldn't have possibly had so many questions. Then what turned him into a Christian overnight? A leader overnight? A preacher overnight? There's only one explanation, and he gives it to you. The resurrection. When he saw that Jesus Christ was really risen from the dead, even though he didn't have answers to questions A, B, and C, he was really surprised. He knew there had to be answers to questions A, B, and C. And so he followed. He didn't wait. See that? Once you figure out he was raised from the dead, then you have all these other questions, but you don't need answers, because you know somehow there are answers, and you can move out. And that's exactly how you become a Christian today, you know. Whenever people say, well, you know, I'm not a Christian because this part of the Bible offends me. You know, it teaches that. It's offensive. And what about evil and suffering? And what about all the other religions? And I always say, wait, let me get this straight. These are good questions. But are you saying that this means that Jesus couldn't have been raised from the dead? And usually the people say, well, no, I'm not talking about that at all. And I say, well, get there. Go there. Don't you realize? If he's not risen from the dead, there's no reason to be wrestling with all these things in the Bible. A lot of them might be untrue. But if he is risen from the dead, and he is who he said he is, then even though you don't have answers to all your questions, then you'll know there must be answers to all those questions. So go. Go there. Do it. Answer this question. How could Jews, who are the last people on the face of the earth to believe that a human being could be God? Everybody else, Greeks, Romans, Asians, Africans, all of them, you know, that's... But the Jews, the Jews have been pounded in their head from the top of their heads since the time they were little. Human beings can't be divine. How is it possible that hundreds of them said they saw him, risen from the dead, and thousands of them believed? What turned them around overnight? You answer that question. What caused the Christian church? How could it possibly have happened if the resurrection didn't happen? And even if you decide, well, I don't know if that necessarily... I have some other ideas. But if you go there and you look at that, you will come to the conclusion that there are good reasons for believing that Christianity is true. Really good reasons. But guess what? The objective isn't all that we're learning about here. The other thing it tells us is this. If Jesus Christ is risen from the dead, he doesn't live on the way Abraham Lincoln lives on in his cause, you know, in his writings. No, if Jesus Christ is himself living on, then he can walk with you. He can walk with you. It's beautiful. Verse 15. Because Jesus was risen from the dead, as they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them. In the Bible, walking with God is one of the most theologically significant metaphors there are. And you are called because of the resurrection, because he's alive, and you are called because you are the one who is alive. You can move on just believing in Jesus or believing about him or even following his teachings and reading them and studying them and trying to obey them. You can move way beyond just believing in him to walking with him because walking in the Bible is a way the Bible sums up the relationship between God and human beings. So in Genesis 17, God comes to Abraham and says, Abraham, walk before me. That's it. That sums it up. That sums it all up. And also, by the way, in the book of Leviticus, God says, and I will come and walk before you, walk with you, and same thing, walk before me, walk with you, and be your God. Now what does it mean for a human being to walk with God? Let me just quickly give you three ideas. Three things that are possible because Jesus is raised from the dead. To walk with God means to be exposed and totally accountable, to be befriended and totally loved, to be growing and totally changed. First of all, it means to be exposed and totally accountable. You know, when you're walking with somebody face to face, they see you. You know, they see exactly what you're doing. I remember some years ago, I counseled a man who had an affair, cheated on his wife, and he told me that the two times when his wife was away on a trip, he had brought his mistress to his home, and one of the things he had to do was turn all of his wife's pictures over, turn them over, flip them over, because neither his mistress nor he himself could bear, you know, to see her face. And that was just photography. Do you know what it means to walk with God? Not just believe in him, but walk with him? To walk with him is to have a moment by moment awareness of his awareness of you. It's to be moment by moment aware of his awareness with you. And that's what it means to walk with him. You sense him there, and you know what that does? That accountability is scary, but it's wonderful because it creates integrity. You become an integer. That means all parts of your life come together. You're not one way in public and another way in private, because you're walking with him. You don't just believe in him, you're walking with him. He's there. And that integrity that comes from it comes because of the sense that he's there, because he's alive. Do you walk with him? Another aspect of walking, see how the metaphor works? You're not just exposed and totally accountable, but walking with him means you're befriended and totally loved. Walking is the currency of intimacy in the Bible. You walk to talk to somebody. You walk to have fellowship with them. You walk because you're friends. And this means it's a way of being with God. For example, look, letters, great. Email, great. But you can't hug. You can't embrace. You can't kiss. You can't taste each other's tears. You don't have personal presence. And walking with God means that by the power of the Holy Spirit, because Jesus Christ is alive, you can actually have his presence. To walk with him means when you're reading the Bible, it's not just interesting, you actually sense him speaking to you powerfully in life-changing ways. To pray when you're walking with him means not just you're sending up flares, you know, oh Lord, if you're out there, please do something about this situation. But you sense him speaking to you. And you sense that you're heard. One Baptist preacher put it like this. This is an extreme case, but it certainly is walking with God. He says, sometimes in prayer we've known, sometimes in prayer, I've known what it is to be too happy to live. I've had to ask the Lord to stay his hand for his love, glory, and joy was coming into my heart in ways too great to bear. Yeah, okay, that's an extreme version, but that's walking. And then thirdly, the idea of walking always means gradual growth, because the metaphor of walking is non-dramatic, rhythmic, slow, something that you can do. You can't maintain running but you can walk for a long way. It's endurance. It means non-dramatic, day in and day out little things. See, God didn't come to Abraham and say, Abraham, somersault before me, or run before me, or jog before me. He can't keep that up. If anybody has ever said to me, sometimes people have said to me, well, let's jog and we'll talk. And I'll say, when we're jogging, you'll be talking. But I won't be talking, because I'll just be waiting for it to be over. Because there's nothing else I can do when I jog. And there's an awful lot of people that think growth, spiritual growth, is really a matter of somersaulting. People say, I'm going to give my life to the Lord, I'm going to change all these terrible habits, and I'm really going to be, you know, give me another, give me six months and I'm really going to be a new man or a new woman. That's not what a walk is. A walk is day in, day out obeying, day in, day out praying, day in, day out Bible study, day in, day out talking to Christian friends, going to worship, day in, day out. Rhythmic. On and on and on. And slow growth is more powerful than these crash courses in change. Jim Campbell Morgan, who was a British Congregational Minister, tells a story about having gone to some place in Italy where there was this old cemetery. And he was always so amazed by a place where an oak tree had grown up out of the sepulcher, basically, out of the grave. There was this enormous marble slab over somebody's grave. But an acorn had, I guess, centuries ago, had fallen in there, and as it had grown up, eventually it had become a tree, and eventually it had cracked the marble slab in two pieces, and the tree, this huge tree, came up right out of it. Now listen, if you, can you imagine, take an acorn sometime and try to smash, you know, break a marble slab with it. The slab will be just fine, the acorn will not. Because that's a crash course. But the acorn has organic growth in it, and it has a power because eventually, that acorn, if you just let it do its job, over the years, it can break a marble slab as if it was a matchstick. And bringing the Gospel into your life, and then walking with Jesus day in and day out, and day in and day out, over a long period of time, can change anything. It can break any marble slab in your life. I don't care what it is. It can change anything. All because He's risen, because He's resurrected, He's alive, and He can walk with you. You know what makes that possible? We could never walk with Him, unless He came to walk with us. Do you know what He had to do in order for that to happen? If you look up walking as a physical walking, in a concordance, if you do a word study in the Bible, you will find that the number one pedestrian in the Bible is Jesus. He walks more than anybody else. It says He's walking. Why? First of all, to walk with us, God had to become human. Secondly, He had to become poor. You know, rich people don't walk everywhere they ride. But Jesus was always walking because He was poor. But more than that, do you remember what I said? When you walk with somebody, you're exposed. And God knew to walk with us, He had to walk with us. He had to become human. He had to become poor. It would expose Him to our hostility. It would expose Him to the violence of the human heart. But He came. And we killed Him. And He was put on the cross. But because He was punished in our place, it was all part of the plan. Our sins were taken away. The barriers were taken down. The Holy Spirit can come into your heart, and now He can walk with you. He will walk with you. You see how it comes together? It happened. And this is what it means. Think to the place where you know, wow, it might be true. It must be true. Give yourself to the place where you know it is. Walk with Him. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the wonderful assurance that because He's risen, we will be risen. Jesus lives, and so shall I. And Father, we pray that you would help us live in the light of this, and therefore live in fellowship with you, and become people of love and power. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
