Tonight's scripture comes from Matthew chapter 5 verses 11 through 16.

It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled by men. You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden. Neither do people light a lamp and put it under a bowl. Instead, they put it on its stand, and it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father in heaven. This is the word of the Lord.

We've been starting to look at the Sermon on the Mount, and last week we saw that the Beatitudes, which is the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount, define what it means to be a Christian. The Beatitudes make a list of the things, the characteristics of Christians, and a Christian is someone who's gotten a radically new relationship with God through belief in the gospel. Now, these verses that were just read to you, the focus shifts to our relationship to the world. In other words, if you have the relationship with God that verses 1 to 10 gives us, that will mean you will have this relationship to the world. Jesus is saying, here's how my disciples will relate to the world. And to summarize what you have here, I can do it in a sentence. In short, Jesus says, if you are living at all a consistent Christian life, then in the world you will be salt, you will be light, and you will be hurt. hurt. You will be salt, verse 13, you will be light, verse 14 to 16, and you will be hurt. In fact, my main point tonight, I feel like we have to spend a lot more time on the last one than the first two, that if you're salt and you're light, you will be hurt. Now, let's start by looking at the first two points. They're rich, even though, as I just said, I'm not going to spend a great deal of time on them. To be a Christian in the world means to be salt, salt of the earth, and light, light of the world. What does those things mean? Well, first, start with salt. You are the salt of the earth. We have to remember that in ancient times, salt was more a preservative than a seasoning. I'm not saying it wasn't seasoning back then, but it was more valuable as a preservative. You put salt into meat, and it would last for a very long time. Basically, basically you put salt into that which would ordinarily decay, and it stems the decay and the breakdown. What does that mean? I actually mentioned this very briefly last week in looking forward into the rest of the sermon, but let me say it now. And I think it's an intriguing image that Jesus gives us. If you see somebody's life falling apart, they're falling apart. Problems inside, side, problems outside, oh, you know, their whole life is falling apart. How do you respond to that? I think most of us say, let me out of here. You go away. Why? Because I'm going to be sucked into all this. Oh, my goodness, it's going to be so draining. Jesus says, a Christian, when you see someone's life's falling apart, you go in. You're salt. You're going in there to stem the decay. K. This is also true if you see a society or you see a city or a neighborhood falling apart with social problems or economic problems. Christians don't run away. I think plenty of people do. They just say, well, get me out of here. Christians find ways of being in there. Now, a person who's attracted to people or communities that are falling apart can be attracted for very wrong reasons. for example, you might just need to be needed. And those of you who know anything about

the family systems of alcoholism know about this, how often you have a spouse who's an alcoholic, an addict, a spouse who's not. And then at one point, the spouse who is an addict gets sober. And very often, very often, not long after that, the marriage breaks up. Why? Because the spouse needed the spouse to be a mess. He needed to be needed, needed to feel strong, maybe needed to feel superior. Those of you who've been in that world know that's very often the case. And therefore, there are wrong motives. You can also just be superior and feel like, I'm a Christian, so I know all the answers. But that's not what Jesus is talking about here. here. Christians have experienced in their own lives, Colossians 117, in him, in Christ, all things hold together. We know what it's like to have a life falling apart, and Jesus come in and bring it together and bring coherence and bring cohesion and draw the things, the parts of our lives together. And therefore, we've experienced that existentially. And so when we see things falling apart, we want to go in because we just want to be of help. Not triumphalistic, not needing to be needed, just simply responding and being for other people what Christ has been for us. So it's a lovely and wonderful and rich metaphor. To be salt out there in the world means to be involved. In fact, this congregation, congregation, you will be able to say, we are a salty congregation if the neighbors, people around, start looking at us like this and saying, huh, I don't really believe what they believe, but they are so involved in the city. See, that's salt. They're so involved. Salt penetrates. They're so involved in the city. They're doing so many things. I don't know what we'd do without them. If that happens, you're salt. Secondly, we're also light. And light's a Yes, it is. Because what's great about these metaphors, if you meditate on them, when Jesus says, we're salt, he's saying something about human society, and that is it tends to go bad. When he says Christians are light, he's also saying something about human society. Because light symbolizes in the Bible truth, you know, because light exposes falsehood, and hope or joy because light is so brilliant and beautiful. And so when the Bible says Christians are light, light of the world, what it means is we bring hope and we bring joy through the truth. So, for example, Somerset Maugham, the great British novelist, when he was, he wrote an autobiography. And Somerset Maugham, I forget when he died, probably in the 60s or something like that. And he was a typical, you know, European intellectual. He believed, like most, that there might be a God, but nobody can be sure, and we're probably here by accident, and there's really no way of deciding what is right or wrong. And when you die, that's it. But he was more willing than most to say, well, what does that mean? And he wrote this in his biography, quote, if one puts aside the existence of God and survival after death as too doubtful, if death ends all, and if I neither have to hope for good after death nor to fear evil after death, I must ask myself, then what am I here for? And how in these circumstances I must conduct myself? And the answer is plain, but so unpalatable that most will not face it. There is no meaning for life, and therefore life has no meaning. Now, here's what he's saying. He says, you know, the world, society today will tell you there's probably no God. You know, we're here by accident. There's no particular reason why you've been put here. There's really no way of deciding right or wrong. And after you die, there's nothing but darkness and decay. Now, enjoy your life. You know, have a good time. You know, have a... Somerset Maugham was saying is basically, not that he would put it in these terms, he's saying without the light of salvation, this is a dark world, a dark world. And we don't want to admit how dark it is. And he's right. But what does it mean to say Christians are light? Well, light, we're light because the gospel gives us the hope that Somerset Maugham said we don't have anymore therefore life is dark. Everything is dark. But what do we know? What does the gospel tell you? Two things. First of all, that the end of time, at the end of your life, that when you go into Jesus' throne room, when you go into his arms, every single one of the deepest desires of your heart will be fulfilled. Every single one of them. And you're also told, that's first. The second thing is because you're saved by grace, because if you believe in Christ, you are His. There's no condemnation. You might have good days and bad days. You might have good years and bad years, but you are guaranteed to be part of that future. Now, Christians, therefore, live in the light of that. See, that's the metaphor. You could be in a dark room, but if you've got light coming in from somewhere, it's still maybe a dark room, but you can get around. You can see where you're going. You don't just… It's not… The darkness doesn't come into your soul. And so one thing it means light of the world, is that we have that truth, we live in light of that future hope, and we can hold it up to the world. But that's not all that Jesus is saying here. When he says you're the light of the world, he doesn't just say, well, you have the gospel truth and you preach the truth and you give people this hope. However, he's also saying this. Notice that he looks like he's mixing metaphors. Now, don't tell your English teacher that Jesus mixes his metaphors. Well, actually, it doesn't matter because Jesus did not speak English, so your English teacher has no right to complain. It says, you are light of the world, see, in the beginning of verse 14. And then after that, it goes on and says, neither do people light a lamp. So this is a long extended metaphor of light. But in the middle, he says, a city on a hill cannot be hidden.

It's actually a little bit puzzling. Why is he talking about light? Then he talks about a city on a hill, then he goes back to talking about light. And the answer is they probably should be interwoven. And here's what the picture is. Most cities were not built on hills. It's actually very, very, to build a city up on a plateau, very expensive, very difficult. Cities were built at the base of hills and plateaus, or cities were built, you know, actually at the bottom of the valley where the river was because you had access to river traffic and so forth. But if you did put a city up on a hill, at night, the lamps and the torches of the city would illuminate for miles and miles. And therefore, when Jesus tells us we are the light of the world, he's probably not simply saying that you have the truth and you have this hope and you should live in light of that hope and you should hold it up to the world. He's also saying you need to be a counterculture. You need to be a counterculture. the world is not just by what you say, not just giving people the truth, but how you live your life, and particularly as a society. To be the light of the world means you are an alternate New York City in New York City. And you say, well, how is it? How is it different? How does that city live? That's the rest of the Sermon on the Mount. That's what we're going to get to. In fact, John Stott years ago did an exposition, wrote a book on the Sermon on the Mount, but he called it The Christian Counterculture. That was his title. That's a brilliant title. Because essentially all the rest of The Sermon on the Mount is telling you what that city on a hill looks like. That is to say, we're going to be getting to what The Sermon on the Mount says about sex. And what The Sermon on the Mount says about sex is radically different than what New Yorkers believe and do with sex. Believe about and do with sex. There's going to be a lot of talk in The Sermon on the Mount about money and possessions. radically different than what New Yorkers believe about and do with money and possessions. And we're going to be talking about relationships and what do you do when you're wronged and how you exercise power in your relationships. The rest of the Sermon on the Mount is going to show that it is not enough just to hold up the truth. It's not enough just for me to preach the truth and say, oh yes, so the preachers are preaching the truth. We're the light of the world. If the world around looks at Redeemer and the people of Redeemer and they don't see us living any differently than the rest of the people of New York, when it comes to sex, when it comes to money, when it comes to power, we're not living any differently. We're not light. We're not up on the lampstand. We're not a city on a hill. See?

See how the salt and the light are wonderful metaphors. But, and I probably took even a little longer than I wanted to because I really need to get to the third point. And some purists I know ask, well, the first of the, if you're really going through the text, the first point is hurt, you know, verse 11 and 12. The second point is salt. The third point is light. So why wasn't this sermon outlined the hurt, the salt, and the light? And I'll tell you why. I left the hurt to last because I'm talking to a bunch of Western people. I'm talking to a lot of Americans. And if you go outside of America and if you go outside of the West, by and large, most people know what this text says. And that is, if you're salt and if you're light, you're going to be hurt. If you're a Christian, you're going to be persecuted. People outside of America, and especially outside of the West, understand that. But we don't. We struggle with it. In fact, the rest of what I'm about to say, because I've done this, by the way, three times, you know, before, is very sobering. And it's sobering because we realize we really don't grasp this. If you're salt and light, you're going to be hurt. Let's take a look. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad because great is your reward in heaven. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. I'd like to tell you five things about this that will help us really grasp it. Number one, this is a beatitude. Blessed are you when people insult you, not blessed are you if people insult you. Every beatitude is a characteristic of a Christian. We talked about that last week. Every Christian must be poor in spirit, or you're not a Christian. Every Christian must hunger and thirst after righteousness, or you're not a Christian. Well, this is the last of the beatitudes, basically, which means Jesus is assuming you will be persecuted, not blessed are you if people insult you, when, which means if you're a Christian, you'll be persecuted. If you're living in any way consistently with Christianity, you will be persecuted. That's not just an implication. I know I'm drawing out an implication here, but like 2 Timothy 3.12 says, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. 2 Timothy 3.12, you might want to print that out and put it on your refrigerator. refrigerator, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. That's the stark first point. Secondly, however, we have to nuance this a bit. Because you notice, he says, blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me, me, not because of you. 1 Peter 4.15, Peter says, you're suffering persecution, but don't let any of you suffer as a meddler. It is an amazing Greek word. It actually means to be a busybody or to be tactless. And what Peter is saying and what Jesus is saying right here is, if you're a Christian and you are talking about your Christianity or something like that, affectless way, attackless way, an abrasive way, an insensitive way, a culturally inappropriate way. And people give you flack. Don't say, I'm being persecuted for Jesus' sake. No, you're being persecuted for your sake. It doesn't say, blessed are those who are persecuted for being obnoxious. If you're being obnoxious, guess what? That blessedness promise doesn't hold. Jesus says, I don't do my blessedness if you're being persecuted for being obnoxious. and I think that's extremely important to understand. It is extraordinarily easy for you to say, oh, I'm being persecuted. I get one of these beatitudes happen to me because look at the flack I'm getting. Are you a meddler? Are you a busybody? Are you poking your nose in where you shouldn't be? Are you speaking inappropriately? Are you being culturally insensitive? All of those things Peter and Jesus are saying, that's not what we're talking about here. Persecution for my sake. And, by the way, you need to put, it's late, the beginning of this passage with the end of the passage, because the beginning says you're going to be persecuted, and the end says that some people looking at your good life will praise your Father in heaven. See, at the top it says some people who are not believers will really hate your guts. And at the end it says some people who are not believers will really be attracted by your life, will really be persuaded by your testimony. Now, if both of those things are happening, you are in the zone. You are in the sweet spot. If you speak the truth without love, you'll just be persecuted and you won't…it'll be persecution and not attraction. If you only love people, you might be attraction. You might be attracting, but you're never persecuted. Of course, you're not going to really see anybody come to faith that way. The point is, if you're constantly in conflict, but nobody ever really finds faith through you, you're always persecuted, not attracted. You're probably being persecuted for character flaws. On the other hand, if you're never persecuted, you never get any pushback, nobody ever comes after you and is hostile to you and gives you trouble for being a Christian, Then what's the problem? It's a problem It means at the very best You're just not living a consistent Christian life So you don't look different than anybody else At worst you're just plain being a coward So the question is Are you living in that sweet spot? Are you not getting Unnecessary persecution Because you're being obnoxious Or no persecution because you're being a coward Lord. That's the second point. You have to be careful. You have to nuance that. There's a balance. Number two. Number three. The third thing to say is Jesus says, people will insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. And I think Jesus is absolutely right in saying, here's the reason why, if we're Christians, we're never going to escape this, is because Jesus is uniquely hated in the world and always has been. Of all the major figures of human history, he has been so hated. Now, you might say I'm exaggerating. Not really. Anne Rice,

sorry, Anne Rice, the novelist who was probably most famous for writing Interview with a Vampire, Some years ago, she decided she was going to write a book with Jesus as a character. And like all good novels, she started to do research. Now, she was a secular person, did not believe in Christianity at all, or religion. And so when she started to do her research, like good novelists always research the background of the field, you might say, or the era of history that is going to be the setting for

when she started reading New Testament scholarship, that is historical scholarship about the Gospels and Jesus that was written by many of the leading scholars in the great universities of the world, she was amazed at how hostile it was to Jesus. Skeptical about him, hostile to him. And she said she'd never seen this in any other field of research. Listen to what she says. This is, I think, fascinating. She says, I discovered that so many of the scholars, and the scholars, it was their career, was to study the historical background of Jesus. I discovered so many of these scholars who had devoted their life to New Testament scholarship disliked Jesus Christ. Some pitied him as a helpless failure. Others sneered at him, and some showed outright contempt. I'd never come across this in any other field of research. People who go into Elizabethan studies are not out to prove that Queen Elizabeth was a fool. They don't make snickering remarks about her or spend their entire careers trying to pick apart her historical reputation. Yes, of course, occasionally a scholar might study a villain, but even then they usually argue for the importance of his or her place in history. But in general, scholars do not spend their lives in the company of a historical figure whom they openly despised, and yet these New Testament scholars detested and despised Jesus Christ. She'd never seen it in any other field. Do you know why? Do you know why that was the case?

If Queen Elizabeth I, if all her claims about herself and who she is and what she was about, if the claims of Elizabeth I were true or not, it does not affect how you live your life, does it? It doesn't affect you a bit. But if the claims of Jesus Christ to be the Son of God from heaven, to be the Lord of the world and the universe, to be the judge of all, if his claims are true, and there is no major historical figure that made claims like that, if his claims are true, you lose control of your life. Totally. You've got to throw everything over and just give yourself to him. And that's the reason why in the New Testament itself, self. All you see is extreme responses to him. All you see is people completely either angry at him, hating him, killing him, fearing him, or loving him and adoring him. Now, Jesus says in John chapter 15, the world hates me. If the world hates me and you're my follower, the world will have to hate you, for a servant is not above his master. The fact is that there is a unique, I mean, Anne Rice saw it, even in the world of scholarship, there is a unique hostility that people have to Jesus, a tremendous hostility that is not there for the other religious founders who basically said, I'm a teacher, I'm trying to show you wisdom of how to live. But there's this utter hatred. And if you are a Christian, you will experience some of it. It has to fall on you. Do you not see that? I told you this was a sobering sermon. I'm sorry. This is what he says. Blessed are you when people insult you and persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. It will be because of him. Now, fourthly, the fourth point, see, we're almost done. The fourth point, I've got to get done before the voice gives out. The fourth point is this. If you find yourself being persecuted, if you find yourself being insulted and people saying falsely all kinds of evil against you. Jesus is saying here, don't whine about it. Stop whining. No self-pity. Don't say, oh, we're Christians, we're being persecuted. It's not fair. It is not fair. Why should we? Jesus says, it comes with a territory if you're a prophet. If you're a prophet. Prophets have always gotten this. And you know, the Bible says, the New Testament says, every Christian is a prophet in that every Christian is bringing the message of salvation to the world. And every Christian is trying to liberate people spiritually. I had a friend of mine, a pastor friend of mine years ago, who at one point was walking along a country road. This happened about 20 years ago or so, walking along a country road and saw on the side of the road, a little woodland animal in a panic because it had stuck its head into a cocoa can, probably to eat something, and now it was stuck. And it was just panicking. Poor little thing. He figured probably the thing had come to some campsite, had seen the cocoa can, had stuck its head in there to try to get some goodies, and now it was stuck. Actually, like all good pastors, he was immediately thinking, thinking, what an interesting sermon illustration. It's just like the world. You put your head in there, and you think it's going to give you pleasure, but now you're stuck, and you're stuck in the darkness. Actually, I don't think it works, but anyway, that's what he was thinking. But I'll tell you what does work and why I'm giving you this illustration. As he bent over to try to help the poor little creature, he noticed something. It's a skunk. It was a skunk. And he said, I suddenly had a very difficult decision. decision. Am I going to help the poor little thing? What if the poor little thing is not immediately incredibly grateful for my help? And he said, you know, by the way, the way the illustration ends is he said he decided what you needed to do was this. On the one hand, don't be a fool. Stand down, wind. On the other hand, don't be a coward. Bend over and pull. Now, the fact is

that if you ever try to help an addict, let's go back to addicts, they don't want to be helped. They think that you're arrogant to be trying to help them. They're in denial. Their heads are in the can. And they could really create some problems for you, But if you want to love an addict, it goes with the territory. It goes with the territory. You don't feel self-pity. I tried to help the alcoholic, and he didn't listen to me right away. In fact, he said nasty things about me. Well, maybe if you can't take the heat, get out of the kitchen. If you don't want to help people who've got those problems, just back away. But the Bible actually says that all human beings are blinded by sin. We all need God, and none of us, until the Holy Spirit opens our eyes, believe that. We think we're perfectly fine. So we're all like addicts. And therefore, we're all like the little animal with his head in the can. And nobody wants to be helped. And if you want to help people, you're going to have, there'll be backfire. There'll be problems. There'll be pushback. And Jesus says, that's just the way it is. See, prophets have always been treated like this. And you're prophets it's now because you're my agents out there. So I don't want to get any, I don't want to hear any self-pity. Now, lastly, I know up to now I've been pretty tough because I've been saying, get over it, stop your self-pity. I mean, I think Jesus is saying that. He says, this is inevitable. It has to happen. Be careful that you don't bring it on yourself. But after you are careful, this is the way it is. And realize that if you identify with me in this world, in fact, I'd like to say this particularly. If you identify with Jesus Christ in New York City, one of the many places on earth, many places, in which Christianity has no social capital at all, it is utterly and absolutely disdained. If you identify as a Christian, your reputation will be hurt. It will be. You will be insulted. People will say falsely all kinds of evil things against answer. And you know, by the way, your name and your reputation is extremely important. I'll put it this way. If your reputation is hurt, first of all, it's going to cost you money. Your name, your reputation costs you money if it's hurt. And it will be hurt. I mean, this is not, this has to happen. Your reputation will be hurt. Unless you're a coward and you keep your head down, or unless you're inconsistent and you live no differently than anybody else, you will be you going to handle that? How are you going to get the blessedness that Jesus says comes if you are persecuted for his sake? That blessedness is a fascinating, fascinating

promise. It means his spirit will rest on you in a special way. It means his character will come into your life and be created and will shape you in a special way. Well, how are you going to be able to do it? Will we get the courage to do it? Here's how I think. You have to remember that Philippians 2 tells us, this is the King James Version, that Jesus Christ, even though he was equal with the Father, made himself of no reputation. He had glory and he had honor. He had the name, but he actually became rejected. He was shamed. He was humiliated. The cross was

The cross was the way to kill someone that you disdained. There were all kinds of more honorable deaths. It was a dishonorable death. He lost his reputation, and you were saved through his persecution. You were saved through the insults that fell on him. You're saved through that. One of my favorite... Excuse me, I'm going to have to do this again. One of my favorite movies is a 1938 black and white movie called Angels with Dirty Faces, starring James Cagney and Pat O'Brien and the Dead End Kids. And it's a story, by the way, just forgive me, I don't want to go on too long. It actually starts when two kids, Rocky and Jerry, played later on in their adult characters by Pat O'Brien and Jimmy Cagney. Rocky and Jerry were kids living in the slums, and they grew up. And actually, at one point, they both did a robbery, and as they were running away, because Jerry could run faster, because Rocky actually helped Jerry avoid being hit by a train, Rocky's caught by the cops.

Jerry grows up to be a priest in the neighborhood. Rocky grows up to be a gangster. At the very end of the movie, Rocky's been, you know, he kills a lot of people. So he's caught and he's on death row. And just before he's about to be executed, taking the electric chair, Pat O'Brien comes in and says, Rocky, all the kids in my parish are on their way to being criminals. They're all juvenile delinquents and they're on their way to being criminals. one of the reasons is because of you. They idolize you. They adore you because you take nothing from anybody and because you spit in everybody's eyes. They just love you. And here, I need something from you. He says, what? What do you need? I'm about to be executed. He says, I need for you to die a coward. I need for you to start screaming and crying and asking for mercy and crying like a little girl. I want you to completely destroy your reputation. I want you to die in utter shame. By the way, it's a fascinating movie because they were very good actors and James Cagney looks at him and says, my pride is the only thing I got left. I'm not going to do that. Are you kidding? That's the last thing I got left? I'm not going to do that. I don't care. And he just argues at him and basically spits in his eye. And then just a few moments later,

taking Jim Cagney to the chair, and he has a sneer on his face, and then something happens. And just before he gets to the chair, Pat O'Brien's sitting in the background praying and weeping, and suddenly James Cagney starts to scream and cry and say, I don't want to die. Don't let him get me. Please stop. Don't let me. And of course, all the reporters are there and writing down, Rocky dies a coward. And they put him in the chair, and he does give up the very the only thing he had. But you know what? The point was, he knew that if he died with honor, those kids would live and die in shame. But if he died in shame, those kids would lead honorable lives. And he did it. Substitutionary atonement. Jesus has done that for you and for me. He made himself of no reputation. He had all glory and all honor. He came down and he died criminal that was utterly humiliated and disdained. He died in absolute shame. Now, you and I, therefore, will not die in shame. We're going to have a name that lasts forever. Our names are written in heaven. Our names are inscribed. We're going to live with honor and glory forever because of what he went through. Now, if you take a little hit to your reputation, if you get persecuted a little bit? Knowing what he did for you, can you take that shame knowing that he took the ultimate shame so that you could have the ultimate honor? Yeah, I think you can. I think you can. And who knows what the future is? You know, societies come and go, and some get very hostile to Christianity, and some are not so hostile. Who knows? Are we ready? If we're going to be salt, and we're going to be hurt. We're going to be light. We're going to get hurt. But the end, it's a sobering message, but it ends in joy. Rejoice and be glad. Why? Because great is your reward in heaven. Look at that hope. Know that you have a name that will never perish. Know that you have an honor and a glory that will never perish. Who cares if somebody down here besmirches your reputation for a while. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's pray. Dear Father, yeah, it is a sobering message, but it's also a message that ends with joy, and we end there. We say thank you, Lord Jesus, for dying in shame so that we could eventually have the greatest honor possible to be your sons and to be your daughters and to sit at your table and to live with you forever. And if in the period of time in which we live life down here that we might find by identifying with your son that our name might be smirched or our reputation hurt in some way, we will always remember the one who made himself of no reputation so that we could live with you forever. And we can handle it. And we can take it. And we will. We pray, Father, that you would help us with that balance, that we would not be persecuted because of our own character flaws, but only for your Son. And we pray, Lord, that we would continue to be salt and light in this neighborhood, salt and light in the West Side, salt and light in the city of New York, so that we really and truly can be blessed and have the spirit of glory rest on us. Lord, when you were persecuted, we human beings deserted you. But when we're persecuted and we stand up for you, you will be with us. You'll stand with us and your spirit will rest on us and we'll be made more and more in the image that we want to be made into. We want to be like you, Lord Jesus Christ. Father, hear our prayers. We make them in Jesus' name. Amen.
