The scripture reading this evening comes from the second book of Samuel, chapter 24, verses 10 through 25. David was conscious stricken after he had counted the fighting men, and he said to the Lord, I have sinned greatly in what I have done. Now, O Lord, I beg you, take away the guilt of your servant. I have done a very foolish thing. Before David got up the next morning, the word of the Lord had come to Gad the prophet, David's seer. Go and tell David, this is what the Lord says. I am giving you three options. Choose one of them for me to carry out against you. So Gad went to David and said to him, shall there come upon you three years of famine in your land, or three months of fleeing from your enemies while they pursue you, or three days of plague in your land? Now then, think it over and decide how I should answer the one who sent me. David said to Gad, I am in deep distress. Let us fall into the hands of the Lord, for his mercy is great, but do not let me fall into the hands of men. So the Lord sent a plague on Israel from that morning until the end of the time designated, and 70,000 of the people from Dan to Beersheba died. When the angel stretched out his hand to destroy Jerusalem, the Lord was grieved because of the calamity and said to the angel who was afflicting the people, Enough! Withdraw your hand. The angel of the Lord was then... When David saw the angel who was striking down the people, he said to the Lord, I am the one who has sinned and done wrong. These are but sheep. What have they done? Let your hand fall upon me and my family. On that day, Gad went to David and said to him, Go up and build an altar to the Lord on the threshing floor of Arana the Jebusite. So David went up as the Lord had commanded through Gad. When Arana looked... and saw the king and his men coming toward him, he went out and bowed down before the king with his face to the ground. Arana said, Why has my lord the king come to his servant? To buy your threshing floor, David answered. So I can build an altar to the Lord, that the plague on my people may be stopped. Arana said to David, Let my lord the king take whatever pleases him and offer it up. Here are oxen for the burnt offering, and here are threshing sledges and ox yokes for the wood. O king, Arana gives all of this to you. Arana also said to him, May the Lord your God accept you. But the king replied to Arana, No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing. So David bought the threshing floor and the oxen and paid fifty shekels of silver for them. David built an altar to the Lord there and sacrificed burnt offerings and fellowship offerings. Then the Lord answered, I will do the prayer in behalf of the land. And the plague on Israel was stopped. This is the word of the Lord. Now we've been looking at the life of David. And the last, our last in the series will be next week. We're going to go to the book of Chronicles to find another episode in the life of David. And that will be the end of our series. But it's important to notice that the author of first and second Samuel, the author of this book, who is seeking to give us a biography of David, and who is seeking to show us the greatness of David, that this is the last chapter. This is the last episode in his biography. This is the climax of his book. If you're trying to show us the greatness of David, why would you end on this incident? A failure, a moral failure. A moral failure. Why would you do that? It doesn't make a lot of sense. And by the way, many, many people look at that and say, that's a very, what a strange, what a downer of a way to end a book on David. Is he trying to make him look bad? Oh no, he's trying to show us his greatness. And we'll get back to why this does show us his greatness. Instead, let's look at the story. Let's look at the account. And we can figure out what it means and move through it by noticing three things. We see here the judgment, the judgment against David, the mercy for David, and the greatness of David. The judgment against him, the mercy for him, and the greatness of him. So first, the judgment against David. We're told here, verse 10, that David had counted the fighting men. Now what that means is he was doing a military census. He was going about all of Israel to find out how many men there were of age and ability to serve in the army. And he was going about all of Israel to serve in the military. And this census, counting the fighting men, was a terrible sin, and it received God's judgment. Now, the question right away comes to people when they're reading this is, what's so bad about that? What was so bad about a king counting up how many men he had for the army? What's so bad? Now let me give you what I think is probably the right answer. And keep in mind that word probably, we'll get back to that word. But here's what probably was happening. Israel had a volunteer army. And a volunteer army is one that you only muster when you need it defensively because people are invading. Apparently, it looks like what's going on here is that Israel's moving to having a standing army, a full-time army. And therefore, to start using their army the way the other nations use their armies. What's the purpose of that? Adding up how many people are there. Why count the numbers? You know why? So you can look at your neighbors, and you say, oh, we have 100,000 fighting men. They only have 50,000. Charge! In other words, what you do is you add up how many men you have. You add up how many men they have. You do a little intelligence. And any neighbor who was weaker than you, you invaded them. You enslaved them. You enriched yourself with them. And that's just the way it was done. You did it simply. Just because you could. And therefore, apparently, Israel was moving in the direction of doing what all the other nations did. And that is, they were simply building up a military force to be used in order to colonize weaker countries, or to get tribute from them in order to enrich themselves. But, God, in the Old Testament, never says that Israel's supposed to be the terror of the whole earth. Psalm 48 says Jerusalem is supposed to be the joy of the whole earth. Rome was the terror of the whole earth. Babylon was the terror of the whole earth. Nineveh was the terror of the whole earth. Jerusalem's supposed to be the joy. Why? Because God says, when he put Israel together, you can see this especially in Deuteronomy, chapter 4, for example, and other places. God says, I want you to be the joy of the whole earth. I want you to be a light to the nations, not a terror to the nations. I want the other nations to look to God. Look and see how you treat one another, how your society works. Other societies are built on power and wealth. Your society must be different. Your society must be built on service, not power. Service to God, service to your neighbor. It must be a society of justice and love. And if you are different, if you're a holy nation, a light to the world, showing the world what human society's supposed to be like, the love and the justice, then you will be, you will be a testimony, O Israel, to my glory, and you'll be showing the world what they should be like. That's not where Israel's going. That's not where David is taking them. They're taking them to be just like all the other nations, and that's the reason that God judges. And by the way, more often than any other cause, the thing that evokes the wrath of God is violence. So why did God send the flood, Noah's flood? Genesis 6 says, because the earth was filled with violence. Violence, crime, war, injustice. When God sends Jonah to preach against the Ninevites, what does he say? You must give up your violence, because the Assyrian nation was a very imperialistic, militaristic place. And when God starts to judge his own people and send them into exile, in Ezekiel 7 and 8, what does he say? You must give up your violence and oppression and do what is right. And that's the reason why we see the judgment of God coming down on Israel now, because they're moving in the direction of becoming like the other countries. Now, I think that's probably right. And I hope a lot of you do too. I hope a lot of you say, hey, that fits. That's interesting. That's good. It fits in with other things in the Bible. That makes sense. That helps me understand why God, why it was wrong to count the fighting men. However, let me go back to that word probably. You know why I'm only probably right? I know it's very hard for you to imagine a preacher getting up and saying he's probably right. You know, that's not our job. We always are sure that we're right. The reason I'm here to say it's probable is because the text, the Bible doesn't actually tell us why it was wrong to count the fighting men. We have to infer it. And that's fine. And I think, again, I think we're probably right. But I think it's significant that the Bible here just tells us that it was wrong, not why it was wrong. And it's very instructive for us. Because a big part of following God is obeying him. Often, when we know that we're not allowed to do that, but we don't know why, he says, do this and don't do this. And sometimes it makes sense and sometimes it doesn't. And we have to obey him whether we know why or not. See, a lot of countries, traditional cultures, ancient cultures, you never questioned authority figures. If your father, your mother, your employer, or your ruler told you to do something, you did it and you didn't question why. Now, we here in the West, we're the opposite. We question all authority figures. In fact, our understanding is, if you're in authority over me, you're only there because I elected you. You're there by my leave. And if you're going to tell me what I should do, I want to know why and I want to think it's a good reason. And if I don't think it's a good reason, I'm not going to do it. Now, the Western attitude toward authority figures, where you have to know why or you're not going to do it, question everything. You know, it's a response. It's a response to the fact that in non-Western cultures, in traditional cultures, there's a lot of abuse. There's a lot of exploitation that happens in those cultures. And so Western culture is a response to that. Okay, fair enough. But you cannot take that Western approach to authority with God. If you do, it won't work. It's devastating. And here's why. When your children are little, some of you will have little children. Some of you have seen little children. Some of you used to have little children. Some of you do have little children. And very often, little children will, you'll say, do this now, do this. And sometimes they'll say, why? Why do I have to do this? Now, if you're a good adult, a good parent, you know, a good aunt or uncle or whatever, you try to explain. You know, you always give it an effort. But very often with little children, the reason why they have to do that escapes them because they're so young. And so if they don't understand or they don't like, what you're telling them and they can't understand why, they start to pout and they don't want to do it. And here's the speech. Can I give you your speech? Okay, write this down now. Here's what you say. You say, honey, sweetheart, I want you to obey because I'm 43 and you're nine. And even though I am a human being and I make mistakes, in general, nine year olds can't only obey adults when they think they're young. They think it makes sense when they understand. Because if you only obey adults when you understand, you're not going to live to be 10. Don't you know that we're just like that? Don't you know that the difference between an infinite, transcendent God and you is infinitely greater than the difference between a 42 year old adult and a nine year old? See, if there is a God, who is infinite and transcendent, if there is a God, then many of the things he commands will not make sense. Just like many of the things that an adult says to a child will not make sense. And if you say, well, there's things in the Bible that God says and does that don't make sense to me. I don't understand why they're wrong. I don't know why God says this is wrong. I don't see why it's wrong. There's a lot of things that Western people see the Bible saying is wrong. We don't see why it's wrong. Okay, we're children, spiritually speaking. Of course you're going to feel that way. I feel that way sometimes about things in the Bible. There it is. I don't know why. There it is. But if you say, and so I won't obey God until I understand why. Now, wait a minute. What you may be saying, I won't obey a God who is wiser than me. I don't believe there is a God that is wiser than me. That makes no sense. If God, if there's an infinite, transcendent God, it makes perfect sense that many of the things he commands would not make perfect sense. Hear that? If he's really infinitely above us, then it makes perfect sense that some of the things that he would command wouldn't make perfect sense. Doesn't that make sense? And if everything he said made sense, that would make no sense. You know what? Put it like this. In the Garden of Eden, God said, don't eat the tree. He said, Adam and Eve, don't eat of that tree. But he never told them why. Why didn't he put a video on YouTube that would show, you know, would show everything that was going to happen in the history of the human race if they ate that tree? You know, just snapshots. Then they would have watched that and said, oh, well, I better not eat that tree. But, you know, but you're missing the point. Don't you understand? The test in the Garden of Eden was not about the rule. Yes, they broke the rule. Don't eat the tree. They broke the tree rule. But you know why God didn't tell them? Because that's really what the test was. God was saying, I want you to obey me just because I'm God. Not because it makes sense to you. That's not obedience. That's agreement. In other words, what Adam and Eve did was they wouldn't let him be God. The serpent came in and said, there's nothing wrong with this tree. And they looked and it looked fine to them. They wouldn't let God be God. And when you only obey because it makes perfect sense, when you only obey those parts of the Bible that make perfect sense to you, you're not letting God be God. Elizabeth Elliot, Christian writer, once summed her whole life up like this. She looked back on her whole life and she said, this is what I've learned, quote, God is God. And if he is God, he is worthy of my worship and my love. He is worthy of my service. I will find rest nowhere but in his will. And that will is infinitely, immeasurably, unspeakably beyond my largest notions of what he is up to. See if he is an infinitely transcendent God, then his will sometimes be or is infinitely, immeasurably, unspeakably beyond your largest notions of what he is up to. So. So we don't know why, actually, it was wrong to count the fighting men, but we know that it was wrong and the judgment fell. Now, continue. The second thing we see here is the mercy for David. And here's where the mercy comes. God, after he does this, God sends his prophet Gad and says, judgment is going to fall, punishment is going to be meted out, but it can come in one of three forms and you get to choose. And you know what those three forms are? No. Either you can choose three years of famine, three months of military invasion and defeat, or three days of disease and sickness, plague. Now what's interesting about the three, he said you can choose, but what's interesting about it is no matter which one happens, this is the end of Israel's dreams of becoming an imperial power. Do you know why? The first option, which is three years of famine. Now you know what a famine is? I have to translate. A famine was what we call today a recession. Because a famine meant your wealth was wiped out and you therefore had to import everything from other countries. They could charge anything they wanted and therefore you essentially became economically a colony. In fact, back in the end of the book of Genesis, you know the place where, because of Joseph's dream, Egypt has all the food and no one else does during the famine and because they have to come to Egypt in order to get food, essentially all of the countries around Egypt become colonies. Totally economically dependent. So that's the first option. The second option would be military defeat. Then you literally would become a colony. You'd be under the boot of the invader. And if you lose thousands of people through the plague, there goes your army. So no matter what he chooses, what God is doing is he's taking away the cultural idols that we're developing in Israel. See even though David is the most guilty, because he's the king, he bears the most responsibility, you can't move toward a standing army. You can't move toward a society that puts all of its emphasis on economic wealth and power unless the society is moving in that direction. And God's taking those away. Those are the things that they were trusting in rather than God. Those are idols, cultural idols. And God is smashing the idols. And he's going to make it impossible for Israel to go down that path. That's why the judgment is falling on everyone and therefore it's actually a severe mercy. He's keeping them from becoming the evil things that they were headed to be. So he says to David, which of the three? And David chooses the third. And look why he chooses the third, the three days of plague. He says, verse 14. Verse 14. He stresses, Let us fall into the hands of the Lord, for his mercy is great. And literally the Hebrew says, his mercies are many. For his mercies are many, but do not let me fall into the hands of men. And see the first two of those problems, the first two of those punishments, the three years of famine, the recession, the, and the year of, the three months of military defect meant you fell into the hands of other human beings. And David here says, He says, I trust the mercy of God before I trust the mercy of any human being. Now, what David is doing is he's being very theologically sophisticated. You know why? Many people have a kind of one-dimensional, cardboard, cut-out version of God. One view of God is God is just, he's angry, he's great, he's transcendent, he's holy, and all he does, he loves to smite people, people who don't honor him, they don't obey him. He smites them, and he's happy about it. And he sends people to hell, and he giggles as he does it. And that's your one-dimensional God. He just loves to judge. And then, of course, you have the other kind of one-dimensional God who just loves everybody, and he includes everybody, and he accepts everybody, and he doesn't judge anyone. And in a world of injustice, what kind of God do you really want? You don't want a God like that. But you know? Here's David, who knows that he deserves and will get judgment. And Israel will get judgment. But he says, in the end, I trust the hand of God to not go all the way. I trust the hand of God, in the end, to be merciful and to pull back. I trust that even though God is a God of judgment, he has such a strong will and desire to save us and love us that I believe his mercy will triumph in the end over the judgment. And by the way, James chapter 2, 14 says that. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Remember how when Abraham was praying back in Genesis, Genesis 18, and he was talking with God who was about to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, hundreds, thousands of wicked people there doing violence. Doing violence, Ezekiel 16 says. Sodom was violent toward the poor. And Abraham says, well, what if there were just a few people there who weren't doing violence? You know, 30, 50. What if there were 50 good people there? Would you forego judging all those violent people just for the sake of those 50? And God says, yes, I would. I would spare the city for 50. What about 40, says Abraham? Yes, I'd spare for 40. 30, yes. 20, yes. 10, yes. And Gerhard von Rod, a commentator on the book of Genesis says, as Abraham is talking with God, God's graciousness begins to dawn on Abraham, says von Rod, and increases his courage until he arrives at the astonishing fact that even a very small number of people that please God would stem the judgment against masses of wicked ones. So predominant is God's will to save over his will to punish. Unquote. David has a sophisticated, theologically complex understanding of God. Here's a God who is judged. Here's a God who must judge. Here's a God who is holy. Here's a God who can't wink at evil and injustice. He can't. He can't just shrug it off. He can't say, well, boys will be boys. Israelites will be Israelites. He can't do that. He won't do that. We don't want him to. And yet, here's a God whose mercy is so great. That he finds ways, David says, that mercy to triumph over judgment, where he doesn't trust human beings. And therefore, he says, let us fall into the hands of the Lord. Three days of disease. And so, the plague begins. And perhaps the most horrible verse of the entire passage is here in verse 15. So the Lord sent a plague on Israel from that morning until the end of the time, three days, and 70,000 people from Dan to Beersheba died. Now, you know, I respect the translators, the NIV translators. They were trying to be sensitive to gender issues. And they put down 70,000 people. That's not what the text says. And it's missing the point. The Hebrew says 70,000 men died. That doesn't mean there were no women and children that died in the plague. But don't you see what's going on here? Men, fighting men. God's taking away the army. Oh, you say, how awful. That's why I can't stand a God who's just killing people. Thousands of people. Don't you know? Those men were going to die doing evil. Those men were going to die in battle, oppressing people, raping and plundering. If they became like the nations, the most merciful thing God could possibly do for all of Israel's neighbors was to have these men die this way and not the way they would have died. But the three days are almost done. And suddenly, David says, he's the angel of the Lord who was striking down the people, verse 17. And by the way, in the book of Chronicles, he sees the angels. It tells us the same story again. It tells us he saw the angel's hand or a kind of hand or even maybe a sword stretched out toward Jerusalem. And when David sees it, he cries out. And in verse 17, it says, he cried out to the Lord, I'm the one who has sinned. I have done wrong. These are but sheep. Let your hand fall. Fall upon me. Do you know what he's saying? I'm the shepherd. They're just the sheep. Spare the sheep and strike the shepherd. Strike me so that they can go free. Let your judgment fall on me so you can be merciful to them. Let mercy triumph over judgment by making me the substitutionary sacrifice. And what's wonderful is verse 16 shows before David even said that, God's own heart was filled with grief. See, he is. He's a just and merciful God. He is holy and he's loving. Infinitely holy. Infinitely loving. Not part, half and half. Completely both. And we're told there, the Lord was grieved, verse 16. And that's a word that means pain in his heart when he saw our condition and he saw the misery. And so what does he do? In response to David's plea, he turns to David and guess what he says? Essentially this, David, your concept is right. There needs to be a substitutionary sacrifice. Someone has to pay so that they can live. But it's not going to be you. There needs to be a substitute, but you're not that substitute. And so, he says to David, go up to the threshing floor of Arona, who, by the way, gives the threshing floor to David for a price. David puts an altar there and they do animal sacrifices. And later, by the way, the temple was built there. And on, those sacrifices happened on and on and on for years and years. But the book of Hebrews says that those sacrifices did not atone for sin. They pointed to one sacrifice that would. God himself is grieved. Do you see this word grieved? That's a word that usually is associated with tears. Nicholas Wollerstorf, the Christian philosopher, says, the tears of God are the meaning of history. Do you want to understand history? God so wept over our condition, and yet he's so just that he can't just shrug it off, what we have done. And therefore, God himself came in Jesus Christ. And when he came, Jesus is the ultimate shepherd who said, strike the shepherd so that the sheep might go free. Isaiah 53, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned away. We've turned everyone to our own way. But the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. See, here's the ultimate Davidic king who says, strike the king so the subjects can go free. Strike the shepherd so the sheep can go free. And he did. And that's how his mercy triumphed over judgment. Because on the cross, justice and love were completely satisfied. God was so holy that he had to die for us and pay the penalty himself. But God was so loving that he was glad to die and give himself for us. And that's how mercy triumphed over judgment. David knew it intuitively. David brought his theology to bear and said, I'm going to trust you. And he was right to do it. Now, what does this all got to do with you and me? I mean, practically speaking, so what difference does this make? You say, well, this helps me understand the text better than I did before. It's kind of a weird text. Now I sort of see how it fits together. It's a little inspiring there. That's great. Thank you. I see how it relates to Jesus. But how does it actually change the way in which I live? Oh, very much. And here's why. Why is this the climactic episode in this book? How does this show the greatness of David? It shows him being a moral failure. It does show the greatness of David. Yes, it does show him being a moral failure, but it also shows us the greatness. And here's why. Look what he says in verse 10. I have sinned. When's the last time he said that? 2 Samuel 12. After he had an affair with his friend's wife, had him killed so he could marry her. Remember David, Uriah, Bathsheba? And back then he repented too. He said, I have sinned. And here he repents and says, I have sinned. But oh, look at the difference. Look at the difference. Back then he said, I have sinned after the prophet showed up and hit him. Pretty much over the head with a two by four. Here he says, I have sinned before the prophet shows up. There he said, I have sinned when he knew there were consequences. You know, when you're just so sorry for what you've done because it's getting you in trouble, do you realize why you're sorry? You're not sorry for the sin. You're not sorry for who you've hurt. You're not really sorry for what you've done to God. You're sorry for yourself. You think it's repentance, but it's self-pity. And it's not changing your life. It's not changing your heart. Self-pity. Oh, I'm so sorry. Look at what a mess I've made. Look, you know, back then David had been absolutely, he'd lost face. His reputation had been destroyed. He had been publicly outed. Bad things were happening. His son was going to die. All those, remember all those consequences? Oh, I'm so sorry. Yeah, of course you're going to be sorry. Who are you sorry for? But here his heart smote him. Verse 10 says, David was conscience stricken. That's a, that's a, an English way. I was talking about what the Hebrew text says. His heart struck him. A lethal blow. That's literally what it says. His heart smote him. The prophet is not hitting him over the head. The prophet didn't smite him. The law didn't smite him. The punishment didn't smite him. He didn't even know what the punishment was, whether it was even going to be a punishment. His heart smote him. This is a man who has grown. He has grown in grace. And here's how you know. And by the way, that sin, which he wouldn't even admit, was the sin of adultery. You always know when you're committing adultery. This sin is the sin of greed and power hunger. And nobody who's into military power hunger ever admits that they're wrong. They always say, yeah, we're attacking our neighbor, but we have to do that for defensive purposes. You know, nobody, see, this sin is much more difficult to see. That one was a lot harder to see, easy to see. This sin, he, but his heart smites him. And here's what, what a spiritually mature man or woman is. And here's what a spiritual leader is. A spiritually mature person is not somebody who never has to repent because he doesn't mess up. That's a delusion. A spiritually growing person is not someone who repents less and less. A spiritually mature person is somebody who repents more and more, but more quickly, more genuinely, sorry for the sin, not just sorry for the consequences of the sin, from the heart, and more hopefully. A spiritually mature person is someone who's, you criticize them and they say, well, even if your criticism is half wrong, they look, they take the half that's right and say, I think you have a point. A spiritually mature person admits when they're wrong, is quick to admit when they're wrong, is gracious about it. A spiritual baby is somebody who says, I believe in Jesus, but their real self-image is grounded in this idea that they're good people and they're together people and they don't mess up much. And when you have to repent, it destroys your very self-image. It's traumatic, it's horrible. That's the reason why we do everything we can to avoid it. That's why we put it off to the last minute. That's why people have to hit us over the head with a two-by-four before we're even willing to admit when we've done wrong. But if your identity, if your self-image, if your understanding of yourself is rooted in the fact that you are a sheep loved by a shepherd so much that he said, strike me. If you know how committed he is to you, that he's done this for you, if you're rooted and grounded in his love,

if you know you're a sinner saved by grace, then when someone points out there's something wrong with you, you say, oh, of course. Repentance gets you in touch with who you are. It doesn't destroy your sense of who you are. It gets you deeper into the mercy by which you live. And therefore, what we have here is true greatness. Do you recognize it? I read this, I heard this sermon in a sermon years ago, and I wrote it down as a paraphrase. Most churches make the mistake of selecting as leaders the confident, the competent, and the successful. But what you really need as leaders are those who have been broken by the knowledge of their sin and have been grounded in an even greater knowledge of Jesus' costly grace. The best leaders, the most spiritually mature people in every church ought to be the people who repent the most fully without excuses, the most easily without, the most without bitterness, the most publicly and the most joyfully because they know their standing isn't based on their performance. Hey, do you have trouble obeying God even when you don't know why? Think of what he's done for you. He did this for you. He said, strike the shepherd that the sheep might go free. Let's trust him. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us all that we need to handle our failures and fail we will. How we pray that you would enable us to know the kind of freedom that comes, the kind of freedom that comes from knowing we're sinners saved by grace, free from keeping up appearances, free from fearing loss of face, free from having to, be defensive, free from having to spin everything. Father, we pray that you would help us to develop true greatness as David did because of the sacrifice of his greater son, the one to whom David points us, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
