Revelation is one book in which the distinction between the forest and the trees is the greatest of any of the books of the Bible. The difference between the forest and the trees, you see. If you sit down and try to understand the book of Revelation by focusing on the micro, by focusing on every verse, by focusing on every symbol, just this particular letter, this six verses has, look at it all. Who are the seven spirits? Who are the seven stars? Who's the angel of the church of Sardis? All this talk about you're asleep, wake up. I'll come like a thief. Some people haven't soiled their clothes. Some are dressed in white. I won't blot your name out of the book of life. And actually, if you look at the next one I was working on, If you look at the next letter, the letter to Philadelphia, there's even more of these symbols. I will give you a stone. I will give you a key. I have the key. I will give you a new stone with your name written on it. I'll give you a crown. I'll give you a wreath. What do all the symbols mean? What is the beast? How many toes does the beast have and what do they mean? If you look at the trees, if you sit down and try to look at every detail, It won't be long before you're lost in the trees like Hansel and Gretel, and you'll never find your way home, and you never know what might eat you in there. And many people have been eaten in there. John Calvin, one of the great modern expositors of the Bible, I mean, when I say modern, I mean he in some ways was the pioneer of the modern exegesis and modern expositions of the Bible. John Calvin wrote a commentary on every book of the Bible except Revelation. Why? Well, the story goes, somebody said, why didn't you write a book on, a commentary on the book of Revelation? And he said, because I don't get it. Now, and I'll tell you why. To write a commentary means you've got to go through every word and every phrase and say, what does it mean? I tell you, if you try to figure out everything, if you look at, if you look at the tree level, you will be lost in the trees and you'll never find your way home. But if you stand back and look at the forest, if you stand back and look at the basic thrust of it, what it's trying to get across, it's very clear. In other words, I wouldn't write a commentary on it either, but I wouldn't mind preaching on it. Because in preaching, you don't have to necessarily look at every single one of these words and so on. You're trying to show the major thrust of it. And let me tell you what the major thrust is. And you see it in every one of these letters, and in some ways it's the first point I want to make tonight. Jesus was addressing a group of people who needed to rise to an occasion. They were facing persecution. At the time that this was written, the Christians had no idea how bad the persecution was going to be, but it was going to be a fiery and terrible one. How could they possibly face it? And the answer is, Jesus gives them something in this book that actually enabled them to face it, to rise to the occasion. He gave them something to make them great. Now, you know, there's a lot of people who believe that the book of Revelation is a kind of code map of the end times. And if you study it, you will know what will happen at the very end of the world. Let me ask you something. How comforting would that have been to these people? They're in prison, you know, maybe they're about to be thrown to the lions, and the night before, in comes the letter. Look, this is a message from the Lord Jesus for us. This will help us. So they open it up. And what if the minister says, well, let me tell you, this is a detailed account of the events that are going to happen right before Jesus comes back, thousands of years, hundreds of years from now, would that have been any help? They would have said, thanks. What kind of comfort is that? Is that what the book's about? Absolutely not. This book is to show you a glorious and exalted picture of Jesus Christ, a Jesus who cannot be managed, a Jesus that cannot be trivialized away. When you meet him in chapter 1, his hair is white to show you that he's wise. And his eyes are fiery to show you that there's nothing that he cannot see. And out of his mouth comes a two-edged sword, which is to show that his words penetrate and nothing can stop them. And his voice is greater than the sound of waters. It's to show his power. And that's the thing that we all need in order to rise to any greatness. The book of Revelation is here to make a person who needs to be great to become great. And the only way for that to happen is if you see Jesus Christ not as a pale Galilean, not as someone who's frail and fragile, but someone who is mighty, someone who is all-powerful, somebody who's riding the broncing stallion of history, you know, And he's going to ride it. He's going to break it. He's going to tame it. He's in total charge of it. And this is the picture of Jesus Christ that we're given in the book of Revelation. That's what you need. Now, listen carefully. The way you get to see Christ like that is to repent. The whole book of Revelation is here to show you an exalted Christ, in every one of these letters to these churches about to suffer, Jesus comes to them and says, repent. Why? Because the only way you actually become a great person, the only way you actually get to see Jesus as great and glorious is for you to humble yourself and repent. John the Baptist at one point said, he must increase and I must decrease. you see. And that's the fact. If you want him to increase in you, if you want him to get bigger and bigger in your sight, if you want him to appear as glorious as this, so your worries are gone and your fears are gone. If you want to get the greatness that comes from seeing Jesus as this, you have got to repent. See, the first point, and in some ways the main point of the book of revelation is, if you are willing to repent and humble yourself, I can make you great. Greatness comes through repentance. Greatness comes through humbling yourself. I know that doesn't make sense to us. You know, whenever a hitter gets into one of these bad streaks and he just can't hit the ball, they bring in a sports psychologist sometimes who hypnotizes the guy and says, you're great. You can hit 30 home runs this month. You're the greatest ball player that's ever lived. And very often sports psychologists, either through hypnosis or all those other kinds of things, try to get these athletes into a condition where they feel so great about themselves and see themselves as so big that they'll go out there and become great athletes. Jesus actually gives you a counterintuitive approach here. Jesus says, if you want to be great, you have got to humble yourself. You must decrease so that I might increase in your life. Now, during the worship time, we even referred to an example like this. Look, are you worried? Why are you worried? Worry, as we often say here, presumes that you're smarter than God. There's an assumption under worry. I'm sorry, I worry too. I'm not dumping on you in an insensitive way. I worry too. But I tell you, if you pull worry up, and then you see the roots, And you follow the roots, you'll find at the bottom of it, worry presumes, worry assumes. Worry is built on a belief that you know better than God how your life ought to go. You're smarter than God. The only way out of worry is to humble yourself. The only way. Worry is always a form of arrogance toward God. Always. Peace. absolute confidence, rest, and security always comes to people who repent, who decrease so Christ can increase. The only way you can see Christ as powerful and as glorious as you see him here in the beginning of the book of Revelation is if you repent. And that's the reason why here's Jesus trying to get every one of these churches that he loves so much ready for greatness, ready to meet the challenge, ready to face the foe. And what does he do? and again and again, what does he say? Wake up. What you received and heard, obey and repent. Every one of these, every one. Does that make sense to you? That's the first point. Think about it. Now, here's a, before I move on, to really understand the form of every one of these letters, you have to realize that Jesus Christ is bringing a covenant lawsuit. And to give you an idea of what that means, let me explain what it is, all right? In every single one of these letters, Jesus Christ is bringing to you a kind of, He's bringing to you a prophetic oracle. In the New Testament, you don't see this very often. In the Old Testament, you see it all over the place. You have Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and Daniel and Hosea and Joel Amos and all the prophets. Some of them are called major prophets. Some of them are called minor prophets, not because the minor prophets were shorter than the major prophets, but that the books were shorter. That's the only meaning. But the prophets in the Old Testament did the same thing that Jesus does here. When you think of prophecy, what do you think of? In modern English, the word prophecy has come to mean foretelling. That's not what it meant Bible. A prophet was someone who brought a lawsuit, a covenant lawsuit. The covenant, a covenant is a personal relationship based on a binding legal contract. For example, you might work for a company, and your company develops a relationship with another company. You're going to service that other company. You sign a contract. Now, the contract might be the basis of a wonderful personal relationship. You might get to be very good friends with the other person in the other company that you're working with. Let's just say your company's job is to help this other company set up a computer system, right? So you may develop a wonderful personal relationship. In fact, if you want to do a good job, you better develop a good personal relationship. You better not have an adversary relationship with them. So it's a personal relationship, but it's also a covenantal relationship. There's a personal side and a legal side. Same thing in marriage. There better be a personal side. That's not a real marriage if it's only legal and not personal. But there has to be a legal side. If it's only personal and not legal, it's not a marriage either. God only relates to us covenantally. That's a very difficult thing for American Christians to really understand. We don't like covenants. Americans would like to live together without getting married, or if we have to get married, let's have a prenuptial agreement. Why? Because we want the personal and the private without the legal and the public. We want the subjective without the objective. We don't want to be that vulnerable. We don't want to be that accountable. But God will not have it that way. God will only relate to you covenantally, which means multidimensionally and comprehensively. That's what it means to relate covenantally. You see, here's Abraham, and he comes and says to God, God, I want to know you. So what does God say? Would God say, well, you can have this wonderful personal intimacy with me. I'll fill your heart with love. We'll walk and talk together every day. And then Abraham says, good. Then God says, and I want you to be circumcised. What does that mean? God says, I want you to legally bind yourself to me. I want you to make a contract. I want you to publicly get up in front of the whole world and promise to obey me and promise to live before me and promise to do my will? What if Abraham says, hey, can we sign a prenuptial agreement? I mean, what if I find that our relationship doesn't really fulfill my needs five years from now? I would like to get out. God won't have that. Why? Because God says, I want every part of you. I'm giving you all of me. I want to have all of you. I want to not just have you personally, but publicly. I don't want to just have you emotionally, but legally. I don't want to just have you subjectively, but objectively. I want every part of you. That's the way I'm giving myself to you that way. You see, to relate to God, you must do it covenantally. He wants all of you. He wants every aspect of you. He wants every bit of you. It's silly, but it's natural that American Christians will say to me, well, I've got a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Why do I have to join a church? I say, well, what do you mean? Well, where does it say in the Bible that I have to join a church on every page? If you understand the covenant, because all joining a church means is you're willing to make a public vow that makes you accountable for your whole life. That's what we don't like because, oh, you know, well, who needs that? The most important thing is the personal and the spontaneous. No. The most important thing is every part of you has to go to Him, you know. You're supposed to make yourself a whole burnt offering on the altar. That's what it says in Romans 12 where it says, make yourself a living sacrifice, a whole burnt offering to the Lord. God relates to you covenantally, multidimensionally, and he won't relate to you any other way because after all, that's how he related to you. He swore an oath that he would be faithful to you. He came and put himself, his body and his soul, and every part of himself on the tree and was slain for you. That's the only way he relates, If you say, and it makes perfect sense, you say to somebody, I love you completely, but I don't want to be, I don't want anybody else to know that we're having a relationship. Just try that out sometime. Just see how wonderful that is. And you know, God doesn't like it any better. Now, because you relate covenantally to him, when you stop obeying the covenant, he sends you a lawsuit. The prophets came to bring the lawsuit. What is a lawsuit? If a lawyer shows up at your door and says, my client, with whom you have a contract, would like to inform you that you have not been in compliance with said contract, and unless you begin to comply to it, this is what we're going to have to do. That's what prophecy is in the Old Testament. It's the covenant lawsuit. And that's what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying, when you came to me, you made a deal. I am reminding you of that deal. You need to repent. That's the reason why, look, what it says here is, remember therefore what you have received. Remember how you first came to me. Remember the first deal. Remember the gospel. And whenever we start to get away from the gospel, Jesus will find a way to bring us to repentance, and that charge for repentance is a covenant lawsuit. When God comes and makes a deal with you, when you receive him as Savior, when you're born again, on all those great words, when you cross the line into faith, you have made a covenant with him. Do you understand? Because he made a covenant with you. And so he's constantly in the Bible coming back and saying, the mark of a real Christian is someone who's always going back to that covenant and seeing that you fall short. Going back to the basics, going back to the gospel, going back to what it means to be a Christian and saying, yes, you're constantly renewing yourself and cleansing yourself through repentance. That's what Jesus Christ sends to you. That is the only way to be great. It's the only way to rise to the occasion. It's the only way to become a person that can face anything. Repentance is the way to greatness. Some Christian minister recently has written a book called Descending into Greatness. That's it. Do not think it's psychologically unhealthy. Do not think, well, that must mean that you're supposed to feel bad about yourself. Remember what I said? Anxiety comes from an arrogance. Low self-esteem basically comes, as I'll get back to this before we end here, from too small a view of Jesus, too small a view, too light a view of his love for you. Repentance is the only way into confidence. Repentance is the only way into greatness. That's the first point. The first point. I know your deeds. You are dead. Wake up and repent. Now, the second and the last of the two points I'd like to show you from this passage The first is the way to greatness is to repent. The way to strength is to repent. The second basic point is one of the great dangers of Christianity is the loss of your inner reality. One of the great dangers of Christianity is the loss of your inner reality. See, in every one of these letters to these churches, Jesus is calling them to repent in order to get them into greatness. But in every situation, he's asking them to repent for a different sin, a different failure, a different lapse. Tonight, the one that we're looking at is the loss of inner reality. He says, These are the words of him who holds the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know your deeds, he says to the church of Sardis. for being alive, but you are dead. Wake up. Strengthen what remains and is about to die, for I have not found your deeds complete in the sight of my God. What's the teaching? It's this. This is kind of a frightening situation. There is nothing in this letter that indicates that Sardis, the Sardis church, had deviated away from sound biblical teaching. There are many indications in the other letters that various churches had gotten into false teachings, had gotten into heresies, had begun to dilute the pure faith delivered to them by the apostles. There's no indication of that here. So from what we can tell, since there's no challenge or charge or accusation. These people are teaching the Word of God in biblical purity. Secondly, this church has got a name that is alive. This church is probably growing. This church is humming with activity. This church has a great reputation in the community. This church is well known as being a dynamic church, growing, busy, many deeds, okay? I know your deeds, and these deeds have a reputation for being great. Lots of good deeds, all these things. And yet Jesus looks and says, but I happen to know in the sight of God, you're dead. Your deeds look great. On the outside, you look great. On the outside, everybody thinks you're great. But on the inside, you've lost your inner reality. Wake up. What's this tell us? A couple of things. First of all, there are many, many churches in this country that talk like this. They say, it doesn't really matter so much what you believe as long as we are working to make the world a better place. Let's unite, say, many churches. In fact, some of these churches are the most popular churches in this city. and some of these churches are very popular with the media always because these churches look the most open-minded. They say, it doesn't matter what you believe. We have all sorts of beliefs in our church and there are a lot of people who don't really know what they believe and there are a lot of people who don't believe anything at all. That doesn't matter. The important thing is we unite to do good deeds. There's consensus among us that we need to do deeds of justice and deeds of compassion and deeds of mercy in this city All that's important. All that's important is the deeds. All that's important is that we do these good things for people. What we believe is a private thing. What we believe doesn't really make that much difference. That's a very, very popular kind of church today. The media love churches like that. You know, the media doesn't really think churches are good for anything unless they're doing good deeds. As far as instructing you on how to believe, as far as leading people into correct and right doctrine, The media looks at that, the mainstream media looks at that and says, give me a break. The only thing that churches are good for is doing good deeds. And plenty of people say, that's it. I want a church that's open-minded, that doesn't really lay out what you have to believe, kind of lets that to anybody's discretion, but we unite on good deeds, right? This is what Jesus is condemning. He says, your outer deeds, this church has got terrific deeds. This church obviously has a great reputation, but there's an inner reality that's missing. And God cares about what's going on in the heart. Oh, absolutely he does. And let's be logical about it. You know, people say, oh, those are great churches. It doesn't matter what they believe as long as they're doing good deeds. Try this out. Those of you who are married, turn around to your spouse and say, what do you really believe about me? What do you believe about me? What do you think of me? And what if your spouse says, well, you know, I don't really know what I think about you, but the important thing is I do whatever you ask me to do. I, you know, I do my chores. I take care of things that you've asked me to do. I mean, I do everything. I don't know exactly what I believe about you, but I do know that I do the things that you want me to do. That wouldn't be good enough because you say, ultimately, that's not a marriage. Being dutiful without a correspondent in a reality is not a marriage. And besides that, you'd be upset if your spouse said that to you, because you would know how long could those good deeds last with a confusion on the inside. Here's one of the great ironies. The churches that say, we don't really know what we believe, and we don't tell people how to believe. It's just our job to help people. In the long run, can't help people. You know, one of the most interesting things are the churches who say, we're here to help the poor, but we really don't care what people believe, as long as they're willing to help the poor. Have you ever noticed that the poor don't go to churches like that? The poor want churches that tell you what to believe. They want churches that know what they believe. They want churches that have an inner reality. That's kind of an ironic thing. The poor have always just been the most helped by churches that said, we know this and we know this about Jesus. The inner reality is necessary for the outer deeds anyway. What Jesus is really saying to this church is, you've got a lot of deeds, but you don't have an inner reality, and therefore you're like a tire without out air. Ultimately, you're going to go flat. Some of you realize, I don't know if this has ever happened to you, but sometimes a tire can be losing air, but it doesn't actually go until you stop at a stop sign. You're kind of moving along and you can tell there's something wrong. As soon as you actually come to a stop sign, it goes because your motion had been kind of artificially inflating it, but all along you've been losing air, all along you've been losing error. The outer deeds are necessary. I mean, pardon me, the outer deeds are there, but if you're losing your inner reality, if you're going to sleep spiritually, if you're getting confused about what you believe, eventually you're not going to have what you really need to do, Deeds. To really help people, you've got to know God loves you, or you'll never keep it up. To really be with people, to really make the sacrifices necessary, you've got to have an overflowing cup on the inside yourself. You can't give and give unless you're getting something from God. You just can't. To say, oh, the outer deeds are all that's important. Who cares about the inner reality? The inner reality is the fountain for the outer deeds. We all know that. And that's what Jesus is saying. But beyond that, he's saying something even, I think, even more drastic. He is saying these people, when he says you're dead, and then he says wake up, he is suggesting that these people are not non-Christians. Now, some people have read this and they have assumed, well, this must mean that this church are full of hypocrites. He doesn't say that. Instead, what he's saying is this, you're dead, wake up. Now, you don't tell a dead person to wake up. You tell a sleeping person to wake up. Jesus is mixing his metaphors here, and I think what he's doing, and this is one of these places where, you know, you do your best at trying to figure it out. You don't tell a dead person to wake up. Dead people need to be resurrected. Sleeping people need to be wakened. So the question is, are the people in Sardis dead or asleep spiritually? Are they non-believers? Are they dead as a doornail? Or are they believers who have forgotten who they are? And it's very clear, I think, which of the alternatives we're working with, because Jesus says, wake up, strengthen what remains as it's about to die, see? For I have not found your deeds complete, therefore remember what you received. Jesus is talking to people who receive something and who look like they're dying, but they're not dead. They're asleep. What does it mean to go asleep spiritually? Now, the reason we have to think about, I'm going to, I only have about five minutes to show you this, but I want you to realize what's, on the one hand, everybody in this room, no matter who you are, has to think about this individually, right? You've got to look at yourselves and say, am I asleep spiritually? But those of you who are members and friends, people who are part of the Redeemer community, you have to think about this at another level. Because Jesus is not talking simply to individual Christians. He's talking here to a corporate body of the church. And those of us who are part of the Redeemer community have to think at another level, we have to say, is it possible that a church could be sound in teaching, with a great reputation, with the reputation of being very alive and yet falling asleep spiritually? And the answer is absolutely. In fact, let's say that even though these letters are written to seven churches in Asia Minor, every one of these letters is written to all the churches of Christianity throughout the history. And in fact, I submit to you that all churches naturally go to sleep unless they're continually rousing themselves. I suggest to you that the only churches who are not asleep are the churches who are worried about their falling asleep. You have to assume that we're going to go to sleep. You're going to have to assume that we're going to forget what we first received. You have to assume that at the corporate level, repent as a body and say, we're forgetting what we were put here originally to do. Because we always will. Now, you know, I don't want to trivialize this, but frankly, it's not just true of churches. Any organization starts out with this great fiery burst because we're serving a cause, and we've got a mission. And over the years, they become institutions. And next thing you know, instead of serving a cause, you're simply serving the needs of the positions in the institution. It becomes institutionalized. You forget what you were built for. Churches are like that too, but it's especially heinous for churches to do this because the original mission, of course, is Jesus. We are, the book of Revelation says that churches are lampstands. Oh, what is a lampstand? A lampstand is something that holds up a lamp. We're not the lamp. Jesus is the lamp, but we're lampstands. We're supposed to be channels. city is supposed to look at us and say, so that's what Jesus is like. Isn't he beautiful? And I'll tell you something. Unless you're constantly assuming, unless the church is constantly assuming that it's falling asleep, assuming that it's losing that original sense of what we were here for, unless the church is continually going back to corporate repentance, a church will fall asleep. It doesn't matter. A church can be falling asleep long before its reputation begins to erode, you see. Churches do fall asleep, and not until years later does it start to catch up. For years beyond that, it's got the name of being a great church. All churches will fall asleep. Every two or three years, at least, a church needs to rouse itself. So you have to listen to what Jesus is saying here at both the individual and the corporate level. But here's what he's saying, and I conclude with this. To fall asleep means to be controlled by phantoms. You see, if I'm asleep and I'm dreaming about being in some idyllic, comfortable place, but my house is on fire. I need to wake up. I'm being controlled by my dreams, not by the reality. When I wake up, I'm being controlled by the reality, not the dreams. Do you understand? You see, when you're asleep, you cannot tell the phantom from the reality. Things that are insubstantial seem more substantial, and the things that are more substantial, seem insubstantial. If you're asleep, you might sort of hear your wife calling to you, you know, honey, get up. Everything's on fire. And you go, yeah, yeah, yeah. I hear you. Everything's on fire. Wake me in the morning. Now, what's that? You're asleep. What does that mean? You sort of get it, but you don't get it. The insubstantial is the substantial. The substantial is the insubstantial. All right. Let me tell you what it means to fall asleep spiritually. It means Jesus is not more real to you than anything else. You know what I know why you've got to come to worship? And I don't know how well we've done tonight. When you're in worship, Jesus gets more real. I tried to help you confess some sins tonight in the earlier part of the service, and I was using this basic dynamic. If you're worried, it's because Jesus' wisdom is not as real as your own. When Jesus' wisdom gets more real than your own, your worries are over. Okay, let me give you another example. Those of you who feel unworthy and guilty, like God could not forgive you and the things that you've done, you'll never live down, and you've been a failure, those of you who beat yourself all the time, your sins are more real than Jesus' death for your sins. Wake up! If you wake up, Jesus' death becomes more real than your sins. Jesus' love for you becomes more real than your failures. If you cannot feel confident, if you cannot feel forgiven. If you don't have the boldness of a clean conscience, it's because you're asleep. I might say to you, do you know that Jesus, I don't know how many times I've said, but Jesus loves you. Do you believe that? And people say, oh, I believe that, but it doesn't help. You know what you're like? You're like somebody, yeah, yeah, uh-huh, the house is on fire. Wake me in the morning. In other words, you're asleep. You don't really get it. And therefore, To wake up means you have got to use every means at your disposal. Not only prayer, not only Bible study, talking to Christians, attendance at worship, and seeking God to say, wake me up. If I'm worried, it's because when you get really awake, His wisdom becomes more real than your wisdom. Get over your low self-esteem, His death and love for you becomes more real your failures. Or I'll give you one more. Some of you are having trouble with self-control. When you're really awake, Jesus' standards and what he thinks matters much more than what the experts say and what your peers think. Oh, a lot of you are afraid to be covenantally relating to Jesus because you're afraid of what people are going to think. You're afraid you're going to miss out. You're afraid of what it's going to look like. Wake up. What Jesus thinks has got to be more real than what anybody else thinks. And so what it means to wake up is to let Jesus become more real, is to realize, is to rouse yourself, is to rouse one another. And that's the reason why repentance and worship is a continual thing, why it can never be done, why it can never be over. And here's the great irony. Unless you know you're missing God, you will miss God. See, it's only the church and the Christian that's constantly saying, I'm missing God, that ever finds God. It's only the church that says, We're losing our first love that ever keeps their first love. It's only the Christian in the church that says, We're not being what we ought to be that ever becomes what we ought to be. that's the beauty of it, that's the irony, it's in repentance that Jesus gets more real the only way to greatness is repentance, the only way to keep your inner reality is constant repentance, and I tell you repentance does not make you feel worse about yourself, repentance does not make you feel depressed Jesus says, go back to what I first gave you, what you first received and repent, and then what'll happen, you'll walk in white robes, what does all that mean I'll give you a crown. What does all that mean? I'll give you the morning star. What does all that mean? I don't know, but it's great. It's wonderful. It's just Jesus' way of saying, you have no idea. When you repent, my love and power explodes into your life. Repentance releases my love and power. That's what the morning star means. That's what all these great things mean. That's what the crown means. Keep up your inner reality. Don't let yourself go to sleep. Don't say, I believe these things. Is God's love real to you? Do you sense him in your prayer time? Don't let yourself lose that inner reality. Don't, don't, don't. Or Jesus might come to you at some point and say, everybody thinks you're a live Christian, but you're dead, or at least you're deeply asleep. Wake up. I know some of you really need to hear this tonight. I know it because Christians are always either falling asleep or asleep or just awakened. And I got to figure that no more than a third of you, and there's only three possibilities, no more than a third of you have just sort of awakened. I mean, that's the way Christian life is. Some of you need to hear this. People on the outside think you're really quite a strong Christian on the inside, you know that there's a deadness. You know there's a stagnation. You know there's a lack of reality. It'll catch up to you. You who have ears, listen what the Spirit is saying to the churches. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have spoken to us through your Word. We thank you that the Spirit does speak to churches. We pray that you'd help us to apply this to ourselves as a church, to Redeemer, Father, we thank you that we have, in many ways, a good reputation, certainly a reputation for being lively and vital. But Lord, we know that smugness is never in order, and we know that churches have constantly got to be taken back to their original vision, back to their original roots, back to the gospel. We have to be constantly thinking and looking at that. We pray, Lord, that we would not lose our inner reality. And I pray for a number of people who are here, though I they are, I know that there has to be a good scattering of folks who, though on the outside, people think that they're really together. People think that they're quite strong in their beliefs, but they know on the inside that there's a deadness and there's an emptiness, and it might lead to very bad things. We pray, Lord, that you would make yourself known to them, that you would shake them up, that you would show them that they need to seek you, seek your face until your reality becomes real again to them. So, Father, help us to hear what the Spirit is saying to the churches. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.

