Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they will see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when men insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. This ends the reading of God's Word. Unfortunately, I again am going to fall back in my schedule because I was supposed to today, as you can see by the outline, cover three Beatitudes. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. And the problem was that I was so overwhelmed as I was studying this week, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, that's all we're going to handle today. Blessed are the pure in heart. Listen, the Beatitudes, again, are about how to find and enjoy new life in Christ. That's what they're about. out. And it's interesting to me that Jesus tells us, you're born again in order to see and enter the kingdom of God. Now, in modern American discourse, the word born again has a peculiar meaning today. It means a certain kind of religion, right? A born-again Christian is a term used, I think, in ordinary American English. Born-again Christian means a certain kind of Christian,

a little bit off to the side. That's the kind of Christian we're talking about. And that would amaze Jesus Christ. Because what Jesus has said himself in the book of John is that's the only kind of Christian there is. Is a born again Christian. But listen. When we think about being born again. One of the reasons why people put the born again thing as a kind of a category. Is because very often when we think about being born again. We think of a sudden. emotional experience, which it can be, but we must be very careful. To be born again, biblically, is to have the Holy Spirit implanted in your heart. That's what it means to be born again. If there's a point at which the Bible tells us that God himself comes and takes his Holy Spirit, which is his own life, his own nature, his own power, and pushes it into you, into your own soul where it begins to germinate like a seed. And up comes all kinds of blossoms and fruit that only a supernatural and divine seed could possibly bring forth. But now, there's more than one way to plant a seed, you know. The Bible tells us that our hearts, that our souls, are like incredibly hard ground. How do you plant a seed in unbelievably hard ground? How do you do that? There's a couple of ways at least. There's actually a whole number of ways, but they are between these two poles. On the one hand, you can be very slow about it, and you can irrigate the land. You can sprinkle water on it, or you can softly sprinkle it. Put a sprinkler out there and do everything you possibly can to really soften up the ground. It may take a good deal of time. But if you've done a good job, and it's finally done after a long period of time, it takes no violence at all, does it, to put that seed in there. You just come out there with a seed, and you push it right on in there. No force, no particular violence. it's done. Now, the other extreme is you get out your pickaxe, you know, and you bring it down with a great big shot. And it just, you know, it shatters the surface. And some big slab comes on up. And then you take your seat. And you stick it in there. And then you break the slab up a little bit. And you put it back down on there. And you've planted it. Just like that. Violence. Some of us are pickaxe kind of people. Some of us are, you know, water kind of people. people, God can do the same thing. Some people, God prepares over a long period of time, watering, you see, preparing, softening, over a period of time, and the actual moment in which he sticks the seed in is virtually undetectable because of that. In other situations, God brings the pickaxe down on you, and where you were tremendously hard and very difficult and very unhappy in some way, all of a sudden there's this dramatic change and up comes the slab and suddenly you're born again. And you see, in both cases, the planting of the seed actually takes a moment. Right? The planting of the seed itself is not a process. And in the same way, being born again is not really a process because you either are dead or you're alive. You either don't have the spirit of God or you do have the spirit of God. But the process, the whole process of planting that seed long or it can be short. And some of us, you know, hear testimonies about pickaxe kind of born-again people, and we say, oh, I don't, I didn't experience that. In fact, it happened somewhere in here, and I don't know when God slipped the seed in because he was watering and so on. And we get hung up on the form instead of the content. The content of being born again is we're ushered into the kingdom of God. The whole point of being born again is to come into the kingdom of God under the power of the King. In the same way, a door is the way into the house. And only a fool, no matter how beautiful the door is, sits around and just looks at that door. The whole point of the door is to get into the house. Right. I mean, the door sits there and says, thank you very much. But by sitting here and staring at me and living here inside me, you know, you're really missing my point. I'm not built to shelter people. I'm not built to sit around. I'm not built to sleep in. I'm not built to live in. I'm just a doorway. So why are you standing here? And some people get so hung up on the experience about being born again and whether I've had the right experience or not. And they missed the whole point. Being born again, Jesus says, gets us into the kingdom of God. And what does that mean? It brings us in under the administration of the king. And whenever you come in under the administration of a new mayor or of a new governor, a new president, a new head of your department, if he's really good or if she's really good, what happens is things change. and the department blossoms, and the team blossoms, and the city blossoms. But when you come in under the administration of the king of the universe, there's a change that's more radical than any other change you could possibly experience. It's a complete change in every area of life. And that's what the Beatitudes are describing. So, for example, last week we talked about how an experience of God's mercy utterly transforms everything about our relationships. Relationships. Today, being pure in heart gives us another view into the radically altered lifestyle of someone in the kingdom of God. And in this case, what Jesus is saying is something really strange and very far-reaching. When he says, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, he's saying not just your relationships are changing and not just your behavior is changing, but you're changing psychically. You're changing psychologically. You're changing, you have an entirely new internal life, a new internal life. He says here many things, and we ought to just take a look at it. What does it mean to be pure in heart? This is something that only Christians can know, because the Beatitudes are all about people who are in the kingdom. Now, let's take a look at it under this heading. First of all, what is purity of heart? What is purity of heart? That's the first thing. Well, the word, this purity of heart thing tells us that Christianity is essentially not about reformation. It's about transformation. It's not about just changing your behavior and changing your mind. Of course it does that. But it's about something more radical than that. Because you see, you can change your mind and you way of living for bad motives. It's possible to change your heart, to change your mind, and to change your way of living without really a change of heart. Because you can change a religion. You can change your moral standards out of a desire to look better than other people. Out of a desire simply for honor or for glory. Out of a desire just for a little bit of peace. When the Bible talks about Christianity, it talks about a totally new heart. Now, unfortunately, the English word heart means emotions, doesn't it? And we talk about heart as opposed to the head. That's not the way the Bible ever talks about the heart. The Bible says the heart is the root. It's the radix. You know the Latin word radix from which we get our word radical? It's the bottom of things. It's the thing out of which everything else flows, your thoughts and your feelings and your actions. It's the fountain motives. It's the bottom of things in you. What are you really after? What do you really think? What do you really feel? What do you really do? What are you really after? Your fountain motives. And the Bible tells us that purity of heart is the mark of real Christianity. Yes, your life has changed. Yes, your thinking has changed. Yes, your behavior has changed. Even your feelings have changed. But it's possible to have all those changes without a change of heart. And the change of heart that they're talking about here is purity of heart. Now, what is purity of heart? I'll tell you. One of the reasons I wanted to explain this is because when you see the word purity of heart, it's so vague and it's so unreachable, isn't it, that it can be discouraging. You say, purity of heart. It sounds like a general kind of moral perfection. Who's going to get there? But the word purity means something more specific than that. The word purity means single. The word purity means unmixed, single, as opposed to singleness, as opposed to duplicity. What it's really talking about is something, those of you who happened to be at the seminar yesterday on stress and problems are going to be surprised at this. Every place in the Old Testament that talks about purity of heart, it means a heart purified from idols. idols. See, for example, Psalm 24 says, who may ascend to the God's holy hill and who may dwell in his holy place? He who has a clean hand and a pure heart who does not lift up his soul to an idol. Or Ezekiel says, I will sprinkle you and cleanse you from your impurities and your idolatries, Ezekiel 36. And in the New Testament, in the book of Hebrews, it says in a very startling way, Draw near to him with your heart sprinkled clean from a bad conscience and from dead works. Now, listen, please, here's one of those places where you can't go to sleep. Just give me, you know, a couple of minutes. You have to follow the thinking. The Old Testament and the New Testament together say purity of heart means purified from idols and purified from a bad conscience and dead works. Now, let me give a quick recap of what we actually covered in this seminar yesterday. An idol is something in your life which is very good but has become the enemy of the best. An idol is something that's good but it's become an enemy of the best because it has become your security. It has become something that you live for and there can be many idols. If your idol is power, that means your life loses meaning unless you're on top. And the greatest fear of your life that haunts you is losing. You're a competitive person. You've got to be on top. Then your life loses meaning if this person or if these kinds of people aren't loving you. And your greatest fear and nightmare. You don't care if you lose a game here or there. But it's rejection. If your idol is control. There's so many idols. If your idol is control. That means that you feel the need to be living up to your standards. And the greatest fear you've got. Is that a failure. Idols are good things. There's nothing wrong with standards. There's nothing wrong with love. There's nothing wrong with competition. There's nothing wrong with excellence. and striving for achievement. But when those things become more important to you, and when they become your security, when they become your identity, they become idols. Why does the Old Testament say you have to be purified from idols, and the New Testament says you must purify your heart from dead works? They're the same thing. Because idols are a way for us to stay in control of our lives. You see, if you come to worship the true God, he says, the only way you can know no happiness is if you serve me completely. So you lose control, don't you? You have to give up the control of your life. But you see, these idols are ways, you think, to stay in control of your life and still find meaning. Because you say, well, I can find meaning if I am good enough, if I am loved enough, if I am controlled enough. And as a result, you're actually seeking to be your own God. You're actually seeking to be your own Savior. You're actually seeking to be accepted through your own striving and your own, what the Bible calls, dead works. And underneath, some of us are getting to our idols and some of us are not. Some of us are making it pretty much in those areas that we really want to achieve in. And some of us are not. But underneath, we all have a bad conscience. Because underneath, we all know we're all insecure. And we all know we're not quite making it. Or we're afraid we're going to make it. And there's an insecurity there. And there's a weakness there. The Bible says a pure heart is somebody who has recognized their idols and has ditched them. A pure heart is somebody who has come and has seen that I no longer can live my own life and I no longer can be my own savior and has come and said, I throw the idols out. God, you are my center. You see, God comes to us and we're all idolaters, the Bible says. And we all need to have our hearts sprinkled pure from idols. and from dead works. God comes and says, look at the pressure you're under. Look at the burden you're under. Always striving so hard. If you're ugly, or if you're not loved, or if you don't get this promotion, or if you don't get in this program, your life will be shattered. And you know it. Because these things are your gods. And it's your way of staying in control of your life. And you're under a terrible burden. Oh, friend. God says, my burden is light. And my burden is simply. You worship me. Admit your sin. Admit you've tried to be your own master. And give up worshiping. Or trusting anything else. And receive my son as savior. And let him be your savior. And not your own works. And then your conscience. Will be sprinkled clean. Your heart. Will be sprinkled clean. You will find a freedom. You will find a lack of guilt. You'll find a joy. My burden. Is light. And that's what God says. In the gospel. And that's what a pure heart. Is. What's a pure heart? It's a heart that has ditched the idols. Now, if you think I'm exaggerating, you know, the great artists know. I was reading, again, this novel by Albert Camus, The Fall. And in The Fall, his central character, Clement, says this, Because I longed for eternal life, I went to bed with harlots, and I drank for nights on end. I soared in bliss, and I awoke with the bitter taste of the mortal state. You know, Camus, would say he's no believer, but he's an artist, and all the great artists know the facts. And the facts are, the reason we go after all these things is that we long for eternal life, but we always wake up with the mortal taste in our mouth. I mean, you don't have to be as highfalutin as that. I remember talking, Kathy would remember who this person is, I remember talking years ago, back in that little town in Virginia to a guy named Gilbert. And Gilbert's mom was in the church, and she was, you know, she always made, you know, he was a three children. Basically, he was a musician who went around to all the little bars and honky-tonks in the area and slept with any women who happened to throw themselves at him that night. And one time I was talking to him, and he says, listen, I know what you're going to tell me. You're going to tell me that all I need is God. Well, it's not true. I'm restless. I need women. Don't give me that stuff. Now, there's a lot of things I could say to him, but essentially I said this. what you're telling me is that you need women. That's why you're restless. You're still restless. Why? You've had all the sex in the world and you're still restless. Don't you see? You're saying to me that you're just made of earth. And I'm saying to you that you're made of heaven too. And the reason I understand your restlessness is, listen, I've got as good a marriage as I know. And I know that won't fill me up. And unless you're willing to give God access to your inmost self, which is what your heart is. Center your life on God. Unless you're willing to do that,

instead you'll just coast on the contentment you've got and you'll become a mediocre person without passion, without principle, and eventually you'll run out of road. Because what he was doing was, he was saying exactly what Clemens said, I soared in bliss, but I woke with a mortal taste in my mouth. Purity of heart means, I do not lift up my soul to an idol. And purity of heart means then this, Here's what we get down to. Let me give you a couple of tests. I've just told you what purity of heart is. Let's talk a little bit about how you know you've got one. Don't forget, I'm not talking about a perfect heart. I'm talking about what the Bible says, a pure heart, a heart that has made a decision in a sense and said, I know what my center is and I know what the idols are in my life and I'm after God. I'm after the real God, the true God, the only God that won't enslave me. The only God whose burden is light. Now, how do you know whether you made that decision or not? Here's a couple of tests. You want a few? That's all some of you students say I need is another test, but these are important. For example, remember this. The heart is the seat of the whole personality, the Bible says. And that means the heart is the seat of the mind, the will, and the emotions. And for you to tell whether or not you've got heart religion, whether you're really a believer, whether you're really in the kingdom, is there a balance about your religion? Is your religion only intellectual, and there's almost no passion and no real change in your behavior? Or is it only emotional? So you're getting all kinds of great feelings, but it hasn't changed the way you live. You ask somebody who you know, and it hasn't, you know, or is it only volitional? It's dutiful. You do the right thing. You do the commandments, but when it comes to your mind growing all the time and your heart just lifted up to God. There's no emotional and intellectual component, only a volitional component. If you're only volitional in your religion, only emotional or only intellectual, you don't have the heart engaged. Okay? Let me give you another test. So the first test is balance, and there's only one more test that I got for you. The second test is the niceness versus newness test. And I love this theme. You know, C.S. Lewis says, God is not out, Christianity is not out to make nicer people, but new people. Put it another way, Christianity is not here to make a better, to make human beings better. Christianity is here to create an entirely new model of human beings. And put it one more way, Christians are not just faster caterpillars, they're butterflies. flies. Now, let me just suggest this. A lot of people who are religious do not have a pure heart. They don't have a new heart. Their religion exists or resides in externals as opposed to having this newness of heart. There's an organic vitality, an internal heart life of the soul, of the spirit. How can you tell whether you've got that or not? Let me just give you, second test, niceness or newness, let me give you a couple of subtests under this test. Okay, well, this is like a Puritan sermon, five sub points under seven points under... Look, nice people don't grow. New people do. Let me give you another one. Nice people have no hope for failures. New people always do. Nice people can be insulted. New people can't. okay would you like me to explain or you understand that already look nice people grow don't grow new people grow nice people their attitude toward truth is like this here's the truth i believe it i applaud it i adhere to it i support it but new people try to come under the power of it and they do you see colossians 3 16 says let the word of christ dwell in you richly What does that mean? A new person, a person with newness of heart. When they hear the word of God. When you hear the word of God. You say, oh. I've got to get myself together. I've got to do something about that. I've got to make that more part of myself. It comes on in. It changes. It transforms you. You come in under the power of it. Nice people can rack up good works. They just do good works. They do this good work. And this moral action. And this good work. And you might say. nice people sort of grow like a pile of rocks grows by throwing rocks on it. I mean, the pile of rocks is growing, but there's nothing organic about it. But new people sense serendipity. That means new people are surprised by what God is doing in their lives. They find themselves not just doing good deeds, but growing deeper, growing wiser, growing humbler, and always being surprised by the things that are happening. You know, Martin Luther and John Wesley, extremely religious people years. They were nice people for years. And they racked up all kinds of tremendous good deeds. They did all sorts of things. But there was no organic newness about their heart. It was simply dead works. It was simply going through the motions. And then they were converted. And the minute they came into the kingdom of God, they found themselves growing wiser and deeper. Nice people are nice. But new people grow. That's how you tell newness of heart. That's how you Here's another subtest under the test. We said, nice people have no hope for failures, and new people do. You see, listen, nice people basically think of religion like this. Religion means summoning up all of your courage and power to be a decent chap, as they would say in London, or be an okay guy, as they would say in New York, or Brooklyn, more like Brooklyn probably, you know, or just being a moral, decent, orderly person. ones up everything. You get it together. You see the standards. You try to make the world a better place to live. And that's that. And what if a person has done everything they can to do that and repeatedly failed? Well, what does a nice person have to say to them? There's nothing you can say, is there? You say, tough. You're one of those. Because nice people divide the world into two categories. The nice people and the bad people. But new people divide the world into two categories. the renewed people and the renewable people. And that's all there are. And new people know that no matter how good looking they might have been and sort of together looking on the outside they were, they know on the inside there was emptiness and there was grasping and there was some despair. And they know God has done a total renovation on them. And as a result, they do not have low expectations for anybody else. They have high expectations. Because they read Matthew 11, where John the Baptist sends a messenger. and Jesus says, go back to John and tell him, the lame walk, the blind see, the lepers are cleansed, and the poor have good news preached to them. And what is he saying? He says, the way you can tell real Christianity, the way you can tell I'm the Christ, is I renew the hard cases, you see. I love getting into the hard cases, Jesus says. And anyone who's new has unbelievably high expectations for the hard cases, for the difficult neighborhoods, for the difficult lives, for the difficult situations. And if you don't have those expectations, and if you don't expect to see God do big things in your life, you're probably nice and not new. One more. Nice and new. Nice people can be insulted. New people can't. Why? Well, nice people can be insulted because nice people, though they know they're not supposed to brag, and they know they're not Nice people are proud. Nice people basically believe, I'm a decent person. I've worked hard. I've done my job. I'm doing a pretty good job. And as a result, you can insult somebody like that. But a new person knows this. A new person is not always... A new-hearted person is someone who says, I am what I am strictly by the grace of God. And as a result, what I am, you could be too. and therefore, this is the neat thing, a person who has newness of heart is not standing on his own dignity, not always looking at himself. You can't insult him because he knows he is a cosmic joke. He knows he's like the 1969 Mets. We shouldn't have won the World Series, but we did, and we might as well have a good time. You see, a new, listen, a real Christian says, says, this is incredible, this is ludicrous, me, a Christian. It doesn't make sense. Why am I a Christian? I shouldn't be. I don't deserve to be, but I am. And I'm laughing at myself. I'm laughing tears of joy, but it's taken me forever off my pedestal. You see, newness of heart people are people who are very down to earth. They've been taken off their pedestal forever. They're laughing at themselves. And they say, it's incredible. I've won, but I didn't deserve it. But I have. I've got the crown. Newness of heart is seen in that you grow. Newness of heart is seen in that you what? You have high expectations. Newness of heart can be seen in that you're a warm, approachable person taken off your pedestal. You can't be insulted. Well, here, to finish, Finish. Blessed are the pure in heart. What's the result? For they shall see God. You know, what is that? Oh, all that is the capstone of human existence. All that is the thing you were made for. There was a philosopher in Switzerland named Karl Jaspers some years ago that taught that there was a final experience that if you had it would make sense out of life. And you know, at one point, some of his students got a hold of the idea that maybe the final experience happens the minute you die. And they were so desperate to have it that some of them tried to commit suicide. And he had to get up and talk to all of his people. And he had to say, listen, listen, there's no way we know that the final experience happens before we die. These folks were so desperate to have an experience that made meaning out of life. Now, Christians do not laugh at that. We don't belittle that. Why? Because we know that we all need that, and we know what that experience is. It's there in the Aaronic Benediction. May the Lord bless you and keep you. May the Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you. May the Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon you, which will give you what? Peace, shalom, utter blessing, utter fulfillment. fulfillment. There was a movie I saw years ago, old movie, about a piano player, a world-class pianist, who when he was at, this is a very old movie, black and white, and I can't remember where it came from, but it's amazing, a parable. He was sitting at the piano playing and somebody attacked him and tried to kill him. But it turned out that they didn't actually kill him. And when he recovered, he had absolute amnesia. No one knew who he was. He didn't know who he was. And he wandered around for a long time without any purpose in life, not knowing. And whenever he got near a piano, he had this strange feeling of both fear and longing. Fear because he remembers, you know, at some deep level, he realized that's the place he almost was killed. But longing because he was a tremendous piano player. And one day, he overcomes his fear and sits down at the piano, even though he doesn't know why. He's an unhappy man, no meaning in life, doesn't know who he is, And he suddenly begins to play. And to his absolute shock. It's natural. It's like what he was built for. All kinds of things. That have been bottled up. Inside of him. That could only be expressed. Through this gift. Start tumbling out. And tears are streaming. Down his face. That's what it means. To know God. Face to face. We were all built for that. We all. Long for that. We're afraid. God, to come to see him face to face is to purify your heart. And a lot of us say, no, I can't do that. I don't want to look like a jerk to give my life to Christ like that. I'm afraid I won't be able to do this or do that or do this. I don't want to purify my heart. Then you'll be like that piano player, so restless, so bottled up. Friends, are you nice or are you new? Or are you neither You see, let me suggest this. Some of you are nice, and you might not like what I said today, because I'm saying it's not good enough. And your niceness is no different, frankly, than the rags of the person in the street. Your respectability means nothing before God. You have got to purify your heart. You've got to go and say, I don't trust in my own dead works anymore, but I give my life to you, and I ask that Jesus Christ would be my Savior, and I ask for his sake. Now unless you do that, you're lost. And you know, if you don't like me saying that, if you say, oh what a primitive thing to say, why would you listen to what God says in here about love and bliss and not about danger? It's not enough to be new. Humble yourself under his hand and you'll be exalted. Some of you are neither. And some of you are out there saying, you know what, if you really knew what I was like, I look okay on the outside. If you knew the stuff I was doing or the stuff I have done or what I'm in. You wouldn't want to have anything to do with me. And you're forgetting I'm new and you can be new. And I know this, that Jesus Christ says, I love the blind. I love the lame. I love the lepers. I love the poor. I'm attracted to them. I love to show forth my glory in you first. And that's the reason why John Newton says, Hear him, ye deaf, his praise, ye dumb, your loosened tongues employ. Hold your Savior. Come and leap, Elaine, for joy. Are you nice? Repent. Are you new? Repent. Why? Because those of you who are new realize you're not new enough, right? Is there anything about your life that's really unaccountable right now that people cannot account for? Changes that are going on. The humility and warmth we talked about. The big expectations. Let's face it. All of us who know we're new, our hearts are purified. They're not purified enough. it ought to be, because if it was, this city wouldn't be the same. Isn't that what we long for? How do we become newer? Don't forget, this newness comes from the kingdom. Go to the throne. Treat Jesus as a king. Let's pray.