In your bulletin, you'll find the passage on which the teaching's based. It's printed out. It's the parable of the wedding feast. At least, it's Matthew's version. Matthew 22, 1 to 14. Very different, by the way, than the parallel version in Luke. In Luke, the king sends people into the country to find his guests. In Matthew, he sends the people into the heart of the city. And that's why we're reading Matthew 22 this morning. Jesus spoke to them again in parables, saying,

But they paid no attention and went off. One to his field, another to his business. And the rest seized his servants, mistreated them, and killed them. The king was enraged. He sent his army and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. Then he said to the servants, The wedding banquet is ready, but those I invited did not deserve to come. Go to the street corners and invite to the banquet anyone you find. So the servants went out into the streets and gathered all the people they could find, and the wedding hall was filled with guests. But when the king came in to see the guests, he noticed a man there who was not wearing wedding clothes. Friend, he asked, how did you get in here without wedding clothes? The man was speechless. Then the king told the attendants, tie him hand and foot and throw him outside into the darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are invited, but few are chosen. This is God's word. Now, we need mercy. A very recent, George, very recent, just read about it yesterday, I think, in the paper. George Gallup recently released a poll that he took, an extensive poll, of what Americans thought were going to be the biggest issues they faced when they died. And Gallup pointed out that 42%, or almost half, really, of Americans said faced when they were going to die, as they considered what it meant to die, 42% said that they were very, very anxious, very worried, very concerned about whether God would forgive them or not. Now, one of the things that I think is ironic about that is that almost for sure, the 42% who are most worried and most feel the need for God's mercy are probably the people who have lived the least selfish lives. The best lives. Lincoln. Is relatively speaking. A good man. And because he's a good man. He knows. About his flaws. Abraham Lincoln. And therefore. He. Cries out for mercy. Hitler. Is a bad man. And therefore. He doesn't know. About his flaws. And he doesn't see. The need for mercy. So. The great irony. Of the Gallup poll. Is. If. Almost. Half. The. People. Believe. That. They're. And. They're. Worried. They. Don't. Know. Whether. They're. Going. To. have mercy from God. The half of the people who most want mercy are probably the half, if anything, who need it the least. And the people who don't feel the need for mercy always, we can see this just by comparing Abraham Lincoln to Adolf Hitler, the people who are the least aware of their need for mercy are usually the ones who most need it. And what that means is we need mercy. Now, how does the mercy of God come to us? And this passage tells us that the mercy of God comes in three forms and in three ways. You see, it mentions up at the very top that he's saying this. It says, Jesus spoke to them again. Now, you have to go all the way back into chapter 21 to find out who the them is. The them are the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees and the teachers Jesus and say, by what authority are you doing all these things? And what they mean is this. Say, we paid the price. We earned our way to the top of the religious pecking order through moral scrupulosity and doctrinal punctiliousness and approval of all the right committees. And we've earned our place. Who do you think you are to come in and do all this? And Jesus looks at them and says, this reminds me of a story. and he says, do you think the kingdom of God is a meritocracy? Absolutely not. If anything, it's a mercyocracy. The kingdom of God runs completely on mercy and here's how you get it. Mercy comes, according to this parable, in three forms. In fact, it comes in three stages. It comes as a call, as a covering, and as a feast. Okay, first of all, first of all, see is mercy is a call. You have here in verses 1 to 4 to 5, we see that originally the king, who has a son and is going to throw this tremendous banquet, it would be a once-in-a-lifetime experience, he sends his messengers out to who? Now look carefully. It says he sends them out, verse 4, then he sends some more, pardon me, verse 3, he sent his servants to those who had been invited to the banquet to tell them to come. Now notice carefully, they'd already been invited. Well, wait a minute. Why was he inviting them again? Well, you see, it took weeks to prepare a banquet like this. And it also took days to come to a banquet like this. The banquets take days. So these are people who had already said yes. They'd already been invited. They'd already made reservations. They'd already been invited. And now the messengers were simply going out to announce it's time to get dressed and to come. Get on your clothes and come. And they don't. Now, before we go on, let me just... We don't have much time today, so let me just bring it home to your hearts for a second. You know who he's talking to? He's talking to the religious insiders when he says this. When you were baptized, you said, I'm coming, but have you come? See? When you join the church, you say, I'm coming, but have you come? Every time you take the Lord's Supper, do you know what you're doing when you take the Lord's Supper? You're receiving an invitation and you're making a reservation. You're saying, I'm coming. But have you come? Think of the prayer you made the last time you were in trouble and you said, I would do this. You said, I'm coming. But have you come? What does it mean to come? Well, it's pretty simple. Are you sitting down at the king's table? Are you rejoicing in his dainties? Are you rejoicing in his love? Are you experiencing it? You see? Are you rejoicing in him with all of your heart? Think of it. These are people who are religious insiders, and a lot of us are religious insiders. A lot of us, we're baptized, we take the Lord's Supper. A lot of us are officers. You've said you're coming, but have you come? These people never come. Now, why not? The reason they don't come is they say in verse 5, interestingly enough, in verse 5, it says that they decided that what they had, their business, their field, they went off to what they had. And literally, verse five says, they didn't care. They saw what was offered. They didn't think it was as good as what they had. And so they were indifferent. But verse six shows us that underneath the indifference was a hostility because we see here that the rest seized his servants and mistreated them and killed them. And if you think verse seven is a really kind of extreme, Think about it. If we had a U.S. embassy in a foreign land, those are servants, representatives. And what if the embassy was stormed one night and everybody in it was slaughtered? Would you think that it would be excessive to go to war? Of course not. That is an act of war. And see, what we're being told here is you can be a person who on the outside has said, I'm coming. You may be baptized. in a formal way, but on the inside, there is no feasting. There is no delighting. There really is no coming. There's no coming, and that indifference is not really just an indifference. It's actually a way of saying, nobody, nobody can tell me how to run my life. The call. Now, before we move on to the second part, kingdom of heaven starts off this way. Anybody who does come, comes because they're called. These people don't come. Later on, another group of people come who do come. They're called and they do come. But the first point is that nobody comes to the king's feast unless they're called. If you or I do good things, and if we act in good faith, it's always the result of a complex interplay between God's calling and our response. The first group get a call. They don't respond. The second group get a call. They do respond. But there's no group, no group, no group, whoever responds without a call. You see that? And what that means is you have a test to see whether or not you've experienced the mercy of God or not. There's a lot of religious people. There's a lot of people having spiritual experiences out there. I'm reading about it in the papers all the time. Aren't you? Here's one of the ways we know whether or is our authentic Christian experience. Anybody who's experienced the mercy of God, anybody who has come to Jesus, knows it wasn't your idea. Anybody who says, I decided for Christ, within seconds, at least within minutes, within hours, certainly not long after that, you come to realize you were decided upon. And therefore, the most important first point here, the important first point is, is one of the ways in which you know you've had the mercy of God in your life is that you know this. "'Tis not that I did choose thee, for, Lord, that could not be. This heart would still refuse thee, hadst thou not chosen me." You know it. You realize that he'd been drawing you over and over, repeatedly. You know that. You experience that. You say, you know, ultimately, it wasn't so much that I came to him. I thought I was, but after I found him, I found out he was drawing me. Now, before we move on, let me apply that a little bit. This text tells us that even though some people are called and they don't come, and some people are called and they do come, nobody ever comes without being called. Nobody. So there's a warning and a comfort. Here's the warning. There's a lot of you here that are still trying to figure out what to believe about Christianity. I mean, this is, can I give you a typical profile? Sorry. But I've been here a long time now. scores of you, maybe hundreds of you, who are here today, and somebody brought you, and you had some kind of religious background, but now you're here, and you're starting to try to reassess Christianity and what you believe, and you're feeling a tug. You're feeling a spiritual tug. You're feeling a call. Good. He's patient, and you mustn't come precipitously. You mustn't come without understanding. You mustn't come without counting the cost. But do you see? Don't postpone indefinitely. And here's why. You really are incapable of coming when you want. In other words, a person mustn't say, well, it's pretty interesting, this Christianity, maybe next year. You can't come when you want. Look, when somebody says, I've got a meal, this is the image here. I've got a meal. You say, well, I think I'll come next month. It won't be there next month. You can only come to a meal when you're called. You see? You can only come to a banquet when it's being thrown. You can't just say, I think I'll come to your banquet next month. But it won't be there then. For someone to say, I would like to have God, but I'm not sure I want to have God right now. I'll come later. You won't want to come later. The one thing that you're experiencing right now is his mercy. You're giving yourself too much credit. A dead man doesn't suddenly say, I think I'll get up. If a person says, I think I'm dead, they're not. If they're not, it's because something has put life in them. If your dead spiritual sensibility is beginning to wake up, it's only because God is at your elbow and he's doing something. And don't be like Augustine, who said, Lord, make me pure. But after I got to know that little number that just started working at the office, Lord, make me pure, but not yet, he said. Listen, think of the inappropriateness of it. If there's a God, he created the universe. If there's a God, he created a universe that is filled with billions of stars and solar systems and Milky Ways and galaxies, and he holds it all together with the word of his power, his pinky. And if he is calling you, you don't say to somebody like that, wait, you come when I call you. How dare you? I mean, see, see, listen, I'm not proving there is a God. I'm just trying to say if there is a God, you must come when he calls. To say, I'm not going to come until I'm ready is essentially to make up your mind ahead of time of the thing you said you're thinking about. That is, you're acting as if there is no God or a God of your own making. Who cares about a God of your own making? That person, that God can't possibly save you. If there's a real God, you have to come when he calls. That's the warning. There's a comfort though. And the comfort is,

I'm especially speaking to those of you who worry that you're not going to keep your Christian life up. Don't you see? When a person says, I worry so much that I'm not going to be able to keep this life up. It's been so hard to do it right. And lately I've been struggling. And lately I've been falling down. And maybe when the Lord's Supper comes around, some of you are going to say, I don't know. I don't know if I'm even going to be able to keep it up. I've been subject to temptation. I feel like I'm going to fall. Don't forget this. every bit of your Christian life, all your good desires, even the fear you've got right now is a gift from him. And you know, one of the reasons why we're not more aware of how much he loves us is we actually give ourselves too much credit. We forget this doctrine of the call. We think, here I am scared that maybe I'll lose God's love. But it's only by God's love that you would be scared. tired. You're not getting his mercy by keeping up. You're keeping up only by his mercy. And what I'm trying to say to some of you is if the doctrine of the call is true, some of you need to rejoice for a change. Some of you need to strive to enter into his rest. Isn't that weird? Strive to enter into his rest. I mean, that's in the Bible. Strive to enter into to his rest. How could that be? Yes, you have to work to stop working. You have to be worried about only one thing, that you're too worried. It's his mercy which called you. The great things in your life are not there either through luck or by performance, and therefore you can stop your worry. Now, mercy comes through a call. You have to respond. But you see, mercy is a call. Secondly, mercy is a covering. And this, boy, the reason that we're looking at these controversies during the Christmas season is because everybody, the doctrine of Christmas is that Jesus was not just born, he came. He wasn't just, Jesus wasn't just born. The doctrine of Christmas is that he existed before he was born. He's the only person that ever has. And therefore he came, and he came with a message. And that message is continually misunderstood. And all through the New Testament, you will see, if you look carefully, that the libertines thought he was a fundamentalist, and the fundamentalists thought he was a liberal. And the reason for this is because the gospel does not fit into any human category. And so he was always arguing to try to thread the needle and there's no place where he threads the needle better than this. You don't see it so much in the first part, but in the second part of the parable, which many commentators actually, they're so obtuse to the meaning of it that they don't believe that Jesus ever said it. I'll show you why. Look carefully. carefully. It looks like what the king does is he changes his standards. The first group of people that were invited were landowners. See verse 5? They were landowners. They were out there. They were the kind of people you invite to a royal wedding. But now he says to the servants, let's change our strategy. Let's go out. And he says to the street corners. Now that's an awkward translation, and it's because it's an awkward statement. The word that he uses here, uses here. Literally it says that the ways cross. And commentators say that this is actually a term for the place in which the major thoroughfares would enter the city limits. You see here was a city. And when the major thoroughfares came into the city. There were always these public squares. Places where generally a major road would come in. And from that spot all the roads would start to come out into the city. You don't need a lot of roads in the countryside. So you have one major road in like this. But as soon as it hits the city limits, it would spread out. And those were the places where you saw everybody. You saw the rich and the poor and every ethnicity. That's the place where the king says, let's go there. And he sends his servants out. And instead of bringing in high society, he brings in everybody. You see, not only would this mean it would be diverse economically and socially, but it's even diverse morally. And in one of the most, I think, stunning places anywhere in the Bible, the king, which is God, invites into the wedding feast of his son, which is Jesus Christ, both the good and the bad. And so it sure looks like what's going on now is we've gotten rid of standards. At one point, it looked like you had to be a person of a certain standing in order to come to the wedding feast, but now anybody can come, anybody at all. It's absolutely free. It's wonderful. And yet then there's this little appendix, very strange appendix. One man walks in and the king has come in to meet his guests. That's wonderful. He comes in to meet his guests, verse 11 I think it is, and he says he came in but he noticed a man who was not wearing wedding clothes. Now why do you need to wear expensive garments to a high occasion like this? It's not because of, and I have to speak to us baby boomers here, remember how we used to hate Remember how we thought it was cool to wear jeans to a wedding? We were the first ones in 500 years to do it. Do you remember that? Because we thought it was empty formalism. But of course, you see, the king, listen, it's not empty formalism. It's not convention. The reason when somebody gives you the honor of inviting you into something at the heart of that person, you dress up, you go to the expense, which is always expensive to wear these kinds of clothes, to show honor and respect for the person who's put out for you. do. But this man thought that he could go right in to the king. This man thought that his everyday wear was fine. This man thought that he could come as he was, that it should be certainly good enough. And when the king asks him, why don't you have a wedding garment on? The speechlessness is critical to the whole story. Now you see, there's two good reasons why anybody would not have a wedding a wedding garment. There's two possible reasons. One possible reason is, of course, I didn't have one because I didn't have a chance. Another one is, I didn't have a chance to go home and get it. The second reason is, I didn't have one because I don't own one. But why does he say neither of those things? And here's the reason why. If you look more carefully, you'll see up in verse 3 and 4, the original guests were invited in having been invited. In other words, they were all ready. But if you look carefully at verse 8 and 9, what did they do? It says on verse 10, the servants went out into the streets and they gathered all the people in. There wasn't take reservations. They came right on in. And therefore, none of them could have possibly had their own wedding garments with them. A, because they wouldn't have had, they came right in. They didn't go home. But B, because many of them would have been poor and wouldn't have had them. And therefore, the king must have provided the wedding garments at his expense. and this guy even though they were right at the door the reason he couldn't say I didn't have a chance to get one well nobody had and the reason he can't say I don't own one well nobody did

and therefore he's thrown now what is the point traditional see here's the commentators get very upset at this point and they say somebody added this later Jesus couldn't have said that you know why because the commentators see part of the parable seems to be saying that it used to be that there were standards, but now Jesus is here and he accepts everyone just as they are. That's the whole idea. He goes out, he lets anybody in. Jesus is talking to the Pharisees who say, your place in the kingdom of heaven must be earned. And Jesus, it looks like, is coming along and saying, oh no, no, no, your place in the kingdom of heaven is absolutely free. You can come just as you are. are? Well, here's the question. Which is it? This appendix here, this little appendix really screws everything up because, you see, if it's earned, how can the good and the bad both be there? How could it be that Jesus Christ would actually say, at my wedding feast, there are bad people. I have embraced them. But on the other hand, it seems to be that it's not earned. But on the other hand, if it's earned, how could both good and bad be there? But if it's free, how could this guy be rejected? And this is where Jesus threads the needle. This is why the liberals think he's a fundamentalist and the fundamentals think he's a liberal and anybody who follows him carefully will have the same experience. Because on the one hand, of course, you see, Jesus is saying, I will take anybody. Your record means nothing. But on the other hand, he says, You can't just come in as you are. So he, see, he goes against both. And this is the reason why. As the king did not just let everybody in. He let anybody come, anybody, no matter what your record. But he clothed them at the door. So God, at his expense, a far greater expense, at an infinite expense, will take anyone. And your record means nothing. nothing, and your standing means nothing. You come into the feast of the Son not by being fit, but by admitting you're not fit and by letting the Lord clothe you. Now, here's why I'm going to press this. There are many people and many of you who say, yes, I don't believe like the Pharisees, that idea that you earn your place. I don't believe in a God of a God of wrath. I don't believe in a God who punishes people. I don't believe in a God of that. I believe in a God who accepts everyone just as they are. Now, if you believe that with all due respect, you're coming in without a wedding garment. Do you really mean that? Do you really say, I believe in a God of love who accepts everybody just as they are? Look at the world. What hope is there for the world? Look at the cruelty. Look at the evil. Look at the oppression. Look at the injustice. If we have a God who just says, I love you all just the way you are, what hope is there for the world? The Bible's God, the biblical God, certainly gives us hope for the world because the biblical God says, I will square everything. There will not be one unjust deed that will not be paid. But the biblical God also says, it can be paid one of two ways. Either you will pay or my son can pay. And therefore, don't you see, unlike the traditional religion, Jesus says, you do not earn your place But unlike the modern, I just, God just accepts everybody, God does not love people unconditionally. He loves people counter-conditionally at an infinite cost to himself. And therefore, do you see, unless you believe that if you go right into God, just as you are, you'll be thrown into the outer darkness, unless you believe in that, there'll be no joy in your life. You see, this man is not allowed joy. This man doesn't get any joy. And I would, listen, here's my other test for you. How do you know if you've experienced, here's the second test. How do you know if you've experienced the mercy of God? I can ask you, do you believe God loves you? Yes. But are you thrilled? Are you amazed? Are you astonished? You see what's going on here? The people at this feast were people saying, here's how they were talking. coming in would have said, well, always knew I'd make this if I really tried. Always knew I would finally get into a king's feast if I kept on as the businessman I really am. Always knew I'd make it. But these people are saying, yesterday I was begging in the street and now I'm eating with a king. This is incredible. Now, unless you feel that way, unless you feel like if I just walk in as I am. I'm thrown into the outer darkness. This is a holy God. But he's clothed me at the infinite cost to himself and to his Son who died on the cross for my sins. If you believe that you're galvanized by the idea of mercy. You're thrilled by the idea of mercy. You're changed by the idea of mercy. But there's plenty of people here who believe in a merciful God but they don't really believe in a merciful God. They believe in a God whose love for you costs nothing. And this is the point. The point is

Salvation is free to us. But it's not free to God. See, old liberalism says it's free. Old traditionalism says it's expensive. You see, old traditionalism says you've got to pay the price. And old liberalism says it's absolutely free. God just accepts it all. But the gospel says it's free to us. But it's expensive to Him. You're so wicked. And you're so sinful. And you're so lost. darkness unless you're clothed with what Jesus Christ has done for you. If you don't believe that, look, I'm not proving it. I'm just telling you this. Your life will not be changed. The thought of God's love will not amaze you. It will not transform you. It will not send you through the roof. It won't. You won't be at the feast. You know, I love Spurgeon, Charles Spurgeon, who lived in London in the 1860s. He was a Baptist preacher. He has a great sermon on this. And he says, he says, you know what? You always want beggars at your feast. Because, you know, the prim and proper ladies, they sit there like this. And in comes the food, and they say, hmm. But the beggars cheer for every dish. Can you imagine? The beggars. Here comes another one. Look at that. Look at the size of that turkey. Hooray for the turkey. You know? Okay. You say, oh yeah, beggars. Only beggars come in. see, beggars cheer at every plate. Are you changed by the mercy of God, or do you take it for granted? Have you said, of course I believe in the mercy of God. I ask for God's forgiveness at certain times. You see, you're going in without a garment when you say, my sins, sure, but God accepts us. That's his job. God. Do you understand that mercy is not an abstract sentiment? It's a covering. Now, lastly, mercy is a feast. You notice what's interesting here? There's so many ways in which the idea that salvation is a finished work by God given to us as a gift, not a process by which we slowly, slowly, slowly bring ourselves to the place where God will listen to us. You know, what's so intriguing, so intriguing about this passage is what this is really telling us, the only person who gets thrown out are not the bad, not the people who are humiliated to come before the king and who then are very happy to take the garment, but a person who feels he's fine. See, what this passage is really saying is if there's no feasting in your life, if there's no astonishment, if you're not cheering for every dish. In other words, every good thing that comes into your life. You got into college. You got into grad school. You got a job. You've got somebody who loves you. You've got several people who love you. Are you just, are you on the ground, weeping before God, in joy and glory? Here's why you're not. If you're not, and generally you're not. You know why you're not? You know why you're not cheering for every dish? of this parable is it's not your sins that really keep you from God. It's not your badness that keeps you from God. It's your goodness. It's your good deeds. It's not your sins that really keep you from God. It's your damnable good works. It's the things that you think make you good enough. The only reason, for example, most of us are not just amazed with every good thing that comes in our life. The reason we're not cheering for every plate is because we feel like we deserve it. And we deserve better. The reason many of you are bitter before God is because your life isn't going right is because you say, I know other people who aren't as good as me whose lives are going better. Do you see what's going on? There's two ways to try to kick God out of your life and take control and be your own God and try to control your own world and be your own Lord and Master. One way is to be absolutely bad. So I'm going to cheat when I want to. I'm going to lie when I want to. I'm going to commit adultery when I want to. And the other way to completely kick God out of your life and totally control them and totally control your world and be our own Lord and Master is by being good. By being good, you can tell God, you owe me. By being good, you can tell other people, you owe me. And by being good, you completely sap your life of joy because you look at your goodness and you say you do better. You deserve better. But if you look at your badness and you see your unfitness and you see what Jesus Christ has done for you, then you cheer at every plate. there's a playfulness there's a celebrativeness your whole life is at a feast let me finish this way true story there was a Highland Scott named Murdo McDonald if you didn't believe he was a Highland Scott just listen to that name Murdo McDonald and during World War II he was captured and he was put in a prisoner of war camp and he was captured with another Scott who was a chaplain And the two Scots actually were put, one with the British group on one side of the fence and one with the American group on the other side of the fence. And they acted as chaplains. And once a day they were allowed to come to a big fence in the middle of a prisoner of war camp and they were able to talk to each other briefly. But they had to do it in the presence of the guards. And the guards knew English and they knew French as well as German, of course. But one thing is these two Scotsman discovered was that the guards did not know Gaelic. and Gaelic is the native tongue of Scotland. And it turned out that one of the Americans had a shortwave radio, homemade, that the Germans didn't know about, and so every day Murdo would bring news to the gate, and he would give it to the other guy in Gaelic, and he would take it back in. And one day, he came to the gate, and he said, Germany surrendered. The war is over. of course, the guards didn't know about it because communication had totally broken down. He gave it in Gaelic to the other Scot who went back into the British barracks, and next thing you know, you could hear this incredible cheer go up. The Germans had no idea what was going on. And Myrtle MacDonald said, for the next three days, almost four, the guards had no idea that the war was over. We were still prisoners in a sense, but he says, boy, we walked around and we thought we were at a party. We didn't complain about the food anymore. We didn't hate the guards anymore. We smiled at them. We felt sorry for them. They were pointing guns at us. They were still our prisoners. We were still in prison. Here's what he said. Four days later, they woke up, and the guards were gone. They'd gotten the word. And the guards had opened all the doors. But he says, guess what? We were liberated by the news before we were liberated by the guards. Every other religion, every other philosophy is a religion of merit. And it says, maybe, eventually, you will be saved, and you will be saved by striving, by what you do. Christianity alone is not advice, it's news. It's not good advice, it's good news. Jesus Christ does not come saying, here's some good advice, live according to the Ten Commandments and you will find God. No, he says, here's the news. I have done something that's already saved you. Not here's how you can be saved. I have done it. Myrtle MacDonald gives us a perfect illustration of what our lives can be like to the degree we understand we're saved by mercy and by what Jesus has done in history, not by merit and what we're doing now. If you're not able to walk around, no matter what prison you're in, and smile at the guards, if you don't stop complaining about the food, you don't know how complete your salvation is you just don't know it when we go to the Lord's table there's two kinds of people who are going to find the cup and the bread coming in front of you some of you are being called and one of the great things at Redeemer is many of you will find as the bread and the cup come by that you have to ask yourself, am I a Christian? and hopefully on the basis of what you're hearing maybe even today You're going to say, I might actually be, I may have gone through religious phases, but I was never been a Christian. I don't know what this is. I've never experienced this. All right. When the bread and the cup come by, don't take the bread and the cup. It's for people who are Christians and who know they're Christians, but instead take Jesus and say, your calling I finally answer. Or maybe you can even say, you know, I was baptized at the age of 13 in a church back in Louisiana. That's when I signed up, coming. And for those of us, we've heard the call, we've answered the call. You know what? The reason we're not walking around smiling and cheering for every plate that comes in, even the ones, even prison food, is because by the Holy Spirit, these things aren't real to us. Ask the Holy Spirit, as the bread and the cup come by, say, this little simulated feast, let my life be characterized by feastingness, by celebration. Let me taste that the Lord is good. Not just know it. Let me see what God has done. Not just have some kind of conceptual understanding of it. Do that, and he'll come. You see, what's so interesting is because he's invited us, now we can actually say, Lord, come to me. And he never delays. And he never holds back. Let's pray. Our Father, we do ask that you would make it possible for us

to get a sense as we take this bread and this cup, which you have through your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ, you have told us to observe. We pray that you would help us to actually, by faith, Taste the heavenly feast. Which is laid out for us. We ask Lord. That you would help us. To repent. Of how. We. Hear. But we don't respond. We ask. That you would help us. To repent. Of how. We. Let our. Good works. Come. Between. Us. And. You. We. Ask. That you. Would. Help. Us. Repent. Of. Our. Lack. Of. Celebration. In. Our. Lives. The. Lack. Of. Cheering. For. Every. Plate. That. Comes. In. And. And we ask that now, be by your Holy Spirit, during this time of the sacrament, you might make these realities truly what they are to us, our meat and our drink. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.