Scripture reading is found on page 8 of your bulletin. I'll be reading Mark chapter 15 verses 16 through 32. The soldiers led Jesus away into the palace, that is, the praetorium, and called together the whole company of soldiers. They put a purple robe on him, then twisted together a crown of thorns and set it on him. And they began to call out to him, Hail, King of the Jews! shoes. Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Falling on their knees, they paid homage to him, and when they had mocked him, they took off the purple robe and put his own clothes on him. Then they led him out to crucify him. A certain man from Cyrene, Simon, the father of Alexander and Rufus, was passing by on his way in from the country, and they forced They forced him to carry the cross. They brought Jesus to the place called Golgotha, which means the place of the skull. Then they offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it. And they crucified him. Dividing up his clothes, they cast lots to see what each would get. It was the third hour when they crucified him. The written notice of the charge against him read, The King of the Jews. They crucified two robbers with him, one on his right and one on his left. Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads and saying, So, you who are going to destroy the temple and build it in three days, come down from the cross and save yourself. In the same way, the chief priests and the teachers of the law mocked him among themselves. He saved others, they said, but he cannot save himself. Christ, this King of Israel, come down now from the cross that we may see and believe. Those crucified with him also heaped insults on him. This is the word of the Lord. We're looking at the Gospel of Mark, and we've come to finally the account of the crucifixion. And this is the first half of the crucifixion account. count, but you'll see there's a theme that runs through it all. And that theme is the fact that Jesus is mocked, insulted, jeered at, laughed at, humiliated, and shamed. It runs all the way through. Look. So verse 16 to 20, the soldiers are mocking him, making fun of him, spitting on him, him, jeering at him. Then you go down to verse 24 and we see the stripping because part of, we'll get to this in a minute, part of what made crucifixion so horrible was a stripping of all dignity and he's stripped naked. He's crucified naked. And then verse 27, we have this ironic statement over him, the king of the Jews. It's something you put over a throne but not over a man dying on the cross. And then you get down to verse 29 and 30 and you have the passerbys insulting Him. And then you get down to 31 and 32 and you have the religious leaders mocking Him and insulting Him. And at the very end, we see that even the thieves on the crosses on both sides of Him are making fun of Him and insulting Him. Mark wants us to see that Jesus didn't, didn't own the cross, only get killed. He also got shamed and humiliated. Why is that so important? And it's important because, well, we'll see how it's important. If we ask the question, why is it so important? We'll see it's because we learned three things here. One is the mocking tells us about our own hearts. If we look at the mocking, we're going to learn something about our own hearts. Secondly, the mocking reveals Jesus' heart. We see something about what makes Him tick. What He came to do. And then lastly, if we let it, the mocking can change our hearts so that they're like his. So, first of all, we'll learn about our hearts. Secondly, the mocking shows us about Jesus' heart. And thirdly, the mocking can actually change our hearts so they become like his. So let's see. First of all, how does the mocking show us our own hearts? Now, in two ways, the mocking reveals our hearts. First of all, it reveals our absolute hostility to his claims. They hate the claims. Look, what are they making fun of Him for? Are they mocking Him for the Sermon on the Mount? Are they making fun of Him for being a wise teacher? No, they're making fun of Him for these incredibly huge claims that He was the King, that He was the Savior, that He was going to replace the temple. You said you're going to replace the temple. You're going to replace the temple so that you're the way we're going to get to God now? Those are incredible claims. And that's what they hate. And that's what they're mocking. And that's what they're deriding. And I want you to consider for a moment. That the magnitude of those claims. Brings out in all of our hearts. A hostility. We can't stand the size of those claims. If he didn't say that. It would be different. But he says that. If you want a contemporary expression of it. A very interesting contemporary example. Of what you see here on the text. You know. is Anne Rice, who wrote Interview with a Vampire. She's a pretty well-known literary, artistic-type person who had been a secular person for years and recently became a Christian. And one of the reasons she became a Christian was she was a novelist and she was going to write a novel about Jesus. And like good novelists do today, she started studying the background. She started to study the historical background of Jesus. Because novelists do that. If they're going to write about a period of time, they do lots and lots of historical research. So she started studying the historical scholarship about Jesus. For the last hundred years, there's been lots and lots of scholarship trying to get behind the gospels. You know, the Da Vinci Code and the Jesus tomb and the Gnostic gospels. A lot of that is historical scholarship for years has been trying to say, well, you've got to get behind the gospels and find the real historical Jesus claims he never claimed that he was king and savior he was he was just a nice guy a teacher of righteousness so she began to study this historical scholarship and what she found stunned her and if you want to read it's the afterward to her latest book out of egypt and here's what she says she says the skeptical arguments that insisted that the gospels were suspect or written too late to be eyewitnesses. All those arguments lack coherence and were full of conjecture. Some of the books I read were no more than the assumptions piled upon assumptions. Absurd conclusions were reached on the basis of little or no data at all. The whole case for the non-divine Jesus who stumbled into Jerusalem and somehow got crucified and had nothing to do with the Christianity founding, which came later. That whole picture, which floated in liberal circles I had frequented for 30 years, that case was never made. But not only was the case not made, I found something even more surprising. I discovered that these scholars, so many of them, that devoted their life to New Testament scholarship, disliked Jesus. Some pitied him as a helpless failure. Others sneered at him. Some showed outright contempt. Now, I'd never come across this in any other field of research that I'd ever studied. For example, the people who go into Elizabethan studies are not out to prove that Queen Elizabeth was an idiot. People in Elizabethan studies don't make snickering remarks about her or spend their careers trying to pick apart her historical reputation. reputation. Occasionally, scholars will study a villain in history. Yes, but even then they tend to argue for the importance of his or her place in history. But in general, scholars don't spend their lives in the company of historic figures who they openly despise. But these New Testament scholars detest and despise Jesus Christ. Now, unquote. Now, what stunned her was, why would there be this whole area of scholarship, the only area of historical scholarship she'd ever seen, which so many of the scholars were mocking Jesus and despising Jesus and sneering at Jesus. She says, why would they do that? The answer's in your text. The claims that Jesus made we hate. And we'll do everything we possibly can to undermine them or try to get rid of them. That's the reason why the Da Vinci Code and the Gnostic Gospel stuff and all this stuff you hear about all the time was an expression of that contempt. We can't stand those claims. And you know why? Because they force us into an all-or-nothing decision. And oh, we hate that. They force us into an all-or-nothing decision. I'm a teacher and I'm pointing the way to God. Then we could say, well, maybe you are, maybe you aren't, maybe part of it's true, maybe part of it's not true. But when he says, I'm the son of God, I'm the unique son of God, I am the savior of the world, I'm the king, then it's all or nothing. You can't like him. You have to completely adore him or you have to despise him, and we don't want that, see? We want to keep our options open. Flannery O'Connor wrote a book, wrote a short story, A Good Man is Hard to Find. And in the short story, there's a criminal, a misfit, who is talking with a grandmother who he has apprehended along with her family to rob them. And he's killing the whole family one at a time. It's quite a short story. And the grandmother is basically pleading for her life. And the misfit and the grandmother have this dialogue. And the grandmother is very religious. and she's talking about, you need to pray more and you're really a good boy. I'm sure you're a really good boy. I know you're good. And at one point he says, you need to pray to Jesus. And he says, Jesus. And here's what the misfit says. Jesus threw everything off balance. If he did what he said, then it's nothing for you to do but throw away everything and follow him. But if he didn't, then there's nothing to do but to enjoy the few minutes you got left the best way you can. burning down his house or doing some other meanness to him. No pleasure, but meanness. He says, Jesus threw everything off balance. And some years later, Flannery O'Connor wrote a friend in a letter to try to explain that dialogue between the grandmother and the misfit. And he, she says this, she says, the story is a duel of sorts between the grandmother and her superficial beliefs and the misfits more profoundly felt involvement with Christ's action, world off balance for him. See, the grandmother is like so many of us. She's just religious. She's just nice. But the misfit knows it's all or nothing. It's been thrown off balance. You can't stand on the fence. Jesus threw everything off balance. And that's what we can't stand. We don't want to have to despise him or totally worship him. We want to just kind of like listen to him and kind of make up our own minds. But no, Jesus threw everything And we hate that. And the hostility in our heart is drawn out by the magnitude of his claims and the exclusiveness of his claims. You know, remember a couple weeks ago we talked about St. Augustine? And St. Augustine at one point in his confessions is trying to figure out why, when he was a young man, he broke into a pear orchard and stole pears. And it's very interesting to listen to him. He says, now why did I break into the pear orchard when I was a young man and stole pears? when A, I wasn't hungry, and B, I didn't like pears. He's trying to figure out why did he do it? And he realized it was C, because somebody told him he couldn't. He says, I wouldn't have any interest in the pears except they were forbidden. And so he did some reflection, and he realized that at the core of his heart, and therefore at the core of all of our hearts, there is something that says, nobody tells me how to live. through clenched teeth. There's something in our heart that says, I am the master of my fate. I am the captor of my soul. And when Jesus comes near us, it comes out. The mockery shows us that we are hostile. We can't stand the magnitude of his claims. And we don't like the all or nothing decision that it shows us that we have to take. And listen, friends, if you are like the grandmother, or just, you know, in other words, you say, I don't really despise him. I don't mock him. I don't hate him. But I also, I don't totally center my life around him. If it's not one or the other, friends, either you have no integrity or you really still don't know who he is or what he said. Listen to him and you'll see the same thing happen to your heart. We don't like it, but it's all or nothing. So the mockery shows us our hostility to the magnitude of his claims. But secondly, the mockery shows us also our blindness to the weakness of his ways. Because Jesus, on the one hand, is great in his claims, but he's always weak in his ways. He comes humbly. He comes without a horse. You know, without an army. And without power. He comes in weakness. And the second thread I see going through the mockery. Look at it. And you'll see. The second thread that comes through is they're saying, You couldn't be the king. couldn't be the savior. You're too weak. If you were the king, I couldn't do this to you and this to you. See, if God was really with you, you'd be strong. He would be protecting you. He wouldn't let us be doing what we're doing. You couldn't be the savior. You couldn't be the king because God wouldn't work with such weakness. And he wouldn't work through such vulnerability and, and suffering and pain. The mockery shows that we absolutely can't stand when anything weak comes into our life. When suffering comes into our life. We tend to get very hard. We tend to mock. You know, when blow after blow after blow comes into your life. When disappointment after disappointment after disappointment comes into your life. you start to mock the idea of the love of God loving God you say sorry I don't think I can survive much more of your love God loving God this is happening and that's happening what's happening to you? what are you doing? you're mocking, you're getting hard you're starting to despise and you know why? because you have an air of superiority Mockery always requires superiority. And the only way you can get hard and angry and cynical toward God because bad things are happening to you is if you know better than he does how your life ought to go. You know exactly what ought to be happening and he's not getting it right. So, oh, you know. You can see the end from the beginning. You know, right? But you know what the mockery is showing us? The mockery is showing us that God does work like this. mockery shows us that if you absolutely insist, God can't be working in my life in difficulty. He can't be working in my life through weakness. He couldn't be. He couldn't be present with me. Or he wouldn't let this and this and this happen. If you keep that up, you're going to miss the biggest things God's doing. Because you know what the real irony is here? You know, Mark is a very ironic writer. Because here, these people are being ironic. You say you're the king. You say You're a savior. They're being ironic. But guess what? The ironic is ironic. Here's what's ironic. They're saying. God couldn't be saving the world. Like. Through somebody like you. God couldn't be saving the world. Through weakness. God couldn't be saving the world. Through you. Staying on the cross. But he was. God was. These people. Were looking. At the greatest. Thing. That God. Had ever done. The history. Of the world. Never. Would. And it. Wouldn't. Fit. Into. Categories. Of. Their. Brains. And what I'm worried for, I'm worried for you. I'm worried for me. Because right now, you're probably looking at some pretty bad stuff that's happening in your life or has happened to you. And you're saying the same thing. If God was with me, he wouldn't let that happen. God couldn't be working through this. Don't make that mistake. Don't be a mocker. Don't let, when bad stuff comes in, don't you dare think that God couldn't be working through this. So the mockery, mockery of Jesus Christ shows, on the one hand, our hostility to the greatness of his claims and our blindness to the weakness of his ways. So that shows what's in our hearts, and it's really pretty revealing, and it's pretty scary. Ah, but the sermon doesn't end there, fortunately for you. Point two, the mockery also shows us not only our hearts, but his heart. This Jesus Christ taking this shame and humiliation shows us what he is all about. Actually, it really wasn't stupid for them to say what they said. If you are the son of God, if you are Christ as king of Israel, come down from that cross. Now, these are people who probably saw a lot of blockbuster movies. Because if you go to movies that make a lot of money, you know exactly what happens. It gets worse and worse and worse. and this is the spot where the hero looks like he's a goner and he's in prison or he's about to be executed or he's about to be shot or this is it. But in all blockbuster movies, they're going to make any money. By the way, if you want a movie not to make any money, you just let the guy die. And then we'll say, we've got to play that in the village. It's an indie film. And it'll make $24.85. No, no, no, no. The movies that work. The movies that the world understands. See, the movies understand. People understand. That at this point in the movie. The hero turns the tables. He comes down off the cross. See. He finds a chink in the armor. He finds a weakness in the defense. And he turns the table. And he gets off. Out of his handcuffs. And he. And he jumps on the villain. And. You know. He turns the tables. And he. He. And. happily. So they're looking at Jesus and they say, okay, we understand. You say you're the hero of the story. This is where the hero does his thing. If you really are the savior, if you really are, if you've got God with you, come down off the cross. This is the time we're waiting. But here's the problem. They don't realize how great he really is. This is the almighty creator of the universe. And therefore they're saying, if you're the hero, heroism and your greatness by coming down off the cross. But you and I know that he is so infinitely great that he expressed his greatness and his heroism by not coming down off the cross. Because in the greatest act of self-control in the history of the universe, the all-powerful God became weak and stayed weak under these circumstances and didn't flinch and took it. out of love. He was being humiliated and he was being shamed and he took it. Why? Well, listen, before I answer the question, we just need to do a little bit of historical context background. This was a shame culture. And in a shame culture, your name was the most important thing. In fact, in ancient cultures, having a good name was the main way you lived on. You had a good name. You had a family name. And that's how you lived on. It was everything. Your reputation. Your name. Was everything. And to have your name. Turn into a laughing stock. To have your name. Turn into a byword. Was essentially. To go to hell. For eternity. To have your name. Destroyed. Was the ultimate. Thing. And that's the reason. Why the crucifixion. Was the worst. Of all executions. Because it was. Not just. Killing. Your body. It was. Killing. Your name. You were. Stripped. Naked. he was taken away from you, you were a laughingstock. And on the cross, Jesus was not just being killed, he was being shamed. He was having his name destroyed and he took it. Why? Okay, here's why. One of the best movies you could ever possibly watch is a 1938 movie called Angels with Dirty Faces starring Jimmy Cagney, James Cagney, and Patrick O'Brien. And Jimmy Cagney plays, Brian are two young kids who grew up in hell's kitchen in the slums. Okay. And one of them grows up to be Rocky Sullivan, a gangster. And that's Jimmy Cagney, of course, who plays incredibly great gangsters. And he's a brag braggart and he's, and he's full of himself and he's snarling and he's violent and he's a, he's a celebrity gangster and he, he kills people, you know, at the whim, anybody that shows him any kind of disrespect, you know, and he's a celebrity and, And all of the young kids. Of the city. Look up to him. See. The other. Boy. That grows up. They're friends. And one. Grows up. Rocky. Sullivan. To be. A. Gangster. The other. One. Is. Jerry. Connelly. And. He. Grows. Up. To. Be. A. Priest. And. He. Works. In. The. Slums. And. He. Works. With. At. Risk. Kids. He. Works. With. All. These. Kids. Who. Are. poor and who are going in a bad direction. They're going into crime and they're going into all kinds of terrible stuff. And one of the reasons is because they're looking up to Rocky. He's got a bunch of them living in a basement of his parish house and he's trying to get them to go into programs and go straight and go, and they're not, they're not. So finally, Rocky is caught by the police. There's this great shootout in a warehouse somewhere in Hell's Kitchen and Rocky, he kills people, but he's wounded, and they capture him, and they put him in jail, and he's tried, and he's found guilty, and he's gone to the electric chair. And the night before he's executed, Father Jerry comes to see Rocky. And Rocky says, you know, you've always been a friend, and I really appreciate you coming to see me on the night before they're going to execute me. And Father Jerry says, well, I've got a favor to ask. Rocky says, you got a favor to ask. I mean, like, what could I do at this point? But sure, ask away. And here's the dialogue. And Father Jerry says, Rocky, suppose I asked you tomorrow to be scared. Suppose at the last minute the guards dragged you out of here screaming for mercy. Suppose you went to the chair, yella, a coward. and Rocky says, Jerry, yellow, me die yellow? What's the matter with you, Jerry? And Jerry says, I want you to have courage, but I want a different kind of courage, Rocky. I want the kind that's well, that's born in heaven, not your swagger and bravado. I want the kind of courage that only you and I and God will ever know about. I want you to let the boys in my neighborhood down. you've been a hero to these kids and hundreds of others all through your life. And now you're going to be glorified, a glorified hero in death. And I want to prevent that Rocky. They've got to despise your memory. That's their only hope. They've got to be ashamed of you. And Rocky looks at him and says, you're asking me to pull an act to turn yellow. So those kids will think I'm no good. You're asking me to throw away the only thing I've got left. You're asking me to crawl on my belly. The last thing I do in life, nothing doing. You're asking too much. You want to help those kids, Jerry? You're going to have to think of some other way. Why is Jerry, why is Father Jerry coming to Rocky and saying this? You know what he's saying? He's saying, Rocky, it's them or you. If you go out in glory, they're going to go down into a life of shame. But if you're willing to go down in the life of shame, if you're willing to throw your whole life away, your whole reputation away, and go out in horrible humiliation and shame, they could be saved. Will you do that for them, Jerry? I mean, Rocky, and what does Rocky say? No, no, that's all I got left. Are you kidding? So the next morning at dawn, execution, Execution. And the priest, Father Jerry, comes with the guards, and they bring Rocky out of the cell. And he comes out with a snarl, as only Jimmy Cagney could snarl. Oh, my gosh. Who gave him those lips? I don't know. And he's smiling, and he's snarling. And when one of the guards actually kind of insults him, he slugs the guard on the way to his execution. And, boy, he's showing him. He's saying, hey, I'm going to go out the way I came in. what you think. And when he gets to the door of the death chamber, suddenly he begins to squeal like a child. And he begins to cry. And he begins to cry out. And he begins to get sniveling and cowardly. And he says, no, I don't want to die. I don't want to die. Please don't burn me. I don't want to die. And he completely melts down. He becomes an absolute coward. And they grab him. And they pull him into the chair. And he's just crying out and screaming like a child to the minute that they pull the switch. And Father Jerry, when he sees that happening, looks to heaven. And I'm stunned every single time I watch it. And I think almost anybody who's ever watched the thing must be stunned. And I want to be a better person when I see that. I don't want to live the same old way. And yet I'm just an outside observer, you know, and I'm just looking in on it. I'm not in this story. It's not about me. And yet I want to be, I want to be, I want to be a better person. Oh, but guess what? The gospel says you and I are in the story. We're those boys. We're those kids whose whole lives are about to go down the toilet. It's Jesus or us. If he holds onto his glory, we're going to live. We're going to go down into eternal shame. Jesus goes down into eternal shame. See, Psalm chapter 2 talks about what we deserve. Psalm 2 is a very interesting psalm. It talks about the fact that the human race thinks it knows how to run the world. And it throws off the bonds of God. And it says, oh, we know how to run the world. And it's a laughable thing. thing. In Psalm 2, it says it's risible that the human race thinks that they can run things, that they don't need God. It's a laughable thing. And, you know, there's a recitative in Handel's Messiah that is based on Psalm 2, and it says, he shall laugh them to scorn. He shall have them in derision. We deserve shame. We deserve to be laughed at. We deserve to be mocked. But Jesus Christ is the suffering servant. And in Isaiah 53, it says, when the servant of the Lord comes, he will be despised and rejected and we will not esteem him. And it says in Isaiah 50, verse six, he will not turn away from the mocking and the spitting. Jesus didn't just die, he was shamed. Why? God made him sin who knew no sin righteousness of God in him. Jesus Christ took the shame. He had his reputation destroyed. He had his name destroyed so that we could have a name with God forever. Revelation chapter 2 says everybody that believes in Jesus Christ gets a little white stone and on it a name written, a secret name. And all that means is it doesn't matter anymore what anybody says about you. It doesn't matter what anybody else thinks. God loves you. You have the applause of God. You have the accolades of God. Jesus Christ took the shame we deserve so we could have the glory of God forever. If you don't understand that he didn't just die for you, but he was shamed for you, you don't understand all that he gives to you and all that it means to be a Christian. Now look, lastly, we said if you not only see your heart and Jesus' heart, but the mocking can actually help our hearts become like Jesus' heart. How? Like this, first of all. Let's go back to the first thing, one of the things we talked about. We don't know how to deal with suffering. When suffering comes into our life, it tends to make us hard. It tends to make us mock to say, yeah, sure, loving God, and it just makes us harder. But St. Paul in 2 Corinthians 12 says this. He says, there was given me a thorn in my flesh. He had some kind of problem. We don't know. He called it a thorn. It was a weakness, a suffering. He said, there was given me a thorn in my flesh to torment me, and three times I pleaded with the Lord to take it away from me. But he said to me, God, that is, my grace is sufficient for you, Power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, Paul says, I delight in weaknesses, for when I am weak, then I am strong. The thorn. How did Paul keep from sufferings making him hard? Why was it that when sufferings came to him, he could be patient and courageous and even joyful? Why was it that actually sufferings made him softer Why did it happen? Because he remembered Jesus' thorns. He remembered the ultimate thorns. The crown of thorns. And he remembered that just as he said, oh Lord, please take this thorn away. That's what Paul said. He remembers that Jesus Christ in the garden, he asked God, please take away this cup. Please take away this weakness. And the father said to Jesus, my power is made perfect in weakness. What God was saying to Jesus Christ in the garden of Gethsemane is, through your weakness can my power be released into the world. My resurrection power through your weakness. And Paul says, oh, if Jesus Christ could suffer uncomplainingly that ultimate suffering for me, for me, then I can suffer for Him. If Jesus Christ's suffering actually released power into the world, if His weakness released power into the world, then I know that if I receive my weakness in patience that's going to release God's grace into my life and the lives of other people around me. And so Paul, remembering what Jesus Christ went through, the weakness he went through, changes his heart so now when weakness comes to him, he can embrace it without it making him hard and mocking. But here's the other thing. How do you deal with people reviling you? How do you deal with people who misunderstand you, people who tear down your reputation, people that dishonor you, people that hurt your reputation and your dignity. What are you supposed to do? You know, we live in a society in which what we're supposed to do is protest, take to the streets. How dare you dishonor us? My friend Dick Kaufman, who used to be this executive pastor here, tells a story. Whenever he tells it, it makes him cry. And because I've heard it a couple of times, it's changed my life because I can't forget it. And he says he remembers a time in his life in which he was just struggling so enormously with the fact that with certain people that had vilified him unfairly and had painted a picture of him unfairly and it ruined his reputation. And he was struggling with bitterness. He's turning into a mocker, turning into a hard person. He was struggling with bitterness until he came across Philippians where it said he made himself of no reputation. Jesus Christ made himself of no reputation. He lost the ultimate name so that I could have a name with God forever. And he said it broke. You have to expect people to misunderstand you if you're a Christian. Look, here's a Christian. understand the gospel. You're saved by grace, not by works. And here's a non-Christian. Non-Christians say, well, if there is a God, you get to God by being a good person. You're saved by works. Okay. So when a non-Christian hears a Christian saying, I have a relationship with God, they immediately assume that you must think you're awfully good. You must think you're better than everybody else. Well, you say, no, no, no, no. You don't understand the gospel. Of course they don't understand the gospel. They're not Christians. Well, but they don't understand. They will never. Look, Jesus saved you by taking insults without paying back. Jesus saved you by being shamed. Jesus saved you by being misunderstood. And so now when you're misunderstood, you share in his disgrace. And it's part of your witness. Because you love people. We're going to love our city and we're going to pour ourselves out for our city. And regularly. People in our city. Are going to misunderstand our motives. So what. We're not going to protest. We're not going to say. How dare you misunderstand. They're going to have to. Misunderstand our motives. That's all right. Because we walk. In the footsteps. Of the one. That when he was. Reviled. Not again. Because we've. Got that. Little. White. Stone. We know. We've. Got a. Name. With. God. And. It's. All. Right. Now. He. Was. Shamed. So. We. Could. Have. The. Glory. of God. And now who cares who else says anything about us. Let the mocking of Jesus Christ turn you into somebody that can handle weakness. They can handle being misunderstood. Let it turn you into Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. Let's pray. Our father, we ask that you would help the mocking and the knowledge of what your son went through. Change us so that we know that your power is made perfect in weakness. So that when we're weak, we're strong. To know but it's all right because we have a name with God. We just ask in every way that you would help us understand these things so that we could have the deep comfort that comes from them. Comfort us until we're like your son, Jesus Christ. We want to be like him because we love what he did for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.