That's one of the great shocks of, say, something like a job loss. The fact is that you never really were in control. Things can go wrong in your body. Things can go wrong in your life. But by being at this job, you said everything was under control. You didn't see that you were completely dependent on God, but you really were. And so now you have to come to grips with that, and not so much to say, But, you know, actually, in a sense, I'm counseling right here from the podium. This is what I say to folks, and this is what I say to myself. Instead of saying I'm going to have to start depending on God, I need to say I've already been depending on God. I mean, I just didn't know it. I'm not emotionally dependent on God, but I've actually been dependent on God all the way. He's kept me up to now. He's not going to drop me now. Laura? Yeah, I was waiting for somebody. Where? Or how? Yeah. And here's the big thing. And this is one of the places where the counselors are afraid to tell you anything, and the doctors are too. And that is, the only way to deal with guilt is to figure out if it's true or false. That's the first thing you've got to decide. And see, you see, counselors have been trained never to make any value judgments. about Christian counselors, but I'm saying, you know, a person who's just been given the counseling training, and doctors too are like this, they've been trained, do not give people, don't tell people what's right and wrong. Don't make moral value judgments. Well, there's no way to deal with guilt without making a value judgment. And generally, when I, a person who's lost a job is racked with guilt. And I think the thing to do is to sit down and say, how much of that is false guilt? If you say, well, maybe I should have done this and this and this. Sometimes if you sit down friend or a Christian friend and look at it, you realize you didn't lose your job through any fault of yours. But what if you actually say there were some behavior patterns in my life that really did lead to it? In that case, you have to repent of those things and make changes. Otherwise, your conscience will kill you. Just like this friend of mine that I said, the way he was able to deal with the guilt over the fact that he felt he had neglected his brother was A, he had deal directly with God about it and say, that was true. I confess it. I stopped shifting the blame. It's true. It was wrong. But on the other hand, he had to say, what can I do in the future in which I really forsake that pattern of selfishness? And when you make a decision like that, you can deal with your conscience. And very often, conscience problems are a big part. Anyway, look, the stress, the loss of job,

brings out stresses physically and relationally. Morally, that's the conscience. And you have to take a look at the slices. The only thing I would suggest is don't think that there's only six slices. I couldn't think of any others, but there's got to be more than six, is my guess. And there are stressors and there are anti-stress forces that when they are built up help you deal with that stress. What do you do? You act against the stressor. And you deal with the anti-stressor. Just like here comes somebody with a knife at you. If you're in battle, hopefully you've got some armor on. That's your anti-stress force. And the Bible says put on the armor of God. Put on the faith. Put on all these things so you can deal with it. But it also means you've got to do something about it. You had another? Okay, over here, Jan, then. Yeah. Yeah, you see, that's right. It's grief. We'll talk about that tonight. But what Jan is saying is it's number three, and that is that you experience grief over the loss of a life that will never come back. It's gone. and you know the hard we'll talk about that tonight but you know the thing I always appreciated was what Jonathan Edwards did when he was when he was about to die his wife wasn't there, none of his children were there he had a great family life Jonathan Edwards was the president of Princeton University when he died, 1750 something and he got his one little his one daughter, he wasn't a little girl his youngest daughter, I've forgotten her name now take these notes. And the first thing, he said a number of things, and I don't have them with me, so I can't read them. But one of the things he said is, he says to his wife, he says, say to my dear wife that the uncommon union which so long has subsisted between us is, I think, spiritual and therefore will last forever. But then he turned around and he said, but I now hope that my wife will turn to her real husband, the one in heaven, and I hope my children will turn to the real Father, the one in heaven, because there's a husband and there's a Father who will never die. That was a pretty gutsy thing to say. He says, I hope when I die, I'll get out of the way. And you will see that what you really need is a Father who doesn't die. The problem with this Father that you have all your hopes pinned on is that I'm imperfect and I'm temporary. If you want to deal with the distress, you have to look beyond the temporary to the eternal. Now,

The same way that Jonathan Edwards says, Instead of yearning for me to come back, turn to the Father that does not die. Instead of yearning for me to come back, Sarah, he says, Turn to the husband that does not die. And instead of yearning for your job to come back, you need to turn to the calling that does not die. And to the work that does not die. And to the job, you see. And achievement that is going to last forever. And that is serving Him. Now, see, that's the anti-stressor. Are you getting the picture? Okay, last, and I remember hearing Kirby say 10 o'clock, so I'm going to do one thing. One last thing, because this would be a great way to sort of conclude or follow up on what Ben said, and also give you a decent look at this second, we keep coming back to the second slice, the self-esteem problem, the Christian self-image problem. Those of you who, if you've hung around Redeemer for a long time, you've probably heard me mention this text, but I want to give it to you anyway. way. If you go to 1 Corinthians 4, let me just show you how to use this text on yourself when you've lost your job or when the work's not going well. Now, by the way, my suggestion is if you want a passage that gives you anti-stress forces against the future, make sure it's Matthew 6, verses 24 to 35. Or also Philippians 4, verses 6 to 8. Those are anti-stress forces. And don't forget, going to the Scripture and seeing what Jesus says about worry and about care and about God's care for you, and building that in is not all you do. You also have to do something about the future. You know the place where Paul says, he who does not work shall not eat, and yet at the same time Jesus tells you, pray, give us this day our daily bread. What Paul and Jesus are trying to say is you deal with both the stressors and you strengthen the anti-stressors. You see that? You not only say God will take care of my future, but you also do what you can today about your future. You have to do both. Both. So I would put as an anti-stress force, I'd put down Matthew 6, verses 24 to 35, and I'd put down Philippians 4, the place where it says, have no anxiety about anything, but in all things with prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, make your request known to God. There's two things you can do with your concern to keep it from worry. Work at what you can today and pray with thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, thanking God ahead of time for what he's going to do in your life through this. But the verse I would use, or a good anti-stress force for the second slice, is 1 Corinthians 4, and let me read you verses 3, 4, just verses 3 and 4. Now look, I'll stop here in a couple minutes anyway, regardless of where I am on this, but I'll just show you how this works. if I am judged by you or by any human court. Indeed, I do not even judge myself. My conscience is clear, but that does not make me innocent. It is the Lord who judges me. Now, Paul is pointing out, I think, that there's really only three ways that you can, there's only three ways to build a self-image. Three ways for you to find meaning in life. That's another way to put it. Three ways. The first way is to say, He says, I care very little if I'm judged by you or by any human court. Why are so many of you stressed? Because you take on so much. Why do you take on so much? You know who you are. You just can't limit yourself. You just can't say no. Why not? Now, the original answer is because you're so concerned about what people think. You don't want to disappoint people. You want their approval. But more than that, you want them to be happy. You need for them to be happy. You need to feel that you're making them happy. It's just the absolute worst horror in your life to imagine that you're displeasing, disappointing people or that they're rejecting you. That's one of the main reasons why you're working too hard, why you take on too many things. And Paul says he's been freed from that. care what you think. You see what he says? He says, I care very little if I'm judged by you or by any human court. I'm no longer worried about what you think. I'm no longer worried about your approval. I'm no longer worried about disappointing you or anything like that. Well, now that seems to fit in very much with what many modern type pseudo-counselors say. Very often, if you go into a typical bookstore, especially in Manhattan, you pull off a book about how you can deal, how you can say no, how you can deal with the stress in your life. Ordinarily, the books will say the stress in your life comes because you're trying to live up to everybody else's expectations. You're letting other people be your judge. Now, what do the books say is the way out from under that stress? What do they say? Right. They say you've got to be your own judge. You know, there's a place where I was watching in one of the new Star Trek TV series where this young guy wants to be a cadet

because he wants to please his mother and he wants to please his hero who's already a starship captain. And at one point the hero comes to him and he says, you know the problem is you're doing this for your mother, you're doing this for me. But if you want to do this, you've got to do it for who? For yourself. How emotionally healthy. You just feel like, oh, if he can just listen to Jean-Luc Picard. If he can just listen to his hero. If he can just see that he has to do things for himself. He can't let other people judge him. He's got to judge himself. You see, then he won't be afraid. Then he won't have stress. Then he won't let people push him around. Then he can say no. Is that how Paul was able to get into this incredible state of emotional health? Where he says, I don't care what you think. I don't care what any human court says. of you say. Is that how he got there? Because he says, I judge myself. Isn't it amazing? Look what he says. He says, I care very little if I'm judged by you or by any human court. I do not even judge myself. In fact, he goes this far. He says, my conscience is clear. That does not make me innocent. Now there's something interesting. He says, you know, right now I feel perfectly guilt-free. I might be absolutely wrong. He says, my conscience is not a very good guide. You see, on the one hand, this is basically, these are the two enemies of the gospel. Legalism, where I'm saved because I'm living up to everybody else's expectations. And I'll use another word, antinomianism, which means I don't have to listen to anybody. I am my own judge. I make up my rules. I do what I want to do. These are the two great enemies of the gospel, two false kinds of religion. The one that says, I've got to please everybody, and the other one says, I can only please myself. The one whose conscience is weighted down because of what everybody else thinks, and the other person whose conscience is perfectly clear because you say, I only care about what I think, and Paul says, both of those things are traps. And I'll tell you why. Why? Because if you think, listen, let me tell you something, if you think letting other people judge you is bad, letting yourself be your own judge is ordinarily worse, unless your standards are unbelievably low. You see the problem? Unless your standards are unbelievably low, you're not going to live up, because you know deep down inside you need to be perfect. you know you should be perfect and so what does Paul say a Christian is able to do that nobody else is able to do how a Christian deals with stress in a way that nobody else deals with stress in this self image slice he says it is the Lord that judges me

well you say that's terrible now I'm going to close off here but I will say this nice thing about a retreat is you can always get back You know, on a Sunday morning, but I know most of you will be back tonight. I can get back to it. If you think that's terrible, the idea of God judging me, and you say, boy, I'd rather have other people be my evaluators, or even myself be an evaluator. But the idea that Paul's always looking at God, and that makes him feel good. That God alone is his judge, and that makes him feel good. I don't understand that. I mean, that sounds terrible. That sounds awful. I would be so guilty if I was always asking God to judge me. You don't understand the gospel. Because the gospel is that Jesus Christ was judged for you. All of your guilt, all of your sins, everything that you've ever done wrong, all the punishment you deserved, was all poured out into his heart. He became a holocaust for you. There's no wrath of God left for those who believe in Jesus Christ because God has poured every bit of it into the heart of Jesus, and he took it. He's fulfilled every single requirement. And now, you see, Jesus Christ is your advocate. is the person who stands before the Father, and he represents you. The Bible says he's your high priest. So when God judges you, he looks at you in Jesus. And Paul, therefore, has this, you know, a Christian has a unique self-image. You don't have to live up to anything, and yet at the same time, you're not trying to just please yourself either. You see, the legalist says, oh, I'm such an awful sinner, but you don't see that you're accepted. The other kind of person, we call him an antinomian, says, I'm acceptable, and kind of represses your faults. But a Christian is someone who sees not only how deep your weaknesses and flaws are, but also how completely covered they are in Jesus Christ and how totally accepted and cherished you are. At the same time, that creates both a boldness and a humility, because you see your sin, and you can admit it, but you see just how loved and cherished you are in Christ, and you can relish that. You have a unique self-image. You want to do a good job at work, but it's no longer your salvation. Most of your deepest disappointments and discouragements are because you're trying to be for yourself what Christ has been for you. There's a big difference between saying, I want to do a good job at this retreat because God's given me a gift to teach the Bible and I want to help people. And so there's stress there. But as soon as I move over the line into saying, and if I don't do a good job, and if I'm not a good preacher, what the heck else can I do? And what good am I? Where do you Where do you cross the line? You see, there's a stress and there's an anti-stress force, and I've got to make sure that I am continually soaking my heart and my mind and my conscience in the gospel so that I'm able, that is the anti-stress force beneath them all. I don't care what you think. I don't even care what I think. I only care what he thinks. And in Christ, he loves me to the uttermost. Okay, let's pray. Father, I ask that you'll just help us to really, in a very practical way, learn to look at the complexities of stress and of all the things that come at us. You've told us that life is a fight, that we're surrounded by all sorts of stressors that are being sent by the world, the flesh, and the devil. And yet you've also told us we can put the full armor of God on. Lord, everybody in this room is so different and so unique, and it's so difficult to come up with a case that just nails every single person. Instead, Lord, You're going to have to send down Your Spirit of wisdom into the hearts of people so that they can see how they particularly need to apply these principles, how they need to put on the full armor of God, how they need to deal in a God-honoring way with the stresses and strains that are coming to them and maybe keeping them from being useful for you. And therefore, Lord, by your Spirit, edify us and root us in these truths until we all, like your Son, and even like Paul, can have this supreme, humble confidence, a radiant joy that comes only because we know that you and you alone are our goodness and our righteousness and our power and our high tower and our refuge. You're the only, only, only fortress into which we can go to deal with the things around us. Just teach us how to go. Teach every one of us how we particularly need to go into you as a refuge and continue doing that all week. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.