The Gospel according to St. John, the first chapter, and we will read verses 1 through 5 for our scripture reading this morning. St. John 1, 1 to 5.

In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through Him all things were made. Without Him nothing was made that has been made. In Him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. And here ends the reading of God's Holy Word. The Gospel of John starts with one sentence, which is a stupendous statement. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Three incredible clauses. And they're so incredible that we're taking one week on each one just to unpack them. And this week we're looking at, in the beginning was the Word, and we're talking about Jesus Christ here. John is talking about Christ. And the Word was with God. And when we get to that, and the Word was with God, we are getting an insight into one of the chief principles of the Christian religion, and that is the multi-personalness of God. The multi-personalness. God is one and yet three. Three persons, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, in one Godhead. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. Now, you see, this is pretty astonishing. Here is Jesus Christ in the beginning of all things, and when all things are having their beginning, Jesus Christ is already there. In the beginning, the Word already existed. That means that the Word had no beginning. That means that the Word of God, Jesus Christ, is uncreated, and that means Jesus is God. And yet, here is Jesus Christ having a relationship with God. And this is where a lot of our Jewish friends, a lot of our Muslim friends, and a lot of our other friends, and some of our other non-friends say to Christians, listen, this is confusing. This is irritating. This is unworthy. What kind of primitive remnant of the ancient religions that had this tremendous array of gods and deities and so on, primitive religions, that seems like that is what has come into Christianity. It's an inferior, unworthy understanding of God. And I think the proper answer is no. No. Rather, this particular view of God is our only hope. Because this tells us, that the real God, our God, is exploding with love and relationship in his own inner being. In his essence is interpersonal communication. What we've got here is an insight that beggars the intelligence because John is talking about what the nature of God was before creation. This is an insight into the private life of God. Why do you think these programs are so popular, that give us a private, behind-the-scenes look at the lives of the rich and famous. Why are those things so popular? I don't know, but I'm guessing that one of the reasons why we like to get those behind-the-scenes look is if we find some great people and we find out how they spend their free time, how they are when they're not on stage, that we are going to get some kind of insight into what that person is really like. Like, that's a valid inference. Now listen, here is the behind-the-scenes look to end all behind-the-scenes look. Because here, John is showing us what the Father, the Son, and the Spirit, what God in His private life is like behind the scenes before the world began. And it's astonishing. It's so astonishing that I think the best way to liken what this tells, would be to imagine yourself having spent all of your life living at the foot of a mountain. And one day somebody says, let's go to the top of the mountain. 30, 40 years you've lived there, 50 years you've never been to anywhere up the mountain. You go to the top and you look down on terrain that you've seen all of your life, and what happens? It's like seeing it for the first time. There's all sorts of features of the landscape that you never understood before. You never even saw what they really were. You never saw how they interrelated to other features in the landscape. Right? Right? There's a whole new perspective on reality from the top of the mountain. This truth that John gives us about the Trinity, and about especially the relationship between the Father and the Son before the world began, is not esoteric and it's not a theological abstruse point like how many angels can dance on the head of a pin, what it is. It's a vantage point from which to look at the world and your entire life. And if you look at the world and your life from this vantage point, it will revolutionize. It will revolutionize you. Let's first of all see what John is teaching and then let's try to apply it and see what kind of new perspectives that we get from seeing life from this platform. What is John teaching? He's teaching us that in the beginning, in the nature of God, in the essence of God, there was loving communication and coordinated creativity. Two things that were going on inside the Godhead from all eternity was loving communication, and coordinated creativity. Loving communication is seen in this little tiny word, but extremely significant word, with. The Father was with the Son. The Son was with the Father. The word with is very important because John later on in the chapter, down in verse 18, he brings that out a little further. He says the Son was in the bosom of the Father.

Now let's really, let's think about that. What is John saying? How many people are there in your life that have a right to your bosom? Put it this way. If you were laying on the rug, if you were laying on a couch or laying in your bed, how many people are there without asking permission could just walk up, stretch out next to you, and lay up against your breast? How many people are there in life like that? For some of you, there's no one. For some of us, it's just a very, very small number. So, what's John saying? In my case, it's my wife and my three sons. And it occurs to me as I'm saying this and as I was thinking about this that I will even lose that place in my children's lives because as my children grow older, I will lose my primacy for them. Right now, my best friends don't have the right to come and lay up against me. Remember that.

And even my parents don't. My parents don't. My parents, why? Now, it's not like there was a time in which my parents had that right and now they don't. It's not that I ever discussed it with them. It's not that I ever said, I guess, by the way, Mom.

But you see, there's a place in which they lost the primacy in my life and there's places in which my sons eventually will move away from me and I will lose the centrality I have in their lives right now. So don't you see the posture of being in someone's bosom means an intangible part of their life. It's a personal relationship of incredible intimacy and centrality and primacy in somebody's life. But then keep this in mind. The Father and the Son had no bodies. They had no real breasts. And so what does it mean when John says they were in one another's bosom? And the answer has to mean that they were wrapped up in one another's souls. Jesus says the I and the Father are one. We're talking about spiritual unity, spiritual oneness. And it's something that most of us know so little about. We're talking about the same loves, the same goals, the same values, perfect communication, unbelievable understanding, interpenetration of consciousness and love and affection. The very best marriages, at their very best moments, and we're talking about a handful and maybe an entire life, can taste that a little bit. Just a reflection of that. But you see, even in a great marriage, you give all of yourself to all of your all you know of yourself to all you know of your spouse, but you only know a fraction of yourself and you know even less of him or her. Here we had two perfectly holy persons with mutually exhaustive knowledge of one another.

And they love one another utterly. And they give themselves to one another utterly. If you can imagine the times in your life in which you felt the most loved and the most understood, the most enraptured in that way, and then multiply it by a billion, maybe, maybe, you begin to get a dim hint of what we're talking about here. As one preacher once put it, about 500 years ago, thinking about this verse, no child was ever as one with his mother, no husband was ever as one with his wife, no soul was ever as one with its body as the son was one with his father. And you have to keep this in mind, the joy that comes along with that must have been unbearable. Unbelievable.

Because the Father, you know, God is the ocean, the fountain and the center of joy. And here is Jesus lying in the bosom of the fountain of joy. Every day, every moment, if you can talk about it like that, the Father was letting out power and love and glory and joy and communication immediately and fully and everlastingly into the soul of the Son. And the Son was letting it out in the soul of the Father. No one has ever known this kind of inexpressible, glorious joy. And Jesus talks about it. In John 17, when he's down on earth, he says, Oh, Father, glorify me with the glory that we had together before the foundation of the world.

That's what they were doing. Does that sound boring to you? Absolutely not. You know better. You know what happens, you know, if any of you are teenage kids, they say, where are you going? Out. Where are you going out to? I don't know, out. The point is, there's some people I want to be with. I don't care what I'm doing. I don't care where I'm going. That's beside the point. But I'm going to be with some people that I want to be with. And the Father and the Son loved one another. They were in each other's bosoms. They were letting out joy in this way. But that's not all they were doing. They were also creating. Because we also read in verse 1, what? Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. This is amazing. Many biblical scholars are sure that when John was writing that, he was thinking about, in the book of Proverbs, there's this very artistic and poetic place where it talks about God creating the world and by his side was the divine wisdom. And in Proverbs chapter 8, wisdom speaks like this. And it's almost for sure that John was thinking about this when he penned these words. Wisdom says, when he gave the sea its boundary so the waters could not overstep his command. And when he marked out the foundation of the earth, then I was the craftsman at his side. I was filled with delight day after day, rejoicing always in his presence, rejoicing in the whole world, and delighting in mankind. See? The word was with God, and through him all things were made. Now put these truths together. The Father and the Son, and though not mentioned but implied, the Holy Spirit.

In the life of the Godhead from all eternity, what were they doing? They were communicating. They were pouring out into one another's souls love and joy and communication and pleasure in degrees of depth and power that we can't imagine. Thereby, as it were, forming a ring of inexpressible glorious joy, pouring it back and forth like mirrors. Have you ever been in a place where there's incredible mirrors and there's some tremendous light and the light hits the mirror, hits another mirror, hits another mirror, and the light hits the mirror, hits another mirror, and the place is dazzling, even though the light itself might have been powerful, but the mirrors just infinitely and endlessly move that light into a tremendous crescendo of light, magnifying it and magnifying it. And this is what the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit were doing with one another. And finally they said, let us make man in our own image.

Creatively, with tremendous joy, they decided they were going to create a race of people, a race of persons who could step into the ring of joy. A race of persons in the image of God, meaning personal and rational and capable of relationship and communication, who were also capable of being little mirrors reflecting back to God, though on a smaller scale, his own boundless wisdom and righteousness and joy and nobility and greatness and pleasure and delight. And they created a race like that. And they created a race like that to bring them on in. That's why I was filled with delight day after day, rejoicing always in his presence, rejoicing in his whole world and delighting in mankind. We understand this, don't we? There is an analogy in our own hearts that's been left from this incredible creative act. Real godly joy has to be shared to be born. Do you know what I mean by that? I especially look at you musicians. You know what happens to you musicians when you hear something, a new piece of music that just turns you on. You can't actually have the joy unless you grab some other musician, pull him or her, sit him down in front of a tape recorder, listen to this. And when you see the joy on that person's face, when you see the joy is being shared, then your own joy can be born. See, joy must, must be shared. You've got to share the pleasure to get the pleasure of joy. You grab the person, you sit him down in front of the tape and you say, oh, come magnify with me. This beauty.

Don't you see? The father-son had this unbelievable relationship and they said, we want to let somebody else in. And they delighted in us as they created us to step into, to step into what? Into the ring of joy. The Bible tells us that this is what God is. That in his nature from all eternity, he is a triune set of persons knowing and loving one another. And the greatest joy that they could know was to expand the ring of glory. Now, that's fascinating, isn't it? That's amazing, isn't it? But how, you say, does that really change the way in which I think or live today? And I think the only answer is much in every way. But let me just give just a few, a couple of implications. Ways in which you have to look at life in light of this. First,

this proves something that you all know, regardless of what your religion is, regardless of where you are in your faith, regardless of what you believe. This explains why underneath, you know that love is at the foundation of the universe. This explains a lot of contradictory feelings that you often have. You see, the Bible here tells us that love is the foundation of the universe. It's at the foundation of all things because the essence of ultimate reality is relating and communication. Now, I mentioned last week something that I'll just recap. Basically, there's two other views of the universe that are ascendant right now, and especially you'd find them around New York City. One of them, somebody says it's a bad name for it, but you know what I mean. One of them is what I call the scientific view. That's not the same as the scientific view. I'm all for being scientific, but I'm not. I'm all for being scientific, but not for being scientistic. You see, this is the view that says there is no creator of the universe, and therefore, the universe is just an accident. Fundamentally, the universe is impersonal. We have one really good representative of that view of the universe in Bertrand Russell, who says, Man is the product of an accidental collocation of atoms. All the noonday brightness of human genius is destined to extinction in the vast depth of the solar system. Only on the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair, can the soul's habitation be safely built. See, Russell knows that if it's true that there's no person who created the universe, the universe is impersonal. And that's what he means when he says, the noonday brightness of human genius. We begin to realize that we are a blip. We're an accident. We're a hiccup in the universe. We like to think that we're personal. We like to think that we're special, but we are just the accidental collocation of a set of molecules. That means that when you fall in love with your mind, unless you believe the Christian theory of the universe, when you fall in love, you are bound to say, I realize the reason I feel like I'm in love today is because the certain synapses in my brains are going off down the left side, whereas yesterday they were going off down the right side. This is just an accident. Love is an illusion. Love is nothing more than that, chemical response in the brain. And yet, down here, you believe that you're really in love. And you believe that love is ultimate. And love is what gives your life meaning. And love is ultimate reality. And you have no basis for what you're saying. And you are trapped. You're stuck. Now there's another view of the universe, another non-Christian view of the universe, and it's almost, it looks like it's the opposite, and I call it the New Ageistic view. And we have a representative here in Beverly Hills, Beverly Galyane, who says, Once we see that we are all God, that we all have the attributes of God, then I think the whole purpose of human life is to re-own the God-likeness within us. The perfect love, the perfect wisdom, the perfect understanding, and when we do that, we get back to that old essential oneness, which is consciousness. Now a lot of you certainly know about this view. This is an Eastern view. And it says God is nature. God is in everything. God is a life force. And it looks so different than what Russell says, but actually it's saying at least this in concert with him. That is, that the universe is fundamentally impersonal. At bottom, God is a force. God isn't a he. God is not a person. Or let's put it this way.

God is not somebody who gets angry. God is not somebody who gets happy. God is not somebody who loves and communicates. God is not somebody who can weep over you. God is not somebody who can intervene in your life or make a commitment or reward you or make a promise to you. And when we die, Eastern thought would say, when we die, what happens is we're like a dewdrop re-entering the ocean. We lose our individuality. We just go back into nature. There are not, the arms of a father and a brother waiting to bring us into a relationship. Oh no, we're a dewdrop going back into the ocean. Now the Christian vision that we just saw here is utterly different than that. The Christian vision is we're not a bunch of molecules and we're not a dewdrop either. But at the bottom of reality is relationship, personal relationship. God is not just nature. God is not identical with nature. And a Christian writer puts it this way, and it's a beautiful way. He says, When we have become as perfect in voluntary obedience as the inanimate creation is in its lifeless obedience, then we Christians will put on the glory of nature, or rather the greater glory of which nature is only the first sketch. Now hear this. You must not think I am putting forward any heathen fancy of being absorbed into nature. Nature is mortal. We shall outlive her. And when all the suns and nebula have passed away, each one of you will still be alive. Nature is only the image, the symbol, but it is the symbol Scripture invites me to use. We are summoned to pass into that splendor which nature so fitfully reflects. My! What this writer is saying,

God goes beyond nature. When you die, you don't just go into nature, you don't just become a piece of dirt, you don't just become fertilizer. Rather, beyond nature are loving arms and laughter. A father, a brother, loving arms and laughter, ready to take you into a family. And I believe that every person here must say, You know, I'm very skeptical of the Christian theory of the universe, the idea that there's love and personality at the bottom of things, and yet I know it's true. I know it's not true, and yet I know it's true. You see? Because I know I'm not a collocation of molecules, and I know I'm not just a do-job. I want loving arms and laughter. I want that. That's what I was built for. I know that. Friends, if you come to the Father through the Son, you can have that. Because the Bible says, In the beginning there was withness. In the beginning there was withness. There was relationship. There was relationship.

Take it. Come up the mountain. Come into His arms. Love is the foundation of the universe. You know it. Why not bring your mind in line with what you actually know to be true? Give yourself to Him. Don't you see that? That's one of the most important things you see when you adopt the Christian theory of the universe. You look around and instead of seeing molecules, instead of seeing do-jobs, instead of seeing impersonality, you see, love is the ultimate foundation. There's something else, though, you have to see from this vantage point. When you get on the platform of the Christian understanding of God and the Father and the Son, finally, finally, you will understand the gospel of salvation. Now, excuse me for using some jargon here. What's the gospel of salvation? The gospel of salvation is that we decided when we were created as little mirrors in order to step into the ring of joy, you know what happens to a mirror if it's not facing the light? A mirror has no light of its own. A mirror is nothing but darkness if it faces the darkness. And it's light only if it faces the light. And then it becomes a glorious thing. When we decided to be our own masters, and every one of us in this room, to some degree or another, are still in bondage to that decision that was made long ago, we don't want to live according in submission with Him. We want to be our own masters. We want to live for our own goals. And when you turn your mirror away from the light, you go dark. When you turn your mirror away from the light, you go into darkness. That's what happened. And the Father and the Son said, what are we going to do about it? Someone has got to pay the penalty for that sin and for that treason. And the Father and the Son determined from all eternity that the Father would reject the Son. The Son would descend out of, the fellowship with the Father, come to earth, die on the cross, and be forsaken and rejected by God as if, as if, Jesus was the sinner. Jesus would stand in our place and God would reject Him. Now, you've heard that probably, one way or another, that Jesus died for our sins. But maybe up to now, it's been an abstraction. If you think of it just as a kind of financial transaction, that's all it is. But until you understand the internal nature of God, until you understand what the life of the Godhead is like, you can't see the immeasurable, redemptive love He had for us. Now you begin to see what's going on the cross. When the Father had His Son killed, what did that mean? Listen, I have only had my sons for 12 years, not eternity. And I've only ever held their bodies to my bosom, not their souls. And I've had some happiness in them, but not the bliss of the Father and the Son. And yet it would absolutely overthrow my sanity to even watch my sons die, I think. And yet here's the Father voluntarily giving His Son up to be killed. And look at it on the other side. Jesus Christ was rejected by His Father on the cross. That was the penalty He had to take. Now if somebody in here, if somebody in here after the service comes up and says to me, I hated this. I'm never coming back. Well, I'm going to feel bad. That's rejection. We hate rejection. But if my wife after the service says, I hated this, I'm never coming back.

That's infinitely worse. Why? Because the greater the intimacy of the relationship increases geometrically the pain of rejection.

Counselors tell us that the worst soul-destroying, foundation-shattering experience anybody can have is to lose a spouse by death or divorce. And some of you have known that. And yet think of what it was like for the Son who had this eternal relationship with the Father to be rejected. The pain that He knew for us on the cross is so far beyond any pain that any of us have ever experienced as a nuclear warhead is beyond the pop of a rubber band. And yet we're told that when He was creating us, when He was shaping us, when He was the craftsman at the side of His Father, He rejoiced. Here He is creating these beings and He knows what we're going to cost Him. And He laughed and He rejoiced

because of His love for us. Until you see what the Father meant to the Son, what the Son meant to the Father, you have no idea what our salvation cost. But if you see what they did voluntarily, instead of Jesus Christ saying, Why in the world should I die for these? Look at these. Look at the way they hurt each other. Look at the way they hurt each other. Look at the way that they make the world a mess. And it's their fault and they blame everybody else. Why should I die for ones like this instead? He said, No. I rejoice to do Thy will. It's written in the book. I come. I do it. If you understand love like that, if you grasp it, if you screw it down into your heart, if you reflect and meditate on it as it really is, it will heal you of anything. It will give you the power to change anything. That's not actually all. This truth helps us see what it really means to be saved. Have you heard the term saved? Well, John 1, verse 12, just a few verses down, John says, For those who received Him, He gave power to become sons of God. We spent quite a bit of time drawing out what it meant for the Father to love the Son. The Father is ravished with the Son. The Father is amazed with the Son. The Father just pours out His glory and His joy and communication into the heart of the Son. And the Bible has the audacity to say, and Jesus Christ has the audacity to say, If you receive me as your Savior, your sins are wiped away, you are brought into the family, and then you are my sons and daughters of my Father. And what he actually comes right out and says in John chapter 17, he says, Father, where I am, there I will be that they be also. All the stuff we've been talking about, all the incredible rapture we've been talking about, I've spent a lot of time trying to draw it out, is due for you and is due for me. The moment we step into the ring of joy, the moment we come to the Father in Jesus' name, the moment we say, because of what Jesus did, accept me, I trust in Him, I live for Him, the minute we see what He did for us and let that break our heart, that's the minute that God looks at you and says, this is my beloved child. In whom I'm well pleased. If there's anybody here who says, well, I'd love to do that, but I'm just so bad. You haven't heard. This is my beloved child. In whom I'm well pleased. Jesus looked down from the cross. There's one poet that says, he talked like this, they sought me out with staves and rods as a thief. I, who am the way, the truth, the true relief, most true to the Father. I'm one of those who are my greatest grief. If those kinds of words and that kind of sentiment doesn't melt your heart, nothing will. And if you let it melt your heart, and you can, you will be able to enter into the circle of joy.

Look, the greatest problem we have in our lives is we're not ravished by the Son the way the Father is ravished by the Son. You know my favorite couplet from John Donne, John Donne said, take me to you, imprison me, me, for I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me. That last line I can never stop thinking about. I'll never be chaste, I'll never be pure unless you ravish me. When you look at what Jesus Christ has done for you, and when you look at the joy and love that can be yours through him, if you're ravished with him, it gets rid of all your other problems. Why do you have problems with the temptations you do? Why do you have the cosmic boredom you've got? Why do you feel that emptiness inside? Because you're not ravished with him. Well, you say, I have no control over my emotions. You got control over this. The minute you go to him and say, I repent for my lack of love for you, the love starts. The moment you say, I repent for my lack of faith in you, that's the beginning of faith. That is the beginning of faith. So go to him now and speak to him like this, Lord God, I see what you did when you said I sent your son. Finally. And I see what your son did. And I also see what can be mine if I finally stop trusting in myself and living for myself and begin living for you. Father, I turn my mirror toward your light right now. Can you say that? Some of you will be doing it for the very first time. Some of you need to do it right now for the nth time, but you need to do it. Jesus Christ left his Father's heart for you. And that deserves your whole heart to him. Give yourself to him. God is no man's debtor. You cannot give him. Love him. Let's pray. Our Father, we now ask that you would grant that we would see that our only hope, our only hope is that you are love and communication and personal relationship in your inmost being, that you are willing to go through the pain of rejection within yourself so that we could step into the ring of joy. We pray now that you would enable us to do that, that every person here might turn their mirror toward your light now and give themselves to you in new ways. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.