Let me read from Ephesians, chapter 4, verses 22, 23, and 24. That's what we're concentrating on tonight. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your minds, and to put on the new self, created to be like God, in true righteousness and holiness. That ends the reading of God's Word. Put off, be made new, put on. We're looking at this subject, and we want to finish up on what it means to put off the old self, start talking about and deal with being renewed in the spirit of your mind, or the attitude of your mind, and maybe push into what it means to put on the new self. Let's not overlook the basic premise of these two verses, three verses. Put off, be renewed, and put on. We mention it each week. I'll start right out again by saying it. It means that one of the great sensational things that the Christian message says is you can change. Over the years, Kathy and I have tried to figure out what it is we most admire about people. The people that we really admire are people that we tremendously respect, that we try to stay in touch with, that we look up to. Who are the people that we like the most? They aren't necessarily the smartest people. They aren't necessarily the people that have things most together. They're not necessarily the people with the most pristine moral record. The people that we admire the most, we realized over the years, that the highest compliment we could possibly pay somebody is to say, you know that person? You know him? You know her? He can change. It's the best thing you can say about somebody. He can change. She can change. And the change sticks. Underneath these three verses is this sensational truth: you can put off, and you can be made new, and you can put on, because if you're a Christian, you can change. For a Christian, change is always possible. Always. I mentioned it before. Let me just remind you of it again. Some of you know that this is a key verse. Some of you may have never heard this, in which case, this is a radioactive verse, and you need to open it up and let it do a treatment on your soul. 1 Corinthians 10:13. No trial has overtaken you except that which is common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the trial will give you a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. That principle is assumed under these three verses. First, it says, No trial has overtaken you except that which is common to man. That's a very key biblical point. What does "common to man" mean? It means whatever your problem is, it has two features. One is that at the surface level, your problem is unique. No one's ever had it before. You know why? Because no one's ever been you before. It's never been this particular time, this particular place. So your problem is always unique in that sense. But at the deepest level, there is no problem that you have that isn't basic to every other human being that's ever lived. Why do you think Paul is able to talk to the Corinthians, who lived in a secular urban Greek city, and continually make reference to the Old Testament people of God, the Israelites, who were nomadic wanderers centuries before the Corinthians lived? And he could constantly say, Be like them. A lot of people say, Well, the Bible is interesting. But times have changed. Paul said this and that, but people don't feel like that anymore. How can you take the Bible so seriously? And the point is, Paul was talking to the Corinthians. The Old Testament was as far removed from those people as the New Testament is from us. And yet Paul never said, Well, times have changed. These are nomads. They lived centuries ago. You're modern and urban and sophisticated. Therefore, obviously, there will be differences. No. Paul says, Essentially, everything that every human being has ever faced is basic to us all. Most of our problems are essentially the same. Our problems are common. Other people have faced the same thing. And so when it says, No temptation has overtaken you except that which is common to man, it's a way of saying, Do not ever say your problem is utterly unique. It's partially unique, but not basically unique. The verse says, God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. God is faithful. That is an amazing statement. God is saying, I stake my integrity on this, that there is no problem that has overtaken any redeemed son or daughter of mine that cannot be handled if you do it my way using my resources. He says, God is faithful. What does that mean? God says, I stake my integrity on it. There is no problem that you're facing now that is either unique or unhandleable, provided you do it in my way using my resources. It's a blanket statement. When somebody comes to me and says, I want your counseling, I'll say, Well, I'll try my best, but I give no guarantees. God never says that. God says, I stake my integrity on it. And then it says, God is faithful. He won't be tempting you beyond your ability. Very interesting. Look, if there was such a thing as the perfect gym coach,

the perfect gym coach would be somebody who would look at you and say, in order to get you into shape, I will give you exactly the kinds of exercises and the kind of regimen that is perfectly matched to your ability. Not one push-up, not one stroke, not one lap too much, and not one lap too little. That would be the perfect gym coach. Why? One stroke too much, and you'd be injured. One stroke too little, and you won't get the benefit of the exercise. The exercise has to push you to your limits, or else it won't expand them. In other words, the exercises can't injure you or leave you flabby. If they're too easy, you don't grow. If they're too hard, they injure you. And a lot of us have been under coaches who were mighty good. And you know how they felt? It always felt like he was killing you. It felt like he was giving you more than your ability, and yet when you actually followed through and listened to him, you found, incredibly enough, as hard as it was, you made it. And it pushed back the horizons of what you thought you could accomplish. It wasn't one stroke too much, or one stroke too little. It didn't injure you or leave you flabby. Whenever you find a really great coach, it feels like it's killing you, but when you follow through, you can do it. The Bible says God is that perfect gym coach. And that means that the troubles and the trials and the problems that you are facing, that you say, I can't do it. I can't change. I can't adapt. I can't face it. The answer to that is, of course, that's how you'll feel if you have the perfect gym coach. The perfect spiritual gym coach. Of course it will feel that way. Anybody who's had a really good human, physical gym coach knows that's how it feels. And God says, however, it is not one stroke too much. If you give up, if you leave the regimen behind, I can't answer for the consequences. If you stick with me, I'll bring you through it. I can bring you through it. I will. But then, the final part of that wonderful verse, 1 Corinthians 10.13, that you have to read Ephesians 4, 24, in tandem with. The last part is it says, he says, I will not, pardon me, he says, I will, along with the trial, always send a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. If you look carefully, you have to read this very carefully. Here you have this promise that says, I will never put you in a situation that you cannot handle. A Christian never can say, I can't do it. If it's a responsibility, if it's something you have to do in order to be obedient, you can do it. You can't say can't. I will never take it beyond your ability. But then, it says, a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. There are two ways that God will enable you to handle your problem. One is to escape it, and one is to endure it. Now, some of us are saying, I was afraid of that. I was hoping it was just escape. Some of you have heard me use this illustration. If you're going along in a boat in a rushing river, like the Colorado River, and you're in a narrow gorge with no bank, and suddenly you see a great big rock sticking out of the water, five feet up, and there's no way around it. You'll be smashed on it. So you pray, I need a miracle, Lord. You have to remove the rock. Well, there's more than one way God can do it. God could remove the rock, or he could raise the level of the water six feet. In other words, he could help you escape, or he could enable you to get over the rock. When you have a problem and say, I can't handle it, but I'm going to rely on this promise, God says, okay, you rely on this promise, you decide to use my resources, to use God's word and obey, then God will do one of two things. He will either take it out of your life—that's the way of escape—or he will change you. So that thing that looked like it would crush you, the thing that said my patience is too thin and will break through, my anxiety is too thin and will break through, my ability to forgive is too thin and will break through—instead God says, I'm gonna strengthen your faith. I'm gonna strengthen your patience. I'm gonna strengthen your ability to forgive. He could take it away, or he could strengthen it. He could remove the rock, or he could raise the level of your patience over it. He could raise the level of your endurance over it. But you see, in the short run, escape feels great, but it doesn't bring change. In the long run, if he raises the level of your water as hard as it is, endurance is the way you can actually become somebody like Jesus. I don't think you have to tell God what he should do. You have to be careful about saying, I want escape, and I want it now. I want her to change her behavior, because I can't forgive her if she keeps talking and acting like this. And of course, God could remove the rock. The next day, she could come and get down on her knees and say, I don't know why I was such an idiot. What can I do for you? And you say, well, now it'll be much easier to forgive you and put away my anger. That's removing the rock. Is he going to do that? What if he says, no? You know, Paul said, I have a thorn in my flesh. We don't know what it is. Please get rid of the thorn. And God says, no, I'll raise the level of your grace in your life so the thorn is covered. He can go either way. You know, when you read the Joni Eareckson books—Joni is really one of my favorite authors, and many of you know who she is. A Christian woman who was paralyzed in an accident when she was 18. She's a quadriplegic, but she has developed tremendous depth and wisdom. The suffering has turned her into a person of great heart. She has a marvelous ministry to handicapped people. She has a capacity to say in one of her books, I realize it's an awful thing to say, but the fact is I'm glad it happened. She says, of course, I couldn't have said that five years ago. I certainly couldn't have said it for a long time after it happened. But now I see that. What happened was she prayed to be healed, and there's one whole book on why she wasn't healed. The fact is you cannot say God will always answer prayers for healing. If that was true, nobody would die. People die. As you get older, something breaks down. If it was true that God could always heal in relationship to prayer, people wouldn't die. The fact is that God doesn't always heal. Why? Because sometimes he has to raise the level of the water. He doesn't always escape. He often makes you able to endure it. And if he leaves the rock there, that's how he gets you to change. And that's how you become like Christ. Now, last week we talked about putting off the old, and there's just a couple of things we need to say about it. Verse 22 says, Put off. You were taught with regard to your former way of life to put off your old self. Last week I gave you a lot of illustrations. Let me just summarize: putting off the old self means to reorient every part of your life. It's a radical statement. It means everything you do has got to change. You know, 2 Corinthians 5 says, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. A lot of people say, what does that mean? I was a musician before. Does that mean now I'm an engineer? I enjoyed watching football before. Now do I enjoy watching basketball? That's silly. I guess a few things have become new, but not everything. And I'll say again, yes, everything. Because nothing you do is the same. Look, do you like fishing? You're going to fish differently when you become a Christian. How could that be? Well, first of all, your motive changes. What does fishing accomplish in your life? Does it relax you? Fine. Does it restore your energy? As a Christian, you look around for ways to restore your batteries, to relax yourself. Now you say, I've got a lot to do before I die. I've got a lot to do for Christ. There's not that much time. I'm going to be at the judgment seat of Christ. It won't take long at all. I'm no longer purely a leisure-oriented person, and yet, now, I've got to be involved with leisure because I know it's one of the ways I restore my batteries so I can have the longest and most fruitful life, so my mind can be clear when I am working and doing my best for Him. You're actually fishing for a different reason. Not only that, when you're out in nature enjoying it, instead of just letting nature hit you, you meditate and you say, what a glorious place. Or as John Bradford used to say, if this beautiful universe and great creation, with all its infinities and immensities, is the kind of universe God gives to His enemies, what kind of universe is He going to give to His friends? And not only that, when you're fishing, you say, I'm careful about conservation. I realize there's some places I should fish and some places I shouldn't, because I'm a steward of nature. God has made me a steward and caretaker of everything in this earth. And therefore, I'm much more careful about what I do when I'm fishing. You don't even fish the same way. Everything is reoriented. And that means the Christian life is an examined life. And the non-Christian life is an unexamined life. Before you become a Christian, you do things because that's the way your group does it. You say, I'm Irish. I'm Italian. I'm Greek. I'm from Park Avenue. Therefore, we do things in this way. That's why we do things. That's the way our group does them. A Christian never again can act like that. Because when you become a Christian, you're picked up out of every group. You're no longer really there. The Bible says you're a new ethnic. 1 Peter 2:9 says you are a new ethne, a new ethnic. In a sense, you're a new people. And that means you have a king and he has given me his word and I have to examine every single area of my life to say, is this what my Lord wants me to do? So there's nothing that you do unconsciously anymore. Before you become a Christian, you do all kinds of stuff because you say, well, that's just the way we are. That's how we do it. That creates a lot of problems because you have to think. A Christian is not somebody who checks his brain at the door. A Christian is somebody who thinks far more analytically and thoroughly than anybody else. Frankly, if you can just get people to think, you've got them. People who disbelieve in Christianity generally don't disbelieve because they're thinking. They disbelieve because they're reacting. If you can think, Jesus has got you. It doesn't matter if you're Irish, Italian, Jewish, from Park Avenue, from this side of the tracks or that side. Now you look at things differently. You know, a good friend of mine was a New York City policeman for 10 years. He told me about being a cop and how lots of money gets thrown at you. But he said as soon as he got into the police culture, he realized this: you always take bribes from pimps, you take bribes from people trying to keep you away from what they call victimless crimes. But you would never take money from drug dealers because those are crimes that hurt people. That makes sense. I can't pick up every prostitute in New York City. The pimp says, here's 50 bucks, just stay away from this corner. My friend used to say they would come out to their squad car and there'd be envelopes of money with a note saying, please, tonight on your beat, just stay away from this corner. And ordinarily, he just took it. Suddenly, this guy becomes a Christian and he says, is this right? Is this a victimless crime? He begins to think. He gets into a lot of trouble with the other guys in the squad car. He can't just react. He's not just a policeman anymore. He's not just Russian or Italian or black or white. He's not just a lawyer or a doctor. He is a Christian first. And he has an examined life. In every area of your life, you're looking and saying, will I be willing to obey God? Will I be willing to trust God and accept anything he sends? When you can answer yes to both those questions in any area of life, then you have begun to practice the Lordship of Christ and you lead an examined life. Then you put off the old self. You're looking at every area and whenever you see a place that you have to change, you put off the old self. You say, I am no longer that. That's not me anymore. I have nothing to do with that kind of life. Yes, it's easy for me to go into it again, but that's not me. And that's what it means to put off the old self. Examine your life. Reorient even the things you used to do and will continue to do, and begin to put off the old self. Then you have to turn to the positive. And the positive is be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Now, what does that mean? The New International Version says, to be made new in the attitude of your mind. What does that mean? First of all, this is not a middle step between put off and put on. It says put off, then be made new, then put on. Don't think this is a middle step. It doesn't mean you put off, then God does this, then you put on. The tenses are wrong for that. Put off and put on are past tenses, but be made new is continuous present. What it means is that as you are putting off and as you are putting on, God is doing this. This is the key. If you put off and put on and yet God is not renewing you in the spirit of your mind, then all you're putting off and putting on is futile. This is the secret. If there's a secret to change that sticks, this is it. The reason you've tried to put things off and put things on and it hasn't worked is because this hasn't happened. If you say, I've tried to put this off, I've tried to put this on, it hasn't worked, it's because you have missed this. This happens inside. God is making you new in the spirit of your mind. This is something that you can quench. It's actively passive. You see, be made new is an actively passive statement. You can't make yourself new. God alone can make you new, and yet you have to be made new. You have to live in a condition of holy availability. One of the greatnesses of Christianity is that it's not just a rule book telling you exactly what buttons to push. On the one hand, only God can make you new in the spirit of your mind. On the other hand, you have got to be made new. That means you have to make yourself available. You can quench it. You can stop it. So it's something we have to do and yet something we can't do. We have to make ourselves available for it. What is it? The NIV talks about the attitude of your mind. Some versions talk about the spirit of your mind. It's a tough phrase to translate. What does it mean? Without going into all the details, I'll tell you what I think it means. It doesn't mean the Holy Spirit because you don't talk about the Holy Spirit as our spirit. It doesn't just mean the general spirit of your heart. There are places where mind, heart, and spirit are all used interchangeably for your soul. But it couldn't mean that because we're talking about the spirit of the mind. The word spirit originally means breath or life or power. The life of the mind. The power of the mind. It's a very deep concept and very important phrase. It's not just saying, be renewed in your thinking. It's talking about something behind the thinking. It's the governing principle, an interior principle that captures and leads your mind. Genesis 6 says, every imagination of the thoughts of the mind was only evil continually. Behind your thoughts is something called the imagination. The word imagination in the Bible means something different than creativity. It is the faculty of the soul that assigns value. It's the faculty of appreciation. For example, here are two people, Mr. A and Mr. B. They both eat a mouthful of lamb. The same piece of meat. One says, yuck, I hate lamb. The other says, I love lamb. What happened? What's the difference? It's the same stuff. The difference is taste. And what taste buds are to the body, the imagination of the spirit of the mind is to the soul and heart. Now, to give you an example of how this is the key to all change—it's not enough just to put off and put on. You've actually got to be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Let me read you an amazing story out of the Old Testament. It's in Joshua, not Judges. In Joshua 7, there was a man named Achan. When the Israelites were told to capture Jericho, God said to everyone, if you see any money or plunder, you do not take it. You must bring it into the tabernacle. It becomes part of the money that supports the tabernacle and the priesthood and the sacrificial system. Achan, however, when he was in battle, found some things and took them and hid them. Joshua finds him and brings him out and tells him to confess. And this is what Achan says in Joshua 7:21. Achan said, listen carefully, it is true, I have sinned against the Lord, the God of Israel. This is what I have done. When I saw the plunder of a beautiful robe from Babylonia, 200 shekels of silver and a wedge of gold weighing 50 shekels, I coveted them and took them and they are hidden in the ground under my tent with the silver underneath. Now, see very carefully this chain? This can make all the difference in the world to your own lives. There's a chain. I saw them,

first step. But then the second step is he saw that they were beautiful. The third step was I coveted them. That's where his thinking came in. Then fourthly, he took them and fifthly, he hid them. Where is the crucial link? It's the second link. He saw them, but what did he see? He saw a beautiful robe, not just a robe. And he also saw 200 shekels of silver. He counted them. And a wedge of gold weighing 50 shekels. He weighed it. He lets the robe look beautiful in his eyes. Here's what he's doing. He has taken these things and he's turning over the beauty of them on the palate of his soul. Before he even thinks, I want them, he begins to fill his mind. This is what we call the imagination—that which makes things vivid, that which creates pictures, that which assigns beauty and value and appreciation. He sees them. Then he lets the spirit of his mind be captured by them. Then he begins to think, I want them. What could he have done at this point? At the thought level he could have started to argue with himself—that's where most of us try to stop. We get to the thought level and we say, you know, that's wrong, that's bad. You'll get in trouble. And you can argue at the thought level, but you should have gone back and renewed yourself with the spirit of the mind. Here's what he should have done. Instead of turning over on the palate of his soul and saying, look how beautiful that is, he should have weighed in his heart and turned over on the palate of his soul what God had been doing for him. If he had been saying, I was a slave. I was living the life of a dog in Egypt. And God, in his infinite mercy, let us out. Instead of a dog now, I'm a man. Instead of a slave, I have my family. I have a clan. We're on our way to the promised land. He has taken us out again and again of one peril after another in spite of the fact that we have grumbled all the way. What a great God it is. What is that doing? He's being renewed in the spirit of his mind. As he thinks about the truth, as he turns it over on the palate of his heart, the spirit of God burns those thoughts into his heart and changes his heart so that the conscious thoughts that come out would not have been covetous thoughts. Do you see? I saw. My imagination was captured. Then I coveted them. Then I took them. Then I hid them. There are all sorts of ways you can see how this is operating in your own life. For example, what happens if every year you brought your report card home to your dad and you had all A's and one B plus, and he'd say, what's this? Every time. Nothing about the A's. So what sinks down, what captures the spirit of your imagination? You better be good. You better not fail. You better be perfect. No slip-ups. How can you be renewed in the spirit of your mind? What you have to do is say, Lord, yeah, I do fail, just like everybody else, even people who look successful. But I know this. I know who I am in Christ. I realize that Jesus is my Savior. Jesus is my advocate. Right now, Jesus Christ stands before the Father as my high priest. And we're told that the names of the children of God are engraved on precious stones over his heart. And when God looks at Jesus Christ, he sees me. And when he looks at me, he sees Jesus. He regards me through Jesus. When I received him as Savior, that means all of his righteousness is imputed to you. Look at Jesus Christ. Look at his perfect humanity. Look at his pristine moral beauty. Never an unkind word. Total compassion. Great courage. Complete humility. Steadfast love. What a record! That's your record. God regards you as if you'd done everything Jesus has done and suffered everything Jesus has suffered. This is how you have to talk to yourself. To be renewed in the spirit of your mind is to preach to yourself until your imagination is captured. You study the Bible, you read Christian books, and you look for radioactive truths. Do you know what I mean by that? Some years ago, especially when I started traveling, I would experience stage fright. One day, I was reading the letters of John Newton, a great Anglican minister from a couple hundred years ago. And John Newton said, I find that to keep my eye upon Christ as my only peace and my only life is the hardest part of my Christian calling. The day I read that, I felt it go right into my imagination, right into the spirit of my mind. And I started to do something. I started to get up in front of audiences and quietly, under my breath, looking at them, I would say,

you are not my peace. What you think of me, how you react to me, whether you receive me well, you are not my peace. Christ is my peace. It freed me. Now what happens is you spend your time studying the scripture, talking to friends, listening to God's word being preached, reading Christian literature, looking for radioactive nuggets. You take the truth and you roll it over on the palate of your mind, trying to get the sweetness out of it, until very often the Holy Spirit himself will take one of these nuggets like you are not my peace and burn it into your heart. And at that point, the spirit of your mind begins to change. It begins to get captured. And as a result, you can deal with temptation. You can make the changes. Look, you're having trouble forgiving somebody. It all has to do with what captures your mind. Well, at the thought level, you can say, I'm not going to keep thinking those bitter thoughts about him. And you can try, and that sometimes works. You can move from putting off to putting on by not going all the way down to the level of the spirit of the mind. You might do it at the behavioral level. Some of you have good self-control. I'm not going to think those nasty thoughts about him anymore. But more likely this: you're having bitterness problems because the spirit of your mind is captured by all the thoughts and all the things that he or she has done to you. It's vivid. It's on video in your heart. You know, on audio, you have a little voice that says, you ought to forgive her. God says, forgive her. But on video is all the things she's done to you. That spirit of your mind has captured you. As a result, you are not able to change. What should you do? You've got to put onto video what Jesus has done for you. Look at what he's forgiven you of. Look at what he's put up with. Look at all that he's done for you. Look at your ingratitude. Considering how he constantly forgives you. Considering that your debt is infinitely greater than her debt to you. What are you doing holding it over her head? You think about that. You preach to yourself. The spirit of your mind is captured and you can make the change. Then you can put off and put on. Are any of you shy people? Are you afraid to do something because you're afraid of the reaction you might get? How do you put off fear and put on courage? You talk to yourself. I'll never forget the day I heard one preacher say,

who cares about the approval of the serfs when you have the honor of the king? I've never forgotten that. I said, good night, that's it. What the heck am I afraid of? Who needs the approval of the serfs when I have the honor of the king? What happened at that point? The spirit of the mind was renewed. Now, maybe the things I'm telling you are not doing it. The truths that the spirit has used in my own heart to deal with stage fright, to deal with bitterness, you've got to go get your own. Be made new. You can't be passive. You've got to study. You've got to give all diligence. You've got to think. You've got to pray. You've got to meditate. You've got to reflect. And if you do, Hebrews 12 talks about the fact that we're surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses egging us on as we're running the race. Who's the great cloud of witnesses? All the dead saints. There's Moses cheering you on. There's Peter. There's Jesus. There's Jonah. And when you look up and say, you know, there's Thomas. A doubter became a man of faith. There's Moses. A coward became a great leader. There's Peter. A coward became a great leader. Who knows what you could be if you simply would be made new in the spirit of your mind? You can change. Are you in a box? I remember reading a book long ago that ended like this. Do you feel, even though you're a Christian, that you're in a box with absolutely no way out? Paul and Silas were in prison and they prayed. They were renewed in the spirit of their mind. They weren't afraid. They knew that God was the king. And the earth shook. And all the prison doors burst open. There is a way of escape. Even though it may be the way of endurance. God can change you. You can be changed. And maybe the great change you may have to make is to first of all, and above all, put off the old man for the first time by repentance and put on the new man for the first time by giving yourself to him. Because all these promises, every single promise that I'm making to you tonight, and I'm saying God is making to you, is contingent on this: that you belong to him. That you're his. That you've received him, believed on his name, and he's given you authority to become his children. Amen. Amen. Friends, you can't say can't. Let's close. Our Father, we ask that you would help us take the promises and burn them into our hearts. Really renew the spirit of our minds through the truth. It's so simple that it's hard. By your spirit, help us to show the world that by your power we can change. By your power we can become like your son, who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen.