The first person who's giving their testimony tonight, she's coming up and sharing with us. And that's Jan Mowder, is how you say it. I guess I got it right. And it's Jan. And Jan is the Counsel on Foreign Relations in New York City. And she's originally from New Jersey. And she attended Douglas College, which is part of Rutgers University. So without further ado, Jan, would you come up, please?

Okay. I'm a little nervous. Just bear with me. I'm from Bedminster, so it was good to hear. Nobody's heard of Bedminster. Very good. It was good to hear that. As I was growing up, my favorite TV show was The Brady Bunch. And I especially liked Jan Brady, because she lived in a... big house, her parents were perfect, and she had long blonde hair. And I felt my life was really the opposite of that. My father had become addicted to pills during the Korean War. And his addiction to drugs and alcohol continued throughout my childhood. I remember one hot summer night when I was 14, and I had just been certified in CPR. Can you take it to the back of the phone, please? Sure. Is that better? Okay. My older sister woke me up with a story. She said, she had a heart attack. She said, Could I come down and help him? When I ran down the stairs into the kitchen, I saw my father had passed out on the kitchen floor. His face was bright red. When I checked his breathing and pulse, I realized he was fine. He had just passed out due to the pills he had taken. My father was a very poor manager of money and lost the family business and our home due to his financial problems. And these things had a very heavy impact on him. They had a heavy toll on my family. Throughout my life, I tried to laugh off these problems and compensate for them through friends and activities. I always wanted to appear normal and not let my family problems affect me in any way. And for a while, this seemed to work. On the surface, everything was fine. After I graduated from Rutgers, I moved to New York City,

had a great job at the council,

got a nice apartment, and had some very good friends. And my family looked at me with pride as a real success story. However, on the inside, I felt very inadequate and insecure, no matter what I achieved. And I couldn't shake the fact that for some reason I was just unhappy with my life. In the summer of 89, things came to a head when I reached the milestone age of 30. I decided to take some time off to think about my life. So I took a two-month leave of absence from my job and went to Switzerland as a volunteer leader with the YMCA, leading Swiss children hiking in the Alps. And as it turned out, I had a lot more time to think than I anticipated because the children spoke German and I speak English. So during some very long hikes, quiet hikes in the mountains, my cares and worries seemed quite far away. I felt really happy for the first time in years. Since I had some belief in God, I began to pray at that point, and I asked that the Lord would give me some of this peace when I came back to Manhattan. But when I came back, things didn't start off so well. I had a friend who I had been praying for five years, who I really had hoped to marry, broke up with me. And I got really angry with God, and I demanded to Him, where's this happiness that we discussed when I was in Switzerland? I really trusted you. Sorry. A few days later, however, probably because I had nothing better to do, I was walking in my neighborhood and went into the neighborhood church and heard the end of the sermon. And there I heard that although people can let you down, Jesus Christ will never leave you. He loves you with a never-ending, unconditional love. And when I heard this, I just started to cry. I wanted to believe that someone could be there for me in that way, but it seemed too good to be true. Around that time, an old friend referred me to a Bible study through executive ministry. And at first, I really resisted coming, thinking that Bible study was just a little too weird for me. But when I finally did come, I heard that first night, he asked us through his word in the Bible to trust his son Jesus in all things and to enter into a daily, personal relationship with him. The leader of the Bible study invited us to pray silently after him as he said a prayer asking the Lord to come into our lives. So that first night, I turned my life over to Jesus Christ. The last two-plus years have been very exciting as I've learned more and more about Jesus and seen him work in my life. I wish I could say that my problems have magically disappeared, but that's not true. What I've found is that God is very practical and that he gives us solutions to problems through his word in the Bible. And one example of turning to God's word happened two years ago at this conference. I was very nervous about going because I had asked the Lord into my life about seven weeks before that. But I remembered the saying in the Bible that I can do all things through him that gives me strength. When I arrived at the Bible study, I was in the dining room on Friday night for dinner. I was faced with a room of a couple hundred strangers. I really didn't know anybody. Old feelings of insecurity crept up and I really considered going to my room and ordering room service. But I prayed to the Lord for strength and I sat down at the first table I saw. And there I sat beside a grandmother from Maryland who may be here tonight, I don't know. And she told me how the Lord had blessed her throughout her life. I was so amazed with her story, her powerful story, that fear just left me. And that weekend I must have spoken to a dozen other Christians. I had never really spoken to Christians before. And each person had their own incredible story of what God had done in their lives. Each story was different, but the common thread was that Jesus was active and working and changing people's lives. I had a wonderful time, needless to say, and the Lord had answered my prayers beyond my expectations. The final example I have tonight of how the Lord is working in my life involves my father. I had been angry at my father for a very long time. And two years ago I started praying that the Lord could bring some healing into that relationship. Because in my heart I knew I really loved my dad. Last Easter my father invited me to go to church with him for the first time. I had never seen him go to church. And so I did go. And at Easter, I saw my father for the first time in three years. So these words and psalms have become very real to me. Because he loves me, says the Lord, I will rescue him. He will call upon me, and I will answer him. I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. Thank you.

That was beautiful, George. After you sang the first one, inside I was saying, Hot dang! That's good. That was good.

Go for it, we're all about it.

I know, the part I want to say, it's kind of ironic that Tim will be teaching on stress and anxiety tonight, because I'm sure having my shoes on, I'll be better by tomorrow, who knows.

But somebody said to me, it was Alan Kleinberg, said, Oh, haven't you heard Tim Keller before? I said, No, well, I said, the one time we heard him, we had a men's retreat, and Tim flew in from somewhere, I don't know, we were in Pennsylvania. And he came in, and he had this head cold the whole 24 hours. And he, Wow, that's very good. He was a little scared like that, but it was still good anyway. It was still effective anyway. So Joanne Gerardo said, she said, You know, well, you should, you know, come to our church. And I said, I'm sorry, I don't get involved in cults. So there's just no way that's going to happen.

But anyway,

I got a bio here. It tells where he was born, Allentown, Pennsylvania.

Graduated Bucknell in 1970. By the way, it said what year you were born. Tim, but I'm not going to say that part of it. Graduated from Bucknell in 1972. Married his wife Kathy while they were both at seminary. He graduated G.C.T.S. 1975. I don't know what that is, but yeah, okay. I've only been a Christian eight years, so I don't know any of these. Church, he was a church in a blue collar church, a blue collar southern town for nine years. Routinely preached and spoke eight to nine times a week. He received his doctorate in ministry at Westminster in about 1983. There's a question mark next to that. Is that right? Moved to Philadelphia in 1984 where he held several jobs simultaneously. And I've got a list of them here. Associate Professor of Practical Theology, WTS. Director of another ministry here. Director of the program WTS. Supervised, director of a supervised ministry. And doesn't, this can't be right. Did painted cars at Earl Schwab for 99, 95. That can't be right. Anyway. We'll just skip all of that and I'll, I'll mention last that, that Tim came to New York in 1989 and says he started a church with zero. Couldn't have been zero because you were there, Tim, so that's one anyway. And now is somewhere in the neighborhood of 900. And has three sons, ages 13, 11, and 8. So we have something in common because of three sons of our six. And is well acquainted with the pressures of family, schedule, ministry. Is a self-confessed recovering workaholic. Tim maintains that grace is the only, well I can see that back here after all those, I didn't even, I only read half that list. And he maintains that grace is the only antidote for the achievement pressures that fuel the dangers, the dangerous levels of stress we all operate under. So without further ado, Tim Keller.

Well, I was thinking Kirby, I think that,

I think I'm going to write a book called, it's the 11th step to, 11th of the basic steps to Christian maturity on Christian abbreviations.

That you really can't get around in the Christian life unless you understand Christian abbreviations. And if you go through those 10 basic steps and there's nothing on abbreviations, I don't, well what good is the other 10? If you don't, you know, I mean, I mean the fact is, let's face it, you don't know what the heck I was doing.

Because, because of all those abbreviations, right? You don't know Christian abbreviations. Boy, you, yeah, you need to, you need to sue, sue Crusade for malpractice in the discipling of you if you, if you don't know Christian abbreviations. That's, I just want you to know how important that is. Uh,

the, the subject of stress can be, can be handled a lot of different ways. I was talking to my wife about it and I said, you know, if there's medical people, people in, in the medical professions there, I don't know, I'm not an expert in, in that side and that's a big part of stress. There's people who have gotten, are trained in psychology. I don't, I'm not trained in psychology. Uh, what do I know about stress? And then she looked at me and she says, are you kidding? But you see, the point is that, uh, everybody here thinks they're an expert on stress. And if you look at it that way, I'm not an expert in medicine or psychology, nor am I necessarily an expert in, in the experience of stress. Because, at least I should say, I'm no more of an expert than you are, most of you, in the experience of stress. Everybody thinks their stress is worse than everybody else. That's one of the reasons why, as part of coping with stress, is to realize it's really not. You know, uh, but, I am, I'm supposed to be, and I think I am, uh, I've got expertise in the area of what the Bible has to say about stress. So therefore, I want you to know that tonight I'm going to try to give you an overview, of the subject, and show you that there's all, there's so many different sides to it. I hope that after tonight, uh, or even in the middle of the, the session tonight, as I move into what the Scripture says about certain subjects, you'll realize that I'm not reducing stress, and the effects of stress, and the people who have literally, I'll give you an example, who have flipped out over stress. I'm not simply reducing it to a matter of read these Bible passages and just have faith. But, I'm here, but not because I'm here, not because I'm a medical expert, if you, or a psychological expert, or even a, necessarily an experiential expert, in stress, but I'm an expert in the Scripture. So that's what I'm going to be doing. Now I don't know, did anybody pass out, Diane, did you pass out that, that force field thing? Okay, let's, here's what I'd like to do, tonight.

Um, stress is pretty complex. Listen to this story. This was, uh, in the Baltimore Sun.

This is a story reported in, uh, by the Associated Press, but in, about ten years ago. Uh,

I'll just read it. The job was getting to the ambulance attendant. He felt disturbed by the recurring tragedy, isolated by the long shifts. His marriage was in trouble. He was starting to drink too much. And one night it all blew up. He rode in the back that night of the ambulance. His partner drove. Their first call was for a man whose leg had been cut off by a truck. He was on the train. His screaming and agony were horrifying. Then the second call was even worse. It was a child beating. As the attendant treated the youngster's bruised body and snapped bones, he thought of his own child. His fury grew. Immediately after leaving the child at the hospital, the attendants were sent out to help a heart attack victim seen lying in a street. When they arrived, they found there was not a cardiac patient at all. It was just a, it was a false report, but rather a drunk, rather a, uh, a homeless man who was completely drunk, practically passed out. As they lifted the man into the ambulance, realizing he didn't have a coronary or anything, their frustration and anger came to a head. They decided to give him a ride he would remember. What they did was they put him in the back. The ambulance vaulted over railroad tracks at high speed. The driver took the corners as fast as he could. He flung this poor man who was now awake, from, who was an older man, from side to side, bouncing him around the back of the ambulance. Uh, to the attendants it was a joke. Suddenly, they saw that the man was beginning, he was an older man, obviously, uh, he began to have a real heart attack. The attendant in the back leaned over the guy and started shouting, die, you mother, die. He watched as the man shuddered, he watched as he died. By the time they reached the hospital, they had their story straight. They had been sent out to, uh, get somebody who had a heart attack, and dead on arrival they said, nothing we could do. They got their story straight. This story came out four years later in a group therapy session. Nobody knows, you know, it was anonymous, it came on out in a group therapy session on professional burnout in which the, uh, the attendant, uh, you know, under the, uh, anonymity of that particular situation told what happened. And he says, I don't know what happened to me. I don't know what happened to us. How could we have done that? What led us to do that? He was a normal person. What happened to him? He was a normal person. It was stress.

Now, that's pretty serious. And, uh, these folks were not, obviously, you see, they're helping people. They were helping professionals. And what happened on that particular night? The answer is stress. Stress took them out. Stress, uh, stress is a killer. It kills your, uh, it kills your body. It kills, uh, it kills a number of parts of your heart, in a sense. I'm talking about your soul, not your, uh, your physical heart. Now, what I'd like to look at with you this week, Ken, first of all, I wanted tonight give you an overview of stress. First of all, I'm going to look at it at the, at the description level, then at the analysis level, and then at the solution level. Now, you see, at the description level, that's where you're looking at a problem saying, what is it?

At that level, the sciences, whether they're Christian, whether they're being written or whether the observations are being made by Christians, or not, the sciences are extremely helpful because we're just simply saying, what is this problem? Describe it for us. And a disciplined observer and a disciplined listener, whether they're Christians or not, can look at something and describe it. That's the level of description. But as soon as you get to the level of analysis, you're not, you're no longer asking, what is it? But why is it? Why is it a problem? Why does it have this sort of, uh, effect on our hearts and our souls? When you get to the level of analysis, and then especially when you get to the level of solution, which is, how do we deal with it? What is it? Why is it? How do we deal with it? When you get to analysis and especially solution, at that point, you can't possibly really rely on, quote, objective science because you're into the area of values. You're into the area of oughtness. And that's the place where you have to turn to the Scripture. So tonight, at first, I'd like to give you some descriptions, and to some degree, they rely a lot on what the sciences and what the social sciences have been saying because stress has been studied for the last, uh, last couple of decades really pretty well. I'd like to look at it with you, give a good description of it, and then starting tonight, uh, we'll see, I'll watch my time, but then what I'm going to do is starting tonight, and tomorrow, and then on Sunday, I'm going to isolate four themes, four basic ways that you can deal with stress, four themes from the Scripture, and go at them. Now let me, let me, uh, if you take a look at, well, you, listen for a moment, because I'm not going to actually make you follow the sheet just yet, but listen for a moment. Let's talk about description, what stress is. I'm going to tell you this. First of all, most importantly, stress is a physiological response of your body. Uh, the, uh, some of the, some of the researchers say that stress is, it's been called the fight or flight syndrome. So, for example, whenever we, we perceive ourselves to be threatened, all sorts of stuff begins to happen to our body. Now, if you're, if you're a medical professional, you know, forgive me if I'm, uh, being amateurish in the way in which I describe this, but I'm, I'm, you know, I'm confident that what I'm describing, the basic outlines of it are accurate. Uh, what happens is when you get into the syndrome, when, when the body perceives itself to be threatened, all sorts of things begin to happen. The, uh, what happens is our glands begin to go on over, overdrive. The hypothalamus begins to get the autonomic nervous system, and the pituitary gland going, which gets these little things called adrenalins going, and these little things called corticords going. They move in through the, through all through the system. The, uh, the liver begins to secrete glucose. It's pretty interesting. When I started studying it, I was amazed at just all the, the things that begin to happen. We all know that the, that the heart begins to pump more blood out to the muscles, so that they have more energy. I didn't realize, and this is really fascinating, that the, the blood also gets drained away from the surface of the skin. In one sense, it's being pumped out there to the muscles, but it's drained away from the surface of the skin. It drains the capillaries away. Some of you know that feeling, uh, and, uh, when you go white, and, and the blood seems to be rushing away from some parts of the body, and rushing toward other parts of the body. And the, the reason for that, by the way, well, we don't know exactly the reason for that, but it's ideal for a fight. It's ideal for a battle. You don't bleed as much, because the, uh, the blood is being taken away from the, uh, from the surface. On the other hand, you're stronger. There's, uh, the muscles have got strength. Not only that, but the blood clots better. Because the blood, uh, the, uh, well, not only does the spleen put out a lot more red corpuscles, as if it's getting ready for a loss of blood, almost like it's getting ready for a fight. That's why they call it the fight or fight syndrome. But not only that, uh, in the blood, little platelets begin to clump to prevent blood loss by clotting quickly if there's a wound. Even the blood clots better. The pupils dilate for sharpened sight. And of course, all the adrenaline's got all the senses heightened. And there's all kinds of stories about all the extra strength that you've got. In fact, I think it's kind of interesting. Uh, there's a place in, uh, before one of the great battles in Henry the Fifth, Henry turns around to his, uh, his, uh, soldiers as he's, uh, getting ready to get them to charge. And he says, imitate the action of the tiger. And then he says, stiffen the sinews. Summon up the blood. Which is actually a good thing. It's actually a pretty good, uh, description of what happens to the body in a battle. What happens to the body in the fight or flight syndrome. Now you can ask yourself, since we know the body was actually designed by a creator, it's not an accident. You can ask yourself, why would God have put, you might say, the ability for the body to go in overdrive, the stress syndrome. Why would God have invented that? What's the purpose of stress? Why is it there in the human body? And the answer is, the obvious answer is, to prepare us to meet a threat with strenuous action, through heightened abilities, mentally, physically, and every other way. And so, here's a definition. Stress is the body's preparation to take action against a threat.

That sounds great. How positive. How wonderful. You know, if it's good, if stress is, is fundamentally the body's ability to get itself all, you know, like to imitate the action of the tiger, to tighten, to stiffen the sinews, and summon up the blood, and get you ready for, for, heighten all your senses, and get you ready for strenuous action, to deal with a threat. If it's all very positive, why is stress so bad for us in so many ways? Well, the answer is sin does, sin takes every good thing, sin takes every good thing and distorts it. You know, it's all right to say, for Henry, Henry the fifth to say, we're about to go in and take this battlefield, so stiffen up the sinews, summon up the blood, and everybody goes, rah! Now, if you have to say that though to go to the supermarket, you're agoraphobic.

Or if you get that way, when you get near the supermarket, you say, you're agoraphobic. Here's the problem with stress. The problem with stress is that when it's continuous,

when it's constant, when the stressors, now the stressors are the threat, and we're going to continually talk about stressors. Stressors are the threat, stress is the response of the body. When there's just continual stressors, when the body's constantly staying in a stress mode, or when you find that the body's constantly getting into that stress mode and there's nothing to do with all the energy, you have no way to fight out or fight back. In other words, the engine is continually racing. The body starts to break down. It starts to literally burn up. Some people say that what stress actually does is it, I mean, burnout actually can be a literal thing here. Some of the medical people will say what stress actually does is it just makes you age faster. It's like putting you in one of these little Star Trek science fiction places, giving you a pill, or putting you in a little,

in a force field that ages you faster. That's really what's happening. You're being spent. You're burning too fast.

And there are considerations, and there's a guy named Hans Selye, who was really considered the father of stress research, who says that there's really three stages of distress or overstress. Distress or overstress is stress that is not harnessed properly. It's continual, continual. Instead of you doing something with it, using the stress to actually take action and spend the stress, instead it just stays in there and eats up the body. And he says what happens is as long as the body keeps on going like that and the stress is continual, and you can't do anything about, you don't get rid of the stressors, you don't get rid of the threats, they just keep on coming, he says what happens is there's three stages to what he would call distress or overstress. The first stage is the alarm stage. We just described it. That's where the body's all ready. The heart's all ready. The second stage is the resistance stage. Now, if you don't deal with the stress, you go into what they say, and the research is called as resistance stage, what's resistance? The resistance phase, of course, at the physical level, it means the body is storing up too much energy. The blood pressure is staying up too long. There's backaches and neckaches. Why? Because the muscles are stiffened up. You know, you stiffen up the sinews. And what is happening is the body's not meant to stay in that condition constantly all the time, constantly all the time. You're meant to take that and deal with the threat and deal with the situation and get out of the threatening situation. Deal with the threat. If you're not able to do that, you go into resistance, which means the body actually begins to get tense. The blood pressure starts to get up. And, now this is kind of an interesting thing to me, a lot of the psychologists will tell you that if you can't deal with the threat at the alarm stage, you get into a resistance stage, which means that you have to try to do something with it in this way. You can't get rid of the threat, what do you do? You go into what the psychologists call the classic defense mechanisms. What are the defense mechanisms? Number one, you've got the defense mechanism of irritability. You just start to lash out at everybody and everything around you. You see, begin to, you snap at people. The threat's over here, but the point is you're just in that mode and you start to snap at everybody. You become angry at everybody. You become suspicious of everybody. Another one of the basic and classic defense mechanisms is withdrawal. There's ways of withdrawing. Escape sleeping. Another way, some people call it medicating yourself. That means get away from the situation by drinking too much or eating too much or sort of medicating yourself with pleasure. Another way to do it is to deny the problem. To say it's not really there, to sort of get rid of it. There's all sorts of them. Like I said, I'm not trained in psychology and therefore don't know what, you know, I'm not trying to say I know that there's only four, there's five defense mechanisms. But we're talking about people that haven't been able to deal with a threat directly. They're not able to get rid of it. They're not able to deal with it. The stress continues. What do they start to do? There comes what the researchers call a resistance phase, which is a pretty desperate phase. If for some reason the threat continues and the stress overwhelms your defenses and your resistance, eventually you get into what they call the exhaustion phase. Now these are Hans Selye, the stress research guy. He said alarm, resistance, and then exhaustion. Here's what he says by exhaustion. He says what happens is physically when the motor continues to race without resolve, the stress continues. These are things that can happen. High blood pressure. Diabetes. Why? Diabetes can result from stress because the liver is throwing glucose out there into the system all the time in order to give you the energy. Coronary thrombosis. Why? Remember those little platelets that are always forming so your blood can clot? So if there's a battle, you won't have too much blood loss. Those things throw off clots and you have coronary thrombosis. Back and neck and head pain from the contracted muscles. You have the ulcers, peptic ulcers.

And ultimately, psychologically what happens is you are so consumed with the threat, with whatever it is, that you no longer can do the maintenance of basic relationships. So your marriage fails. So your job, you may lose your job and so on. The secret, if there's a secret, is to realize that stress is something that God put into your body to enable you to deal with something, to deal with a threat. When the threat shows, you've got to do something about it. You've got to deal with it. There's got to be direct action. If you can't deal with the threat, the stress, the body just stays in a stress situation and eventually moves into resistance and then into exhaustion. Stress kills you physically. Stress kills you spiritually. Now, what I have on this sheet is based on the research of somebody else whose name I can't remember, but somebody out there who's better.

I developed this sheet some years ago. And since I'm not coming as a medical or psychological expert, I don't need to footnote anything. It's wonderful.

There's a man I once read, and I think he's right, in saying that the way most people deal with stress, since he's thinking of stress as a good thing fundamentally, is to recognize the fact that in your life you've got continual threats. There's things that are always coming in to threaten you. There's also things in your life that he calls not stressors but anti-stressors. And if I was going to... diagram a person's life who is struggling with stress, what you actually can do is you can take some of these areas, I'm going to describe what they are, and you could draw a line down the center. If the line is straight, if the anti-stress forces in your life are strong enough to overwhelm the stress forces, so if the line is straight or if it's curved this direction toward the stress forces, so that the anti-stress forces are at the center, or at least as strong as or stronger than the stress forces in your life, you're doing okay. You're happy. You're comfortable. What happens though, when you, quote, feel under stress, is instead of a straight line, the line starts to curve this way. Can you understand what I mean? Certain of these stressors are overwhelming the corresponding anti-stress forces that are there in your life. And therefore, there's always three ways to deal with stress. The worst way, if you look at the bottom of the sheet, the worst way is to focus on that middle part. The first way is to focus on the reaction itself. See, the reaction is, you know, you sense your blood pressure rising, you sense your breathing getting faster and labored, you sense all the physiological reactions. And the way a lot of us try to deal with stress is we say, we try to deal directly with that and say, no.

Control yourself.

Don't get upset.

Which, you know, I'm not saying that is of absolutely no benefit at all. You know, in the, there can be great benefits to that and I'll tell you later on that to some degree, the way you deal with stress is by talking to yourself. But by working directly on the emotions like that, by working directly on the reactions like that, in many cases you need to be listening to your emotions. You need to be listening to what's going on. They are a way of telling you just what's really going on. Some of us, especially us guys, are so good at, you know, at dealing with stress by controlling the reactions that we don't know until days or weeks later what's really going on. Because we have no way of telling. The worst way in some ways is to try to deal directly with your reaction. This is extreme. There's nothing wrong with saying, I want to punch this guy out, but I better not. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with controlling yourself there. I'm not into primal scream therapy. I'm saying that's really the most short-sighted and the most superficial approach to stress. The right approach to stress is to say, I either need to remove the stressors and or I need to strengthen the anti-stressors. I need to analyze what it is, what anti-stressors are too weak and what stressors are too strong and I need to work on both. And in everybody's case, I think it's different. That's why it's a little dangerous to say, here goes step one, two, and three. But basically, I would say that by and large, the longest term way to deal with stress is to strengthen the anti-stress forces in your life. Because you see, stress is inevitable.

Threats are inevitable as long as you live in the world that you live in. And I mean, just to give you a pretty good example, if you find that the great stress, one of the great stresses is under five, no, under four, one of the great stresses is you really cannot deal with conflict. That is, when people criticize you or people are displeased with you. Now, like for example, if you're married, haven't you noticed that in many cases, one of you, when somebody is real upset, you know, when somebody is really upset with one of you, that person can sort of shrug it off and yet the other one, the spouse, the mate, in the same situation kind of goes to pieces. We're going to talk more about that tomorrow, why that's true. But the fact is, you may be one of those people that pretty much goes to pieces. It's tremendously stressful for you to deal with conflict. Now, the short-term solution is to get away from that person that's so mean, right? The long-term solution is to say, how do you deal with someone like that? That's the anti-stressor. How do you forgive? How do you reconcile? How do you speak to a person in that situation? Conflict management skills is an anti-stressor. In the long run, you know, in the short run, the best way to deal with the fact that your blood pressure is going through the roof because you're in the same office with this person, maybe you should transfer, you should quit. I mean, it's better than having a heart attack. But maybe in the long run, what you really need to learn is an anti-stressor. How do you deal with somebody like that? So, generally I've found that I can take this particular sheet, and I'd like to talk to you a little bit about it here, and I can diagram where I am. I can usually say, here, the anti-stress force is pretty strong. The stress force isn't particularly strong. Here I'm doing okay, but very often I'll diagram myself, and I go like this, and all of a sudden I'll go like that, and I'll go, whoops, I wonder what's going on here. Let me show you six columns, six sorts of stress forces, six sorts of threats. I'm only going to deal with four during this weekend. Maybe if, you know, there's a question and answer time, you might want to get me, you know, on the areas that I'm not going to talk about. But here's what I mean by these six different areas. Some of these are jargon that I just remember picking up from a book, some of the stuff I've altered. Now, the first one is worry. To anticipate stress, anticipatory stressors means future problems. I'm afraid of what's coming. It's not here yet. That's worry.

Now, what's interesting about what the Bible says, when the Bible talks about anxiety, the Bible is saying, there's one place where obviously the word anxiety, which means deep concern, bearing a burden, that's what it means, to bear a burden. There's a place where Paul says, I have, every day I am besieged by the anxiety I have for all the churches. There's a place where Paul says I'm anxious every day for the churches. You see, worry is just concern gone bad.

If you try to get rid of worry by saying, I don't care about that, you are dehumanizing yourself. If you love people, if you love justice, if you love God's will, if you love God's cause, you worry. I mean, there's a concern, there's an anxiety in the sense that there's a concern for seeing something happen. There's a concern that certain things happen in the future. You love your family, you have a concern that certain things happen in their lives.

If it doesn't look like it's going to happen, there's concern. There's got to be concern. That's one of the things that motivates you. In a sense, again, in a sense, stress is good. If you weren't able to get concerned, if you weren't able to say there's a threat here, you're concerned for your children, you want to see your children come to Christ or you want to see your children walk with the Lord, then is there such a thing as good concern and anxiety? Is there such a thing in a sense as good stress, eustress, not distress? No. Of course. In fact, if it wasn't for your capacity to do that, you wouldn't see that when your child seems to be in some kind of danger that you've got to do something about it. You've got to spend time, you've got to pray, you've got to drop part of your job so you have the time to spend with them and so forth.

But the anti-stress force is a Christian way of looking at the world because worry is concern going bad. That means you've got this concern for the future and concern for things, but you've also got a sinful body. You've got this belief that you're really in charge of your life. The Bible says that our sin is to play God. We want to be God. When the serpent came to Adam and Eve, what does he say? He says, if you eat the fruit, you will be as God. Take your life into your own hands, Adam and Eve. Actualize yourselves. Instead of depending on what this God says, be your own God. We've been doing it ever since. And one of the big problems is that we want to be our own rulers. When a doctor comes in and says to you, it's bad news. It looks like you've got blank.

I really don't know what's going to happen. We'll have to see.

Why are you crushed with anxiety?

Because, you see, nothing really changed. You were always totally dependent on God. You were always helpless. You were always out of control. But now you know you are. Nothing's changed now that you're sick. When you were healthy, you were just as much out of control. You were just as much dependent on Him. That's the only difference. When suddenly an anticipatory stressor comes into your life, the reason you're not just concerned but you're just crushed with anxiety is that we hate our helplessness. We hate the fact that we're really not king. There's a place where Pascal says, it's kind of interesting, Pascal says, The greatness of man is so evident that it is even proved by his wretchedness. For who is unhappy at not being a king but a deposed king? What he means is we're put into the garden and we're meant to rule under God, put into the Garden of Eden. But we decided we were going to exercise our kingship by being our own masters and not listen to God at all. But to be our own God. Well, the ironic thing is by trying to become more than we were created to be, we've become less than we were created to be. By trying to become a higher order of being than we are, we've become a lower order of being than we were meant to be. And we're continually, let's put it this way, we're gnawed by our lost kingship. We're always trying to get it back. And one of the ways we try to get it back is we think that we really are in control of our lives. In Matthew 6, there's a place where Jesus says, Isn't life more than clothing? Can you add one minute to your life by worrying about it? And what he's saying is, take this life of yours. Where does it come from? Who's been keeping it going all these years? You thought it was you. But you've been totally and completely dependent on me. We want to be in charge. We think we know what's best. And worry comes not just from the good concern, that's good stress, but the distress, the overstress comes from feeling like, I know better than God what my life should be like. There's a place where, you know, Martin Luther had a good friend, Philip Melanchthon. And Luther was always taught, Melanchthon was a great worrier, a tremendous worrier, tremendously anxious person. And every so often, Luther would try to wake Melanchthon up. And sometimes he would smile, and he would say, let Philip cease to rule the world. You're underqualified for the job. When you worry, what you've done is you've taken on a job that you're underqualified for. Some of you know what that's like. You know, if you get into a job that you realize once you got there, I'm not smart enough for this job. I'm not trained enough for this job. And so what does that make you feel? Absolutely anxious. It is a fundamental... hmm... It is a fundamental...

It's a fundamental condition. It's a fundamental human spiritual condition that we are trying to take upon ourselves, a job that we're unqualified for. We think we know what is necessary in our lives. We think we know what... That's next door. It's not coming through the system. It's just coming through the wall, sorry. We think we know what's right. We think we know what's best. And therefore... And we say basically what worry is, is saying, Lord, I know how my life has got to go, and I'm afraid you're not going to get it right. And if you... The way to deal with this particular stressor is to realize

that worry is a mixture of good and bad. Worry is a mixture of concern on the one hand, but at the same time, a belief that you really keep your life going, and you know what's best. It's a desire to play God. It's a desire to be the ruler of your own universe. That's what's so hard, because some people have tried to deal with it by cutting off the concern when really the problem is to see that you've got to salt your concern with a continual perception of God's sovereignty and God's goodness and God's wisdom.

And look at the second stressor. Time and performance problems. Now here again, we've got something kind of interesting.

Sometimes your reason that you don't have enough time to do everything is because people are giving you too much to do, or that you just need to take a time management course, and there's a lot of good ones around, and you could get a lot more done if you get more organized. That's fine. That's true. And a certain amount of stress, a certain amount of stress when you feel like you've got too much to do is good. It makes you more efficient, you know? Stiffen up the sinews. Summon up the blood. That's fine. That's okay. You get more work done. One of my big problems, for example, is I used to come home unhappy every day because Kathy would say, how did you do? And I'd say, I didn't get as much done as I wanted to get done. She'd say, well, how much did you want to get done? I said, well, I made a list of 30 things to do and I got about 15 of them done. And she said, well, why don't you just make a list of 15 to do? But I found out when I made a list of 15 things to do, I only got 7 of them done.