What we're doing is we're looking, I've actually just chosen four, and this is the fourth one,

chose four passages out of 1 Corinthians to look at because Paul here addresses controversies

and difficulties and so on, which actually are still controversies and difficulties in the church. Now right away, just even before I read this, let me just answer a question that might be posed in your mind as we read it. You might say, well, I've always heard this was here, but why do we have to bring it up? Why do we have to look at it? Surely somebody's going to be upset tonight. And you know, the reason we have to look at it is simply it's because it is here. Anything in the Bible has to be dealt with. Anything in the Bible is having an effect. Anything in the Bible has to be, justice has to be done. I'm going to show you in a minute after I read it why, therefore, on the one hand, as I just said. I said, we have to deal with anything that's in the scripture. But I also want to show you almost immediately why we don't hammer this at a place like Redeemer. This is the kind of text that needs to be dealt with. It needs to be faced honestly. It needs to be addressed directly. But on the other hand, it's not the sort of thing that we should hammer, and we don't. And a lot of you have been coming to Redeemer for a long time, and unless you're an extremely old timer, you haven't heard me talk about this subject. And I'll show you reasons why we must talk about it, why we don't hammer at it a lot. Let me read you this passage. What I'm actually going to do is read you two parts of 1 Corinthians, chapter 11, then go right to chapter 14. And because they're really looking at two sides of an issue, and without which we can't really see Paul's whole approach. So we're looking at the subject of gender roles. The question that's being posed is, is there any difference between males and females in their roles and in their ministries inside the church? That's the question. And here's what Paul says. 1 Corinthians 11, verses 3 to 16, and then chapter 14, verses 33 to 38. Now, I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ. The head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head. And every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. It is just as though her head were shaved. If a woman does not cover her head, she should have her hair cut off. It's a disgrace for a woman to have her hair cut or shaved off, then she should cover her head. A man ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of man. For man did not come from woman, but woman from man. Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man. For this reason, and because of the angels, the woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head. In the Lord, however, a woman is not independent of man, nor is man independent of woman. For as a woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. But everything comes from God. Judge for yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? Does not the very nature of things teach you that if a man has long hair, it's a disgrace to him? But if a woman has long hair, it is her glory? For long hair is given to her as a covering. Now, if anyone wants to be contentious about this, we have no other practice, nor do we have any other practice. For God is not a God of disorder, but peace, as in all the congregations of the saints. Women should remain silent in the churches. They are not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says. If they want to inquire about something, they should ask their own husbands at home, for it is disgraceful for a woman to speak in a church. Did the word of God originate with you, or are you the only people it has reached? If anybody thinks he is a prophet or spiritually gifted, let him acknowledge what I am writing to you is the Lord's command. And if he ignores it, then he is a prophet. this, he himself will be ignored. See, he said, you'd heard of this, but it's interesting, is it not, to actually see it. And Kathy and I decided this is where we're going to deal with this. My wife Kathy and I have worked on this passage for an awful long time. And it's inappropriate for the only presentation to be from me. And not only that, if you look carefully, and I'm sure you already have, there are innumerable, well, not innumerable, well, there are many very small questions that rise up about hair, for example. Obviously, I'm in, you know, according to this, I'm disgraced, according to this. There's a lot of things about glory and who's the glory of who. And Kathy and I agreed on this. I'm going to lay out what the very basic principles of this text are. And Kathy is going to take the question and answer time in this auditorium at 730 right here without me. And by the way, on the one hand, if you're going to another class, I would suggest you stay in that class so that we don't completely destroy all the other classes tonight. But if you're a guest or if you're new or you don't go to another class, I really urge you to go and listen to Kathy because you can ask questions about the details. I'm going to give you the broad strokes. Now, to those people who are Christians, who are in the church or in this church, I have something to say. To those of you who might be outside, not sure you're a Christian or certainly not certain about it, at least. Just inside, first of all, we've got to keep something in mind. The church has tremendous consensus over the ages, you know, Protestants, Catholics, Orthodox, over the central things like the deity of Christ and the inspiration of the scriptures and the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. But at least amongst Protestants, for many years, there are just a lot of people, there's a lot of churches, there are a lot of ministers, there are a lot of Christians that really line up on virtually everything but this. I'm just reading a book. I was reading a book the other day, a really major book, thick book, New Testament Ethics, having a great time reading through the thing, you know, 99 different subjects. I was tracking with them on every one and then he gets to one spot in which he says, when it comes to this text right here, he says, Paul is unconvincing. I don't believe him. Now, here's a question. If I know this person and he knows me, it's him who wrote the book, here's my question. Do I say, do I just say to this, this person's a fool. He's rejecting the scripture. Does this person look to me if I accept what Paul says here and say, that man's a bigot? Have we not said over the years that one of the main ways in which the church is the church and one of the main ways in which the church shows the glory of who Jesus is, is that inside the church, people can get along who outside the church cannot. You've always heard me say, for example, that rich and poor, outside, at each other's throats, inside the church, we're brothers and sisters. Inside the church, they're brothers and sisters. There's a lot of races inside the church. Now, I want you to know that on this subject, outside the church, there's not much talking. There's a lot of shouting. There's a lot of yelling. There's a lot of picketing. There's a lot of placards. There are a lot of people who say the person, any person, with the other opinion to mind is a fool, is an ideologue, or worse, or dangerous. Now, here's all I can tell you. I can tell you, since there are so many people who track together on so many things, and are so wise and mature spiritually, and yet differ on this subject, it is absolutely wrong for us to say the person who is the opposite position is foolish, ideologue, dangerous. If we're not able to respect each other in the church on something like this, how in the world do we witness to the fact that Jesus makes us different? And this is the reason why it's been a long time since you've heard me talk about this. Let me tell you the reason why. I believe that any church has got, their leaders have got to decide where to come down. You have to come down somewhere. You have to, to even run a church. But once the leadership comes down, they must not hammer and say, this is our position, this is our position. You know why? Because when you hammer and hammer, what you're really saying is, number one, this is as important as Jesus Christ, and number two, you're saying that anybody who has a different viewpoint is stupid. If you hammer on this, what you're really saying is, I don't even respect a person who has a different point of view. I don't even respect you. And if we can't do that, you better get your doctrine of sin and grace together. You're a sinner. You're saved by grace. Okay? So, that's the first thing. For those of us who are inside, we've got to be able to talk about this civilly. We've got to respect each other. We've got to love each other. And we've got to talk about it every so often. We can't keep hammering. Number one. Number two. If you're from the outside, in other words, if you're somebody, yeah, I thought about this. If you're somebody, you're not really sure what you think about Christianity, and especially if tonight's your first night. I've thought about this, and I said, do I believe God's in control of history? Do I believe God's really in charge? In that case, I guess, you're supposed to be here on the first, this is supposed to be your first night at Redeemer. But let me tell you this. This is not the center. What is the center is Jesus. What I mean is, and you will see this if you come back. The reason Jesus is the center is because the point is, who is he? Is he who he said he is? If he is, your life is transformed when you meet him. And one of the things you have to be very careful about, and one of the reasons why I don't go into stuff like this very often, is because you mustn't, on the outside, look at Jesus and say, I don't want to be a Christian, and I don't want to believe in God, if it means thinking this, this, and this, and this. Now, for a moment, will you realize, will you realize the illogic of that? If Jesus is the creator, if he is wisdom itself, if meeting him means a total transformation of life, and you have to at least grant that might be the case, if you're here, I hope you're at least granting that might be the case, if that might be the case, then you can't know from the outside how life will look from the inside. You just can't. And you can't say, well, I'd like to come in and have my whole life transformed as long as it's not this, and this, and this. You can't say that. If, once you meet Christ, if once your life is turned upside down by him, and you look at me and say, I differ with you, and this whole church, on the way in which you understand male and female roles, I will be happy to recommend you to a church where you think things are done properly. I'll be happy to. Because this isn't the center. Now, when somebody says to me, though, I don't even know if I want to believe in God, because people who believe in God are so narrow about these things. Let me just think. If there is no God, if you say, I don't believe in God because people who believe in God are unjust, and they oppress people, and they're narrow. If there is no God, I want to ask you a question. What's wrong with racism and sexism? As soon as you say, I don't believe in God, I just believe in justice, I want to know whose justice you believe in, whose rationality, whose ethics. In other words, who says what's just? Who says what's narrow? If there is no God, there's only one question. Which group has the power to impose its view of rationality, its view of justice, and its view of ethics on the rest of us? If there is no God, there's no justice at all. So come to God. Come to Him. And then look out. This isn't the center. Now, what are the three principles? There's three principles here, the broad ones that I want to mention. And like I said, Kathy will pick up the pieces afterwards. If you think there's pieces, you know, if you get up and say, perfectly satisfied me, all these other things, you know, I don't care about them, fine, but if you've got pieces, talk to her afterwards and ask about the head. Ask about the hair. Here's the three things. Number one, this teaches and the Bible teaches that gender roles, pardon me, I shouldn't say that, gender differences, excuse me, gender differences are not an accident. They're not a biological accident. They're not a biological difference. They're not imaginary. They're God-created. And if they're God-created, they're very deep, they're very profound, and they must be good, they must be a blessing. Now, in this text, and again, I'm a little loath to spend too much time on the text, let me just show you. What the text tells, it goes back to Genesis, and Genesis tells us that male and female were created, hear me, equal in dignity of their being, but different in the shape of their being. Equal in dignity, but complementary in their being. Equal in dignity of their being, but different in the shape of their being. A complementary, not equal, but not equivalent. Now, even here, you know, on the one hand, it's interesting, down here in verse 8 to 12, Paul says, man did not come from woman, woman came from man, and what he's thinking of is Genesis. He's saying that out of Adam came Eve. But this is kind of interesting. On the other hand, he says, however, in the Lord, woman is not independent of man, nor man of woman. For as a woman came from man, so also man is born of woman. It's interesting, Eve was the only person who was ever born of a man. Ever since then, all men are born from women, and all women are born from women. And what Paul's trying to say is, he says, don't extrapolate from, don't extrapolate ever to think that women are inferior to men. The Bible teaches it nowhere, no place. On the other hand, up in verses 3 and 4, there's discussion of the fact, by the way, now I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ. It's not saying the head of every male. At that point, it's saying, just as Christ has a special cosmic relationship with us, and just as God is the head of Christ, just as within the Godhead, there's a special relationship, you see, there's an equality, but not an equivalence between the Father and the Son. They are equal, but they're not the same. So, there is a complementariness of nature between male and female. Now, this is all in Genesis. In Genesis, we're told, that there is a deep difference. There are some people, and some of you may be, and certainly maybe you've heard this, that say the gender differences are all the result of the fall, all the result of sin. If you go to Genesis chapter 3, 15 and 16, when Adam and Eve fall, when they sin, God curses, and he says this. He says to the woman, you, your desire will be for your husband, but he will rule over you. Very interesting. His desire, will be for the husband, but he will rule over you. So, on the one hand, it says, the woman is cursed by an over-dependence on her husband, and the woman, and the man is cursed by becoming a tyrant who lords it over. And, of course, some people say, you see, that male-female-ness, that differentia, the husband being the head over the wife, that's the result of sin. Here's the only problem with that, and it's a pretty serious problem, the only problem with that is, why would God, if there was no difference before the fall, why would God actually give punishments that made them different? You see, the reason the punishments were different was because there was already a difference there. If you go back to Genesis chapter 1, you'll see male and female made equally in the image of God, equally told to rule and to reign and to subdue and have dominion. You'll see that in Genesis 1, 27 and 28. But on the other hand, in Genesis 2, we're told that Adam is incomplete somehow by himself, and God creates Eve. And when God creates Eve, we're told Eve is a help. Now, the word help does not mean a weaker person. The word help means a different. To be a helper, you mean you have to have certain strengths that the other person doesn't have. The reason I used to be able to help my children with their algebra was because I had something that my children didn't have. I had a knowledge of algebra. I didn't do their algebra for them, then it wasn't helping. Think about that. If I wasn't smarter than them in some way, I couldn't help them. But on the other hand, if I wasn't in some way a servant to them, I wasn't helping them either. The woman is created with this giftedness, this calling of being a help. Complementary. Equal in being, but different in the shape of their being. Now, I've got to move on to the second point, but here's the first point. If it's true, that these gender differences are deep, what does that mean? Maybe there's some people here that well, I'm old enough to remember this, but for 20 years, there was a tremendous effort made to say that gender differences were superficial, that they're only environmental, they're only the result of learning. That's pretty much going the way of the dodo bird. And the Bible all along said that there are deep differences between us, very profound, because they're created. Now, here's the first, here is, before I move on to the second point, here's the first application. If those differences are there, they must be good. Everything God created, he didn't say, he never, when God created something, he never said, whoops, that's going to be a problem. You know, listen, okay, I'm trying to keep my own humor down tonight, just so nobody who's unhappy with what I'm saying feels you're being crushed here, but he never said anything but it is good. It is good. Now, if maleness and females are different, if there's deep differences, I have a question. Why is it that at least in our society right now, we're afraid to talk about that? We're afraid to say, as a woman, as a man, I'm better in certain things and I'm worse in something. We are desperately afraid to talk about differences. And I know why, because as the Bible said in Genesis 3.16, sin leads to an abuse. What sin does is it leads to an abuse of those differences. And in general, what has happened is men have exploited the differences. Men have said, women, you're not good at this, you're not good at this, so you can't do this, you can't do that. And therefore, because of that, and I guess to some degree rightly so, there's a tremendous fear of talking about our differences. We don't want to talk about our differences. We don't want to bring them up. We don't want to describe them. We don't want to explore them. We don't want to mention them. But anything God made has to be good, and that means gender differences, differences are a gift. Is the gift unopened? What a tragedy. If we take the gift and out of such a fear of the curse, we avoid the blessing. You see, if we live our lives in such a way to say, I'm going to completely avoid the possibility of abuse, therefore I'm not going to think about this, I'm not going to talk about this, I'm not going to admit that these differences. The fact of the matter is, if it was created by God, if it's that deep, then to miss it will be to miss God's blessing. These things must be good. And that's the first point. So God created them, therefore they've got to be good. We're not complementary, we're not identical, we're equal in being different. Now, that's the first point. Second point though is, because there's a different giftedness, it leads to different roles in the family and the church. Okay? This is the heavy sledding. Because there's different giftedness, there's got to be different roles. Now, let me, let me explain what I mean. Different giftedness? What do I mean by different giftedness and calling? Other religions, as we mentioned last week, if you were here, have always said that the body's not important. You know, the Heaven's Gate people, one of the reasons they killed themselves to get on the spaceship behind the Hildbock comet is because they saw their bodies as unimportant, they saw their bodies as just containers. But the Bible and Christians understand the body is so important that we cannot, we don't split the body from the soul. We don't say that our bodily differences mean nothing to the soul. So let me, I wrote this down to make sure I get it right. Let me ask a daring question. Let's think of marriage for a second. Is there something uniquely feminine that makes it natural for a wife to receive her husband relationally and emotionally and even spiritually as she receives him physically? Is there, do we say that the difference between the male and the female body is spiritually absolutely insignificant? Or do we say that there's something feminine that extends from the body into the soul, or I shouldn't say extends from the body into the soul, but it comprises the two so that it's natural for a woman to be receptive to her environment to other people? There's something that makes it more natural for her to receive her husband and is there something uniquely masculine that makes it natural for her husband to move out toward his wife relationally, emotionally as he does physically? Think with me. Currently, the most articulate, the most well-known description of gender differences is Carol Gilligan's book, A Different Voice, and her subsequent work. And in it she says something that I think is pretty hard at this point to gainsay. She says that in general, women see themselves as maturing as they move to interdependence. More and more interdependence, more and more able to work with people, build consensus, work in a team, more and more interdependence. Men see themselves maturing as they move to more and more independence. Hear that? Independence. Does this mean that there are two very overlapping but distinguishable ways of being human? Yeah. And that would fit in with the Bible's curse, you see, because in Genesis 3, 15 and 16, remember what happened? It says when sin comes down on these gender differences, he says to the woman, your desire will be for your husband, but your husband will lord it over you. And that shows this. Under the influence of sin, the giftedness of interdependence becomes dependence. And the feminists are right. That's pathological. When your giftedness for interdependence becomes, under sin, dependence, you have to have a man. You've got to have a husband. You've got to have a man. You're not a leader. You can't step out and do things on your own. That, feminists are right, your desire is for your husband. Okay? You can't see the world without a man. Feminists are right. That, though, is how sin affects the giftedness of a woman. On the other hand, what happens to a man? Under sin, this giftedness of independence turns into autonomy, unaccountability, and tyranny. And the feminists are right about that. Because, you see, as we've said often here, Satan is a judo expert. You know how judo works, don't you? You use your forward motion against you. A 300-pound guy's coming after you. You're an 80-pound weakling. It doesn't matter if you're a judo expert. The bigger they come, the harder they fall. He's moving in that direction. We'll have him go much further than he wants to go. And he'll be down on the floor. And you see, male and female have different callings. What sin does is it does judo on them. And it aggravates the differences. And it accentuates the differences. And it makes them extreme. And that's the reason why a lot of modern critiques, of gender roles, are true. And the Bible would agree. But, if they're real, if there really is a different giftedness, inevitably, that must mean there's some things some of us are better at, and other things we're not. Whereas the other would be better at, and some things we're not. In other words, different giftedness inevitably means some roles would be better than others. But how are we going to choose those? And here's the thing. Because of abuse, because of Genesis 3, because Genesis 3 tells us that, by and large, maleness and femaleness can be a curse. It can be the occasion for a lot of abuse and exploitation and oppression. Therefore, the one thing that we ought to realize is that, even though it's possible that certain jobs, women will always be better at because of their giftedness. No matter how much you leave them open to men and encourage men, they're never going to be there. They're never going to do as well. And there might be some jobs that women are never going to be as good at as men. As men. No matter how much you open, no matter how much you try to put, it almost has to be. But who's going to say what those are? And the answer, the Christian answer is, we must not say which ones are which. Why? Because of abuse. Let me read you something from, but. When we go and say there needs to be equality in society, we need to push and make sure that these various positions are open to men and women. We've got a reason for that. Because we believe in sin. C.S. Lewis puts it this way. He says, the Christian understanding of equality is different from that in which most people are trained. We do not think that legal equality is like wisdom or joy. We don't think it's good simply in itself. In heaven there will be no equality. Think about this. In heaven there will be no equality. Some people will be far greater than others and will delight in deferring and serving and leading each other. So equality can't be good in sin. It can't be good in itself. But why do we need equality? And why should Christians fight for equality? Why should Christians believe in democracy? It's because equality is in the same class as medicine. Medicine is only good, not in itself, but it's a great, great blessing if and only if we're sick. And therefore, he says, the reason why we have to push for equality is not because we're all so wonderful, but because we're all so sinful. He says, the person who cannot conceive of a joyful and loyal obedience on the one hand, or an unimaginable sin on the other hand, or an unembarrassed and noble acceptance of obedience on the other hand, the one who has never even wanted to kneel or bow, is a prosaic barbarian. Your taproot to Eden has been cut. These are the ones to whom no rumor of the polyphony, the dance, can reach. These are those to whom pebbles laid in a row are much more beautiful than an arch. Where we are forbidden to honor a king, we honor millionaires, athletes, film artists, even famous prostitutes and gangsters for our spiritual natures, like our bodily and mental health, will be served, deny it food, and it will gobble poison. Now here's what Lewis is saying. He is saying, as Christians, we've got to push equality, even though our giftedness means that there's some places in which the way in which women and men differ will make them better for certain roles and not as good for other roles. We must not, because of that abuse and that tendency which the curse talks about, we must not do that. But can God, could God say, I'm going to give you two places where you can dare to dance. I'm going to ring it with all kinds of safety. I'm going to ring it with repentance. I'm going to ring it with accountability. I'm going to ring it with the gospel. I'm going to say, never, ever, ever should you ever try to do this with people who aren't Christians. But, he says, though men and women are equal, and though men and women are not inferior to men, they lead differently. It's kind of interesting. Kathy showed me an op-ed piece I hadn't seen. It was in the New York Times not too long ago, and it was written by a woman who is a conductor, a musical conductor. And she said in there, she said the way in which she manages her orchestra is very different than the way men do. And she came and she said, she said, I lead by consensus. I lead by group decision making. I include everybody. I do things very differently than men do. And then at the end she said, there's no reason in the world why men couldn't do it our way, because our way is better. Now, no way. Now, again, I'm not mocking that. What I'm trying to say is, she goes right up to the edge. She is willing to say, there's some things that I can do better than men, but she would never say a man could ever do anything better than her. Which, you know, one of the problems, one of the problems with the world is we think all the problem is, I'm the good guys, you're the bad guys. The reason men don't do things differently, would do things different than women, is not because they're idiots, because they're different. You see, because we lead differently, and you lead differently, sure there's those tendencies. Now, God says, I'm going to give you one place, and only one place, where men take loving leadership, because in those places, their leadership style fits. And in those places, the women's gift calling to be a help. The woman's ability to take her strengths and use them in such a way that don't replace, but serve and enrich. I'm going to give you two places where men take the lead, and women serve. And when you do that, he says, you in those two places will get in touch with something deep in yourself. You will get in touch with a masculinity, you will get in touch with a femininity that you don't even know yet. I promise. And that's what he's saying. That's the reason why, see, for example, in marriage, Kathy and I, by nobody's definition, are gender typed. I am not a man's man. Kathy is not buttons and bows. She's very nice, but she's not sugar and spice. And by no means, by no, anybody can, and if you can, you're almost looking at us, but maybe getting to know us, we are not on the edges. We're not out on the edges. We're not gender type, but I'll tell you this. When you get into one of these places, the family and the church, the Bible says, and we don't have the family part here, the Bible says, in the home, men and women are equal partners, and yet let the husband take the lead. Working that out isn't something for us to talk about tonight. We don't have the passages in front of us. However, what the Bible's trying to say here is not let women submit to men, but what he's really saying is let men and women both submit to God. Tim, do something you don't want to do, and that is, when push comes to shove, you lead. Kathy, do something you don't want to do, and that is, when push comes to shove, support your husband and let him lead. I haven't liked that any more than she has. That doesn't fit. I didn't think. And that didn't fit. She didn't think. The Bible says, both submit to me here, and you will get in touch with something deep. Here's the one place, God says, where you can dare to dance. You will get in touch with a difference between you. You will bring something out. You will be amazed. And we have been. Now, inside the church, those dynamics are really a lot milder, but they're there. Because here what you have, and this is something I think Kathy can explain in a little more detail. In chapter 11, we see that women are to pray and prophesy. You see that? Up in verse 5, let every woman who prays or prophesies show, by the color, culturally appropriate, the culturally appropriate signal of the time was for a woman to keep her head covered. And what Paul was trying to say is, even though there's tremendous, tremendous radical equality of men and women in the church that was unknown in any other culture, any other philosophy, because women could get up and lead. They could lead in prayer. They could prophesy, which was essentially to speak. I mean, they were leaders. They were doing everything. And there's all sorts of New Testament evidence to show that. But Paul says, listen, he was not let the one eat up the other. On the one hand, there is an equality because the gospel shows you there's an equality that traditional culture will not buy. There's an equality between men and women. But on the other hand, as he says, gender differences are not gone. And that's why down in verse chapter 14, we have what looks like a contradiction. Because if up in chapter 11, he says women will pray and prophesy, down in chapter 14, he says women must keep silent. Now there's two possibilities. One, and I've heard this, culturally conservative people just write off chapter 11. They just say women keep silent. That means the Bible says women are not to speak. They're not supposed to lead. They're not supposed to teach publicly. They're not supposed to pray. They're not supposed to do that. As if chapter 11 is not there. As if Paul was an idiot. On the other hand, culturally liberal people look at chapter 14 and say, well, Paul was wrong. Now here's a question. If you decide on the basis of your, and talk about cultural sensitivity, if you take your modern Western individualistic culture, which has really gotten your heart, and you say, on the basis of my modern Western individualistic culture, on the basis of my feelings, in other words, which basically are from your culture, there are certain things in the Bible that offend me and certain things don't. I want to know, I just want to ask you a question respectfully. In other words, there's nothing that offends you in the Bible that you will admit God has said. Right? Is that what you are saying? If Paul says, I don't believe God teaches that, anything that really offends me, anything that really contradicts me, anything that really bothers me, God didn't say that. And that's true, then how will God ever contradict you? And you see, how can you have a personal relationship with God if he can't contradict you? What kind of personal relationship have you got with somebody who can never contradict you? You just screen it out. You act like it didn't happen. If you decide on the basis of 1997's Western culture, which things in the Bible, God did say and which things he didn't say, how will you even know who God is? Paul is forbidding something. He is forbidding something. We have to deal with it. I can't get out of it. I can't just say, gee, you know what, I know this is going to be offensive nowadays. I can't. You see, if I get out of this, I get out of the whole idea of a personal God. I get out of the whole idea of scriptural authority. I get a whole lot of, you know, everything falls apart for me. And therefore, Paul's forbidding something. It can't be, it can't be speaking. And therefore, if you look carefully, and you know what, I realized as I printed this, you can't look carefully. If you look at the top part of chapter 14, you will see that Paul is saying, the prophets, when the speakers get up, in those services, you had more than one speaker. When the speakers get up, and they speak, at the end, they have to be judged as to whether or not their doctrine was true. Women were some of the speakers, obviously. But when the prophets are judged, in other words, when the elders meet to decide which things, are true, which things are not true. When, in a sense, the supreme court of the church operates, the men are to be the elders. The men are to make that decision. Now, that's how we understand it at Redeemer. And you know what, it's almost exactly the way my marriage works. Five or six times, in our lifetime, we've worked on things by consensus. Five or six times, we couldn't come to an agreement. And at times like that, Kathy kicks me and says, be a man. I wanted to come to New York City. Kathy didn't want to come to New York. I said, honey, if you don't want to come, we won't go. She says, don't you dare put this on me. She says, don't you dare put me, that kind of pressure on me. There's something deep in you. There's something in you that will enable you to come to grips with this. You make that decision. It'll be your decision. It'll be, and you will have to take the consequences of it. It's not my decision. I don't want to go. I will go if you want to go. You make the decision. Be a man. And at that point, I became, I had the tie-breaking authority. You see, I took my role. I didn't want it. I submitted to it. She submitted to it. We got in touch with something. And in the church, men and women do everything together, but only at certain points when there's a kind of Supreme Court issue. Very seldom, when there's a discipline case, when there's a case in which we have to judge the truth or the doctrine or the morals of somebody, only the elders do it. That's how we have tried to work it out in Redeemer. God is forbidding something in order to get us into the dance. And this is our way of understanding. If you've got a better idea of how you're going to deal with that something, a better idea of defining it, tell us. Now, lastly, is this fair? The three points are gender differences were created by God. Therefore, they must be a blessing. We have to get the blessing. We can't miss it. We've got to be willing to admit it. Number two, God gave different giftedness and therefore, it equips us for different roles, but, only in the church and only in the home are those roles played out into this kind of dance. Thirdly, is it fair? And the answer is, up in verse three, it says, the head of God is Christ. Please listen to me for a second. There's a lot more I could say on it, but I can't. In the Bible, we're told that Jesus Christ, though he was equal, he let God take the initiative and he became the servant. Now, every time anybody has ever, ever said, to me, the idea that women can't be ordained as pastors or elders at Redeemer, by definition, destroys my dignity. The trouble is, if Jesus Christ, who was equal, was willing to take, in any way, a subordinate role, and if it didn't assault his dignity, why should it assault yours? In other words, almost every person who's ever given me an argument why restricting anything from women in the church is an assault on their dignity, is also, that same argument will say it was an assault on Christ's dignity to do what he did. Because, you see, the Bible says that the relationship between the son and the father is identical to the relationship between male and female in marriage and in the church. That's identical. And listen, Jesus Christ's willingness to subordinate himself in no way is an expression of his inferiority. It's an expression, if anything, of his greatness. I've heard many people say the reason women shouldn't be elders is because, or they shouldn't be ministers, is because they're not strong or they're not good leaders. Is it the reason that Jesus Christ became the Savior? That he emptied himself? That he became a servant? That he came down? That he followed the Father? Was it because he was inferior? Get your theology straight. Because he was willing to do that, he has the name which is above every name. Well, somebody says, yeah, but it was voluntary for him. It's voluntary for you. The Bible's simply saying this is your calling. There's a greatness in it. What do you think? What Jesus Christ did in Philippians 2, though he was equal, he didn't hold on. This is something that everybody in this room is called to. I'm called to it. You're called to it. And all we know is that if it wasn't for those, we will never come to grips with some of the deepest things in our nature and in the Godhead and even in the gospel unless we're called to it. Unless we understand the beautiful paired polarities of maleness and femaleness. Wrestle with me on this. And let's love each other after we're done. Let's pray. Father, we give ourselves to you. We give ourselves only to you. We do not give ourselves to anyone else. And when we serve one another, it's because we're seeking to serve you. We pray that you give us all servant hearts. Not just women to men or husbands to husbands. Husbands, wives to husbands. But husbands to wives. You redefine headship. You insist that leadership is always servanthood. So that in order for us to submit to one another in this church will never be anything but perfect freedom. Teach us what it means to have servant hearts. Teach us all these things. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
