The scripture reading for tonight is found in Micah, chapter 5, verses 1 through 6. Now muster your troops, O daughter of troops. Siege is laid against us. With a rod they strike the judge of Israel on the cheek. But you, O Bethlehem Epaphatha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah, from you shall come forth for me one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. Therefore he shall give them up until the time when she, who is in labor, has given birth. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel, and he shall stand and shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God, and they shall dwell secure. For now he shall be great to the ends of the earth, and he shall be their peace. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our palaces, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men. They shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword and the land of Nimrod at its entrances. And he shall deliver us from the Assyrian when he comes into our land and treads within our border. This is the word of the Lord.

This is a very famous passage in which Micah predicts the coming of the Messiah. And Matthew chapter 2 quotes Micah and says this Messiah, this ruler in Israel who's going to be born in Bethlehem, is Jesus. Now, there's a whole lot of details we could look at in this passage, and we're not going to do that. We're going to have a brief meditation, a kind of a Christmas meditation on it. because what's intriguing about this King that's coming, this ruler, this Messiah, is on the one hand, he's from of old, and on the other hand, he's coming in the future. He's the once and future King. And according to the book of Matthew, it's Jesus Christ who is this once and future King, this ancient King and this future King. Let's meditate on that. what does it mean that Jesus is the ancient king? What does it mean that Jesus is the future king? And how does that lead us to conclude how we can make him our king? First, Jesus is the ancient king. See that passage right there where it says his coming forth is from of old, from ancient days. days. He's born in Bethlehem, but he's from of old? How could that be? Of course, the answer is Jesus is the Son of God from all eternity, but there's more to it than that. The legends of the world are filled with accounts and stories of a great king who used to rule, but who may come back. So Robin Hood is based on that idea. The good king, when the good king was here, the kingdom Now we're fighting because everything is awful, the king's not here, and someday the king will come again. When will the king come again? J.R.R. Tolkien, who knew more about the legends of the world than anybody alive, then and probably now, drew on all that when he wrote his own epic, the third installment of which is called The Return of the King.

And, of course, the most famous of all is King Arthur. When he died, they put on his tombstone, Here lies Arthur, the once and future king. Rex quantum, rex futuris, the once and future king. Okay. Literary critics, though, in the 20th and 21st century, really dislike how persistent and powerful the fairy tale, the legend, the legend of good versus evil and magic and supernatural Some hero, some prince, some king coming back to slay the dragon, to save the world. And that kind of story was supposed to have died out. And modern literary critics, 20th and 21st century, when Tolkien first wrote his stuff and essentially tried to regenerate what he would call the romance, or what we would call fairy tales, going back to the old stories you know, Beauty and the Beast Beauty and the Beast, Beauty and the Beast Beauty and the Beast my fifth service, you know

or King Arthur

what Tolkien was trying to do was resurrect that and boy, I tell you, it's intriguing to read what the critics said in the 50s and 60s when he first started writing they said, boy, this thing is going to die an early death because why? We're modern people simple, and in the modern world, this kind of literature, this kind of story is dead. Why? We know that good and evil are relative. We know the whole idea of needing a savior and all that stuff. I mean, the story of the modern world is be true to yourself. There's a man named Peter Gay, a retired professor, a sterling professor at Yale, has written a book called Modernism, The Lore of Heresy. Great book. And the very first couple of pages, he defines modernism. And he basically says, modernism is, the modern culture is based on this idea. And that is that all traditions, all conventionalities, all authorities don't matter. What really matters is be true to yourself. You decide what is right or wrong. You determine that. And of course, if you, you know, that's where the reason why the critics would say these kinds of stories, you know, they're fairy tales. They're for children. If you're a grown-up adult person. The kind of stories you'll like are dark and ambiguous. And of course, you know, the movie and the literary critics, they love books and movies that are dark and confusing and ambiguous. And nobody buys the books and nobody goes to their movies. And they keep going to books. They read books and they go to movies that have these old, you know, that are based on these old stories. We call them fantasy today. but it's basically based on the old stories. Why the power? Why the power and the persistence of these stories? In the late 1920s, J.R.R. Tolkien, who was a Christian believer and professor at Oxford, had a friend named C.S. Lewis who was an atheist.

And Lewis was a teacher at Magdalen College, and if you were ever on the grounds of Magdalen College in Oxford, you know that there's a walk around, it's sort of in a marshland around a river called Addison's Walk, named after the philosopher Joseph Addison. And you get to it by going over a bridge, and it feels very remote. And they walked around Addison's Walk one night many, many years ago, and Tolkien was trying to explain to Lewis the significance of the fact that he loved these old tales. He loved the old myths. He loved the old legends. even though Lewis was an atheist. He was an absolute modern man. He believed good and evil were relative, that we're just here by accident, everything about us is a product of natural selection, the returning king and rescuing the damsel and slaying the dragon, all that stuff is just fair. Yet he was moved by these stories, deeply moved. And Tolkien said, here's my theory, why you're so moved even though you're a modern man. He says, these stories, though they're not true in the sense of being factually true and historically true, are actually getting at underlying realities. These stories all say, for example, that this world is under an evil spell. I mean, our problems are not just going to be dealt with by education and science and technology and let's all just work together and can't we just all get along. long. There's an evil spell. There's a sorcerer or somebody who's got us under an evil spell. And we know that. And these stories all point to that. Secondly, these stories point to the fact that the material world, this physical world, is not all there is. That what you can see, there's more to it than meets the eye. That there's depth in reality. There's a supernatural, Supernatural, not just a natural. There's a spiritual realm, not just a material realm. And thirdly, we need sacrificial love to save us. We're not going to be able to do it ourselves. And so Tolkien said, you know what? At the intellectual level, you may believe this and this and this, and this may have been drilled into you, but all human beings know that the universe is really like that, that we are under an evil spell, and there really is more to the world than the material world. And we do need someone. love to rescue us. And you can't not know that with your imagination. And that's the reason why, though up here you technically don't believe it, these stories move you and will never stop listening to them. And Lewis said, interesting theory, very interesting theory. But all the old myths, all the old stories are lies. In fact, he actually said, myths are lies, though breathed through silver. And as wonderful as they are, they're lies. And Tolkien said, no, they're not all lies. How about this one? The world is under an evil spell, but God sends his son into the world and he's born in the most unlikely place. He's born in a manger. Not at all the kind of person who you would think would do something, but he takes on the powers. He takes on the evil forces is social. He takes them on culturally. He takes them on spiritually. He takes on the oppressive powers and principalities in this world, the Romans and the Pharisees. He takes on the demons. He takes, and finally on the cross, he goes to the cross and it looks like evil has defeated him. And yet he's raised from the dead. And he's bringing together a band of people and he's renewing their lives. And someday he's going to renew the whole world. Isn't that another one of

stories, because what Tolkien said, when you read the modern kind of parable or the modern, the sort of thing that modern critics like, you know, in the end you feel like, wow, that was really heavy. But when you listen to a fairy tale, it gets you. Why? Because he says at the very end there's a miraculous grace, what he called a eucatastrophe, you know, victory out of the jaws of defeat, usually at the infinite cost of someone's sacrifice. And there's a miraculous here. Why? Because he says you're getting a glimpse of a joy beyond the walls of the world, poignant as grief. But Tolkien says, do you get that when I tell you the story like that? And Lewis said, well, I never heard the Christian story told like that. You're right. It's just like all these other stories. It's another one of those wonderful stories that points to these underlying realities. And Tolkien said, no, Jesus Christ is the underlying reality to which all the story's point.

It's different. Because this story is not just a story. This story became historical. This story became a fact. Jesus Christ was born. And this is the King that we're after. This is the hero we're after in all the stories of heroes. This is the returning King that we're after in all those stories of the idea of a King, an ancient King that ruled. And there was a golden age. And why can't he come back? Well, this is the ancient King. And there's a memory trace in our hearts of the human race because we remember, in a sense, that there was an ancient and wonderful and great king, and we lived before him, and everything was perfect. And he is coming back. Jesus Christ is that beautiful prince that your heart wants and yearns for when you watch a lot of those movies and read a lot of those books. But secondly, he's not just the ancient king. He's the future king. Because we're told something amazing in here, especially when you realize that the passage is talking about the problems that Israel has with Assyria and with Babylon, and that they're going to be smitten on the cheek, and the Assyrians are coming in, and they're going to bulldoze Israel. And Micah says, don't worry, it's going to happen, but at some point, a ruler in Israel will rise up, and he will deliver us. And of course, your first impression would be, ah, this ruler in Israel, this Davidic, this descendant of David is going to rise up in Bethlehem, he's going to become king, and he's going to make Israel a strong political entity again. But that's not what the text says. It says, and they will dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. And he will bring his brothers, the rest of his brothers to the people of Israel. This is a multi-ethnic kingdom, and it goes to the ends of the earth. And we looked last week at this. Amos chapter 9 talks about the fact that when this king, his descendant of David, is born at Bethlehem, and he begins to set up his kingdom, in the end, it's going to be a universal kingdom. Not just a political entity, but it's going to get rid of all evil and death. It's going to get rid of all injustice and poverty. Everything. Why? How? And the answer is because he is the true king. second. He's the true king. Every morning, I read the end of Psalm 96. Every morning. It's one of the reasons I get up in the morning. It's one of the reasons I live the life I'm living. It's the thing that gives me the most hope. You know, it says, when God comes back, here's what it says, let the heavens be glad, let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar and all that fills it, let the fields exult, and all that's within it. Then shall the trees of the wood sing before the Lord with joy, for he comes to rule the earth. This is saying that when God's royal, ruling presence comes back to the earth,

the trees are going to sing and dance. And you say, well, isn't that just symbolic? Boy, you don't have much imagination. What's the matter with you? This is Christmas. Why should we take that as symbolic when we understand the concept? What's the concept? Look, when a fish is out laying on the ground, it's gasping. Why? It's not meant for the ground. It's meant to be in the water. Put it in the water and it does what it's meant to do. It's happy. It's powerful. Out there, it can't do a thing. A seed, an acorn, if it's up on the windowsill, Days and weeks and months eventually are just going to rot. Nothing will ever happen. Why? It's meant to be put into the ground, just like the fish is meant to be put into the water. Otherwise, it's for that. It can't realize its potential. You and I, the human race, was created. Now, you know, if the secular people are right, then we're here by accident. And therefore, there's no meaning and purpose in your life at all. Oh, you may feel that love is better than hate. You may feel love is good and hate is bad. But if we came here by accident, then those feelings are just hardwired into you by a blind process of natural selection. And it's just an illusion. It's just how you feel. It's because you're hardwired. You can't help it. And eventually, the earth is going to die in the conflagration of the sun. And nobody's even going to be around to remember anything you ever did, good or bad. So if you weren't created, your life is meaningless.

By someone Than you were created For someone If you were created by God You were created for God If you were created by the King You were created for the King You and I were created Not to be our own lords and own saviors Not to be our own masters Not to call the shots on our own life But to make him our King And do what he says And to be completely obedient to him

And until you're true to your original nature you're like a fish on the ground you're like a seed on the windowsill you need to be plunged into the lordship of Jesus Christ to get it even close to what you were meant to be what you were built to be and we're told that when the trees get into the royal absolute, complete rule and presence and lordship of God they're going to be able to sing and dance. I mean, they're just shadows of what they're going to be now, as beautiful as they are. But if the trees are going to sing and dance, what are you and I going to be able to do?

Oh, Jesus Christ is the ancient king. Jesus Christ is the future king. And therefore, we better not wait to get ready. By the time he comes back, it'll be too late. You've got to start to plunge yourself into the Lordship of Jesus Christ now. And how do you do that? I just suggest four ways. They're fast, I promise. Four ways, very fast. You've got to believe in His death. You've got to obey His word. You've got to stop worrying and start expecting. Okay? Nice and simple. I mean, actually, nice and simple. But nice and hard, all right? They're hard and simple. You know, simple things can be hard. In fact, one of the reasons why they're so hard is because they're so simple. confusion. Listen. First of all, if you want to plunge yourself into the Lordship of Christ, you've got to believe in his death. See this place where it says he's a king, but it says he shall stand and shepherd his flock. He's a shepherd king. Now, shepherds are in charge. You know, a pen of sheep is not a democracy. The sheep don't all get one vote. The shepherd, what the shepherd says goes. He's in charge. But shepherd lays down his life for his sheep to protect the sheep from thieves or wild animals. And that's why Jesus Christ, when he was going to the cross to pay the penalty for our sins, said, I am your good shepherd. I lay down my life for my sheep. Now, I'm telling you that you don't actually get your soul into the soil of Christ's lordship by simply knuckling under, saying, well, I guess you're big and I'm small. You know, you're God and I'm not, so I guess I just have to obey. That's actually not surrender. That's not surrender. You're still holding on, are you not? Here's what surrender is. You don't get into the lordship of Christ. It doesn't start by a view of his naked power. It starts by a view of his sacrificial love, his disarming sacrificial love. His sacrificial love disarms me, you. It makes me put down my arms and say, why wouldn't I trust somebody who's done this for me? And until you believe and look at and understand his death, until you are moved to say that, you actually haven't begun to surrender to his lordship. So first, you have to believe in his death. Secondly, you have to obey his word. See, in the end, look, we can't get around this. Jesus might be your example. He might be your inspiration. He might be a lot of things to you. But he's not your king unless you've made this commitment. commitment. Whatever he says in his word, you're going to do, whether you understand it or whether you like it. If you've made that commitment, then he's king and you're not. And if you haven't made that commitment, then you're king and he's not. It's as simple as that. I had a child, one of my three sons, that I used to say to all of them, do this, obey me, I'm your father. And I had one of my sons that always came back like this and said, well, Dad,

I'll obey you, but you know, you have to explain this to me. It has to make sense to me. I have to see the reasons why you want me to do it. I'll never forget this. He says, you have to help. It has to make sense to me, and then I'll be happy to do it. He said, I'll obey you if it makes sense to me. And I said, that's not obedience. That's agreement.

He says, listen, Listen, I want you to obey me, not because you agree, not because you like it, not because you understand it. I want you to obey me because I'm 40 years old and you're six.

And if you live your life, if a six-year-old lives his life on the basis of I'll do the things, if they make sense to me, I'll only do what makes sense to me. You're going to be dead in two hours.

If you obey me, even though you don't agree or understand everything I say, then I have the authority and you are subject to me. But if you only do what I say, if it makes sense to you, then you have the authority and essentially I'm making applications, filling them out in triplicate. So you have to believe in his death. his word. And last two, brief, brief. You have to stop worrying and start expecting. Now, what would worrying have to do with the lordship of Jesus Christ? Everything.

Martin Luther had a friend named Philip Melanchthon who always worried. He was a worrier. He was always anxious. And when Martin Luther would see Philip Melanchthon worried, he would come over to him and he'd put his hand on his shoulder and say, let Philip cease to rule the world. See, Luther knew that you know what worry is? It's basically saying, I know how the universe has got to work. I know how history has to play out. I know how my life has got to go. I know what's got to happen, and I don't know that God is going to get it right.

But if you say, you're the king, and I'm, spiritually speaking, six, except that's giving me quite a bit more credit than I deserve. The difference between a 40-year-old and a six-year-old is infinitely less than the difference between me and God. You look up and you say, I don't know. That's why. I'm too stupid to worry.

You're God. You're the king. You know what's best. So stop worrying and start expecting. Do you have things in your life that you've given up on? That'll never change. You have people in your life. Do you have communities? That'll never change. You know what Christmas is about? Gabriel comes and says to Mary, Mary, you will be with child. You're a virgin, but you will conceive. And she says, how can these things be? Gabriel says, this is God we're talking about here. With God, nothing is impossible. Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. For his grace and power are such. None can ever ask too much. Don't insult God with low expectations for what he can do in your life and through you. That's not treating him as king.

by starting to expect, stopping your worry, obeying his word, and believing in his death. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that at Christmastime we know it's a king that's born here. Hark the herald angels sing. Glory to the newborn king. And we ask that you would help us to understand how we can plunge the seed of our souls and lives more deeply into the soil of your lordship. And we know that the first way to get through the top of the soil is to remember your grace and remember that you're a shepherd, King, and remember you laid down your life for us. And then to obey your word and to trust you, to believe and to trust and to obey and to hope in ways that are proportionate and constant with the fact that you are our ancient and future king. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
