The scripture reading this morning is taken from the book of Hebrews chapter 2 verses 5 through 18. It is not to angels that he has subjected the world to come about which we are speaking. But there is a place where someone has testified, "What is man that you are mindful of him, the son of man that you care for him? You made him a little lower than the angels, you crowned him with glory and honor, and put everything under his feet. In putting everything under him, God left nothing that is not subject to him. Yet at present we do not see everything subject to him. But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, now crowned with glory and honor, because he suffered death so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. And bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God from whom and through whom everything exists should make the author of their salvation perfect through suffering. Both the ones who makes men holy and those who are made holy are of the same family. So Jesus is not ashamed to call them brothers. He says, 'I will declare your name to my brothers in the presence of the congregation. I will sing your praises.' And again, 'I will put my trust in him.' And again he says, 'Here am I. And the children of God has given me.' Since the children have flesh and blood, he too shared in their humanity, so that by his death he might destroy him who holds the power of death — that is the devil — and free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death. For surely it is not angels he helps, but Abraham's descendants. For this reason he had to be made like his brothers in every way so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that he might make atonement for the sins of the people. Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord.

The text speaks of God's becoming human, which is what Christmas is about — what we observe and celebrate at Christmas. It's about the doctrine that God became fully human in Jesus Christ, and therefore it's the doctrine of the incarnation. What we're going to learn here from this text about the incarnation is what it is, what it does in your life if you get a grasp on it, a grip on it, and why it can do it. First of all, what it is. Let's just do a kind of trip through this passage, which is a very rich passage. It starts off with a quote from Psalm 8. It says, "There is a place." But it's Psalm 8. And in Psalm 8, it's talking about creation — our creation, talking about us. And it says, "We, humanity, we were crowned with glory and honor, and everything was put under our feet." And what that means is it was a perfect world in which the world was our servant and worked cooperatively with us in every way. Nature served and cooperated with us in every way. So there was no death, there was no disease, there was no natural disasters. It was a perfect world. But then, in one of the greatest understatements in the Bible, it says, "However, at present" — this is down in verse 8 — "we do not see everything subject to him." Meaning the human race. We do not see everything subject because we turned away from God. And as a result, the world is filled with death, and it's filled with disease. Nature is no longer our servant. It's no longer cooperating with us. We're at odds with it. We're at odds with each other. There's conflict, there's war. It's a terrible place. But verse 9 is the turning point. We see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels. Now, that's what was said about us up there in Psalm 8. And that's saying Jesus Christ, Son of God, also became human. He was made a little lower than the angels. But he wasn't just made human. We're told he tasted death, he suffered death. But look carefully: he tasted death for us, for us. Why? So that by the grace of God — that's in verse 9 — we could be adopted as God's children. That's verse 10. By the grace of God, not through our performance. And now we see him crowned with glory and honor, because he is raised and ascended to the right hand of the throne on high. In other words, there's the gospel. It's on every page in the Bible. There's the gospel. And then in verse 10 down through verse 18, the writer drills down a bit on the human side of the doctrine of the incarnation in which God became human, and pushes it. We're told that in verse 11 here it says Jesus, though he was God — he was God — he was not ashamed to identify with us, to call us brothers. He wasn't ashamed. He wasn't afraid to identify and get involved with us. Not ashamed to do that. We're told in verse 10 he suffered. We're told in verse 14 he took on our flesh and blood. He really became physical. We're told in verse 17 he became like us in every way. We'll get back to that. So that in verse 17 and 18 he can be a great and faithful high priest. He understands us. He's sympathetic to us. He's someone we can go to. That's the doctrine of the incarnation. And we're being faced with — because we actually, not only talked about it last week, but at Christmas time, we're more likely to hear expositions and treatments of the doctrine of the incarnation: God became a human being. Jesus Christ was fully God and fully man. You know that's unique. You realize how unique that is? Let me pause for a second here. You know how unique that is in all the philosophies and religions of the world? Go all the way back. Do the history of philosophy sometime. Go all the way back to the Greeks, and they were always arguing, "What is more ultimate? The absolute or the particular? The ideal or the real?" See, Plato or Aristotle? Aristotle, and so on. But the doctrine of the incarnation is: the ideal has become real, the absolute has become a particular, the invisible has become visible. See, the incarnation is the universe-sundering, history-altering, life-transforming, paradigm-shattering event of history. That's what it is.

But what I want to talk about with you more today is, if you grasp that, what does it do in your life? How does it practically work itself out in your life? This is one thing to believe it, but just to really take it in — how does it affect us? How does it change us? And I'd like to show you those three ways that are hinted at or mentioned right here. Three ways that the doctrine, if you really grasp it and you get it in your life, it should really change you. Here's what it does. First of all, we learn here that because he got involved — he got involved, though it cost so much — so should we. In Jesus Christ, God got involved, though it cost so much, and so should we. What do I mean? You know, 1964, out in Queens, a young woman, 28-year-old woman, named Kitty Genovese, was for several minutes stabbed to death as she screamed pretty close to her apartment complex. And it's a very famous story, and it's a very famous incident, because there were quite a number of people that heard the screams. And yet, not only did no one come down, no one even called in. And in the newspaper article about it, one of the neighbors very famously said, "Why? Because, quote, I didn't want to get involved." And of course, that's the reason it was so infamous, such an infamous incident. But here's, think about it: why? Involvement. If the person comes down, or even if you phone in and, you know, call in to the police, you're involved. And involvement always means vulnerability.

See, when you're up there, you're safe. Down there's somebody who is actually vulnerable to attack by a criminal. But if you come down, you become vulnerable to the attack. In fact, if you get involved, if you tell the police, you might — there might be retaliation, right? I don't want to get involved, because involvement always means costly vulnerability. You lose your safety. You become vulnerable. Now the Bible tells us, starting almost at the very beginning, that God hears our cries. It starts in the very beginning. Remember when God comes to Cain and says: The blood of your brother Abel is crying out to me from the ground. And there's place after place after place in the Old Testament where we're told that God says, "I hear the cries of the people. I hear the cries of the oppressed." I — he hears our cries. But God did not just call in. Christmas means he came down, and he became vulnerable. Of course, Jesus Christ came down, not just like those people would have at the risk of their lives — Jesus Christ didn't come down just at the risk of his life. He came down at the cost of his life. And because he came down, because he got involved with us — that's what verse 11 is all about — he's not ashamed. He wasn't afraid to make, to become a part of his life, to become a human being, to make us, to make himself one with us. That made him vulnerable. That made him killable. And he was. Now just for a second, please think about this. We live in a culture, actually, that puts the highest value on individual freedom. As soon as you get involved, you lose that freedom. As soon as you get involved, you lose that freedom. And as a result, we actually are becoming a whole culture of people who don't want to get involved. Let me give you a couple of sensitive examples. Okay? Why would you go to a church and never join it? Because that would be getting involved, which means you get vulnerable? Yeah. Because accountability, responsibility — "I'm not sure I want that." So to be involved is vulnerability. Let me give you another one. Why would you live together and not get married? Now, you know, there's many aspects to love, but one aspect of love all has to be to make yourself vulnerable to the others. And when you say, "Oh, we love each other, and we're living together. We're not married," what you mean is, "We don't love each other enough to be vulnerable to each other," because getting married makes you vulnerable. You get involved. Or if you give a little bit of money to charity, if you give a little bit of money to ministry, it really doesn't make you vulnerable. You got plenty. But if you give a lot, you get involved. If you give sacrificially, if you give tremendously, and if you not only give your money but you give your time, you get involved. You get financially involved. You get emotionally involved. Uh-oh. You're vulnerable. Because whenever you get involved, you get vulnerable. Or if you say, "Here is a person coming at you, and this person wants to be your friend, and this person is a needy person, and this person is someone who is not particularly well-connected, and this is a person that if you become a friend to that person, it's going to be mainly you," you get involved with that person. It's going to be draining. It's going to take a lot of your time. You're not going to get a lot out of it. Do it.

Because Jesus did it. He got involved with needy people. Yeah. And we weren't just the kind of people that just needed a long — you know, Jesus Christ involved with us, took a little bit more than just sitting and listening patiently. It took his death. He came down. He was stabbed to death.

Jesus Christ got involved. That's what the incarnation means. And so should you. Jesus Christ got involved in spite of the cost. And so should we. Secondly, Jesus Christ faced and triumphed through suffering. And so should we. The whole idea of the book of Hebrews is this: he suffered. Verse 10, he suffered. He was made like us. In verse 17, every way. What does that mean? What does that mean? He was like us in every single way. It means whatever you've been through, he's been through, and more. And that's the reason why it says he's a faithful and merciful high priest. And I don't have time to go into all that a priest was, but it means at least this: everybody, it means he's the wonderful counselor. It means he's someone who's been through — it's someone who's not only been through what you've been through, but triumphed over it. And we talked a bit about this last week, but it's just at the heart of this passage this week. Let me indulge myself and go a little into a little bit more detail. I hate to be this self-referential, but when I had cancer, after being in the pastorate for probably at that time, what, 25 years? Almost 30 years. I had two experiences with having it. It was thyroid cancer. The one was a darkness. I was told, "Okay, you know what? You're not going to have any thyroid hormone in you for a number of for a while. It's all because of the way in which we're treating you, etc. And so you're going to get kind of depressed. You're going to get lethargic. There's going to be a kind of darkness." And I always knew that if a person has a chemical imbalance, you can have this kind of discouragement and darkness. But I knew, well, I would just tell myself, "Well, it'll only be for another three days or four days. I know why. I know the reason for it." And it was a horrible darkness. It was just terrible. It was awful. But probably the worst thing is to actually be wheeled in, to be wheeled into the operating room, knowing that they're going to do surgery on cancer and not knowing what the outcome would be. Now I was a pastor, which means I thought I understood all that. You don't know how many times I sat with people, prayed with them, before they got wheeled in. How many times I held their hand. In some ways, as a pastor, I must say, I was conceited enough to believe I knew more about this than doctors did, because I was a pastor. When you're doctors and medical people, you're there. You're seeing it all the time. But you kind of get, you know, it's your job. I was a pastor. I was there to weep with the people and to pray with the people and to be with the people. I thought I understood. But when I was finally wheeled in on that table, I realized I really didn't understand what it was like until I experienced that darkness. I realized, "So this is what depression is like. Man, you really can't do anything about it."

The point of this passage — in fact, one of the main things, one of the main points of the Bible — is, unlike what any other religion tells you about God, Christianity says God has been on any table you've been on. And God has been through any darkness you've been through and more. And therefore, you can trust him. Therefore, you can rely on him. Therefore, he understands. Have you been betrayed? Have you been lonely? Have you been broke? Have you been broken? Have you been facing death? So has he. "Oh, you don't understand. I've prayed about these things, and I've been turned down." Ever hear of the garden of Gethsemane? "Father, let this cup pass from me." Jesus got turned down. He understands even that. "Oh, you don't understand. I feel like God's abandoned me." What do you think he was saying on the cross? "My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?" God, in Jesus Christ, has been through everything you've been through. He's been on any table you've been on.

He's been through every darkness you've been through and worse. And therefore, you can trust him. And therefore, you can get through it. You know, people say, "I don't understand why does God allow all this suffering?" When Kathy and I first got to Hopewell, there was an older minister in town named Kennedy Smart. I'm afraid to even quote him. I'm afraid I'm going to lapse into his North Carolina accent, which would be silly, because I can't do it. But I remember one time he said: "I know as a young minister, you're working so hard on your messages, right? You're reading your commentaries, you're putting in hours and hours because you want to get up there in that pulpit and you want to give people these brilliant, clear, erudite messages filled with pearls of wisdom. He says, 'I want you to know that all your messages aren't going to amount to a hill of beans if those people don't know you're there with them in their homes, in the hospital, and at the funeral parlor. He says all your messages amount to a hill of beans unless they know you're really there with them in all the things they're going through. You've got to be in their home or they're never going to listen to you in your pulpit. You've got to be in the hospital, you've got to be in the funeral home, you've got to be in the prison. You've got to be there." And you know what? I would love to have some answers from God about why he allows suffering. Wouldn't you? I would love to have some messages.

But he gave us what we really need. Without which, the messages would be of no help. He was there with us. He's been through it. And you can trust him, no matter what you're going through right now.

So he got involved, and so should we. He faced and went through suffering, so should we. One last thing — kind of brief. He was filled with patient yet infallible hope. And so should we. And here's what I mean by patient and infallible hope. All through this text, last week's text, all the places where the Bible tells us about God coming to earth, God becoming human, he comes in two stages. He comes the first time, and he comes the second time. This is, by the way, one of the reasons why the religious leaders, who did expect a Messiah, just couldn't believe Jesus was the Messiah. Because when they read everything the Old Testament said about how the Messiah would come and put everything right, they thought he was only coming once, and everything would be right. And they looked at Jesus, and it didn't look like everything was going right.

But the doctrine of Christmas is: because he came once, he will come again. He came once, which shows that God's with us. But everything is not yet put right. The ideal has come into the real, but it hasn't yet completely transformed it. And therefore, on the one hand, we know it's going to be alright. But on the other hand, we are not utopian. We don't expect it to be tomorrow. See, almost all of us are tempted to be temperamentally optimists or pessimists. Almost all of us. And if you're an optimist, you know, "Oh, everything can go fine," you have to remember Jesus only has come once. But if you're a pessimist, and if you're a "glass half empty" person, you need to be reminded that Jesus is coming again. Because he came the first time, he will come back.

There's a Vaughan Williams hymn that goes like this. It says, "When the storm is rife, as fierce, the warfare long, steals on the ear the distant triumph song. Then hearts are brave again, and arms are strong." And the idea behind it is you're fighting in a battle, and you're about to give up, and then you hear reinforcements are coming. They're far away. They're not right here. It's a distant triumph song. You hear the reinforcements, maybe singing or something like that. And so now hearts are brave and arms are strong. They're not there yet, but they're coming. And Christmas is a distant triumph song. Christmas tells you, "Because he came once, he will come again. And therefore, there is hope. You're going to have to be patient. Everything's not going to be okay yet, but it will be eventually. The distant triumph song. He's going to come again." You know, remember that place in "Lord of the Rings"? Gandalf says, "Sam, I thought you were dead. But then I thought I was dead too. Is everything sad going to come untrue?" And the answer of Christmas is basically, "You're going to die. Yeah."

Now, lastly, we said here's what the doctrine of incarnation is, and here's what it can do in the middle of your life. It can make you a person who's involved, not afraid of being vulnerable. It can make you a risk-taker, someone who endures because of your infallible hope. It can mean somebody who loves and serves in a way that you didn't before. But how? Why does the doctrine of incarnation do that? Or how does the doctrine of the incarnation do that? I mean, it's nice to be up, you know, for you to — you may be saying, "Yes, you're saying it's very inspiring, but I'm not sure that when I get out, I can handle the vulnerability I'm feeling. I can handle the suffering I'm feeling. I don't feel like I have the strength or the courage to do the things that you're saying I should be doing." Ah. And here it tells us in verse 10, in a wonderful, little difficult verse to reproduce or to translate.

It says, "In bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God, for whom and through whom everything exists, should make the author of their salvation perfect through suffering." Author. Now, if you get out six or seven commentaries, I mean, six or seven translations of the Bible, they're all going to give you a different word there, because it's a word that is very difficult to translate. It's a word that has a span of meaning. It's got a lexical range that's pretty wide. It's the Greek word "archegos." And maybe I will, without giving you all the background, I should say that one place where it's used most often in Greek literature is in reference to Hercules. And therefore, it's a word that probably could be well translated "hero" or "champion." If you go into, if you just, if you go online, go to any dictionary, all the many online dictionaries, and look up the word "champion," you'll find that the first or second, of the, you know, they always give you the word "champion," and they give you several definitions. The first or second means "the winner of a competition." But if you go down to three or four, they'll usually say, "Older, like an older," and it'll say, "Someone who does battle on behalf of someone else." A champion is someone who does battle on behalf of someone else. That was the old idea of a hero. That was the old idea of a champion. You represent someone. You go and you put your body on the line for them. That's why Goliath comes out — you know, comes out of his Philistine army and goes to the Israelite army and says, "Hey, let's not all fight. Let's not have army against army. Thousands of people dying. Send out a hero. He says, 'Send out a champion.' And I'm the champion and the hero of my army. And we'll fight. And if he wins, you're free. His victory will be your victory. He'll fight on your behalf. He'll put his body on the line for you."

Now, that's courage.

Jesus — whenever we get really moved by a story, it's not only when someone heroically goes forth and risks his or her life and does battle on behalf of someone else. The stories that move us the most are not just when they do that and survive, but when they do that and die.

You know, the infinite number of stories of some knight or some hero going forth to save a village from a monster or a dragon and killing the monster or the dragon, but dying in the attempt — "Oh, look! He lost his life so we could live." Or even the last Superman movie, where Superman, you know, saves the world one more time from the peril and throws it off into space and falls back to earth, you know, in the posture of a cross, sickening thud as he hits Central Park. I mean, there's — a hero is someone who does battle for someone else, who moves out and puts his or her body on the line. Representative, substitutionary heroism. That's heroism. Now, the fact is that Jesus is the ultimate David, because he wants to be the ultimate David. And he fought not against a human giant but against the great giants of sin and death. And look how heroic he was! He was forsaken by everyone. He was betrayed by everyone. See, but he went on. See, he didn't flinch. He had agony — God was putting the curse on him that we all deserved. He had agony of body. He had agony of soul. And he went on. That's heroism. And he died and he rose. And he triumphed over evil and death. And so he is the ultimate hero. Okay, you say, "That's, wow. I hadn't thought of it like that. But how does that translate into something in my heart like this?"

The word "archegos" is not just used here in Hebrews 2. It's also used in Hebrews 12. And in Hebrews 12, it says, "Fix your eyes on Jesus, the archegos and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him ran the race to heaven, endured the cross, despised the shame, and sat down at the right hand of God on high." Fix your eyes on the heroism of Jesus. Well, what was it? Look what he did. He ran the race. He fought the fight. He faced the cross. He didn't flinch. Why? For the joy that was set before him. Okay, everybody. What joy would Jesus Christ come to earth and do all this to get that he didn't already have? The joy of doing God's will. But he already had that. What joy could Jesus Christ have come to earth to do all this in order to get? What joy did he not have? And the only thing he didn't have was you and me, because we were lost. And therefore, what gives Jesus his courage?

See, in the garden of Gethsemane, going to the cross, what was Jesus saying to himself? Was he saying what modern people tend to say they think in order to get courageous? Modern people say, "You can do it. You can do anything you say. You set your mind to." Was that Jesus saying, "Come on, cross. I know I can do it. I'm strong enough. I'm man enough. I'm God enough." Whatever? No. That's not what the Bible says real courage is.

When a mama bear charges you because you've gotten between the mama bear and the baby bear, it's not because she's saying, "I can take you on, human. I'm going to show what a bear can do. Or I really am." No. Because she loves her child, and therefore she doesn't care. She's not thinking about herself. Courage is the absence — it's utter humility in the face of blinding, passionate love.

And Jesus Christ had love in his heart for us. And he was able therefore to be a hero. And that's how it works. There's that place again in "Lord of the Rings" where you might remember, if you saw the movie, maybe you didn't read the book, where there's this terrible battle going on. There's this great demonic kind of figure. And little Merry the hobbit is looking up and he's scared. In fact, the evil is so overpowering that he's going blind, and he's crawling around in the mud. And he looks up, and he suddenly sees Eowyn, a woman, standing forth courageously to die for her friends. And in the book it says, "Pity filled his heart, that's Merry's heart, and great wonder, and suddenly the slow-kindled courage of his race awoke, and he clenched his fist." Now, what was he seeing when he saw her being courageous out of love? It filled him with love. And it made him courageous. The slow-kindled courage. That's real courage. Not adrenaline. Not telling yourself, "I can do it." Filled with love. That's what makes the mama bear charge. That's what made Eowyn stand up in front of the demon. That's what made Jesus go to the cross.

And when you finally admit you're a sinner, when you finally admit you're a sinner that needs grace, when you finally see that on the cross, Jesus wasn't just dying for the world in some general way, but he was dying for you, that he went to a brutal death for you, that he was brave for you, that he was a hero for you, that will fill your heart with such love that you will find your fist clenching. Your fist will clench. The slow-awakening courage of the human heart. That's not adrenaline, but the courage born of love and grace will awake. And you will be the person who can do these things because of him. You can face suffering. You can face the cost of being involved with other people who are in need. You can do it because he did it for you. And to the degree that you see him dying on the cross for you and resting in that, to that degree you will be a person of courage as well.

Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that your Son, though he was invulnerable, became vulnerable. And when we see that, it gives us a pattern of life. But if it's only a pattern to emulate, oh, my God, it will never be enough. It will just crush us. It's too high.

It's too high a bar. It's too high a standard. But when we understand that his bravery is not just a model for us, but it was substitutionary atonement, it was his way of dying for us, that we could be saved by grace, when we see ourselves as sinners needing that, then that melts us, and that emboldens us, and that changes us, and makes us someone who can do all the things we've talked about. We pray that everyone in this room would have that spiritual courage, that strength in the face of suffering, that fearlessness in the face of sacrifice and service. And that we would be able to serve in the face of our sinhood, to either be awakened in their heart for the first time through faith in you, or strengthened by the power of the Spirit. And we pray this in Jesus' name, Amen.