Something we know is that death is unnatural. Death is unnatural. Now, the reason I bring that out is because of all the different options there are today, there's many different views, approaches to death. If you pull books off the shelf in your local Barnes & Noble under death and dying, if you go to maybe the children's books shelf in the Barnes & Noble, I only read some Barnes & Nobles because, you know, Mayor Giuliani said that the trends are showing that pretty soon there'll be one gap in one Barnes & Noble for every person living in Manhattan. And if you go into the Barnes & Noble, you very often see what people are reading. And if you get books out on death there, they will tell you this. If you're a doctor or if you're in training in medicine or something, you'll read death and dying books, and they'll tell you this. This is what they'll tell you. They'll say, death is natural. It is absolutely natural. Death is just another stage in life. Nature is all cyclical. And there's nothing wrong about death. Death is not to be feared. It's not to be fought. My wife's mother died this summer, and so I spent some time in a funeral home. And when I was there, I pulled the little booklets off the shelf that were around that you could, you know, take home. And they always had things to do about how do you talk to children about death. And what they would say is this approach. They say, well, say to children, death is very natural. It's like falling asleep. They'd say that death is part of just the cycle of life. And of course, one of my favorite movies of the last few years even bought into this. You remember? The Lion King. And he speaks to Simba. You know, not Simba, Simba. And Simba, you know, at one point, Simba, he's saying something about how, you know, that we're all part of the cycle of circle of life and the antelopes. And he says, but Dad, don't we eat the antelopes? Remember that? And of course, suddenly, the Lion King says, Simba, here's what you have to remember. Yes, we feed on the antelopes, but the antelopes feed on grass. When we die, our bodies feed the grass. And then the grass feeds the antelopes. And then the antelopes feed us. And so you see, Simba, it's all part of this circle of life. And then they break into some song. And don't worry. The words of the song are not important to my point, so I won't try. But now,

you will never find an old myth. You will never find a legend. You will never find an old story. You will never find a single culture with any of its accumulated wisdom and ancient wisdom that ever says anything like that. Whatever the myths are, whatever the stories are, that's what you see in opera. Death is never natural. Death is always traumatic. It's always terrifying. It's always an aberration. And there is no old story. No old story. This is an utterly new idea. All the old stories, you either have Adam and Eve, you know, falling, or you have Pandora opening a box, or you even have, you know, the bird of paradise accidentally dropping the seed of immortality out of her beaks or something like that. No matter what the stories are, they have to explain where death came from because death is not the way things are supposed to be. Everybody knows that. And therefore, one of the things that you learn from great art is death is unnatural. I'm sorry. I like the old story. I like the Lion King, but you are wrong. Death is not just like a sleep. When you sleep, it's like going into harbor. The ship that goes into harbor comes out. Death is not a sleep. Death is a pit. The ships that go into the whirlpool never come out. Death is not natural. And you know what? Unless you get, unless you get numbed by the books you read, or maybe by the, there's so many intelligent people that are talking like this now, that it's very easy for you to get numbed. But I'll tell you something. Whoever wrote the Lion King, when Simba listens to his father saying, you see, it's all part of the circle of life. There's nothing unusual about death, you see. It's just the next step of growth. It's just the next stage of life. Whoever, you know, Simba said, oh, okay, whoever wrote that was not a kid because your primal, primordial understanding of death is that this isn't right. Actually, true story. Peter Kreft is, is a Fosse professor at Boston College, wrote a very good book on death called Love is Stronger than Death. And he tells a true story. He said he had a neighbor who didn't believe in afterlife. And she had a little boy, six-year-old or something like that. And the little boy had a cousin about his age who had died. He came on in and he said, Mommy, where is my cousin now? And she looked at him and she'd read the books on how to talk to children about death. And she also didn't believe in an afterlife. So, she had the integrity not to say, well, he's in heaven, honey, you know, which has no integrity. She didn't believe in that. So, she says, well, now, dear, listen. I want you to know that death is natural. And when we die, our bodies become part of the ground. And when they go into the ground, they feed the ground. And then the ground brings up new life. And so, when you see the flowers coming up, you see that's just, that's just the life and the energy of the people who have died going in. And that's the way nature works. There's nothing unnatural about it. And, of course, he did what I think everybody wants to do at a time like that. His eyes got big. And he ran out of the room screaming, saying, no, no, I don't want him to be fertilizer. And you see, we know that we are not just recycled fertilizer. Peter Kreft goes on and says, to tell people that death is just another stage of growth. It's like telling a quadriplegic that paralysis is another form of exercise. And he says, I'm not trying to be, I'm not trying to make fun of paralysis. I'm not trying to make fun of somebody suffering. I am actually, he says, trying to attack people who make fun of the horrible tragedy of death and say, no, let's just, let's act like it's not a tragedy. It is utterly unnatural. Dylan Thomas is far more honest when he says, do not go gentle into the night. Rage, rage against the dying. Of the light. Rage. That's much better. That's much more Christian. Much more Christian. To sit there and look at somebody who's dead and say, this is wrong. It's not natural for my memory to go. Without memory, there's no love. Love is gone. If that's all death is,

do not go gentle into that night. Rage, rage against the dying of the light. Now, first thing we learn is it's unnatural. Utterly unnatural. And you see that always in opera. Nobody, ever says, well, Carmen, you know, it's another stage of growth. Nobody does that. Nobody ever has. Now, this is a new idea. But here, secondly, the second thing that art tells us, first of all, it tells us that death is unnatural. Absolutely right. And of course, that right away raised the question, why would it be unnatural? Why is it everybody knows and every culture knows that this isn't the way it started. This is not the way it should be. There's something absolutely wrong with it. Every culture, every mythos, every, every myth, mythic structure, no matter what you believe, everybody has always said that. Always, until recently, until about 50 years ago. You know? Now, the second thing is, art tells us that death is not just unnatural, but that it's an executioner. That we feel condemned by death. That when death comes, we say, what did I do to deserve this? We automatically feel guilt and condemnation in the presence of death. Death is not just something that happens to us. Unnatural. It, more than that, it's an executioner. Now, of course, you see that, absolutely, in a classic way, in Don Giovanni. When you know that you have not too long to live, and I'm probably one of the few people in this room, unless you're a, well, no, you know, even if you're a medical, even if you're a medical, a healthcare professional, you see a lot of people die. I don't know. There's something about chaplains and ministers and all that. We've talked to a lot of people who are dying. And I'll just tell you this. Whether they're religious or not, it doesn't make much difference. I used to go through a hospital in my little town where I was a pastor for many years, had 300 beds. And partly because it was a small town, you could never do this in a place like New York. One of the things I was told by one of the ministers was, is that, just go visit everybody. Go ahead. Just go right on down. Go into every room. Every room. And what the men, I used to say, well, I was from the north. They were from the south. It was in the south. I used to say, well, maybe that's kind of intrusive. And you know what the guy said? Oh, no, it doesn't, you have to understand. The sicker they are, the more serious they are, the more willing they'll be willing to talk. It's as simple as that. You can tell if they're sick, they're willing to talk to you, whether they're religious or not, no matter what denomination. They're Catholic and you're Protestant. You're Protestant, they're Catholic, something like that. It doesn't make any difference. And it's true because as death comes, you start to look at yourself automatically. C.S. Lewis had this great illustration of the makeup mirror. And he noticed, and he noticed, I don't even know if they still make these things, but he noticed that, for example, if a woman was making her face up in the light of her room, if she knew that during the day she might be out under sunlight or some kind of light, that was more unforgiving,

light that was more unforgiving. And so what she would do is, what was invented, of course, are makeup mirrors, in which case you can sort of turn the light up and you can make yourself up so that when that light or if that kind of light actually hits you, even though it's not there in the room, you artificially create it. You'll be ready. C.S. Lewis said, it is ridiculous for human beings not to live as if they were going to die. But we do all the time. When the death comes, you immediately start to say, have I been loving enough to my friends? Have I been generous enough with my money? Why did I hold on all these? It's incredible. Immediately you become moral. Why? Because death is an executioner. Death is not just something that happens. Death is not random. Death is a curse. It's a curse for something, and we know it. And let me go one step further. Death is not just an executioner if you have the traditional view. What if you are about to die and you believe afterwards there is some kind of afterlife? Now, I'm not being specific here. I'm not saying a Christian or a Protestant or any particular thing like that. If you believe there is an afterlife, when you get near death or when you think about death, you right away start to say, it has moral bearing. It immediately makes you feel guilty, wrong. It immediately sort of comes down on you and makes you start to think, have I been living right? But even today, if you don't believe in an afterlife, if death is the end, you can only live as if there is kind of meaning and joy and happiness as long as you don't think about the fact that death is coming. Because the smart people in this century, the Sartre's and the Camus, and here is somebody you probably never heard of, Ernest Becker. He has passed on now, but he is a Pulitzer Prize winner, wrote the book, Denial of Death, Escape from Evil. Again, these people were not Christians at all, at all. They didn't believe in an afterlife. But here is what they did. They came down and they said something like this. And again, actually, C.S. Lewis did a good job of distilling it. They came down and said, like in Camus' book, The Plague, what is the plague? It's a novel about being in a town where everybody is dying of a plague, but it's a metaphor for the fact that we've all got a plague and we are going to die. Just like the cards are a metaphor for the fact that all of us have the same deck and we are all being dealt death. Well, what does Camus and Sartre and these people say? Here is what they say. If death is the end, that makes life meaningless. And so, if you are willing to think about death, whether you believe in an afterlife or not, it brings what you are doing now into judgment. There are not two things that are in life that are sure, death and taxes. It's just not fair to put taxes in there. Taxes are not sure, and not only that, you don't feel the same way in front of taxes that you do in front of death. Death is the only thing that is sure. It's the only thing you know. And when I've done funerals, people get into that funeral place, and if you are there, it's probably because you know the person, and you suddenly are shown, I'm going to die. It's going to happen very, very soon, no matter how you look at it. I'm going to die. And for a while there, you start to feel like, am I living right? Even if you believe in an afterlife. If you don't believe in an afterlife, as Camus and Sartre said, if you think about death, that makes life meaningless. Now here's the way Lewis put it, and he's absolutely right. He distilled what the existentialists of the mid part of the 20th century said, and that's this. Do you realize that if death is the end, that makes every action morally equivalent? Camus says, if death is inevitable, if it's inexorable, if it's coming after us, and when death is gone, that's it. And eventually, here's the point, if I say yes, but if I do something that helps someone else, then my deeds live on after me, after I'm dead. But no, no they don't. They live on a little bit. But after that comes death to that person, and after everything comes death to everything. There won't be anyone around eventually. When the sun dies and the earth dies, there won't be anything around to remember. Anything that anybody here has ever done. Nada. It's gone. And C.S. Lewis wrote this very interesting article called Living in Atomic Age. And he said, you know, people get all upset about the idea that if we have a nuclear holocaust, everybody will die. He says, haven't you been reading Camus? Haven't you been reading Sartre? If there is no afterlife, if there's no eternity, we're going to die anyway. And look, look, think about this. What is the relationship, okay, between one inch to infinity and 3,000 miles to infinity? The difference between one inch and 3,000 miles is very great. But all of you mathematicians, I mean I was a liberal arts major, even I know this. The difference between one inch and eternity and the difference between 3,000 years and eternity is exactly the same. There is no difference. Infinity is infinity is infinity. Now Lewis says, what if the universe, what if Earth and all of civilization, everything you've ever done, is all wiped out tomorrow? What's the relationship of that to the infinity of dead time that comes after? And then, what if instead, because we have put away our nuclear weapons and we go into Star Trek, you know, and we have the Federation of Planets and all that, but eventually everything dies. Everything burns up. 10,000 years from now, 20,000 years from now, what's the difference between that and if it happens tomorrow? Nothing. If death is the end, whether you kiss a child tomorrow or whether you hit a child will make no difference. That means there will be no end difference. Not at all. There will be a difference tomorrow for a week, a year. What is it? The existentialists are right. Death is an executioner. That means when it comes near, whatever you're doing

becomes meaningless. You look at it differently. The only way that human beings can really live happily with a meaningful life without feeling condemned, without feeling everything I'm doing is insignificant, without feeling everything I'm doing is bad enough, is to live as if there is no death. And death is the only thing we have to live as if there is because it's the only thing that there always inevitably is. Death is an executioner. Death comes. Ta. And it's on its way. The cards, they come out. It's on its way. And we're condemned by it. And all the great art and all the stories tell you that. But now there's one last thing. See, one of the interesting things that comes up is if it's really true that death is unnatural and we all know it, we need to know that. We know it's unnatural. How did it happen? And if it comes and it condemns us, why do we have that sense of curse? C.S. Lewis, one more quote by him, wrote a man, I never saw this letter until this week, and that's amazing. I thought I'd read everything C.S. Lewis ever wrote and there's plenty of stuff left. He wrote a man named Sheldon Van Auken when his wife died and talked to him about something, and here it is. He said, if you really are a product of a materialistic universe, why don't you feel at home here? Do fish complain at sea about being wet? And if they did, wouldn't that strongly suggest that they're really not marine animals? Why are we continually surprised at time? We're always saying, time is flying. I can't believe it. Little Sally is now 25 years old. It's incredible. But if you're a materialistic universe, why are we astonished at time, he says? Why do we feel death is unnatural? Why would a fish feel unnatural about water? And therefore, if we find that time is surprising us and death feels absolutely unnatural, he says, why would that be unless indeed there's something in us that's eternal? Christianity says, let's think about it. You can either be an ostrich about death, put your head in the sand and act like it's not going to happen. But it's going to happen. Ta. It's coming. Secondly, you can decide to say, well, it's coming, but it's perfectly natural. And you will know when you get near it, it's not. You're killing your humanity to say that. There's yearnings you have to last. There's yearnings you have to do something that lasts. You want your love to last. You want your deeds to last. You want glory. That's what glory is. You want to know that you count. And Lewis says, why would that be? But you do. You have to kill the humanity in you to say death is natural. Thirdly, you can say what Camus and Sartre say, and that is, well, death is just the end. And it makes everything meaningless, except, you know, everybody knows that all deeds are not morally equivalent. Everybody knows that. I have never found a person who I would talk with who was a secular person who said, yes, death is the end. And when I would say, if death is the end, then all morality, all deeds are morally equivalent. You might feel, because of evolutionary biology, or you might feel, because of your culture, that certain things are right or wrong. But you know that when it comes right down to it, there actually is nothing intrinsically wrong with murder or rape or plunder. You know that, right? It's just a feeling. And that person looks at me and says, no, it's not just a feeling. Some things are absolutely wrong. No matter what your culture says, they're wrong. And that means that death is not the end. I mean, look, either death is the end and all things are morally equivalent, or if all things are not morally equivalent, death is not the end. Or you can put it this way. Either death is natural, because this is just the way life is, or death is unnatural, which means it's a punishment. Now, which is it? People want to say, I don't believe in God, I don't believe in eternity, but you know death is unnatural, and you know all things are not morally equivalent. How can you account for that? And the answer, of course, is, as Christianity says, and that is because death wasn't the way God invented things, and because death is a punishment. Well, a punishment for what? The Flying Dutchman is looking like he's asking for death, but he's not exactly, because you see, the Flying Dutchman is like all of us. He's having a living death. He needs to die to live indeed. Now, follow me here. I don't have much time. The Flying Dutchman is cursed. The Flying Dutchman is cursed, and what will redeem the Flying Dutchman? The only thing that will redeem the Flying Dutchman is someone who is faithful in a way that he wasn't. Why is he cursed? Why in the story is he doomed to lead this kind of restless life? The Flying Dutchman is an image for all of us. We're all Flying Dutchman because he is living a restless life, a life that has no end. in which he can't find what he really wants. And see, Camus and Sartre are right. Death proves to us that this life can't be all there is because we want something this life can't give us, and that is glory. That is eternal love. You fall in love with somebody and you say, I love you forever. How can you say that? You know you want that. You know that's the deepest desire. You want eternal love. And therefore, in this life, we are restless. We sense that death is upon us. We sense that we're being punished for something. The Flying Dutchman, because he was faithless, he has to find someone who is faithful to him and who dies for him so that he can live indeed. We're all Flying Dutchmen. And you see, the third thing that the stories tell us in very strange ways, all the stories tell us that death is unnatural. All the stories tell us that death is also what? That it's basically unnatural, but it's also an executioner. It's a punishment. It's a punishment for something. But then lastly, the stories tell us that death can be a means of redemption. In fact, I'll go this far. Death is unnatural. Death is an executioner. But death can become a gardener. When someone was willing to die for the Flying Dutchman, to be faithful where he was faithless, then he is able, through death, to come to life. These kinds of... patterns in the old stories are echoes of the Gospel. Because the Gospel said that someone who was utterly alive became absolutely dead. So those of us who were in a living death could become alive. We become alive once you look at what Jesus Christ did. Jesus Christ threw himself into the sea for us Flying Dutchmen. And when Jesus Christ did that, he went even further. Jesus Christ was a man of faith. Jesus Christ threw himself into the sea for ungrateful people. And why do these things come up? You know, you can look at what Gilda does when she's about to die for her ungrateful lover. And what does she say? I want to help him. Even though he rebelled against my love, I'm going to yield my life for his. Jesus keeps cropping up in the stories. Even though he rebelled against my love, I'm going to give my life for his. When Jesus Christ died, he swallowed death. It exploded in his stomach. He was ripped apart. He was cast off from his father. He died the death we should have died. But when he did that, he killed death. The Christian teaching is the death of death in the death of Christ. The shaking of shaking in the shaking of Christ. You see? The demise of demise in the death of Christ. The destruction of destruction in the destruction of Christ. And therefore, if you believe in him so that his sins, your sins go to him, and he pays for it. Do you know what that means? George Herbert is the one that said death used to be an executioner, but the gospel just makes him a gardener. And let me just close with this. George Herbert, another great poet who's written a lot of things that were put to music beautifully. He wrote something called the Dialogue Anthem. It's an anthem. It's a dialogue between Christian and death. Let me just read it to you and then we're done. And I'll say Christian, and I'll give you the Christian voice and then death's voice, and the Christian voice and death's voice. It's the best way I can do it. Four. Two interchanges. Four pieces. Christian. Alas, poor death, where is thy glory? Where is thy famous force, thy ancient sting? Alas, poor mortal, void of story, go and read how I killed, thy king. Poor death, and who was hurt thereby? Thy curse being laid on him makes thee accursed. Ha, let losers talk, yet thou shalt die. These arms shall crush thee. Spare not, says Christian, do thy worst. I shall be one day better than before, and thou so much worse that thou shalt be no more. You see, the Christian says to death, spare not, do thy worst. The lower you lay me, the higher you raise me, because Jesus threw himself into the sea for me. Though I rebelled against his love, he gave himself for me. Now, through death, you, death, are nothing but a gardener. In fact, you, death, have been turned into a redeemer by my redeemer. Dwight Moody says, the day you read that I'm dead, don't you believe it, I'll be more alive than I've... ever been before. Spare not, do thy worst. See, that's what the Christian says, not only to death, and if you can say that to death, you can say that to anything, any circumstance, anybody. Spare not, do thy worst. These arms will crush thee? No. Someday I shall be better than before, then, and thou so much worse that thou shalt be no more. Death is unnatural. Death is an executioner. What does that tell us? It tells us that there's a punishment, and that means, if there's a punishment, there must be a satisfaction. There must be a judge, and there can be a redeemer, and there is. And our redeemer can make death a redeemer. Now, what we're going to do, I'm going to pray, and what we do at this point is we have one last piece. Now, the last piece, Angela Horn's going to sing, and it is one of our favorite pieces, and I tell you, there's nobody who sings this in our morning services. Whenever we sing it, everybody just goes crazy. But nobody, very few people know the background. It's the hymn, It Is Well With My Soul. And here's all I want you to know. The man who wrote it, Horatio Spofford, said his wife and his four children, back in the 1870s, on an ocean liner, going from America to Europe. The ocean liner went down. All his children were killed, and his wife was saved, and she wired him back here in New York City, and she said, I've been saved, but alone. And he sat down, and he was a Christian, and because he was a Christian, he knows that death isn't natural. He's not sentimental about death, but on the other hand, he had a way of processing that brought him a sense of glory and brought him an incredible strength. If you have the Christian understanding of death, the Christian doctrine of death, and you're an artist, see what happens when you meet it. So what we're going to be doing is we're going to listen to her. At the same time, real briefly, since we take up an offering at this evening service, which we usually have here, we pass around an offering basket so the members who come to this church who usually give can give. But if you're a guest, this is not a way of trying to get you to pay a fee. Just ignore it. Listen to Angela, and then when we're done with that, I'll have a couple of announcements, and we'll break, and we'll have our open mic session. But listen to Angela, and then I'm about to dismiss you. Angela, you're up.