I do, and I'll do that by reading chapters 3 of the book of Acts, and we're reading verses 21, pardon me, verses 17. Let's read verses 17 through 26. Acts chapter 3, 17 through 26. Now brothers, I know that you acted in ignorance as did your leaders, but this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets, saying that as Christ would suffer, repent then and turn to God so that your sins may be wiped out, that times of refreshing may come from the Lord, and that he may send the Christ who has been appointed for you, even Jesus. He must remain in heaven until the time comes for God to restore everything, as he promised long ago through his holy prophets. For Moses said, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own people. You must listen to everything he tells you. Anyone who does not listen to him will be completely cut off from among his people. Indeed, all the prophets from Samuel on, as many as have spoken, have foretold these days. And you are heirs of the prophets and the covenant God made with your fathers. He said to Abraham, Through the prophets, you will be cut off from among your own people. And you will be cut off from among your own people. Through your offspring, all peoples on earth will be blessed. And when God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. The Word of the Lord.

We have a famous resident of New York, Leonard Bernstein, who in the 1950s, was the host for one of the most famous television specials in history. And on that television show, Leonard Bernstein said something about Beethoven's Fifth. And you can still hear those great words. You can still see those great words often printed on the back of the album jackets of Bernstein's rendition of Beethoven's Fifth. And in that special, he said this, Beethoven leaves us with the feeling that something is right in the world, that something checks throughout, something that follows its own laws consistently, something we can trust that will never let us down. Now, if you ask Leonard Bernstein, I haven't, but I know if you asked him, do you believe there's a God who has spoken and given us truth? Given us a body of truth. And God's words are what? They are absolutely right. They are perfectly consistent, internally consistent. They check out throughout. They are completely trustworthy, and they cannot let us down. Now, if you asked Bernstein if he believed in a God like that, or if he believed that there was truth like that, I know he'd say no. And yet, the one area where he knows that there is truth, that he knows the best, music, the one area that he knows very well, draws him inexorably to this, to truth like that. Something that checks throughout, absolutely consistent, absolutely trustworthy, can never let us down. It's the one area where he knows the best, he's drawn to it, and yet, intellectually, he denies it.

Why does Bernstein feel like that?

Because species. We want to talk to other people besides us. You see, our literature has filled the world with talking animals and talking trees and people from outer space. We don't want to believe we're alone. We want to talk to someone else. And there is someone out to talk to. There is somebody out there to talk to, but it's not an animal, silly. It's God. The best and most plausible reason why Bernstein feels the way he does, why we all feel the way we do, is because we were created by a God who speaks. Now, that's what this text is about. It's about the fact that God speaks, and he speaks fully through Jesus Christ. And this is critical to understand, because Christianity is quite different than most of the other religions that you can see or you can hear about. Christianity is not just talking about union with God, some kind of God consciousness, some kind of mystical experience. Of course, Christianity brings experience. But Christianity is a relationship between God and man based on communication, acceptance, reliance on and feeding on truth, you see. And as a result of that, the Bible is constantly talking to us about talk, about God's talk. And you can't know Jesus in some general way. You can't know Jesus in some general way without listening to what he says. That's the reason why in the Mount of Transfiguration, when some of the apostles were up there and they saw Jesus transfigured and God spoke out of heaven, what did he say? He didn't say, this is my beloved son. Love him. He said, this is my beloved son. Hear ye him. Listen to him. And there's that strange and scary place in Luke chapter 6 where Jesus says, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not the things that I say? Jesus, in that statement, is remarking on the fact that there are plenty of people who are talking to him, but who are not listening. Why do you call me? Why are you talking to me? Why do you call me Lord, Lord, but you're not listening to me? It is critical and crucial in the Christian view of things that you understand that God has spoken. He's a God who speaks. He uses words. They've come especially through Jesus Christ, and the only way to relate to God through Jesus Christ is by accepting and feeding on and taking into yourself and relying and standing on truth. Jesus Christ, we're told here, a lot of things, actually. I had to get up this morning and cut half the sermon out. I was tossing in the bed in the morning, and I said, this is too long. The sermon's too long. See, I'm giving you a little inside view of the torments of being a preacher, and I got up and said, you know, the passage, says five or six or seven things about how Jesus brings his truth, but I've only got time for three, so I'm only going to talk to you about three. The passage tells you more. The Bible tells us here, first of all, that Jesus brings the truth. Secondly, that Jesus is the truth, and thirdly, that Jesus heals us with his truth. Did you get that? He brings the truth, he is the truth, and he heals us with the truth. Okay, let's go through one at a time. Number one, he brings us truth. In verse 22, we're told that Jesus Christ is a prophet. Now look, on arriving at the jail, oh, pardon me, that's Acts 5, I turned over. Now look, verse 22, it says, he may ascend the Christ. Verse 21, he must remain in heaven. 22, Moses said, the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among your own people. You must listen to everything he tells you. Jesus Christ is a prophet. Now, what's a prophet? Unfortunately, the only thing that the word prophecy means today to the American, the average American, is someone who what? Foretells the future. But in the Bible, foretelling the future is only peripheral to being a prophet. The word prophet is pretty simple, two little words, pro and phimmy, prophecy, pro, phimmy, and it literally means to before speak, and it means to stand before, pro, and to speak for somebody else. Very simple. In fact, it's so simple, you can see it in particular in Exodus 7, where God comes to Moses and says, Moses, I want you to communicate to Pharaoh, but I want Aaron to communicate for you. And then God says, Moses, I will make you as God to Pharaoh, and I will make Aaron as a prophet to you, so that whatever you speak, Aaron will speak to the Pharaoh. Now, that shows very clearly what the Bible means by the word prophecy. A prophet is someone who simply takes the words of someone else and brings them. In other words, what the prophet says, God says. And if you wrote down what the prophet says, what you have on the page, if it's prophecy, is God's words. What the scripture says, since it's the word of prophecy, God says. Now, at this point, I must, I must contrast this view of truth with the views of truth that are prevalent in our culture today. I'm not going to go into too much detail on this, but I'm going to go into a little bit more detail on this. Very important. Just take a moment. I don't have time to go in and explain these two worldviews, but today, in our society, there's two worldviews, two ways of looking at life and understanding reality, two different ways that are vying for ascendancy. They're vying to be the main view of our society. And I have no idea which one's going to win. But let me just outline them for you quickly. One view is prevalent in our society, and that's the view of truth. And I have no idea if there's any other view of truth in the areas of science, not silence, in the areas of science and technology. And the view basically says this. There is no God, or if there is one, we can't know him. And the only thing that's important, and the only thing that we really can know about, the only thing that really is, is what you can taste, touch, hear, see, and smell. And therefore, there are scientific facts we can learn through science, but there's no truth. There's no such thing as truth that tells you your purpose in life, or what's right and wrong, or your identity, or the essence of what the human critter is. There's no such thing as truth, just scientific facts. There is no truth. Now, a great proponent of this particular worldview was a man named Bertrand Russell. He puts it like this. The philosopher, he says, quote, man is the product of an accidental collocation of atoms. All the noonday brightness of human genius is destined to extinction in the vast death of the solar system. And then he says, get this. Only on the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair, can the soul's habitation be safely built. He says, the only way you can really make it in life is if you start with these facts. And that is, you're just an accident. You're going to die. The whole universe is going to die. There's nothing to you but matter. There's nothing to you but what you can taste, touch, hear, see, and smell. There is no truth. There is no truth. Just scientific facts. And you have to start with that and make sure you build your life on those facts. Okay? Now, there's another view. And this other view seems radically different. And in many ways, it is. This view doesn't say there is no God and there is no truth. This second view says we're all God. All of us are God. God is everything. And here's how you find truth. We have got to get in touch with the fact that we are divinity, that we are radiance, that we are perfection, that we are part of everything, and we are part of God, and we are God, you see. And truth means going into yourself, knowing yourself, coming to see through new states of consciousness that you're part of this glorious reality. Truth is not something you can write on a piece of paper. It's not something outside of you. It's subjective experience. And here's a lady who wrote like this. Now, I could have chosen a lot of different people. I could have chosen Shirley MacLaine, really, who says that. I could have chosen, Ofra Winfrey, who says that. Here's a lady named Beverly Galgain, and she says, quote, and this isn't particularly profound. This is just very typical of this view. Once we begin to see that we are all God, that we all have the attributes of God, then I think the whole purpose of human life is to reown the God-likeness within, the perfect love, the perfect wisdom, the perfect understanding. And when we do that, we create back to that old, that essential oneness, which is the perfect love. Now, what Russell said there and what Beverly said there sound pretty blunt, but the fact is that both of these views are extremely prevalent and virtually everything that is not based on the Bible and based on conscious Christian roots grows out of one view or the other. One says, there is no truth. The other says, truth is inside you, you see. They seem completely radically opposed to each other. But actually, bottom line, they're the same. You know what they're saying? They're both saying this. When you get up tomorrow, there's nobody to obey.

There's nobody to obey. There's no such thing as truth that's out here, outside of you, that you have to submit to. Both of these views completely get rid of the discipline of obedience, because obedience means submitting yourself to something. Submitting yourself to something. Submitting yourself to truth. They get rid of it. You see, both of them are saying, you are your own prophet. You are your own truth bringer and truth finder. Because there is no God or there is no God who speaks to us words we have to obey. And because we don't have a God who speaks words we have to obey, you are your own prophet. Do you see that? This is utterly different than the view of the Bible. The view that the Bible has of truth. It's categorical. Look, verse 22 and 23. Maybe you don't like to hear it, but here it is. For Moses said, the Lord your God will raise up a prophet, and he's talking about Jesus, and you must listen to everything he tells you. Anyone who does not listen to him will be completely cut off from his people. Don't you see? We're talking here about hard copy. The Bible's understanding of truth is utterly different. When the prophets spoke in the Bible, when the prophets spoke, they didn't go like this. They didn't say, well, here, let me throw a few ideas out for us to kick around.

They said, thus saith the Lord. You see, Jeremiah says, there's a fire in my bones. I've got something I've got to tell you. It's not my idea. I wish it wasn't true, but it is. Paul says, he says, here's the truth. Here's the gospel. And if an angel from heaven appears,

if an angel of light appears to you and you see that angel and his brightness and effulgence

blasts your senses and he says something other than what I have given you as the truth, what does Paul say to do?

Does he say, ah, you're obviously having a tremendous experience, you see? What he says is, and I'm paraphrasing, you take that angel by the, by the seat of his effulgent pants and you kick him out. How could Paul have that? Say something like that. How did he know what altered state of consciousness a person might go through? Because his understanding of truth. You see, truth is hard copy. It's outside of us. It's something we have to submit to. It can be brought in and it can transform us, but it doesn't begin in there. It comes from outside of us. It's objective. It's absolute, you see. How else could it be what Bernstein deep down wants? How could you rely on something, you see, unless it was, unless it was outside of you? How could you rely on it if it was you, you see? How can you lean on something if it is you? Have you ever heard about pulling yourself up from your bootstraps? Go stand and kickstand sometime and try to pull yourself up by your own bootstraps. You can't do it, can you? You know, how, how can you do it? You see, there's got to be something else you're standing on besides you to pull yourself up.

The Bible talks about this kind of thing. It's the truth. Not the truth of just scientific facts, but absolute truth. Not the truth of subjective experience, but absolute truth. And the Bible tells us it comes through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has brought this truth with him. But it goes further. It doesn't just say Jesus brings the truth. Secondly, it tells us Jesus Christ is the truth. Now look, this is very remarkable. In verse, and therefore I'm going to remark on it, in verse 18, in verse 18, it says, this is how God fulfilled what he had foretold through all the prophets. That word all is very important. He is saying here that though there have been prophets for years, for years and for years, they've been giving God's words, they were all talking about one thing, basically.

Down further in verse 24, it says, indeed all the prophets from Samuel on, as many as have spoken, have foretold, have foretold these days, and you are the heirs of the prophet and the covenants. Which means, everything the prophets talked about has come true in what? In Jesus. You see, there's a remarkable statement. I'll give you another remark. In the beginning of the book of Hebrews, in Hebrews chapter 1, verse 1 to 3, it says, in many ways and in many fashions, the prophets have spoken, but in these last days, he's spoken finally through his son. And it's great, because the two little Greek words, it says, in many ways, and in many manners, polymoros, polytropos, in many ways, in bits and pieces, God has spoken to you, but now, Jesus Christ is the prophet to end all prophets. Why? Why can't there be any other prophets after Jesus? Hmm? Because all the prophets were talking about Jesus. Because, let's put it into a statement. Jesus Christ doesn't just bring us truth. He is the truth. Jesus Christ doesn't just bring us truth. He doesn't just tell us how to live. He is the life. Jesus Christ doesn't just give us God's words. The Bible says he is the word. Now, hear me. He does tell us how to live. He does tell you should forgive your neighbor. He does tell you should be generous to the poor. He does tell you many things about how to live. But this passage is telling us that beneath all of that, he goes deeper. But Jesus Christ doesn't just tell us how to live. He is the life. He doesn't just give us God's words. He is the word. John chapter 1 verse 1. In the beginning was the word. And the word was with God and the word was God. Now, listen. You know, the Greek word that John uses there is logos. Jesus Christ is the logos. Now, when John, the gospel writer, wrote that word, he was using a term that was a loaded philosophical term. For decades, he was using the term logos. For decades and for centuries, the Greek philosophers have been after the logos. Huh, did you know that? You see, the Greek philosophers had said, there's a truth, there's a principle that gives us the reason, the purpose, would give us the logic for everything, would show us the meaning in life. Basically, the word logos meant, what is the meaning of life? What is the one principle, the truth, that everything is going toward that would make sense out of things, that would show us the meaning of life? That would show us the logic of things. And for centuries, the Greek philosophers had argued. Some said, this is the logos. Another said, this is the logos. But by the time of Christ, they'd given up looking. They'd given up looking. Heraclitus said, there is no unifying point. There is nothing absolute. Everything is change. Everything is relative, so live any way you want. And by the time of Jesus, the only Greek philosophy schools that were in existence anymore were the Stoics and the Epicureans. What were they? The Stoics said, hey, there is no truth, so you make up your own truth. Keep a stiff upper lip and just choose your standards and you do them. And that's how you find truth. And the Epicureans said, hey, everything is relative, so live the way you want. Have as much fun as you possibly can. Just don't overdo it.

John comes along and drops a bombshell. The Gospel writer says, not just, hey, fellas, there's a man who has come who has the truth, who found the logos, who can tell you all about it. No. He goes further. He says, there is someone who's brought the truth. No, beyond that, he is the truth. And that is that Jesus Christ, through his life and his death, because he suffered, you see, it's right there in verse 18, 17, 18, and 19, because he suffered, he can wipe away our sins and bring us the refreshment, the power, the life of God into our lives.

And because of that, yes, we need to know how to live, but we need to receive him personally. We need to live for him. We need to serve him. And that's how we find our purpose. That's how we find our logos. That's how we find our meaning, you see. Jesus Christ doesn't just give us truths that we can order our life according to, don't you see? But he is the truth, and we have to live for him, and then all the truths find their place.

Christianity, my dear friends, is not a philosophy. It's true that it gives rise to a philosophy, and you can talk about philosophy that rises out of Christian belief, but it's not a philosophy. It's a dynamic force that transforms every department of life because it's a person. Christianity is Christ, and because Jesus Christ comes, and because through him and through him only can we find our logos, you see, our meaning, we can say, he's the truth. And that's what it's talking about right here. Now, Jesus Christ is not an abstract bit of truth. He's your alpha, and he's your omega. He's the thing that you were created by, and he's the thing you were created for, and that's what gives you meaning. Now, listen. I ought to say something right here. There's got to be some people. I know you're out there. There's got to be some people out there who are saying, I think I've stepped into a time machine here. You must be joking. You're talking about the Bible as if it's a book of absolute, unquestioned truths when we know the Bible now is just one religious book among many, and you want to seem to turn... You're talking to me now, in your side. You want to turn the clock back to that time of history where civilizations would just have blind faith in all of the religious dogmas and propositions of a particular religion. You say, we just can't live like that anymore. And I say to you, okay, now look, you have a right to that opinion, of course, but I wish you would own up to the real consequences of it. I wish you would see what it means to live consistently with that. Some people turn it into black humor, and I like it. You know, you've got Woody Allen, who in the immortal words of Woody Allen said, not only is there no God, but try getting a plumber on the weekends, you see. You can turn it into black humor, but I'd rather you looked at it seriously. Here's a man. Here's a man, Jacques Manot, who was a French molecular biologist and a Nobel Prize winner, and he says this. The universe was not pregnant with life, nor the biosphere with man. Our number just came up like in a Monte Carlo game. Is it any wonder if, like the person who has just made a million at the casino, we feel a little strange and unreal? Let me put it this way. If there is no truth, if there is no logos, if there is no absolute truth outside of us, if there's no God, or there's no God, we can speak to who can tell us truth, then I want you to realize where that puts you. Because God's not speaking to us. If that's what you believe, you can't speak to each other. We can't speak to each other. What do I mean? Just this. You may think that the way for mankind to go is through love. Love. We need love. That'll make the society better. Or you may have had experiences of God consciousness, and you know that love is the way to go. Here's somebody else over here has another God experience, and he says, I see the way for us to go. We need to kill six million Jews. We need to enslave blacks. You know, and this person's talking like that. You're outraged, right? Why? On what basis are you outraged? You say, that's wrong. Oh, no, I'm sorry. You can say, it doesn't feel right to me. But you have no basis on which to say he's wrong, because the only way you can call someone wrong is by pointing to an objective standard of right and wrong that exists, outside of you and him. Don't you see that? There's no other way to call a person wrong. You can't do it. And so here you are saying, well, you have nothing further to appeal to than your own mind. In fact, in a way, you have nothing more to appeal to higher than your own feelings, your own digestive system, you see.

And here you are. You don't know where you came from. You don't know what you're here for. You don't know how to get rid of the guilt that you feel, and you don't even know why in the world you feel, you feel guilt. If there isn't any, dear friends, live up to what is really the problem. And don't forget this. There's no basis for heroism anymore. If you really want to say, there is no truth, and there's no way we can know any truth, there's no heroism. One of my great heroes was Athanasius, of all things. Now, a lot of you may, those of you raised in, Episcopal churches, for example, Roman Catholic churches may, only know that there's this thing that every so often you read in the, in, you know, in your book of prayer called the Athanasian Creed. But let me tell you, Athanasius was a dwarf who lived, oh, some 13 or 1400 years ago, and he was a great Christian. And he lived during a period in which there was a great controversy. A particular man named Arius who decided something we found today, and that is religion is a great, if you get enough followers behind you, and you have enough personal charisma, it's a great way to make a lot of money and gain a lot of power. If you can just get some kind of rallying cry. And Arius decided that Jesus Christ was not God. And he began to teach this. And because he was so charismatic, and because he was so great, and because he was so persuasive, large numbers of the church began to follow him and began to completely remake historic Christian doctrine. And the church was in danger of turning into something other than the church. Because as we know, as we've seen, Jesus Christ doesn't just bring the truth, you see, he could do that if he was just a prophet. He is the truth. And that radically changes Christianity. Athanasius went to the mat for it. Athanasius says, no, this is wrong. And the stake of our faith is, and our faith is at stake. And you see, this is one of the articles on which the church stands or falls. And because he constantly spoke up for it, he was constantly getting persecuted. He was constantly getting exiled by this bishop and that bishop. And he was exiled to that place. And then he would come back and he's exiled to that place. And he was constantly penniless and he was constantly badgered. Eventually, he won. He won. The Athanasian Creed was a creed that, that on the basis of his work, the whole church affirmed and it affirmed who Jesus Christ really was. When he died, on his grave, they put, because they all spoke Latin back then, Athanasius Contramundum. You know what that means. Come on, somebody out there knows. Athanasius against the world. You see, that's our idea of a hero, isn't it? Somebody who looks at the world and the whole world's arrayed against him. And a hero is somebody who spits in the eye of the world and says, I don't care what you say. I know what is right. I know what is true. I know what is just. I'm willing to die for it. I'm willing to stand up against you for it. You can, listen, if there's no such thing as truth, you can forget heroism. It's gone. And it was never there. It's an illusion. You could never call the majority wrong, you see. If the majority of people say, this is okay, it's all right to enslave this group of people, who are you to say it's wrong? Where do you appeal? Hmm? And on the basis of either of the prevalent worldviews in this culture, there is no basis for heroism at all. Except through escapist fantasy. And you know what's very funny is all the movies that make money have heroes in them. But luckily, you see, they're just movies. This sort of thing can't happen in real life because we, we can't stand up for anything anymore. Nothing's worth dying for.

Friends, don't you see the real problem? And by the way, the only alternative to not having a logos, the logos, the truth, is you create your own little one. And New York is great for that. It's unbelievable. You can find all kinds of little meanings in life, things that drive you, things that you work for, things that give your life unification, you see. What you have to do is you have to find a job or a career or something that gives your life meaning. But look out. Dr. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, a great preacher who is now dead. He's, was a Welsh preacher in London. When he was first grappling with Christianity, he was a great surgeon, by the way, a great surgeon. But he was a young man. And he was still grappling with the claims of Christ over his life. One day, where he was, it was in a hospital or some kind of, some kind of place where the doctors lived, maybe even like a dormitory or even like a club. But it was a great mansion, you see, for many of these renowned surgeons. One of the greatest surgeons in the world came walking in.

Lloyd-Jones saw him sit down in front of the fire and stare at that fire for two and a half hours and never budge and never say a word to anybody. Lloyd-Jones found out later that this man, with all of his worldly greatness, had fallen in love with a woman and she had rejected him.

And Lloyd-Jones watched him and knew what was happening. And he says, At that minute, I suddenly said to myself, What in the world is worldly greatness anyway? What hope has this man got? You see, this man had a logos, which was finite. This man had a truth, something that gave meaning to his life, that crumbled. And everything, everything crumbles but Jesus. You know, you can get, for a period of time, meaning or a logos, you might say, out of your looks. You might be good enough looking for that, but you'll wrinkle. You might get logos, you might get meaning, you might get truth out of relationships. There might be a couple of people in your life on whom you build your whole life, but my friends, you are going to be a bitter person because those are human beings. See, they are not the word. They are the truth. They are going to disappoint you. They are going to disappoint you. Or you may build your life on financial security or financial independence. I don't care what it is. You are destined for a long stare at the fire.

You are.

Jesus Christ doesn't just give us truth. He is the truth. Jesus Christ is the prophet to end all prophets. He gives us, hard copy words from God, truths on which we can build our lives, truths that we have to submit to, truths that we have to obey, truths that we have to build our lives on, but he himself is the truth. And the core and the center of all the laws and all the regulations and all the words of God that we have in the word is this.

Jesus Christ and him crucified. Jesus Christ is Lord. Now the last thing. We said Jesus Christ, brings the truth we're told. Jesus Christ is the truth we're told. But look, this verse 26. Look at this verse 26. The last verse we read. When God raised up his servant, he sent him first to you to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. To bless you. Now, first of all, that shows that we've already said that Christianity is not a philosophy because this prophet, this Jesus, who's been raised up, has come to turn you from your ways. That's your life. That's the way you live. That's not just, that's just your thinking. He doesn't come to give you a seminar. But rather, he comes to change your ways. But then it says to bless you. And this word bless, as we've continually said and we'll say again, means, in the Bible, the word bless means utter fulfillment. Deep fulfillment and satisfaction. And this statement, verse 26, is saying that when you submit to the words of God, when you submit and obey what Jesus has told you, you don't feel like a slave. You don't feel trodden down. You don't feel dehumanized. Instead, you find your true self. Jesus has promised it somewhere else. John chapter 8, where he says, if you continue in my word, you will know the truth and the truth will set you free. An incredible claim. But absolutely, absolutely at the heart of what the Bible says. In fact, there are some of you out there who know things that the Bible teaches and you're afraid to get underneath it. You're afraid to bring yourself in underneath Jesus Christ because you're afraid there's some things that he will tell you to do, either stop doing or start doing, that will, what? It'll cramp your style. You do not know what you're talking about. It can't happen. Look, think of freedom. Think of blessedness. Freedom. What is freedom? Look at how freedom exists out in the world, anywhere. If you want to fly, look at how airplanes fly. How do airplanes fly? Because somebody obeyed the laws of aerodynamics. Somebody built the plane in just such a way and shaped it in such a way and the pilot flies it in such a way so the air pressure, what? Underneath it is heavier than the air pressure above. I don't understand how it works. It's incredible. Every time I get in an airplane, I say, this will never get off the ground. Tons and tons of metal. It's ridiculous to think that this will ever fly, but it does. Because someone, what? Fastidiously obeyed certain laws. What about safety? Sailing. I wish I could sail. How do you know the freedom of sailing? Well, first of all, somebody built the boat and obeyed the rules of the wind, right? So that the keel has to be in a certain ratio to the mast height. And then the sailor has got to obey the laws of the wind. But when you submit to the laws of the wind and submit to the laws of the design of the boat, when the sailor submits to the design of the boat, the power of the tide and the wind belong to the boat, right? Now, hear this. What is freedom? Freedom is doing what you were designed to do. Is obeying your own design. Well, somebody says, that makes no sense at all. As far as I know, freedom is doing what you want. And let's go with that definition for a while. Do you realize that that's okay to say? Freedom is doing what you want. But would you please admit how many conflicting wants you've got? Look, I got two wants that are constantly butting heads against each other. I want ice cream. I want all the ice cream in the world. I want to be healthy and slender. Now, which desire, which want, is a liberating one? Huh? You tell me. Well, the liberating one will be the one, it'll be the desire that checks out with my physical nature, see?

Right now, some of you know that you ought to forgive somebody. You're having a quarrel with somebody. And you ought to go and say, I was wrong. Right? There's a desire in you to go make it straight. But every time you even get close to it, there's another desire that says, don't you dare. Look what she's done to you. It's true you started it, but she finished it. Let her come to you. Which of those two desires should you obey? Which one will liberate you? Which one checks out with your nature? My friends, it is true. Freedom is doing what you want. But the Bible says, it's not as simple as that. Freedom is when you fulfill your deepest longings. You were built, the Bible says, for Jesus. He's the Alpha and the Omega. You were built to serve him. And only the creator who built you and knows your body, knows your brain, knows your heart, knows relationships, can tell you, can help you sort out which of those desires are liberating ones and which are not. Do you know the liberty of obedience, friends? Do you know the freedom that comes from having Jesus Christ as your prophet? He brought you the words and then in the spirit, he comes to you and helps sort through, if you are a Christian, which of your desires to ditch, which of your desires to hold onto. He sorts through these things and he helps you to change. He refines you and you become who you were designed to be. And that's freedom. Freedom is when you're obeying your design and only your designer, only the owner's manual, right here, can tell you what you're designed to do. Only the designer. Who can speak to you, can sort out all those conflicting desires and tell you which ones are liberating ones and which ones are enslaving. Yeah, freedom is doing what you want, what you really want, what you really, at the deepest level, long for. All of our problems come, ultimately, from what? From refusing the truth. From refusing to take it into ourselves. From refusing to listen to our prophet. Jesus says it himself. You know, it says in Matthew 6, he says, have no anxiety. Well, that's easy for him to say, but he doesn't stop there. Jesus would never be so insensitive as just to say to somebody, have no anxiety. He wouldn't do that. He says, he tells you how, see. He says, have no anxiety, but consider the lilies of the field. They toil not, they don't spin, but Solomon, all his glory is more ray than one of these. And then he goes on and says, God will take care of you. He goes on and he says, look at the birds of the air. God takes care of them. How much more will he take care of you? You're worth much more than a flower. You're worth much more than a lily. You're worth much more than a bird. What is he saying? He says, the reason you've got anxiety is you're not thinking. Hmm? What did you think faith was? It was an absence of thinking? No, doubt is an absence of thinking. The Bible says, Jesus says, have no anxiety, but think about the truth, about what I've told you about God, and about the nature of things. It's the same with depression. It's the same with guilt. It's the same all the way through. But when you know the joy of obedience, when you know the blessedness of listening to the prophet.

Some of you are saying, well, I've started to obey, but it doesn't feel all that free yet. It takes time. It says in John chapter 8, if you continue in my word, the truth will make you free. Now look, Larry Bird, Larry Bird know the freedom that I will never know. I hope he comes back. I don't know what you think. But I hope Larry Bird comes back. Here's one of the greatest basketball players ever, and there's a freedom to being a dominating player. There's got to be a freedom to be able to go out there like this and go, whoosh, and get three pointers in like that. There's got to be a freedom to know that he can take up, when he really wants to reach down deep, he can just take over a game. Hmm? The freedom of outpacing the field, the freedom that great athletes know. Where'd that come from? Larry Bird spent thousands of hours throwing in tens and hundreds of thousands of shots in the gymnasium, you see. There's the discipline of obedience before there's the freedom of obedience. I'd love to be able to sit down and play the way Maurice plays. I imagine if you're happy or if you're sad, you can sit down and just play on that piano. But I never went through the incredible discipline of scales. No. I didn't want to do that, you see. Before there's the freedom of obedience, there's the discipline of obedience. But if you submit to the prophet,

the joy of a bird flying through the air, which I wish I knew, or a boat sailing along, I wish I knew, or an athlete outpacing the field, which I wish I knew, is nothing. It's just a dim reflection compared to the freedom, the joy of obedience. You continue in my truth, and the truth will set you free. Oh, I don't know where you are, friends, with all regards to this, but let me just close with a remark to two kinds of people here. There are some of you that really have never given their obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, you've played around with Jesus. You've prayed to him in hard times. You took Religion 101 that got you totally confused. And every so often, like a good New Yorker, you read some book on religion or meaning or something like that. And you know, you know darn well that you have never in your whole life said, Lord Jesus Christ, you are my truth. I submit myself to you totally. I put myself under your words. Whatever you say to me, I will do. Have you ever done that? Then of course you're not going to know the freedom we're talking about. But let me say this to you. If you really want to obey Jesus, you have to obey the gospel, not just the law. The law says, don't kill, don't lie, don't cheat, don't commit adultery. You must obey that. But the gospel says, don't you dare think that by obeying, you can be made right with God. You see, you can disobey God by trying to obey in such a way as to hope that earns your acceptance with him. Oh, no. It says right here in verse 18, Jesus suffered so your sins could be wiped out so you could know the refreshing of God's life in your life. It doesn't say you must try as hard as you possibly can. You really can so that your sins can be wiped out so that you can know the refreshing of God in your life. No way. It could be the reason that obedience has always looked like a drudgery to you. It could be the reason obedience has always looked like death to you. It's because you haven't grasped the heart of the gospel, and that is grace.

And that is Jesus Christ suffered that your sins might be wiped away. You have to receive him as Savior. And then obedience is no longer a drudgery. It's just a life of grateful joy, you see. Now there's another group of you, and that is there's those of you, yes, you've received Christ as Savior and Lord, but you got pretty uncomfortable, right, when I started talking to you about all this great joy of freedom, of knowing you're changing, you're becoming the person you were meant to be, and you say, huh. And I'm afraid if you ask the people who know you best and say, has this person really changed if I ask the people that know you best? Is this person less grumpy than they were last year, less worried, less anxious, you see, more generous, more loving, more kind, you see, more patient? What would they say? The answer is Colossians 3.16, let the word of God dwell in you richly. The word here, friends, is not just something that you read every so often when you need a pickup. Every day you take the word of God and you have to fight to get it back into your center, to get the truth of God. It's not just a word of God. It's a word of God that you're going to get back into your center. But don't be discouraged. It says right here, when God raised up his servant, he's living again, and his job is to come to you and bless you by helping you to obey. Look at Jesus Christ. Every time, every time he was in trouble, he used the word of God, you see. When he was tempted, he used the word. When he was suffering on the cross, he used the word. And you're wondering why you can't handle your troubles and your suffering and why I can't.