In Romans chapter 8, verses 5 through 17, we're going to be talking about, since we've been in this evening service for months, talking about Christian growth.

We're going to be talking about the Holy Spirit and Christian growth. What happened this one night. I wish to describe the Tuesday night meeting in my own language because a part of what happened concerned me personally. This is the missionary William Blair. We were aware that bad feeling existed between several of our church officers, especially between a Mr. Kang and a Mr. Kim. Mr. Kang confessed his hatred for Mr. Kim on Monday night, but Mr. Kim was silent. At our noon prayer meeting on Tuesday, several of us agreed to pray for Mr. Kim. I was especially interested because Mr. Kang was my assistant at the North Pyongyang Church, and Mr. Kim was an elder in the Central Church and one of the officers in the men's association of which I was chairman. As the meeting progressed, I could see Mr. Kim sitting with elders. Behind the pulpit, his head was down. Bowing where I sat, I asked God to help him, and looking up, I saw him coming forward. Holding to the pulpit, he made his confession. I have been guilty, he said, of fighting against God. An elder in the church, I have been guilty of hating not only Kang Yoo Moon, but also Pang Mok Sa. Well, Pang Mok Sa is my Korean name. I never had a greater surprise in my life to think that this man, my associate, in the men's association, had been hating me for years, and I didn't know it. It seems that I had said something to him one day which gave offense. He had not been able to forgive me. Turning to me, he said, Can you forgive me? Can you pray for me? So I stood up and began to pray. Now, by the way, this is a Presbyterian missionary, and he shows it. What happened to him at this point is not the sort of thing that he was used to. So he stood up to pray, and he began to say, Father, Father, and I got no further. It seemed as if the roof was lifted from the roof, and I got no further. I got out of the building, and the Spirit of God came down from heaven in a mighty avalanche of power upon us. I fell at Mr. Kim's side, and I wept and prayed as I had never prayed before. My last glimpse of the audience is photographed indelibly on my brain. Some threw themselves full length on the floor. Hundreds stood with arms outstretched toward heaven. Every man forgot every other. Each was face to face with God. I can hear yet that fearful sound of hundreds of men pleading with God for life and for mercy. As soon as we were done praying, we were able to go to the church. As soon as we were able, we missionaries got together and said, What should we do if we let them go on like this? Some people will think we've all gone crazy. Yet we dared not interfere. We prayed to God for an outpouring of His Spirit, and it had come.

Separating, we went down and tried to comfort the most distressed, pulling men from the floor and saying, Never mind, brother. If you've sinned, God will forgive you. Finally, Mr. Lee started a hymn. Quiet was restored, and then began a meeting the like of which I had never seen before, nor ever wish to see again, unless in God's sight, as absolutely necessary. Every sin a human being can commit was publicly confessed that night, pale and trembling with emotion, in agony of mind and body. Guilty souls, standing in the white light of that judgment, saw themselves as God saw them. Their sins rose up in all their vileness, till shame and grief and self-loathing took complete possession. Pride was driven out, the face of men forgotten, looking up to heaven to Jesus, whom they had betrayed, they smote themselves and cried out, Lord, cast us not away forever. Everything else was forgotten, nothing else mattered. The scorn of men, the penalty of the law, even death itself seemed a small consequence if only God would forgive. We may have our theories about the desirability or undesirability of public confession of sin. I have had mine, but I know now that when the Spirit of God falls upon a soul, there will be confession, and no power on earth can stop it.

The Pyongyang class ended with the meeting of Tuesday nights. The Christian returned to their homes in the country, and they took the spiritual fire with them. Everywhere the story was told, the Spirit flamed forth and spread till practically every church, not only in North Korea, but throughout the entire peninsula, had received its share of the blessing. In Pyongyang, special meetings were held in various churches for more than a month. Repentance was by no mean confined to confession and tears. Peace waited upon reparation. Wherever reparation was, we had our hearts torn again and again during those days by the return of little articles and money that had been stolen from us during the years. It hurt so much to see them grieve. All through the city, men were going from house to house, confessing to individuals they had injured, returning stolen property and money, not only to Christians, but to heathen as well, till the whole city was stirred. A Chinese merchant was astonished to have a Christian walk in and pay him a large sum of money that he had obtained by unjust dealing. He had been treated unjustly years before. The cry went out over the city until the heathen were in consternation. Now, what happened there? It's interesting because just a couple years later, the same thing spread into Manchuria. And missionaries wrote from Manchuria this, A power has come into our church that we could not control even if we wanted to. For these people to confess to sins that no torture could force them to confess, this is beyond human explanation. One clause in the creed lives before us now in all of its inevitable, awesome solemnity. I believe in the Holy Spirit.

Now, the reason the missionaries were so amazed and astonished was because these were Asians. And, you know, we all have our sins. What's so interesting to me, and this is another subject in another sermon, is that there's male sins and there's female sins, haven't you noticed that? There's certain things that are gender, certain ways in which our sinful flesh takes shape, whether we're male or female. There's also national sins. And there's no nationality or ethnic group that is more sinful than others. Rather, there's ways in which our flesh takes shape. And the missionaries were amazed, of course, because these were Asian people. And you see, it's almost like, of all the manifestations of the Spirit, there's lots of things that the Spirit can do. But the one thing you wouldn't think it would have done to Asians is get people to just come out and confess every sin under heaven to people to whom loss of face is so unbelievably important. I mean, and listen, I'm half Italian so I can say this, I mean, it wouldn't be nearly as surprising if you saw a bunch of Italians, you know, weeping their sins out in front of each other. I mean, we do that anyway, you see, with or without the Spirit of God. There's other things that show you that the Spirit of God has fallen on an Italian, but these are Asians. Do you like that?

What happened? You see, if you look carefully, there were all kinds of little interesting hints that we've got to find here in Romans 8. In the white light, they saw themselves as God saw them. What does the Spirit do? As I want to show you here, and really pretty briefly, The Spirit does a lot of things. It's astonishing. If you really go back into the Old Testament, you'll see the Spirit was a creator. The Spirit is a teacher. And we're going to see that the Spirit has three main ministries in the life of a Christian. Three. Well, there's more than that, but I'm just trying to give you some broad categories. And those three main categories are, The Spirit regenerates us, which means He is the agent of being reborn. And then the Spirit sanctifies us, which means He gradually turns us more and more into the likeness of Christ in our character. And thirdly, the Spirit anoints us with power. Those three things. But essentially, there's one thing that the Spirit of God does. The Spirit of God makes God real. The Spirit of God mediates the presence of Jesus Christ. So that you don't just know about Him, but you sense that you're in His presence. The Spirit of God's operations, because it's the Spirit, because the Spirit is like the wind, and you can't pin the wind down. The Spirit of God, therefore, is subject to degrees of His influence. And sometimes the degree is stronger, sometimes it's weaker, but the Spirit makes us know the reality of God, makes us feel that we're standing in His very presence. It's what makes His love real, it's what makes His holiness real. And that's the mark of the Spirit. And that's the reason why Christianity, unlike, I think, most other religions, is... You know, unlike the Eastern religions, Christianity is very mystical, but it believes in truth. It believes in objective truth. It believes there's a body of truth that was delivered once for all, delivered to the saints. Why? Because holy men of God wrote it down because they were moved by who? The Holy Spirit. The Spirit gives us the truth of the Word. So unlike the Eastern religions, unlike Buddhism and Hinduism and all that sort of, and all those sorts of religions, we believe in objective truth. We believe in right and wrong. We believe that there's a body of truth that has to be believed and whether you believe it or not, it's true. Because the Spirit led men to write objective truth. But on the other hand, Christianity is a deeply experiential religion. And to a great degree, we're afraid of that in Western society. We're very afraid of it. We're afraid of excess, and rightly so, we're afraid of excess. But we can't be so afraid of excess that we're disobedient. Now, what I'd like to do is say the reason that we don't have religion like this, the reason that the American church isn't the fastest growing church in the world, to a great degree, is because, the reason we're 3,000 miles wide and one half inch deep, is because I don't think we really have grasped what the Spirit of God does in our lives. Now, what I want you to do is just briefly take a look with me several, I'm going to be real quick on the didactic, and I'm going to take a little bit longer reading some more of these readings from the experiences that people have had of the Spirit of God. Sometimes, the best way, how do I say this? Sometimes, the way in which revivals have happened is astonishing. But it's almost always because one person actually senses the reality of God as they listen to another person who has that spiritual fullness speak. See, there's this terrific story about a little girl, a little boy, I came down here because I don't have it in my notes. I just thought of it. There was a revival that broke out, a tremendous movement of the Spirit of God that broke out in Northern Ireland in the county of Derry, I think a little town called Coleraine, County Derry, I think. And here's how it broke out. It was one day, there was a little boy who was under, had been going to church. He was about 12 years old. He was in school. And he was very unhappy and he found himself getting depressed and crying and his teacher tried to help him out and then finally the teacher said, look it, I don't know what's wrong but you need to go home. Actually, the little boy had been coming to church and was wrestling with whether or not he was a Christian and what it meant to be a Christian. And so the teacher suggested, since he was very upset, that another one of his friends, another little boy, take him home and then come back. Well, it turned out that the other little boy, the other 12-year-old boy, was a Christian. And on the way home he was talking to his friend and he found out that he was wrestling with what it meant to be a Christian and he explained it. Most of us wrestle with one or two things. Either we don't understand the Gospel because we think, ah, I have to be good, I have to be good, I have to be good, and finally it dawns on us that the way to be accepted by God is not to be good but to see that Jesus is our righteousness, Jesus is our goodness, He has done it all for us on the cross and put our trust in Him. The other thing that we struggle with is we know what Jesus has done for us and we also know that the implications of that is we have to give Jesus everything. We have to give Him our lives. And we don't want to do that. And that's the only two reasons that somebody who's struggling, should I be a Christian, what does it mean to be a Christian? Usually it's either they don't understand the Gospel and they're caught in a works righteousness approach to things or else they do understand the Gospel and they don't want to give up the Lordship. Now I don't know on that given day what happened to that little boy. I don't know where he was. I don't know which side he was. But his Christian friend sat down and talked to him and led him to Christ. Showed him what it meant to put his trust in Christ. And when this happened, they were so excited and so happy and the little boy who was brand new in the kingdom turns around and says, there's no reason for me to go home, I'm going to go back to school. I feel great. So what happens is they go back to school. Now this is of course true. This is not just my paraphrase. This is 1857. The little boy comes back on in, comes up to the front and says to the teacher, it's all right, I don't need to go home. And the teacher said, well what's going on? What happened? Why are you feeling better? He says, it's all right. He said, I'm a Christian now. Jesus has saved me. And he sat down. But when he said that, just those few words, he sat down and there was this tremendous silence that happened in the room. And over the next few minutes, the teacher began to get kids who came up front and said, look, can I talk to this kid who walked out with the second kid? I'm concerned about my soul as well. And it got so bad that the teacher began to find that most of the room was very interested in the Bible. And the teacher didn't know what to do. And eventually, it wasn't a couple hours later, many of the parents came to pick up their children and found that all of the classes were broken into little prayer groups all over the courtyard, all over the schoolyard, all over the school. Not only were there children in there, but the teachers were talking. And the teachers were talking to this little boy. And they were talking to one another. They were praying. They were leading one another to Christ. And they said, oh my gosh, what are we going to do about this? Somebody sent for one of the local pastors. When the pastor got there, he found the parents were involved in this thing. And that school and the schoolyard became clogged with people from town, and nobody would go home. The minister began to try to talk to them, and they stayed there all night. There were literally dozens and dozens of people finding Christ, talking to one another, weeping out their sins, and so forth. And the next day, everybody said, something amazing has happened. Let's get together and have a special church service and listen to the testimony. And they went, and the church couldn't fit all the people into it. And what they ended up having to do was they went up to the side of the mountain, and virtually the whole town was there. And when the minister had preached the sermon and they all prayed, he said, well, you can all go home, and nobody would. And they stayed there for two days straight, singing, giving testimonies, insisting that various ministers get up there and preach to them. And what ended up happening over the next two years, there was 300,000 people living in Northern Ireland at that time, those six northern counties, and over one-third of them were converted and came into the church in a period of about 18 months. What happened? Now, you know, I prepare my sermons. I pray over them. I work hard. I don't know a lot of other ministers that do. And yet, here's this one kid, who gets up there in front and says, it's all right now, Jesus has saved me, and sits down and turns an entire culture on its ear. What happened? It's what the old guys used to call unction. Isn't that a great word? Unction is an anointing. It's the anointing of God's power. And what it means, what it means is that it's one thing just for me to say something. It's another thing for the unction to come. And when that happens, which is really because the Spirit of God is a wind, it blows where it wills, and he blows where he wills. You know, when we think of the wind, we think of it. When we think of the Spirit, we think of a person, because he's a person. Therefore, we can't control him in that sense. What do we do then? How do we get that kind of power? You have to understand who he is. Here's how to do that. First of all, now look. Look at your sheet.

You have him in your heart. Look at what's in Romans 8. A perfect outline of both who the Holy Spirit is. You're never going to discover the power unless you discover who he is. And then secondly, what his ministries are. Two aspects to his person. Number one, he is God.

Number two, he's a spirit. That seems pretty obvious, but look. First of all, he's God. Don't demote the spirit. Verse 9, 10, and 11 have a pretty remarkable little thing. There's a little sentence in there. If you look carefully, you will see that Paul is talking about the same being four times. He uses four equivalent names. They're all talking about the same person. Look. It says, If anyone does not have the Spirit of God, the Spirit of God lives in you. And if anyone does not have the Spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ. But if Christ is in you, your body is dead because of sin, yet your spirit is alive because of righteousness. Did you see what he just does there? In verse 9, he's talking about being controlled by the Spirit. Then he turns around and calls the Spirit, the Spirit of God. Then he turns around and calls the Spirit of God, the Spirit of Christ. And then he turns around and talks about the Spirit of Christ, and he just calls him Christ.

Because the terms are interchangeable. The reason the terms are interchangeable is because of the doctrine of the Trinity. We can't go into the doctrine of the Trinity right here, but what is clear is that the Holy Spirit is not a cosmic force, an electrical charge. He's not a laser beam that comes out from God. We can't demote the Spirit and think of him simply as that. As a matter of fact, one of the easiest ways to really not get the Spirit's power is to think of the Spirit as an it. When we talk about being filled with the Spirit, there's a tendency to immediately think, glug, right? Being filled with the Spirit, you think of liquid. And you say, well, I only had three pints of the Spirit, but I'm going to ask for two quarts. But if the Spirit is a person, what does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? To be filled with a person, what does that mean? To be filled with a person doesn't mean you had a two-foot person and now you're going to have a four-foot person in your life. Is that what it means? To be filled with a person means to be influenced by the person. It means to be in love with the person. It means to be filled with somebody. It's like the artist who was so filled with his fiance that for two years he could never draw a picture without sticking her in it. No matter where the landscape was, there she was. If he was drawing apple trees, she was on the apple tree. If he was drawing a seascape, there she was on the rocks over the sea. He was filled with her. When my grandmother came to live with us for the last two years before she died, one of the great problems we all knew about, but we decided to give this to her out of honor and respect for her and who she was in our lives, was that she wanted everything different. She came on in to our house. Everything had to be different. We had to build her a room in the basement. Basically, we had to change things around. The noise levels had to be changed. The way in which we did a lot of things had to be changed. Why? Because she came on in to that house and she filled the house. She influenced the house. Everything ran the way she wanted. What does it mean to be filled with a person? It doesn't mean to simply get more of an electrical charge. It means to have that person's desires influence you. It means to have that person's love influence you. It means to have that person's hate, the things that person hates, influence you. That's exactly what we're talking about here. What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? It says, see, Those who live according to the sinful nature have their minds set on what the nature desires, but those who live in accordance with the Spirit have their minds set on what the Spirit desires. The mind of sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the Spirit is life. What does it mean to be filled with the Spirit? Instead of sitting down and saying, Come on, come on in. I just need some more. Oh Lord, I just don't have the power to overcome my sin. Oh Lord, I don't have the power to get courage to do this or that. Oh Lord, I don't have the patience. Oh Lord, I just need it. You're treating the Spirit like an abstraction.

The way you get spiritual power is you set your mind on what the Spirit loves. You hate what the Spirit hates. That means truth. Remember what he said about this? The Spirit of God works through truth. What does it say here? Look at it again. The mind of sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the Spirit is life and peace. Set their minds on what the Spirit desires. And then it immediately says the sinful mind is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. What does the Spirit of God put your heart on? It puts your heart on the law. It puts your heart on the Word. The Spirit of God shows you the Word and makes the Word alive to you. That's the nature of spiritual experience. Look, there's a terrific quote that I put here in the middle of your page from J.I. Packer. J.I. Packer gives you the essence of what the Holy Spirit does in your life. I remember walking into a church one winter evening to preach on the words, He shall glorify me. Seeing the building flood lit as I turned a corner, and realizing that this was exactly the illustration my message needed. When flood lighting is well done, the flood lights are so placed that you do not see them. You are not in fact supposed to see where the light is coming from. What you are meant to see is just the building on which the flood lights are trained. This perfectly illustrates the Spirit's new covenant role. He is, so to speak, the hidden flood light on the Savior. The Spirit's message is never, look at me, listen to me, come to me, get to know me, but always look at Him. See His glory, listen to Him, hear His word, go to Him and have life. Get to know Him and taste His gift of joy and peace. The Spirit is the matchmaker, the celestial broker, whose role it is to bring us and Christ together and ensure us that we stay together. The Spirit is God, but the Spirit is a person. And the job of the Spirit is to create spiritual experience. How do you experience this? He spends at least two hours a day meditating on the Word of God, or even on the Apostles' Creed, or on the Ten Commandments of the Lord's Prayer, and here's how he would do it. He would take four things. Yesterday, Sinclair Ferguson gave us a great version of it. If you take 2 Timothy 3.16, where it says, all Scripture is inspired and profitable for, anybody know it, teaching, reproof or rebuke, correction and healing, and training in righteousness. And Sinclair says, just take a verse, or take a passage, and ask yourself four things. What is the teaching of this verse, number one? Number two, how does this verse rebuke me? What does it do to criticize the way in which I am living? Okay, secondly. Thirdly, how does this verse heal me? How does it correct me or build me up? How does it just, just heal my soul? And fourthly, how can this equip me to be different? What can I do differently this week as a result of that? What's the teaching? And, you know, for example, for example, and we did this yesterday on Saturday, just take the word our Father who art in heaven. Take the word our. What's the teaching of the word our? What's the teaching? The teaching is when Jesus taught us to pray, he did not say, pray like this, my Father who art in heaven. Did he? Isn't it interesting when Jesus gave us the paradigm of prayer, he said our Father, which means that when you have come to Christ, you have come to brothers and sisters. No one approaches Christ as an individual. You approach Christ as a body. The minute you come into a relationship with Christ, you immediately become part of a body. And so the teaching is you need to be praying with other believers. You don't know much about prayer. Okay, how does this rebuke you? Can you think? Well, you can say, I'm not praying with Christians enough. Or suppose you're married. You say, I'm not praying with my spouse enough. Or suppose you're not praying with Christians and therefore you're missing out on a very big part of what God has for you. You wonder why there's not a lot of power in my life. I'm disobeying the text. That's how it rebukes you. How does it heal you? It heals you because you immediately say, you know what? I really don't have much in the way of God. I don't have much in the relationships to brothers and sisters. I'm unwilling to tell people about my problems. I'm unwilling to really open up. I haven't gone to the hard work and also I'm scared of the vulnerability. I'm afraid of being hurt or being misunderstood. And so I'm pretty much a loner. And you say, wait a minute, there's all kinds of resources out there. Here I blame God for not giving me enough in my life and enough resources. And yet they're out there in the church and I haven't gotten to them. And boy, what a, you know, that heals me as I think about it. And I say, there's all kinds of untapped resources out there in the people of God and I haven't even found them yet. And then how can that equip me to be different? It equips me to do, I can say this week, I'm going to, I'm going to find two Christians that I start praying with at least once a week. Now that's our, our father. Now he moves on to father and then he works through. Martin Luther would take this meditation and work through it and work through it. Now, why am I telling you this? Because in that, in that book, in that little 40-page letter on prayer, Luther said, the whole point of meditation is not just to fill up a notebook with all kinds of interesting meditation so you can say, boy, what a spiritual person I am. I'm journaling. Wow, I'm spiritually journaling. This is terrific. Luther said, no, the whole point is you do it and you do it until the Holy Spirit starts to preach to you. And he says, when that happens, you drop it, you drop your schedule, you stop everything and you write down everything he says. What is Martin Luther saying, huh? Is Martin Luther being a flake? Does he believe that God is speaking audibly into his ear and telling him unmistakably new revelation that he can write just down on the back of his Bible? No. He realizes, certainly he knows, something that I'm going to tell you right here, and that is that when you hear God speaking to you, that means that there's a strong impression that you've got to test, because I do believe that God continues to give us illumination but I also believe in the sinful heart. And sometimes when you say, oh, God is pushing me in this direction, it could be indigestion, it might not be the Holy Spirit. You've got to check those things out by the Spirit of God. Having said that, and having given lip service to my Presbyterian tradition, having said that, what Martin Luther is talking about is how, is what Paul's talking about here. The Spirit of God works through the Word. And when you're meditating on the Word, and when you're screwing it down into your heart and waiting, and waiting, and waiting, when the Spirit begins to preach to you, you know what that means? If you have any discipline at prayer, you'll know what I'm talking about. Because you're moving along and all of a sudden it opens up. And ideas come to you that get big and comforting. It's one thing, my dear friends,

it's one thing to say, I believe that Jesus died for me. It's another thing to taste it. See, it's one thing to say, there's the vinegar, and it's sitting in the jar, and I know it's sour. It's another thing to actually taste it and go, you experience it, you see. It's one thing to say, I know Jesus died for me. It's another thing to feel his love shed abroad in your heart. That's what the Spirit does. That's what the Spirit is after. And the way it works is not by sitting and going, because that's treating him like an abstraction. He is a person. He's got things to say to you. And you have to put yourself in a position where you're hearing, you're hearing him. But the one thing that Packard tells us he never talks about generally is himself. He's there to show you the greatness of Christ. And the three, let me just point these out, the three main ways in which he operates are at different seasons in our life. First of all, there's the ministry of regeneration. That means when the Spirit first comes and regenerates our heart, gives us new birth, that's his first ministry to us. Basically, he's there to show you that there's a great little verse that I'll just refer you to. I think I have it down here. No, I don't. Yeah. John 16, verses 26 and 27. He says, the Spirit of God comes into the world to convict the world of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment.

Into the world. The way you can tell you've been regenerated is has the Spirit of God come and convicted you of sin and righteousness and judgment? See, first of all, you can tell the Spirit has regenerated your heart if he's convicted you of sin. Just like I said, what does it mean to be convicted of sin? It doesn't mean just to admit it. You can admit the vinegar is sour without tasting it. And it doesn't just mean that you're upset about the mess your sins have gotten you into. There's just a fear of punishment. I've seen some people very afraid that their sins are going to ruin their lives without the slightest bit of spiritual conviction. The way you can tell is that when the threat of punishment goes away, the desire for change goes away. Oh, no. Conviction of sin means that you actually experience, you feel, you experience your sin as being distasteful and loathsome to God. You feel it. And you're not that upset about sins only, the behavior, but sin itself. You see the inwardness of sin. You see the rebellion in your heart. You see the willingness, the unwillingness to give God mastery. And you, as Richard Sibbes says, real conviction of sin is not a little hanging down of the head, but it's a working of the heart so your sin is more odious to you than your punishment. Whether your punishment is there or not, you say, my sin, I see what it's done to God. That's conviction of sin. And secondly, what's conviction of righteousness? Very important. Conviction of righteousness is it's not just that you see that you're a sinner. Religious people can confess and repent of their sins. But real Christians who have the ministry of the Spirit in their lives also repent of their righteousness. Did you hear the difference? I've said this back in the fall. I need to say it again. Christians and moralistic religious people repent of their sins. Everybody admits their sins and repents of their sins, but only Christians repent of their righteousness. That means they say, even my best deeds aren't sufficient.

That's why Martin Luther was converted through conviction of righteousness. He was reading Romans chapter 1, verse 17, that goes like this. I am not ashamed of the power of the gospel, for it's the power of God unto salvation. For by it, the righteousness of God is revealed to those who believe. As it is written, he who through faith is righteous shall live. And Luther, for a long time, wrestled with that and said, what in the world does it mean the righteousness of faith is revealed? And suddenly, one day, he wrote down, I suddenly realized that this was an alien righteousness. This was a righteousness not that I devised, but a righteousness that came from God to me and the moment I believed, it came into my life and I began to live. And he says, the minute I realized that, he says, I felt myself ushered into paradise through open doors. He was born again the day he was not convicted of his sin. Martin Luther had been convicted of his sin for years. The day he became a Christian, he was convicted of righteousness. And how do you know if you've been convicted of righteousness? Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones used to use this simple test. He used to ask people, he says, are you a Christian? Are you a Christian right now, today? Are you a Christian? And he says, if people would say, well, I'm trying, he knew that they'd never been convicted of righteousness, just of their sin. Because they were still trying their very best and they had never seen that even their righteousness is as a filthy rag, you see. How do you know the Spirit of God has convicted you of righteousness? Because finally, Jesus Christ's work becomes precious to you and you begin to believe and you begin to say, oh yes, I always knew that he died on the cross but now, that's my whole life. I got no hope than that and I see that it's altogether sufficient for me. It becomes a sweet thing to you because this work of the Spirit of God is to show you Jesus.

Sanctification is the second work and we've talked about that, actually, we spent the whole fall talking about that. Sanctification is right there in Romans 5, in Romans 8. It consists of, on the one hand, in Romans 8, 13, it says, mortify the deeds of the flesh. It's a day in and day out process of repenting from your sin and on the other hand, setting your mind on things which are above. Some of you remember that. The process of sanctification is a dynamic in which you repent of your sins and find your identity in Christ by grasping more deeply the fact that you're completely accepted in him. Getting rid of the idols of your life. So it's a, it's a process whereby the Holy Spirit moves you deeper and deeper into Jesus Christ and makes you more and more like him. Or as the catechism says, sanctification is that process whereby through the Holy Spirit you are enabled to die more and more unto sin and live more and more unto righteousness. But the last thing, because I've got 90 seconds, the last thing you have to keep in mind is on top of everything else. Sometimes the Spirit of God, if you seek it, if you ask it, if you obey him, sometimes, sometimes the Spirit of God gives us, not in a sense, a new, a new ministry, but an intensified ministry. The fact is that there are plenty of places in the New Testament where people who had been regenerated already and also were sanctified, they were walking in obedience, made a special prayer and the Bible says the Spirit of God fell on them and they spoke the word with boldness. Happens again and again and again. Acts chapter 4, there's the apostles, they're sitting together and they're praying. And they're praying and it says the place where they were shook, you know that? At the end of chapter 4, and they were filled with the Spirit and they spoke the word of God with boldness. What is that? What is that? What is the stuff that I just read out of the Korean Pentecost? What that is, now there's plenty of people that have said, ah yes, I know what that is. That's a situation that happens when you do these two or three things or this is a situation that happens always when you pray in tongues or this is a thing that happens. When there's miracles, I want you to know, I can guarantee you that in the history of the church, that it is not something that only comes to say Pentecostals. It's not something that only comes to Episcopalians. It's not something that always comes with miracles. Sometimes the situation I'm speaking about is hours a week or whatever and I wasn't praying and I was very often depressed and I wasn't, I was, whenever Kathy says, I never see you, I would say, come on, I'm working for God. What's with you anyway? And, there were some bad times and sometimes, somebody would ask me to go speak on a retreat. So I'd go on the retreat and there was something about the situation that would draw the gift out and I would, you know, be able to preach with some real force. I'd see some people's lives change. I'd sit down and talk to them and I felt the warmth and I felt the power and I felt the assurance and I said, I'm back. I'm back with God. I'm walking with God again and I wasn't. It's no substitute for prayer. It's no substitute for quiet time. It's no substitute for Bible study. It's no substitute for repentance and believing. In other words, the high assurance is not the same thing as the sanctification filling because your gifts can operate sometimes without your fruit and a lot of you know it because you can have yourself spiritually falling apart and still talking to people about Jesus and ministering all over the place, you see, and even sometimes feeling that certain power. Don't make John Wesley's mistake and what I have to say is don't make the Pentecostal movement's mistake because they put those things together. The baptism of the Spirit in tongues, you get that and then things are fine and you stay up there. That's not true. I found that out and I realized that I wasn't right. I would come back from those retreats and I would crash and I'd say, God, why were you so real to me on that retreat? And he would say, because I really, I used you, he said. I used you. I needed you. But you don't seem to need me.

I, you see, because those two fillings in my mind were not clearly apart, I made a grave mistake. I don't want that to happen to you. The filling of the Spirit, the high assurance, the anointing with power is something that's wonderful. It's marvelous and it's spoken of here in Romans 8. It's something we ought to seek and hope for. Yeah. But by the way, once it comes, it doesn't stick around a long time. It comes back. It's subject to degrees. It can happen on a particular night. It can happen for a week. Romans 8 says, 16, the Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. Now, if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ. Now, what does this mean? This is a judicial term. Here you are saying, I know that I'm a Christian and in comes the Spirit of God and says, yes, you are. And you move from inferential to intuitive assurance. That's a wonderful, it's a wonderful sensation of his power and it makes you very effective. Let me give you some example. I'm just going to pull these, you've never heard of any of these guys. I'm just going to give you some examples out of the journals and the writings of men of God through the ages. Here's a fellow who says, this man's name is Richard Sibbes. He says, the immediate testimony of the Spirit is necessary for what? A witness to the Father's love. It comes saying, I am thy salvation. And our hearts are stirred up and comforted with joy inexpressible. This joy has degrees. Sometimes it's so clear and strong that the soul questions not its state in grace ever again. In other cases, if we yield to any lust, there may be a doubt even following a further witness of the Spirit. The Spirit does not always witness to us by force of argument from our sanctification, but directly by way of presence. As the Spirit does, the sight of a friend's presence comforts without his speaking. Here's another one. William Guthrie. I speak with the experience of many saints and I hope, according to the Scriptures, if I say there is a communication of the Spirit that it's a glorious manifestation of God to the soul, shedding abroad God's love in the heart, it is better felt than spoken of. It's not an audible voice, but it's a ray of glory fulfilling the soul with God as life, light, love, and liberty. It's like the word to Daniel, that said, O man greatly beloved, or like the word he gave to Mary when he said only her name, Mary, and filled her soul so she no longer doubted she was his. This glorious, how glorious is this manifestation of the Spirit. Faith rises to so full an assurance that it lifts us into the presence of God. Here's another fellow.

Saturday, November 22nd. I preached to several thousand people. I took ill and began to vomit, but God's presence so filled my soul that I could scarcely stand under it. My Savior was pleased to give me much of his presence. My views of heaven were so clear, I longed to be dissolved to be with him. My soul was full of love. I wrapped myself up in God. Oh, the misery of those who have to begin to seek for Christ on their deathbed. And here's one more Welsh Baptist preacher named Christmas Evans. What a great name. I had been in a dry, arid state of soul for some years, but one day, as I was traveling between churches, I felt it incumbent upon me to pray. However hard, I felt my heart. I soon felt my chains loosen and my old hardness of heart loosening. I got in my soul a confidence in the promise of the Spirit. Tears flowed and I cried out for the gracious visits of God by restoring to my soul the joys of his salvation. And you see,

Lloyd-Jones, David Martin Lloyd-Jones, and here I can finish because it's the last thing on the sheet. Lloyd-Jones says, if you want to get an idea of what it's like, it's like this. Picture a man walking along a road with his little boy holding hands. The little boy knows that this is his father and that he loves him. Suddenly the father stops, picks up the boy, lifts him into his arms, embraces him, and kisses him. Then he puts him down and again, and they continue to walk. The boy is no more a son when he's being embraced than he was before. The father's action has not changed the relationship. It's not changed the status of the boy, but oh, the difference in the enjoyment. This is the extra assurance. This is God making it certain and it produces in us the response of our crying Abba Father. Let us realize then the profound character of this experience. This is not a light and superficial and ordinary thing. It's not something of which you can say don't worry about your feelings. Worry about your feelings. You will have such a depth of feeling for a moment you may imagine you've never felt anything in your life. You may have felt in your life before. It's the profoundest experience you can ever know. You cannot take it by faith. If you know anything about it, you will realize this at once. Well, somebody says, well then how do you get it?

You know what the answer is? That's the wrong question.

Three things to do. One is don't ask for it because you want it. You need to want God. You need to ask God. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after blessedness. That's why you're not blessed. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. The thing you have to do is you have to build an altar. And every two months I try to sit down and build mine. The reason I don't have the power like I ought to is simply because in the Bible you can't, in the Bible God's constantly telling people to build altars and if they build it right and they bow down and they build it obediently then the fire comes down, right? You need to build an altar and give yourself to him and lay yourself on it and the fire will come. Don't sit around and say oh I want these feelings I've wanted these feelings all these quotes make me want these feelings. Of course you want these feelings. Everybody wants those feelings. But that's not how you find them. What you have to do is instead say I've got to put myself up on that altar. Every couple of months I sit down and say what's not up there? My time is not up there. My goals are not up there. My prayer life is not up there. This particular area of my life that I'm not giving to him is not up there. You've got to put it on the altar. You want to know why there's a little fire in your life? It's because you haven't built the altar. Everybody in this room has a different one to build. Build it. And you can know the witness of the spirit. He will glorify me. He will take of mine and make it known to you. And there is no greater experience on earth. Let's pray.

Father, glorify your son through the spirit in our lives. That's all we ask. Simple request. Profoundest we can make. Hear our prayer for Jesus' sake. Amen.