In other words, some stress is good. Adrenaline is good. It's what makes you a good athlete. It's what makes you a good performer. It's what makes you good in many ways. But on the other hand, and this is what I'll talk to you about tomorrow, it could be the real reason that you've got a time problem is that you take on too many things. You have unrealistic goals. You can't say no.

Now, something I realized recently, I cannot say no to someone warmly.

I can't confront somebody or say no to someone warmly unless I'm experiencing the joy of my salvation. And I try to ask myself, I wonder why that is. I need to be walking very close to God. I need to be having just bang-up quiet times in order to be able to say to people no. In a warm way, in a guiltless way, you see, in a kind way. In a kind and warm way, you see what I mean? I began to realize why. I can't say no to people on most days because that is my salvation. That is the way I feel good about myself. That is the way I feel like a worthwhile, significant person by pleasing people. And therefore, some of our problems with time management and always disappointing people and never having, ever able to get it done and working too late and going crazy is simply because, just like we worry,

because we want God's job as ruler, some of us are always going to have time problems because we want Jesus' job as Savior.

We want to save ourselves. We are saving ourselves. How do I know that I, how can I look myself in the mirror? How can I know that I'm a worthwhile person, that I deserve to be alive because I'm doing all these wonderful things for all these people? Or, in some cases, that might be, in some other cases, the reason you have so many goals is because you feel like you've got to make as much money and got to get so far ahead. Otherwise, you won't feel worthwhile. In other words, worry happens because you want God's job as ruler. But unrealistic goals happen because you want God's job as Savior, Jesus' job in particular. And we're going to have to look at that. We'll look at that tomorrow.

You know, what's interesting is, well, thirdly, thirdly, changes and losses. We're going to look at that tomorrow night. The fact is, that we are not built for changes. And we're not built for losses. We're built for eternity. We weren't built to die. We weren't built to lose loved ones. We weren't built to get sick originally. We weren't built to have a great home and to lose it in a fire. We weren't built just to have, you know, the bad thing about life is, if you ever get happy, you can look around and say, this can't last. The people here are going to transfer. The people here are going to die. The situation, I'm going to get weaker. Things are not going to keep on going the way they are. We weren't built for that. We were built for eternity. We were built for things staying vital and fresh, not fading and decaying. And as a result, you see, there is a stress that comes from changes and losses because the human soul wasn't built for all this. It really wasn't. The only anti-stressor that will deal with losses, we'll talk tomorrow night, is an understanding of how God operates in suffering. If you don't have a theology of that, if you don't have a theology of that, you know, for example, Paul talks, pardon me, Jesus says in Matthew 6, when he's talking about anxiety. So this is something that applies really all across the board, though, not just to worry. He says, have no anxiety, but consider.

Consider. Now you notice Jesus doesn't say, have no anxiety, but just believe. He says, consider. He says, think about this. And the first thing he says to consider is think about God's power, how he feeds the birds of the air. And then the second thing is, he says, think about God's love, how he takes care of the lilies of the field. Will he not much more take care of you? Oh, ye of little faith. Isn't it interesting? He says, don't have anxiety, but think and have faith. There's a lot of people that will tell you that faith is the absence of thinking. Faith is don't think, just believe. Just don't ask questions. Just leap and believe. Faith is, you know, people talk about a leap of faith. That's not what Jesus talks about. Jesus says, anxiety,

anxiety is the lack of thinking. Faith is thinking. See, it says faith. The Bible says we walk by faith, not by sight. It doesn't say we walk by faith, not by thinking. As a matter of fact, in many cases, the only way, only way to overcome what you see is to go by your, by thinking to know what it is. I mean, for example, if, uh, they say, I'm not a pilot again, I'm not much of anything except a preacher. I noticed that, uh, you get, you get into an airplane and the pilot, it can, if the pilots in the clouds, he's subject to vertigo. He might say, I'm just sure that way is up. I can just tell that way is up. Look, I think I see blue sky. I think I see blue sky up there, but his instruments say that way is down. What does he do? Does he go by faith? Which means he goes by his instruments. When she goes by what he's been taught and what he knows is true. What does he go on his senses? That's what Jesus is saying here. Jesus is saying fear and anxiety and worry. That is the absence of thinking. If you want to know what fear really is or, or anxiety or stresses, it's listening to the static of your heart.

Jesus says, if you want to worry, just listen to your heart instead of talking to your heart. You know what fear is? It's sitting there and listening to your heart and your heart's going, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, what's going to happen? What's going to happen? What's going to happen? That that's, that's worry. You sit there and you listen to the static. Jesus says, if you want to deal with it, the anti-stressor is you get a hold of yourself and you say, consider, think, think it out. Talk to yourself, get ahold of the truth. Look at the instruments in the area of worry. It's a, think about God's power and control in the area of too many goals. And it's one of the reasons why I have a lot of stress. It's think about the fact that you're not saved by pleasing these people or by this performance, but you're saved because of what Jesus has done for you in the area of changes and losses. You have to say, think about this. God knows what he's doing. God's wiser than you are. It's kind of scary. Listen, please, you do not have to believe. Do not think for a minute about the predestination free will problem. Don't try to work that thing out. Just know this. You cannot deal with stress unless you take these verses. He works all things out according to the plan of his will. Romans 8, 28, all things work together for good to them that love God or Matthew 10, 29, a sparrow falls to the, not even a sparrow falls to the ground. His eyes on the sparrow. But now listen, if you look at Matthew 10, 29, it says not even a sparrow falls to the ground, but by the, by the father's will. It's not quite as sweet as it sounds. It says if the sparrow falls out and hits his head, that was part, that was part of God's plan. That's what the verse says. It's not quite as warm and toasty as you think. It says in the book of Proverbs, the lot is cast into the lap. The disposal of it is from God. You see, the most important thing to keep in mind is that when it says all things work together for good and love God, that's, that's an understanding of God's sovereignty. Just don't think about all the problems that come up with predestination. Just realize this. That's the anti-stressor. I have got to know that everything is happening if I love him according to his plan and he loves me. Or put it this way. When you stop trying, Romans 8, 28 means when you stop trying to be the center of the universe, you start becoming the center of the universe. When you stop saying, it's all depends on me, and you start saying, Lord, I trust you. Then he says, every single thing that happens because I'm working it all out for your good. There's a real sense in which every human being who belongs to God is the center of everything. You can look around and say, all these things are happening for me. He's working it out somehow.

That is got to be there. You got it. That's got to be there. You cannot deal with changes and losses that God is working through suffering. Fourth, relational stressors. We'll look at that on Sunday morning. Now, the relational stressors are simply this. You were not built to be alone. Here's Adam in the garden. No sin, no evil, perfect relationship with God, right? Perfect quiet times.

Perfect. Absolutely perfect. God himself walks with him in the cool of the garden. You know, never, ever did he have a problem concentrating when he was praying because there was God. God was there saying, what do you want? Perfect quiet times. And yet God looks at Adam. There's no Eve yet. And he says, it's not good for man to be alone. God invented Adam to need people. Even when he had a perfect relationship with God, he needed people. Now, relational stressors mean if there's a lack of fellowship, if there's a lack of emotional support in your life, or if there's the conflicts we've talked about, that's a true aloneness is a pressure. Aloneness is a stressor, a huge, stressor, tremendous stressor. And you cannot possibly deal in the vacuum with these things. If you are alone, if you are lonely, if you feel alone and cut off from people, if you think you can sit down with your worry and get out Matthew six, and if you say, Tim told me I can just sort of think myself out of my stress. I guess I just got it. I got to consider the lilies of the field. I got to consider and everything will be fine. You're forgetting just how complicated a creature you are. When you had a perfect, when Adam had a perfect relationship with God, he needed Eve, the conscience stressors. I'm not going to be able to deal with the fact is that, uh, you're a moral being. And if you've got something that you are doing wrong, then there's two things. The nice thing about the conscience stressor is this. You can work on the anti-stress force. Maybe if you have, if the thing that you feel guilty about is nothing you can do about now, you can't remove the stressor. You work on the anti-stress force and you say, if I still feel guilty, and I still continually feel guilty, I just have not grasping God's grace. I've got to change my perception. I've got to understand God's forgiveness. On the other hand, if you're doing something now that you feel guilty about, you got to remove the stressor.

Lastly, you were created to be both, uh, a body and a soul. You know, the Greek notion is that the body's bad. The soul is good. The biblical notion is the body. And, and the soul, God created both and he's going to redeem both. Now, how could one be bad? You see what I mean? Isn't he going to resurrect your body as well as your soul? Didn't he create both of them? And, and because of that, there needs to be a balance in your life between physical rest and relaxation and recreation and also the spiritual life. Again, I can't spend as much time on that, but the fact is that if your life is unbalanced, too much, too little work or too much work, too little sleep or too much sleep, too little eating or too much eating, uh, if you don't have a balance going on, the sort of balance you read about in Gordon McDonald's book, ordering your private world, for example, a lot of you know about that. That's one of the reasons why I'm not going into that. Not my area in some ways. You either have to, uh, the life balance means for goodness sakes, in some cases, if you've got a lot of stress in your life, you need to be exercising. Why? Because stress is a physiological reaction. What are you doing with all that energy? You've got to be exercising. You've got to get the glucose out. Now, that sounds unspiritual to you. No, because the Bible says that you were built, you were created body and soul. He breathed into the, into the man and he became a living soul. Body and soul is the same thing. I mean, I mean, they're linked. They're not the same thing, but I mean, they're one. There's theological reasons, biblical reasons why every one of these stress forces, if it gets stronger than the anti-stress force, is going to lay you low. Last thing I can say, ultimately, ultimately, now, what I'm going to be doing, is I'm going to go back and I'm going to pick out two or three of these things. I'm going to pick out the Christian self image. Why do you set so many goals? Why do you set too many goals? Why can't you say no? That's tomorrow morning. I'm going to pick out the changes and losses. Why? You know, how are you dealing with those inevitable changes and losses? I'm going to talk about relational stressors. How do you deal with conflict and how do you keep, how do you develop emotional support around you? Those are the only ones we're going to go after, but I want you to see this is a complicated thing. You cannot say, aha, this is the whole thing. There's physical problems. There are relational problems. There are conscious moral problems. There are thinking problems. You've got to change your perceptions. In many cases, you've got to, you've got to watch for sinful thinking. You've got to develop the support group around you. You've got to deal with the changes and losses. You've got to recognize that a certain amount of stress is inevitable. You've got to look for life balances. You, and you can almost never, you never, ever, ever have the objectivity to, to figure this out on your own. And therefore, you need to go diagram yourself and figure out, do I need to strengthen anti-stress forces or do I need to, to act directly to remove the stress forces or do I need both? You probably need both. But here's the good thing. Don't be,

don't overlook what God can do. If you are willing to work on all of these areas over a period of time, so, you, there's seasons. There's seasons to your life. There's going to be times in which you're going to, the main thing God's going to be doing is working on your understanding of God's sovereignty, or your understanding of God's forgiveness, or your understanding of God's, you know, grace and so forth. One of the things, one of the guys that I've always most been excited about reading was a guy named Master Bilney. Bilney was an English reformer who was burned at the stake under Queen Mary back in the 1500s. One of the things that he really got, was really upset was the night before he was about to be burned, was the night before he was about to be burned, at the stake, he was extremely nervous. He was stressed. And he was stressed because he put his hand up to the fire of a candle to see whether or not he was able to keep his hand there. And he couldn't do it. He tried to keep his hand there. He tried to keep his hand there. He couldn't. And he turned around to his friends and he says, this is ridiculous. I can't bear the burning of a finger. How shall I be able to bear the burning of my whole body tomorrow? In other words, he figured he was going to be totally crushed by the stress. There was no way. That he was going to be able to strengthen the anti-stress forces of his faith. He didn't. He just, there's no way he felt he was going to be able to deal with the stress the next day. You know what actually happened the next day? He got up there. They tied him up. And when the flames came around him and he actually started to burn, he found, now how do we know this? I'll tell you why we know this. He suddenly found a tremendous joy in his salvation. And he suddenly found at that moment, a complete ability with his understanding of God. He had sovereignty and of God's forgiveness and the future and all that to deal with it. Because he lifted his hands up with a smile on his face. And he said, these are the last things he said, fear not, for I have redeemed thee. I have called thee by thy name. Thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee. And when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned. Because he suddenly realized he wasn't losing anything important. You know, what strengthened him to do that? Very often the strength doesn't come until the moment you finally say, I'm going to trust you. The night before he just couldn't even bear to have his finger burned by a candle. What gave him that? God gave him that. But he didn't find it. He didn't feel strong until he got there. You never feel that strong until you get there. But look at what he did for this guy. He was built of the same stuff that you're built of. If he could face that, you can face what you're going to face. Let me pray. Amen. Father, we pray that tonight with this overview, which in many ways is kind of academic, kind of a more of a lecture, we pray that on the basis of this framework, tomorrow and the next day, we can begin to see what it really means to consider your power, to consider your love, to begin to build those things into our heart, to deal with the stresses and the threats that are surrounding us. Father, I thank you that you have said, that if we mind your business, you will mind our business. That if we seek first your kingdom and righteousness, then you will add everything else that we need. Help us to see, Lord, that your name is a strong tower and those who run into it and those alone are safe. We ask that tomorrow morning and tomorrow evening and on Sunday, you will continue to show us what it means. What it means to consider. Amen. To talk to ourselves, to be strengthened. How different we would be, Lord, if we can only make you our refuge and nothing else.

We would be such different people. We want that. We want you to show us this weekend what it means to make you our refuge, to see that you are our only safety, to give us the security that comes from that. Now Father, we ask that you grant these things. We come to you and we ask them in Jesus' name and we know that to answer this in our lives this weekend will glorify you. So we make our request with boldness. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.