I'll be reading Psalm 8, verses 1 through 9, and chapter 14, verses 1 through 7. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth! You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and infants you have established strength, because of your foes, to still the enemy and the avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands, and have put all things under his feet, All sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is no one who does good, not even one. Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord? There they are in great terror, for God is with the generations of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. This is the word of the Lord.

These are two psalms back to back. They both have to do with human nature, what it is And, you know, they're both written by David They're both written, you know, one is Psalm 8 and one is Psalm 14 so they're in the same book of the Bible, they're very close in the same book written by the same author and yet, one has the most positive, highest possible view of human nature one has the most negative, darkest possible view of human nature it. But it's only if you put the two together that you'll realize that the biblical view of human nature is so different, so remarkably distinct from any other view out there in the world today. Let's see what the Bible says about who we are. Let's see what the Bible says about human nature. And we'll do that by seeing the Bible tells us, gives us the, as I already said, highest, most positive view of human nature, the darkest, most negative view of human nature, and the way to win the war between the selves, the way to win the war between the two natures that we all have. First of all, let's look at Psalm 8, which is the highest possible view of human nature. Now, in it, David poses a philosophical question. He says, what is man? That's in verse 4. He says, What is man that you are mindful of him, talking to God, the son of man that you care for him? And the answer he gives is, You have made him a little lower than the angels and crowned him with glory and honor. You have given him dominion over the works of your hands and put all things under his feet. Now this is almost a restatement of Genesis 1, 26 and 27 God says, then God said, let us make man in our image and likeness and let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air, over the livestock, over all the earth, and over all the creatures that move along the ground. In other words, both in Genesis 1 and here in Psalms, we're told that we were made in the image of God or we were built to image God's glory, glory, to image his glory. Now, the term image is very, very telling. If you look into a pond of water, you see a partial image of yourself. If you look into a mirror, you see an almost exact image of yourself. The Bible tells us that while everything in God's creation to some degree reflects his glory, remember a couple weeks ago we said clams even reflect God's glory, Though everything reflects God's glory that He made, everything else is like a pond of water, but you and I, human beings, are mirrors. We are given the fullest ability to reflect the glory of God, to reflect it most exactly. We are the crown of creation. We are the ones most able, because of the creativity, the personality, the rationality, everything that God's given us, We are most able to image the glory of God. You see, one of the things one of my commentators said, when David says, Who are we? One of the answers is, We're the only ones in the world who are sitting around asking, Who are we? No one else is asking. Human beings are the only ones who ask, What is a human being? We're the only ones who reflect. We're the only ones who do art. We're the only ones who use language, You've invented that incredible complex symbol system. We are the crown of creation. We are built to most perfectly, most exactly image the very glory and greatness and beauty and being of God. Now, the implications of this idea that every human being is made in the image of God are enormous. Let me give you just three. First of all, the idea that every human being is in the image of God has enormous psychological implications. No matter what the assessment of your own heart, no matter what the evaluation of other people, there is a rock-solid, objective, irreducible significance and glory about you.

You are cosmically, infinitely,

objectively valuable to God, no matter who you are or what you've done or how you're living your life right now. It's got enormous implications for psychology. And this, by the way, is one of the places where our secular culture around us, the secular view of things, it says this life is all there is, that when you die you're rot, that everything has got a natural cause, eternity and all that. The secular view has an enormous problem, in fact, almost a contradiction, a conundrum right at this spot. You know why? See, on the one hand, the secular culture we're part of says the most important thing is self-esteem, that all of our psychological problems, all of our social problems, whether it's crime or poverty or poor performance in school, everything comes from low self-esteem. And the key to life is to see your own worth and value. you. So the secular view says on the one hand, it's nothing more important than for you to see your own value. But then on the other hand says, philosophically, scientifically, there's absolutely no basis for your own worth and value because you just evolved. You're just here by an accident. No one created you. You're an accident. You're not here for any purpose. Here's a couple of famous, maybe in your face, but famous and kind of hard to argue with quotes, Bertrand Russell, Russell, the old secularist, he said, you are the product of causes that had no prevision of the end they were achieving. All your hopes, think about this, all your fears, all your loves, all your beliefs of your mind are nothing but the outcome of accidental collocations of atoms and molecules. You're just hardwired to have the feelings you have. It's just your genetic code. It's just the process of natural selection. section. And Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. said, therefore, there is no reason for attributing to a man a significance different in kind from that which belongs to a baboon or a grain of sand. And though you might say he was just in a bad mood that day, you may, no, he's not. It's logically inescapable. You may feel more significant than a rock or a tree, but there's no scientific basis. basis, chemicals, chemicals, different configuration of chemicals, all by accident, no purpose. In other words, the secular view of life says there's nothing more important for you to see your own value, and then so there's no objective basis for it. That's what G.K. Chesterton put it rather lovely, in a lovely way. When he talked about the conundrum of the secular view, he puts it like this. There's a great spot where he says, talking about a secular person, as a politician, he will cry out that war is a waste of life. a philosopher, he must admit that all life is a waste of time. The man of this school goes first to a political meeting where he complains that native populations are treated as if they were beasts. Then, of course, he goes on to a scientific meeting where he proves that they actually are beasts. But not in the biblical view. There's no conundrum in the biblical view. In the biblical view, there is rock-solid, objective, irreducible significance and glory about you. You are cosmically, infinitely, objectively valuable to God no matter who you are, what you've done, or how you're living now. Think of the psychological implications of that. And secondly, the idea that every human being is made to image the glory of God has enormous social implications, huge. It radically undermines any caste system in society, any class system, any racism. If you think of human beings economically, there is absolutely no doubt that lots of people are less valuable than others. In fact, some of them are such a drain on us economically, we'd be better off without them. All right? Let's think of human race another way. Let's think in terms of the biology. Let's think in terms of the gene pool, evolutionary biology. There are lots of people out there who we would be better off without. They're a drain on us. But in the biblical view, the poorest beggar is every bit as valuable as the greatest emperor who ever lived on the face of the earth, ultimately.

And also, the idea that every human being is an image of God radically undermines social tyranny. Because, see, if the secularist is right, when you die, you're right. Then an individual life is like this, is this long, but a civilization is this long, right? So certainly it's justifiable in that view to trample on a few 10,000 people and kill a few 10,000 people if it means putting into position a great civilization. civilization, but in the biblical view, compared to you and me, nations, cultures, and even civilizations are mortal. See, three billion years from now, every person, every soul in this room is going to be somewhere, conscious. That's what the Bible says about human nature. And that means that the life even of civilizations compared to your life and my life, as C.S. Lewis put it,

And therefore, do you know what that means? It is never justifiable to trample on or kill even one human life merely to get political power no matter how great the cause. I mean, this doctrine of every individual being in the image of God has enormous psychological implications, has enormous sociological implications, and of course, finally, it has enormous spiritual implications. And here's why. We are all mirrors. We are made to image the glory of God and beauty of God. We are mirrors. We're not light bulbs. A mirror cannot produce its own light and beauty.

Light and beauty is not inherent in the mirror. It has no power to generate it. A mirror is only filled with light and beauty if it faces something with it.

And you know what that means? You will never get a sense of your own value.

beauty, you will never get a sense of your own worth just by looking inside and saying, I know I'm great, I know I'm great, I know I'm great. You cannot generate it yourself. Now, Bridget Jones knew that. I always like Bridget Jones in Bridget Jones' diary. I like her resolutions. She's always writing resolutions. And here's one resolution. She said, resolution, be assured, receptive, responsive woman of substance. Okay? Knowing that my sense of self should not come from what other people say, but from myself? Wait, that can't be right. See, Bridget understands something that's incoherent at the very heart of the secular world. The most important thing is you should not depend on what other people say about you to get your sense of self. You should get your sense of self from yourself? Wait, that can't be right, she says, and that's right. It's not in your nature. You will never think you're valuable Just by thinking you're valuable, somebody else has to tell you. You'll never have beauty inside unless you're facing someone else who is giving you the glory. Somebody's got to say you're great. Somebody's got to say you're valuable. Somebody's got to say something outside has to give it to you. It's your nature. You can't generate it from within. You know what that means? You're going to have to look to romance, to spouse, to love, to children, to acclaim, to achievement. to status, to money. You're going to have to look to something to give you a sense of significance, the worth, something. You can't generate it yourself. But if you look to anything but God,

your self-image and identity is always on the verge of collapse. It's always fragile. It's always running away from you because you were made to image the glory of God. I mean, if you build your self-image on how you do financially, what happens when you do poorly? You're not just unhappy. You lose your very self. if you build your self-image and your identity by facing and getting your glory by looking to someone you're in love with if that's the main way you get it then what happens if you break up you're not just like sad you lose your very self Kierkegaard was very right when he said in fact what is called the secular mentality consists simply of those who so to speak mortgage themselves to the world they use their talents to amass wealth carry on enterprises they try to make for themselves, but themselves they have not become. Spiritually speaking, they have no self, no self with which they can venture anything, no self before God. It's powerful. You know what he says? If you get a sense of self by facing and getting glory from what people think of you, or approval, or power, or money, or love, or romance, or family, or anything else, you don't have a self with which you can venture anything. You have a fragile self, absolutely based on what people are saying from you and about you. Unless you build your identity on God, your life is a house built on sand.

We are all made in the image of God. We're all made in the image of the glory of God. There's the highest possible view. But then secondly, in Psalm 14, we have got one of the most harsh negative views of human nature you'd ever want to see. see. The essence of it's in verse 2 and 3 where David says, the Lord looks down from heaven on the children of men to see if there are any who understand who seek after God. They have all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. Now, when you read that, surely you think that's an exaggeration. Look at the two things he says. It seems like an exaggeration. First thing he says is he's looking at all the children of men. you see that? And he says, there's not a single one who seeks for God. And you say, well, wait a minute, how could that be? I know people who seek for God. I see people seeking for God. But now listen, the Bible doesn't say no one seeks peace from God, no one seeks forgiveness from God, no one seeks blessings from God, no one seeks, you know, power from God. Of course not. We want things. We seek things. And if we think there's a chance that God might give it to us, then we pray, we go to church, we get very moral, we do all sorts of things. But that's not the same thing as seeking God for God, just for the sake of God, just for who he is in himself. You see, when you, I've had, I don't know how many people have said, well, you know, I asked God for healing for my mother, but she died,

Well, you weren't seeking God, you were seeking healing, and God was just a commodity, a vehicle. He was the means, and the healing was the end. Your agenda was the end. You were the end. You see, in verse 1, when it says, the fool says in his heart there is no God, he's not talking about atheists, and atheists says in his mind there is no God, not in the heart. And if you look carefully, it says all the children of men are like this. Deep in every one of our hearts is the desire to get things but not God, No one actually seeks for God unless a power from outside the Holy Spirit comes in and regenerates your heart. Plenty of people have found God. But anyone who finds God will always admit that's not how you started the journey. You were seeking things. But somehow a power came in from outside and altered and oriented you in a different way. Nobody actually seeks for God. The human heart isn't capable of it. But the second thing it says, which is radical and strange, is no one is good. No one does good. Look, there is none who do good, not even one. And you say, now that is really an exaggeration. That is silly. There's a lot of people who do good deeds. And listen, relatively speaking, of course, of course. And we need to celebrate these relatively good deeds. Our life would be terrible without them. but would you look a little deeper? it takes two things to make a deed good not only the form of it but the motive for it right? not just the form of it but the motive so for example, helping a little old lady across the street seems like a good deed but what if the person's doing it just to milk her for her money? well that's a good deed but the motive's bad so it's not a good deed it's not just the form of the deed but the motive of the deed Jonathan Edwards drawing on the entire Bible says. All human morality is really a form of selfishness. People live lives of loyalty to their family, generosity to the poor, morality, even biblical morality, just to get power. Think of the way most of us learn to be honest. In a conservative Christian home, we say to our children, don't lie, God will punish you. Now, they don't say that at the Harvard Business School. school. At the Harvard Business School, they say, don't lie or Eliot Spitzer will come and punish you. But it's the same thing. Be afraid. Don't lie or God will get you. Don't lie or people will get you. Don't lie or people won't like you. Or don't lie and be like those terrible people who tell lies. We aren't like that. Fear and pride are the motivations for all of our goodness.

Fear, which is a form of self-protection, self-centeredness. Pride, which is a form of self-aggrandizement. Fear and pride are the very reasons that we tell the truth. But think about it something for a minute. Think about it. Why do we ever lie? Why do we oppress people? Fear and pride. And so what does this mean? It means, as Edwards says, it means, as the Bible is saying, at the very... Listen carefully. I'll say this slowly. at the very heart, even of our moral life, we nurture evil. Even at the heart of our moral life, the reason we do good things is out of fear and pride, the very thing that makes us also oppress people and screw up the world. In other words, our human morality without the power of the Holy Spirit to come in and change us is nothing but jury-rigged selfishness. And this is the reason why so many people who lived very moral lives, suddenly you get into a position and pressure comes, and suddenly you do things you never thought yourself capable of. Some of you have done that. Suddenly you embezzle. Suddenly you lie. You commit adultery. You do an act of violence, and you say, I had no idea I was capable of that. No, but see, Edwards says, the Bible says, in the heart of our goodness is badness.

No one does good just to do good. Even our morality is a jury-rigged selfishness, fear and pride behind it. Nobody just does good. No one seeks for God. There is something radically corrupt and self-centered in our lives and in our hearts that erupts. And you know, the first...up until World War II, for about 150 years, 100 years, we were We're continually told in the educated classes of the Western civilization, Europe and North America, that the biblical doctrine of original sin was wrong, that human nature is basically good, that if people do bad things, it's all a matter of social conditions. And then came the Holocaust.

Now what are you going to say about that? If you say the Nazis did that incredible thing because they had poor education and they were social conditions? You can't say that. That trivializes the evil, so you don't. Well, if you say, well, the Nazis did that because they're not like us. They were inferior sorts of people. But that's what led to the genocide to start with, when you look at one class of people and say, they're subhuman to me. But now you know what that means. If this incredible horror was not done because of social conditions, and it wasn't done because they were a different kind of person. That means that you and I are absolutely capable of that. Without social... Inherently, in your heart, you are capable of that. That's the inescapable conclusion. In the 20th century, we found if you take liberal politicians and you take it to the extreme, give them all power, it's called communism, genocide. Okay, let's take conservative politics. Let's take it all the way to fascism. Give them power, genocide. It doesn't matter the party It doesn't matter the race It doesn't matter the class It doesn't matter who There is something deep in your heart and my heart That when you give it absolute power It erupts And it turns out the Bible was right We are infinitely exalted And infinitely fallen

That's human nature Now what are we going to do about it? You know this can't go on Dr. Jekyll knew that And Dr. Jekyll, you know, it's a one... I'll bet you all you've done is watch the movies and all the plays and TV. Read Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde by Robert Louis Stevenson. It's 80 pages. Read it. It's a scary thing. And it is, in essence, in a narrative form, exactly what the Bible says. No other philosophy, no other religion says we are not one but two natures. We have two radically... We're not just a little good and a little bad. We're radically good and radically evil. time. Now, Dr. Jekyll knew that. He was going along early in the book, early in the story. He says, every day I drew steadily nearer to the truth that man is not truly one, but truly two. I saw the two natures contending in my consciousness. If I could rightly said to be either, it was only because I was radically both. And he called himself, what he calls himself, is an incongruous compound, a perfectly biblical term. So what he did was, because he was a Victorian, Dr. Jekyll, because he was a Victorian and he had bought what they said that were fallen but were not that fallen, he came up with a potion that would divide the two selves so each would get the body and be able to use it in an unhindered way. And that way, instead of ruining itself, he saw his two natures constantly ruining things for the other one. So he said, wow, this will be great. snazher can boogie when they're in the body without any kind of problems, without any kind of anything one side binding the other. But when he became Edward Hyde the first time, he said, I knew myself at the first breath of this new life to be more wicked, ten times more wicked, sold a slave to my original evil, and the thought braced and delighted me like wine. What happened was he found that he was much more depraved than he really thought. He was much more wicked than he really thought. And as you know, the tragedy, and that's how the story goes. But you see, these two natures in us cannot live forever. Who's going to win the war between the selves? The word hide, Edward Hyde, very good literary device, because the word hide means hideous. But it also means hidden. They all come from the same old English word. Dr. Jekyll had hidden his hideousness from himself. The potion brought it out, and then he was cooked. Who's going to win the... We really are both of these things, and if the only way we can understand history and the only way we can make account for how we are is that we are both of these things at once. Who's going to win the battle? How do we win the battle? And the answer is in Hebrews 2. In Hebrews 2, Psalm 8 is quoted at length. It's quoted, what is man that you are mindful of him and the son of man that you care for him? You have crowned him with glory and honor, made him a little lower than the angels, and you have put everything under his feet. But then the Hebrews writer stops the quote and says, right now we do not see everything under his feet. And boy, that's an understatement. If we were the human beings God made us to be, the world would be a great place, a place of social harmony, a place of environmental flourishing. The world would be a great place, but it's not. We do not see everything under our feet, says the Hebrews writer. We see war, and we see poverty, and we see hunger, and we see disease and conflict and everything. It's terrible. So we are not the people we're supposed to be. But then, the Hebrews writer says, but we see Jesus, made a little lower than the angels, crowned with glory and honor, for he tasted death to bring many sons to glory. Now, there it is. And what's the Hebrew writer saying? He's saying this. Jesus Christ is the secret to human nature. First of all, Jesus was the ultimate human being. He was the Son of Man. He lived the human life we were supposed to live with all the love, all the creativity, all the truth, all the nobility, all the wisdom that you and I were made to have. He came and he lived the ultimate human life that we're supposed to live, but at the end of it, he died the death we were supposed to die. He paid for radical evil. He was the ultimate Dr. Jekyll, but he became hideous for us. Isaiah says he was beaten until he didn't look human. He had no beauty that we should desire him. him. Though he was beautiful, though he was crowned with glory and honor, he lost his glory. He lost his honor. He lost his beauty. He takes to death for us. Now, this is how you win the battle. You know how earlier on I said, and it's hard to argue, I think, with this. When I talk to people, no matter what their beliefs, when I say, if you build your identity on anything but God, your identity is fragile it's falling apart all the time you're never good enough and that's what Kierkegaard said, when I read Kierkegaard to people, no matter what they believe, they say, yeah, you know, you're right but how do you do that? you know that because your image, you're made to image and reflect the glory, you're imaging other things you're looking to your spouse, you're looking to your family you're looking to your looks, you're looking to your achievement you're looking to everything else, you're looking to your money You're looking to your career. You're looking to everything else to get a sense of worth. And how are you supposed to look to God? How are you supposed to turn the mirror of your soul to him and get that identity and that beauty and that glory that's solid, that, as Kierkegaard said, that you can venture anything with? How do you get that? Not just by going home and saying, I guess I better seek the glory of God. That's an abstraction. Here it is. here's the secret to the glory of God, when you see Jesus Christ losing His glory for you, when you see Jesus losing His beauty for you, that's the most glorious, that's the most beautiful thing possible. That will turn your heart to Him, that will, with the power of the Holy Spirit, using the gospel, that will turn the mirror of your soul more and more to face Him fully. In fact, everything that's happening in your life your life, your soul's mirror toward him, even the bad things that are happening to you right now, everything is doing that, the ultimate glory and the ultimate beauty is to see a man losing, the Lord losing his beauty and love and his glory and honor for you, that you could have it, then he becomes your glory, when you say, Father, accept me, because of what Jesus has done, he becomes your honor, he becomes your glory, then you can sing the hymn that says, bold I approach the eternal throne own and claim the crown in Christ my own. My own. In Christ my own. Do you believe the doctrine of human nature? That you're radically exalted, radically fallen, and through Jesus Christ, who though he was exalted, came low. Though he was life at the highest, came low, became hideous for you. If you see that wins the war, that'll turn your, that'll change the way in which you deal with yourself and other people. Let me close with this. Do you believe every human being is in the image of God? C.S. Lewis says, if you believe that, then there are no ordinary persons around you. I want you to begin to practice it the minute you get up tonight from the pew. There are no ordinary people, says C.S. Lewis. You've never talked to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures, arts, civilizations, these are mortal, and their life is to ours is the life of a gnat. But it is immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry, snub, and exploit. Someday there will either be immortal horrors or everlasting splendors. This does not mean that we are to be perpetually solemn. But our merriment must be of the kind which exists between people who have, from the outset, taken each other seriously. Our charity must be real and costly love with deep feeling for the sins in spite of which we love the sinners. No mere tolerance or indulgence which parodies love like flippancy parodies merriment. Next to the blessed sacrament itself, the person sitting next to you in the pew, is the holiest object presented to your senses. And if he is your Christian neighbor, he is holy in almost the same way. For in him also Christ, the glorifier and the glorified, glory himself is truly hidden. Let the doctrine of human nature change your nature, change the way you look at yourself, change the way you look at other people. Let it revolutionize your life. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for this great truth. Frightening, we're more wicked than we dared believe. relief, exhilarating, and we're more loved than we ever dared hope. It's in the cross of Christ that preeminently we see how bad we are that he had to die and how loved we are that he was glad to die. The secret of human nature, of its radical badness and goodness, is not only revealed in the cross, but it's solved. And we pray that you would help us bring the gospel, the cross of Jesus,

how he lost his glory and honor so we could have it.

Let us take that in the middle of our lives and turn our hearts toward him and build an identity on something that lasts and change the way in which we look at the people around us so that we truly can be transformed into the image of your son in whose name we pray. Amen.
