Matthew 5, verse 20 through 26. For I tell you that unless your righteousness surpasses that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will certainly not enter the kingdom of heaven. You have heard that it was said to the people long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. Again, anyone who says to his brother, Raka, is in danger or is answerable to the Sanhedrin, but anyone who says you fool will be in danger of hellfire. Therefore, if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court. Do it while you are still. Feel with him on the way, or he may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. I tell you the truth, you will not get out until you've paid the last penny. The word of the Lord. The Sermon on the Mount is all about the kingdom of heaven. It's constantly there. Notice, again and again, Jesus is talking about the kingdom. The point of the Sermon on the Mount is to say, that the truth is the answer, as you see, it says, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven is a gift which is given to those who believe in Jesus Christ, who come in under his royal power. And when you come in under his power, you change. And your life is completely changed. Christianity is about nothing if it's not about change. If you don't see change in your life, you're not in the kingdom. Certainly that's what's being taught here. And in particular, Jesus now says in verse 20, that if you have come into the kingdom of God, your righteousness, the quality of your character, is absolutely so changed that it far exceeds the character of the teachers of the law, the Pharisees, the religious leaders. Now what in the world does that mean? I noticed a couple weeks ago, the Seven Days magazine, that magazine that comes out here in New York, that the cover story was titled, Is Your Kid a Creep? Anybody see that? And the subtitle was, don't worry, you bought him an education, you bought him a nanny, now can you buy him a conscience? And the story, which is very interesting, was about the fact that New York parents are more and more concerned that their children are growing up without consciences. They don't know the difference between right and wrong. And so that there are people now in Manhattan who are moral educators. Their job is to run society. And they're going to seminars and to train parents in how to teach their children moral values. And they're raking in, of course, millions of dollars, you see, to do this. And that's what the story was about. And the story is very ironic. Because what it tells us, in the story, is that the reason that these people are making so much money is because neither public schools nor private schools want to have anything to do with teaching morality. And even the seminars that are being run don't like to use the M word. Morality. Because as soon as you talk about morality, people immediately get visions of repression and narrowness. Because moral people are repressive and moral people are narrow. And moral people, worst of all in Manhattan, are wimps. And therefore, even these seminars will not use the word morality. They talk about character. And they seek to talk about how to develop character and values that are not based on God or any other religion. The reason for that is we don't want to be fanatics. We don't want to be Pharisees. We don't want to exceed the righteousness of the Pharisees. Why don't we like the Pharisees? Because, obviously, the reasoning goes, they were too moral. They were too religious. We want our kids to be kind of moral, but not too moral. Now, that entire effort is doomed to failure for at least a couple of reasons. First, it's doomed to failure because, all of the wisest people who've ever lived have always said, you cannot have a morality without religion. It can't be done. You know, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy, Nietzsche, people with fairly divergent backgrounds and beliefs, right, have all said, and I quote, if there is no God, all things are allowed. You see, if there is a God, then he's revealed his will, and we have to do everything he said. But if there is no God, then all we have is matters of taste. You can't talk about immorality. You can say, I prefer this or I prefer that, but you can't talk about immorality at all. There either is a morality or there's no morality. You have to go all the way or you'll have nothing. I noticed, for example, there was another article about Keith Haring. Am I saying it right, Haring? He was the famous artist that recently died of AIDS, and I was reading his biography in the magazine, and it said that he was raised in this little town in Pennsylvania, Kutztown, where my father went to school, by the way, Kutztown, Pennsylvania. And at one point, Keith went through this Jesus freak stage, and he was wearing little crosses and little fish logos and so on, and everybody in his family was very upset. Uh-oh, he's going off the deep end. He's getting too moral. He's getting too religious. But then, after a while, he ran off to New York and went into the gay lifestyle and moved into Greenwich Village and got into the artist community. And then, of course, he wasn't moral enough, and everybody was upset again. Now, this is silly. For the last... Jesus Christ says, Your righteousness has to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. And what he means is, the reason the scribes and the Pharisees were so harsh and so narrow was not because they were too righteous. It was because they weren't righteous enough. It wasn't because they were too moral. It was because they weren't moral enough. Or put it this way, it wasn't because they were too fanatical, but because they weren't fanatical enough. There's nothing in the Bible that says, moderation in all things. There's nothing in the Bible about that. Instead, look at the Pharisees like this. They were fanatical in the sense that they were fanatically zealous, and they were fanatically courageous, and they were fanatically obedient. But they weren't fanatically humble. They weren't fanatically sensitive. They weren't fanatically wise, why is it fanatically compassionate, fanatically welcoming? See, friends, if you see a Christian who says he's a Christian, but who looks like a Pharisee, looks obnoxious, looks like a fanatic, and everybody says, oh my, he turns everybody off, his problem is not that he needs to moderate, his problem is not that he needs to get less fanatical, he needs to get more fanatical. His righteousness needs to exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees. His problem is he's like Jesus maybe in a couple of areas, but he's not like Jesus, and he's not fanatically wise, loving, compassionate, sensitive, welcoming like Jesus was, along with the zeal, and along with the full conviction, and along with the obedience and the courage. Don't deceive. Either with God. Have morality, or else we've got no morality at all. But you can't have some morality. And what Jesus here says is, if you belong to my kingdom, if you come into my kingdom, then what happens is God begins to work a righteousness in you, a quality of character in you through the Spirit that changes everything, every part of your life. Now, the part that comes right after verse 20, verse 21 and following, is about relationships. And that's what we have to spend the rest of our time here on. Relationships. Actually, the rest of the Sermon on the Mount shows, the rest of the Sermon on the Mount is there so Jesus can show us how the righteousness of God, which is not external to the Pharisees, but is deep and balanced. That there's a righteousness in every single area of life that God develops in us, including relationships. And God can transform our relationships. And that's why we read, You have heard it said long ago, do not murder, but I tell you, anyone who is angry, anyone who says raka, and anyone who says moros. The Greek word for idiot is moros, from which we get our word moros. Moron. Jesus says anyone who is angry, anyone who says raka, and anyone who says moros, is liable to judgment. Now, what God is telling us here is that I can transform relationships. Transformed relationships are critical. Broken relationships are just sources of misery. We make fun about them all the time. Most of our situation comedies are about people fighting and yelling at each other and insulting each other. The funniest jokes are insults, where people who are getting in each other's faces. There's a great book I saw recently, called The Most Famous and Best Insults in History. And they are funny. You know, there's Lady Astor saying, Mr. Churchill, if I was your wife, I would put poison in your coffee. And there's Mr. Churchill saying, Lady Astor, if I was your husband, I would drink it. That's great. Funny. Broken relationships are a great source of funniness, as long as you're reading about them, instead of actually going through them. There's a lot of people, in this room, that are miserable right now because of broken relationships. And you know what? There's even more of you that are miserable, and you don't know it's because of broken relationships. You've got significant people in your lives that you have got a broken relationship with, and you're saying, it's not bothering me, but it's affecting you. It's no laughing matter when it's you. When it's Lady Astor and Churchill, yes, but not when it's you. And Jesus Christ here says, my kingdom power can bring about a righteousness that transforms relationships. Those relationships. And first, what he does is, number one, he lays down a principle for all relationships, and the principle is this. I'm going to say it twice because it's so searching and far-reaching and it shows that the righteousness that can be created in a Christian's life so far goes beyond that of the Pharisees that it's amazing. This is the principle. Lovelessness. L-O-V-E-L-E-S-S-N-E-S-S. Lovelessness is murder. Look what Jesus does. First of all, he says in verse 21, you heard it said long ago, thou shalt not murder or you'll be subject to judgment. Now, when Jesus uses the word, you've heard it said, he is not talking about the Old Testament. Because when he's talking about the scripture, he says, what? He doesn't say, it was said. He says, it is written. So when he talks here about it was said, he means, he's referring to the religious leader's interpretation. And teaching about the Old Testament commandment. And he points out here, essentially, that when the religious leaders look at that commandment, thou shalt not murder, they stop at merely the external behavioristic interpretation of it. They say, as long as you haven't physically destroyed somebody's life, you are guiltless. And then he goes on and says, no way. Because in the Bible, God's law, if it's put in a prohibitive form, always entails and enjoins the law of the world. It means the opposite. So when the Bible says, thou shalt not steal, it also means, thou must be generous. And that's the reason why you go through the Old Testament, you'll see that whenever somebody is not generous, the Bible calls that robbery. You see, thou shalt not steal means, thou shalt be generous, and if you're not generous, you're stealing. And in the same way, Jesus says here, thou shalt not murder means, every human being is infinitely precious, of infinite value, made in the likeness of God, and can never be treated as an object, can never be treated as a thing, can never be used or abused or made a means for your ends. And so he goes through and explains in the most unbelievably searching and convicting detail what that means. He says, you have broken this law if you do any one of these three things. Number one, he says, if you treat somebody as raka. Now the word raka literally means you nobody. We talked about this, I'm pretty sure, some weeks back when we looked at the sixth commandment. You nobody. You non-person. Now why would Jesus be saying that? It's not actually the kind of thing you say to somebody if you're angry at them. You do call them an idiot, you do call them a moron, but you don't call them a raka, and the answer is Jesus is talking not about hostility, he's talking about indifference. This is scary now. He is not saying, you break the commandment, thou shalt not murder. If you're malicious, he says, if you neglect, if you avoid, if you look through somebody, if you just don't care, if you treat that person as if they're not there, you have broken this commandment. Indifference is the basic kernel seed form of hate. And then he goes on, he says, if you say, you moron, that's literally what he says here. He says, if you say, you moros, and that's translated idiot, but actually it's literally a word we use a lot of times. It's one of those few Greek words that many of you do know. Moron. You know, you know the Greek, you know, you knew enough to get into your fraternity or sorority, and then you knew how to say moron, that's about it. And what Jesus is saying here is, here's the power of the tongue. When you call somebody, to murder means also to murder somebody's reputation. But even more so, this is something you say to someone, right? And so, to murder someone also means to murder their confidence in themselves. Because when you call somebody a moron, the only reason you're doing it is because you hope they'll believe you. And when you get them to believe that, you have put a dagger in a part of their heart that no surgeon can get through. To murder somebody is to murder their reputation, but to murder somebody is also to murder their confidence in themselves. And then he goes one step further, and he says, if you're angry with your brother, and the word anger there is a word that literally means to swell up with poison. And Jesus is not talking so much here about a flare of temper, he is talking about resentment. And he goes so far as to say, if you're angry with your brother, you're guilty of murder. Paul the Apostle had the audacity to say, I am the chief of sinners. Now, how could Paul have done that? You know, you had some pretty nasty people running around back then. You had some people who were capable of murdering thousands of people, and Paul could say, I am the chief of sinners, and I'm the chief of sinners. Was that just hyperbole? Was that just the way, you know, preachers, I don't know, preachers love to exaggerate. They love to be dramatic. So maybe he was just, you know, exaggerating. No. Because Paul knew what Jesus is saying, and this is absolutely critical to understanding the biblical doctrine of sin. Just as the entire tree, I'll never get tired of this illustration, just as the entire tree is all in that acorn, it's all in there. So murder and mass murder is in resentment. What do you think mass murder is? It's an acorn of resentment that got fertilized, that got watered, that found the proper environment for germination. And when Paul says, I'm the chief of sinners, what he means is, I know that everything that makes a murderer a murderer is in my heart. It's just that I never had a chance to have it fertilized. And that person over there who was a mass murderer did. And so Paul says, the difference between me and him is one only of quantity, not quality. And that's what Jesus is saying right here. Now, do you realize how that makes Christians look at the world? Do you realize that we live a life in a completely different way than anyone else? If you realize that the worst criminals in the world, that the difference between them and you is one of quantity, not quality, you have an utterly different approach to everybody. A Christian is never shocked, they're just sickened by crime and awful deeds. A Christian is never condescending, but only compassionate. Because a Christian says, the difference between you and me is only one of degree, and only one of compassion. And only one of grace. You see, if you're not a believer, you have got to base your self-image on the idea that you're different than those people. You couldn't possibly say, I'm like that person. I've got all the same ability to do what they... You can't, you couldn't admit it would destroy you. But a Christian self-image is based on the free grace of God, not our attainments, not our works. And therefore, we're able to take a look at even the worst people and have compassion on them and know, you're my brother. And I realize that it could be me right there. I've got it all. I've got all the apparatus. I've got all the equipment. But God, in his mercy at this point, just never gave me the place to fertilize it. So Jesus is saying, are you a murderer? Yes, you're a murderer if you harbor grudges. Are you a murderer? Yes, you're a murderer if you're indifferent to people. Yes, you're a murderer if you gossip or if you lash out in spite. And you know what's scary about this? The same thing that's scary is also our salvation. The scary thing is, if you are being honest now and you're seeing how searching this commandment is, you will be starting to say, I can't possibly live like that. And then you have finally, maybe for the first time in your life, I hope for some of you, realized that the law is doing for you what it should do. The Bible tells us the law was never, ever, ever the basis to get to God. Nobody can get to God on the basis of being good according to the law. So, Paul says in Galatians 4, the law is a schoolmaster to lead us to Christ. Do you know what that means? If anybody right now is sitting there saying, I couldn't be like that, I would love to live in a world like that. It's perfectly legitimate to say, I would love to, people ought to be like that. We should always be loving. A failure to give positive love in any situation, Jesus says, is murder. I would love to live in a world full of people like that, but I can't be like that. And so I fall far short. What am I going to do? And as soon as you feel like that, you're feeling the law, I grab you by the hand and say, here, I can show you how you ought to live, but I can't give you the power to do it. Charles Spurgeon says, the mirror can show you how dirty your face is, but just try washing your face in it. And the law of God is like a mirror. The Bible says so in James. And the law of God is leading you and saying, the only way that you can be right with God, now that you see where you fall short, is to go and say, Lord, because Jesus died for me, because he took the punishment for my sins, because he lived a righteous life on my behalf, I trust in him, save me and accept me for Jesus' sake, and then you're letting the law do its work. But beyond that, the law also gives us a terrific amount of hope. Because the Bible tells us, the law of God is not just an arbitrary standard. The law of God is actually an outline of his own glorious goodness. The reason Jesus is telling us to be loving like this is because God himself, is like this. And because God himself is like that, we can be, and we will be when we receive him, and his spirit comes into our lives, and then the spirit of God will move us and change us into the likeness of this. And here's what's so ironic. The minute you begin to say, I'm a murderer, you stop being one. And until you say, I am a murderer, you will not stop being one. This is the glorious miracle that God has given us. You see, when you begin to say, the difference between me and that person, that murderer, is one of quantity only, not quality, it humbles you. And it creates a compassion in you, and you begin to put up with people you never would have put up with because you can't feel superior to anybody. And without contempt, without feeling superior, there wouldn't be any bad relationships. And so as soon as you begin to say, Lord, I am a murderer, just like you said, in the Bible, you begin to soften, you begin to change. The minute you say, I don't love anybody, that admission opens the gates, melts the ice, and the love flows. Until you admit you're not acceptable to God, you can never be acceptable. And until you admit you're a murderer, you can't stop it. Until you admit you're love, you can't find the love beginning to go. God uses the very admission of love and the humbling effect of that admission in our lives to actually create in us loving, humble, compassionate people. It's astonishing. Are you willing to do it? Are you willing to say, I finally admit, I knuckle under, I'm a murderer. Until you admit it, you can never stop being one. Then Jesus says, one more thing, one more thing. He says, it's not enough just to stop gossiping and stop calling people morons and stop your resentment and harbor your grudges. It's not enough just to stop that. You still are disobeying this commandment unless when you see relationships decay around you, you go out and try to solve them. Jesus says, if you are worshiping God and you realize somebody's got something against you, you've got a broken relationship, the urgency of the matter is such that you should leave the gift at the altar and go run out and make it right. What Jesus is saying is, you still have not really begun obeying this commandment until you see it's your job to reconcile relationships as far as it depends on you. That when you see decaying relationships around you, you need to go to that person and try to make it work. Somebody says, ah, yes, well, if that person has something against me, maybe I should go to him. That's what it says right here. But in Matthew 18, it says if you have something against them, you have to go to them. It doesn't matter who started it. It's always your responsibility. The Bible says, go, repent. In this case, in Matthew 5, it says, repent. You know, you know your brother has something against you. Don't wait for that person to bring it up. You know you've done something wrong. Repent. In Matthew 18, it says if you've got something against your brother, go to that person. Don't wait for that person to come to you. Go and forgive. Repent, says Matthew 5. It's your job to initiate. Forgive, Matthew 18. It's your job to initiate. Now, do you think that I'm giving you, I know what you're thinking. Some of you are thinking, another unbelievably idealistic preacher who doesn't know what real life is like. How impractical. Let me ask you this. Do you want to be like Jesus? Or do you want to be like his counterpart? For a moment, think of Satan. Just think about him. Here's a guy nobody walks on. Everybody respects. Hey, even Jesus Christ respects his power. No feed your enemies. No turn the other cheek. No, go out and love people. No way does Satan do that kind of thing. Nobody steps on him. Nobody walks all over him. Nobody mistreats him. He's no wimp. And he's as powerful a person outside of heaven as you can have. Even, like I said, even Jesus Christ respects his power. And is he happy? He's always blaming everybody else for his problems. He is eaten up with self-pity. There's a fiery cancer of bitterness that eats the inside of his soul. God doesn't have to send his soul to hell. Because hell's already in his soul. And that's the way it is with anybody who holds on to anger, who calls people morons. You think he's happy? And then look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Here's someone who's done nothing but forgive all of his life. He came to us to love us, to save us. He opened his hands wide like this and we threw a spear right through his heart. And then we laughed at him as he died. And what did he do on the cross when we were doing this? When we were doing that? Did he say, that does it. I've done everything I possibly can for you. This is the last straw. No, instead he says, Father, forgive them. And then when he appears the next time, the first time he appears to us after the resurrection, does he come in like this and he says, listen, grovel a little bit in the dirt and maybe, maybe I can forget what you did to me on the cross. Instead he says, peace be to you. Jesus Christ, peace be to you. The results of his suffering he sees right now and he is satisfied. Who do you want to be like? You tell me which is more practical. He said, it's not practical to be trying to love people like this and forgive people like this and work these things out. It's not practical. Who do you want to be more like? You tell me. Now listen, this is the last thing. Jesus hints at the very end that if you do not obey the law of relationships with the help of the Holy Spirit, you are not fit for worship. He says, if you are not willing to repent to make up relationships, if you're not willing to forgive to make up relationships, you're unfit for worship. It means that you should leave the gift at the altar and it says, watch out where the judge, who's God himself, will turn you over, put you in prison, out of fellowship with him, you'll stay there until you pay the last penny. Now, that sounds like a warning, but it's also a promise. Because some of you are saying, how do I ever get the power? How do I ever get the power to do this? And the answer is through worship. Seeing who you are. Do you believe you're a sinner saved by grace or are you a Pharisee? Do you believe you're a person saved freely by grace, completely accepted, then the more you see that, the more you'll be transformed by that knowledge and you'll be able to forgive. And you'll be able to love and you'll be able to forgive. Let go of the anger and let go of the rockiness and let go of the, you moron. The one thing I hated all of my life, more than anything else, was when people were late for an appointment for me. If I said I wanted to see you at 7, you weren't there for years, I would just be so angry if somebody missed or was late. And one night, I thought that a wedding I was to perform, was it 7? If I remember correctly, yeah. The wedding I was to perform, the service was supposed to be at 7 o'clock. No, I thought it was at 7.30. It was at 7. Pardon me. I still can't get it straight. I thought that the service was going to start at 7.30. All right? Actually, it started at 7. I arrived 15 minutes early at 7.15 and found that the service was in progress. I sat in the back knowing I had to wait until it was over and I just, you do not know. I did not know what I went through. It was unbelievable. There was a second minister who was helping out and therefore he went and did the whole thing but I was absolutely humiliated. Afterwards, the couple was just incredible to me. They healed me on the spot. They came up and they said, look, it could happen to anybody. You did all the premarital counseling. It was wonderful. It helped us tremendously. Please come on down to our reception. We won't even bring up the subject. They healed me. And let me tell you something. Do I ever, ever get angry when somebody's late? Yeah. When I'm forgetting about that. If I ever remember that day in which I saw, man, look at what I have done to them. And then I saw what they did for me. If I even begin to remember that, I can't get, I can hardly get angry at anybody for much anything because I remember who I was and I remember what they did and that was just at a human level. How much more powerful is the knowledge of what Jesus Christ has done for you to transform your relationships? So, when do we get started with this? The minute you get up after the service is over, some of you are going to be very busy. You've got schedules. Some of you also only, you tend to only deal with and circulate around with and socialize with a certain kind of person. Some of you are very absorbed in your own problems and don't want to talk to anybody. Some of you are shy and scared of people. You know where you begin to practice this kind of relationship transformation? The minute you can stand up. You can break through a lot of old patterns and you can begin to say, lovelessness is murder. But I want to say one last thing and that is, if you think that none of this makes any sense, it could be because you're actually Pharisees. Don't go back. Go forward. A Pharisee is somebody who says, on the basis of my good deeds and my respectable citizenship, God will accept me. And then as a result of that, you'll never be able to break through into these kinds of relationships because you don't know you're a murderer. And you see the difference between you and real murderers as being one of an infinite chasm instead of one of quantity. Dear friends, you have to come and say, I see that I could never be righteous. You must give me your righteousness, Jesus Christ. And the minute you do that, you'll be transformed. You enter the kingdom. Otherwise, the judge may hand you over. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you have given us your Son. And we thank you that because you've given us your Son, you've given us everything else. Enable us to not just be a church full of people who practice transformed relationships, but we pray that we might find that the church in New York City is full of people who understand this principle, work it out in their practice, and thereby show the world that you are real. For the world will know by our unity and by our love. And now, Father, we pray that these things will be real in our lives for we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.
