The Israelites said to Moses, Was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you brought us to the desert to die? What have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt? Didn't we say to you in Egypt, Leave us alone, let us serve the Egyptians. It would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert. Moses answered the people, People, do not be afraid. Stand firm and you will see the deliverance the Lord will bring to you today. The Egyptians you see today you will never see again. The Lord will fight for you. You need only to be still. Then the Lord said to Moses, Why are you crying out to me? Tell the Israelites to move on. Raise your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea to divide the water so that the Israelites can go through the sea on dry ground. I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians so that they will go in after them, and I will gain glory. Through Pharaoh and all his army, through his chariots and his horsemen, the Egyptians will know that I am the Lord when I gain glory. chariots and his horsemen. Then the angel of the Lord who had been traveling in front of Israel's army withdrew and went behind them. The pillar of cloud also moved from in front and stood behind them, coming between the armies of Egypt and Israel. Throughout the night the cloud brought darkness to one side and light to the other side, so neither went near the other all night long. Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and all that night the Lord drove the sea back with a strong wind and turned it into dry land. The waters were divided, and the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground with a wall of water on their right and on their left. The Egyptians pursued them and all Pharaoh's horses and chariots and horsemen followed them into the sea. During the last watch of the night the Lord looked down from the pillar of fire and cloud at the Egyptian army and threw it into confusion. He made the wheels of their chariots come off so that they had difficulty driving and the Egyptians said, let's get away from the Israelites. The Lord is fighting for them against Egypt. Then the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand over the sea so that the waters may flow back over the Egyptians and their chariots and horsemen. Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and at daybreak the sea went back to its place. The Egyptians were fleeing toward it, and the Lord swept them into the sea. flowed back and covered the chariots and horsemen, the entire army of Pharaoh that had followed the Israelites into the sea. Not one of them survived.

But the Israelites went through the sea on dry ground with a wall of water on their right and on their left. That day the Lord saved Israel from the hands of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians lying dead on the shore. And when the Israelites saw the great power the Lord displayed against the Egyptians, and the people feared the Lord and put their trust in him and in Moses, his servant. This is the word of the Lord. We're looking at the life of Moses in the book of Exodus. Let me remind you of one of the main reasons we're doing this. In the beginning of the series, some weeks ago, we looked at a Christian writer, Barbara Brown Taylor,

a discussion with a Greek friend of hers who said, you know, in English you call them the Olympic Games, but that's not the proper rendering of the Greek word. The Olympics are not play. The Olympics are not sport. And she said, well, what is the right word then? And he says, I can't tell you in English. There's no English equivalent for the word in Greek. And this made her reflect She began to think about this, and she said, you know,

modern people want to have spiritual experience without the old words like sin and salvation.

And she said, we can understand why the words have been used in abusive ways. They've been used to abuse and exclude people. But she says, nevertheless, there is no equivalent to them. We them because there's no equivalent. To sin can't be translated into the languages of law or therapy. To sin doesn't translate as just to break the rules or to be sick. To be saved certainly doesn't translate into be spiritual. I mean, a lot of people today say, I'm not religious, but I'm spiritual. But to be saved doesn't translate. What she's saying is, and this is her quote, if I remember correctly. She says, when you lose these words, you lose hold of the realities that they represent. When you lose these words, you lose hold of the ancient realities they represent. Well, what are you going to do about that? The answer is you go to the Bible. Because one of the Bible's functions, with all its matchless literature, one of the Bible's functions is to pour meaning and content into these kinds of words so that we can get at the realities. with them. And there is probably no text in all of the Bible that is a better text to look at if you want to understand this old word, salvation. The crossing of the Red Sea is looked at by the whole Bible. Every part tends to look back to see it as a paradigm of salvation, as a paradigm of how God helps us escape from the things that are enslaving and killing us. So St. Paul in 1 Corinthians 10, verses 1 to 3 there, he says, he likens the crossing of the Red Sea to Christian baptism and conversion, and so on. So, these irritating words, at least irritating for New Yorkers, these irritating questions, are you saved? Do you need to be saved? Do you understand the implications of being saved? You can't answer those questions any better than by looking at this text. So let's notice, as I said, this text shows us how God helps us escape the things that are killing us and enslaving us. So let's let it tell us three things about this, about how God intervenes in life to do this. Let's ask the question of the text, what do we need to escape from, how can we escape from it, and why can we escape from it? What do we need to escape from, from, how can we escape from it, and why can we escape from it? So, first, how? Pardon me, that's not right. What? Listen to yourself, Tim. What? Okay. What do we have to escape from? Okay, background. We can't print the entire chapter, so the first few verses of chapter 14, which we didn't print and didn't read to you, Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, has allowed the Hebrews, who were their slaves, to go free. And the Hebrews have left the Nile Valley, and they've gone many, many miles on their way back to their ancient homeland, Canaan, and now they've gotten to the very first barrier, the first physical barrier, which is the Red Sea. Meanwhile, back in the Nile Valley, we read that Pharaoh and his officials suddenly had a change of heart. And this is almost hilarious, but it's not, of course. It's very serious. But in chapter we read, then Pharaoh and his officials changed their minds and said, what have we done? Pharaoh calls for 600 chariots. The chariots, of course, were the great military weapon of the time, the most terrible instrument of death that human beings knew at the time. And with 600 chariots, they let out to catch the Israelites. And of course, what they're going to do, as we can see, the Israelites already know about it in verse 11, they're going to put them in their graves. They're going to slaughter them. And therefore, the slave masters have led out to go after their former slaves and to say, if you don't serve us, you're going to die. Now, what's the response of the Hebrews to this situation? Because they look up and they see that they're trapped between the army and the sea. And what they say is in verse 11 to 12, and what we see there is what can only be called by any standard delusional talk, delusional thinking. It's seriously, pathologically out of touch with reality. First of all, it's delusional about the past. Notice verse 12. It says, didn't we say to you, they're saying this to Moses, didn't we say to you in Egypt. Leave us alone. Let us serve the Egyptians. Didn't we say, we told you that we didn't want to leave, that we were just fine? Well, that's not quite, if you go back into the rest of the book of Exodus, that's not what happened. They never said anything like this. Chapter 4, verse 29, when Moses and Aaron came back from the wilderness, it says, chapter 4, 29, Moses and Aaron brought together all the elders of the Israelites and told them everything the Lord had said and performed people, and they believed. And when the people heard that the Lord was concerned about them and had seen their misery, they bowed down and worshipped. See, that's reality. This is what they remembered. So they're delusional in their thinking. They're in denial, you see. They completely revised in their thinking what actually happened. So they're delusional about the past, but not only that, they're delusional about the present because they say, it would be better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die. Now, you notice something missing calculus, we could serve the Egyptians or we could die. There's something missing here, isn't there? A reasonable group of people would say this. We've just seen the Lord of Moses, we've just seen this Lord God send ten major plagues into Egypt. We've just seen this God give irrefutable, empirical evidence of His omnipotence and of His commitment to us, and He's brought the most powerful military and political nation on the face of the earth to its knees.

So the most reasonable thing would be to say, we need an 11th plague here. We need one more. Now, there's a couple of approaches. They might have said, oh, Moses, we're sure that you'll send an 11th plague. I mean, that's possible. Or they could have said, oh, Moses, you've got to send and one more, one more. But God's not even in the equation. They're not even asking for that. He's not even in the equation. There's no hope. He's not even part of it. How could that be? And the answer is this. What's the point? Here's the point. Modern people love the concept of freedom. It's one of the main themes of modern discourse, course. Freedom, liberation. And the book of Exodus is all about freedom and liberation.

Modern people define freedom like this. Freedom is freedom from any Lord or Master, from having any Lord or Master. Freedom is freedom from any restrictions on my individual choice. Freedom is freedom to belong to yourself. There we go. That's modern definition of freedom. having any lord or master. No restrictions on individual choice to be your own, to belong to yourself. No lord or master at all. But what the narrator is doing, what the writer of Exodus is showing us, is that is impossible. It's not just undesirable. That definition is impossible. Because if you take a look here, you actually have the group of Hebrews, this Hebrew nation, by modern definition free. You know why? First of all, they've left Egypt. They're not under the yoke of the Egyptians. There's no more chains on them. They're out of the country. They've left the Egyptians. They're not under the yoke of the Egyptians. On the other hand, they haven't gotten to Mount Sinai. They haven't gotten to Sinai. They haven't heard the law. They haven't made oaths. They haven't taken oaths to enter into service of God. So they're not in the yoke of the Egyptians. They're not in the yoke of the Lord God. By modern definitions, they're free. How do you like them?

They are still slaves. They're slaves to fear. They're paralyzed. They're slaves to sense. What I mean by that is they're slaves to what their senses tell them, what they see and feel and hear, instead of what they know to be true. They're slaves of delusional thinking. They're slaves of circumstance. Things aren't going well, and all of a sudden everything is terrible. Moses is different. Moses is absolutely cool. Stand firm. Don't be afraid. The Lord will fight for you today. Moses, there's no slavery about him. There is no fear. He's not paralyzed with fear. He's absolutely courageous. He's absolutely in control. Why? He's seen the fire of God. he's met God face to face. He's already in covenant service with God. Now, you see what the point here is? The modern idea that to be free is to have no Lord or master, to belong to yourself is impossible. It's a fiction. It doesn't exist. There is no such middle ground. You are either a slave to God or you're a slave to something else, but you're never your own. You're either serving the Lord as the absolute Lord of your life, or you're in terrible slavery to something else and there's nothing else. There's no other alternative. There's nothing between. You're never your own. You never belong to yourself. Now, this is, I mean, it's so vividly and perfectly put by the narrative. Now, we mentioned this the first week, kind of in passing, because this is really one of the themes of the entire book of Exodus. God never says, let my people go. Remember this? God never says, let my people go. That's the modern idea of freedom. He says, let my people go that they may worship me. And they're not free until they're in worship. They're not free until they come to the mountain and they see him and they recognize his beauty and they're smitten by it and they're more enthralled by his beauty and his reality than any other. And not till then have they really gone. Let my people go that they may worship me. They're not really free. They're not really liberated. Now, we mentioned that, but tonight, pardon me, this morning, we have to talk about this in a little more detail because whereas the whole book of Exodus is about this theme, this is, in a sense, the classic text. This is the heart of the theme right here. Let me break this idea down. This is a radically different understanding of freedom than the modern view, and that is that unless God is the absolute Lord of your life, you're an absolute slave to something else, and there's no alternative. You're never your own. Let me break this down into four components to us understand it briefly before moving on. First of all, let's look at this. Number one, you have to live for something. There has to be something you look for to give you meaning in life and a sense of your own significance. I think Rocky Balboa put it best when he said to his girlfriend who was asking him, why are you putting yourself through all this? When he said, I just want to go the distance, then I'll know I'm not a bum. Then I'll know I'm not a bum. Now, I propose to you that your hearts may not use the same language,

but every human being has to do something about encroaching bumness, the sense that maybe I'm really not much, maybe I'm not that important, maybe my life really means nothing. Maybe really everything I'm doing is pointless. It makes no difference. Maybe I'm a bum. Everybody's got a different... everybody's heart's got different language. Everybody's heart's got different jargon. The point is, you've got to live for something. That's part one. First component. Second component. Whatever you live for, you are serving. Whatever you live for is controlling you. Whatever is the... see, whatever is the thing that really It's something you've got to have. You have to have it. And anything you have to have controls you. Now, you don't want to believe that. I mean, it's so vividly put here by the text. You know, you're going to see this again and again as you read the book of Exodus. Israel does not want to think of themselves as slaves. There's one place, next chapter, next week actually, where the Israelites say, chapter 16, verse 3, they say to Moses, you know, in Egypt, we sat around mountains of meat, and we ate all the food we wanted, yet you have brought us into the desert to starve. In other words, we weren't slaves back then. We were having a great time. Now, you see, we don't want to think of ourselves as slaves to the things that control us. Absolutely we don't, but we are. Anything that you live for, now you may not know, we're going to get to this in a second, until you actually start to fail it or you start to lose it, but anything you live for That's why Euripides, you know, I put this in one of the readings. Euripides, this is not a biblical idea. This is common sense. He says, no one is free. You're a slave to wealth or to the law or the people you're trying to please. Whatever you live for, you're controlled by. You know, somebody, interestingly enough, who develops this biblical theme with a remarkable amount of complexity and specificity in one of his songs is Bob Dylan, who on his album Slow Train Coming has a song called You Gotta Serve Somebody. And here's the middle part of it. It's pretty interesting. This is just something right out of the center of it I drew. You may be an ambassador to England or France. You may like to gamble. You may like to dance. You may be the heavyweight champion of the world. You may be a socialite with a long string of pearl. But you're somebody. Yes, indeed. You're going to have to serve somebody. It might be the devil, might be the Lord, but you're going to have to serve somebody. Bob Dylan said it. This must be right. So you have to posit the second component of the biblical understanding. A, you have to live for something. B, whatever you live for controls your life. Okay, now C, whatever you're living for will control your life and enslave you whether it's a bad thing or a good thing. Now, this is what's tough to do. Let me just show you the range quickly with some fear and trepidation. Okay, at one end, Nancy and Bill Sykes in the novel Oliver Twist. There's a great example of being enslaved to a bad thing. Nancy says, I can't live without Bill. Without Bill, I've got absolutely nothing. She's paralyzed by the thought of losing Bill, so she stays with him even though he beats her. And there's an abusive relationship, a nice good example of being enslaved to something that's bad. And of course, everybody can see that. Okay, let's move over. Let me give you another example. I remember some years ago, I was watching an interview, and it wasn't a particularly incredibly memorable thing he said, but he was interviewing a man who clearly had a whole lot of different paramours and lovers and things over the years. And the interviewer says to the guy, he says, Why don't you settle down with one person? Have you ever thought of settling down with one person? What he said was very simple. He says, Oh, no, no, no, no. If you do that, you've built your life on one person. If you build your life on anybody, you're not free.

And, you know, what he was actually saying is, you know, you give yourself to somebody. You're a slave to them. You build your life on them. around whether they're happy and whether your relationship is good. He says, I want to be free. And yet it suddenly occurs, as you look at that, it suddenly occurs that though that looks like emotional strength, it's really another form of slavery. He's not addicted to Bill Sykes like Nancy. He's addicted to freedom. He's addicted to independence. He's addicted so that he's not free to commit. He is enslaved to non-commitment. Now, wait a minute, though. You say, holy smoke. isn't he? If you give your life to somebody, then you're a slave to them and everything that they do. You're a slave to them, yeah. But on the other hand, if you don't give yourself to anybody, you're still a slave. And that's the whole point. The Bible is saying anything at all. But God in the very center of your life leads you to a horrible slavery and you're controlled and you're really being driven and pulled around. Let me just give you, I shudder to do it, but let me just give you one other example. My wife and I have a marriage that's better than either of us expected and certainly better than we deserved, and actually, for some reason, much better than we've actually earned. And yet, if God wasn't a force in our life, we'd be so paralyzed by the other person's cough, so paralyzed by the other person's ache. You see, without God, well, put it this way, with God's help, we struggle constantly against the paralysis of being enslaved to a good thing. You see, when you have something really, really good in your life, how do you keep from being utterly enslaved to absolutely paralyzed by fear that anything will go wrong with it or you'll ever lose it? How can you be of any help to the other person if you're so paralyzed by fear of ever losing them? See, anything, we struggle, struggle, we struggle not to be enslaved by something good. Nancy struggles being enslaved to Bill Sykes' Something Bad. The guy who won't commit himself basically is being controlled because he's afraid to commit because he's enslaved to independence. Everybody, everybody, unless God is the absolute center of your life, is a terrible slave. Now, fourth, here's the component, see? You got to live for something. Whatever you live for, you serve. Whatever you serve, whether it's good or bad, will enslave you. And last of all, if you ever fail to get, or if you ever lose, or if you ever fail the thing you've built your life around, it will come after you and say, serve me or die. It will come after you and pursue you and attack you and try to slaughter you. Now, what I mean by that is, if you build your life around being a good parent and something goes wrong with your children, if you build your life around being a good breadwinner your business. In other words, whatever you build your life around, you may not think you're a slave to it until something goes wrong with it, and then it will come after you. I don't mean your children come after you. I mean the thing you've made of the children in the heart come after you. It will come after you just like this, and it will say, if you don't serve us, you will die, and it will curse you the rest of your life, and it will attack you the rest of your life, and there'll be self-loathing and anger inside, anger against yourself, anger against the world. it's the curse of your false covenant masters in your life.

Oh, my friends, what do we need to be saved from? You need to be saved from not serving God. Because if you're not serving God, then you are a slave to something that someday will kill you. You need God's help to escape it, because someday it will get you. It will hunt you down. It will destroy you if you don't escape it into His arms. Now, secondly, that's what we need to be saved from. See, that's the universal human condition. If that's what we need to be saved from, how can we be saved? How is it possible? The second thing we learn is that God saves through a decisive act. The first thing we learn is God helps us escape from serving anything but Him. him. The second thing we learn is that God helps us escape through a decisive action.

When Pharaoh sets out with his chariots, from the moment he did that, he put the Hebrews under a sentence of death. He condemned them to death. And as long as the Hebrews were on this side of the river, they were under that sentence, they were under that condemnation, and they were in mortal danger. But what's interesting is, the moment they crossed that dry river, that dry seabed. I said river, didn't I? The moment they crossed that dry seabed, the moment they crossed it, they passed through. But as soon as the Egyptians tried to pass through, they found that there was an invisible warrior fighting against them and refusing to let them pass. In other words, the second they crossed that line, out from under the sentence of death, and there was no more condemnation for them. In a sentence, just in a moment. As soon as they crossed over, they were under a sentence of death. They were under condemnation. They were subject to it. And then they came out from under it, and it no longer had anything to do with them. It had no more power over them at all. Jesus Christ says, in John chapter 5, verse 24, I tell you the truth. Whoever hears My Word and believes Him who sent me has eternal life and will not be condemned. He has crossed over from death to life. Now, the second thing we learn about how God does salvation, how God helps us escape from the things that are killing us, is salvation in the Bible works completely differently, in a very, very different way than it does in any other religion. See, every other religion, you can get converted. You can convert to a religion. But what that means is you simply begin a process, a long process, in which you use the resources of the religion to get enlightenment or to come near God or to pass judgment or whatever. And when you die, if you've reached enlightenment, you know, in some religions, when you die, you've reached enlightenment. That means you are released from the cycle of, endless cycle of reincarnation. Or in some other religions, if you live a good life at the end, you're able to pass into paradise and so forth. Jesus says no, I've got something else for you there can be a moment in your life in which you're under condemnation you are liable for everything you've ever done wrong

all the failures the things that are killing you the things that are hurting you they're pulling you down, you're subject to them and there can be a moment in which you cross over and now there's no more condemnation and you're not liable at all

you have crossed over from death to life you are under condemnation now you can know you have eternal life hopefully if I live a very good life through a long process of trying my very best to pray and go to the Bible and obey someday when I die I'll have it no, you can know you have eternal life now you can cross from death to life now you can know this very second that the Lord God of the universe receives you that the arms you've been looking for in all other sets of arms that the good verdict you've been looking for in every other verdict, every other test,

that God delights in you, accepts you, receives you now. That's, you see, Christianity has a decisive change of status, which is the very heart of what it means to become a Christian. Christian. Primarily, becoming a Christian does not mean a change in character. Of course, as a Christian, I want to become more like Jesus, and that takes a long process, and it goes on for the rest of my life. Of course, as a Christian, I want to be like Jesus. Of course, I want to change my character. Of course, I want to change my behavior. But what makes you a Christian is not a change of character or behavior, but a change of status. When Paul says in Romans 8.1, now there is no condemnation, no more condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You've crossed over. No more condemnation. Would you put that in the context of Paul's life? Paul, he said, was a Pharisee. He had a Lord and Master before he became a Christian, and that was moral righteousness. He says, as a Pharisee in chapter 3 of Philippians, he says, I was, you know, with regard to moral righteousness, I was faultless. So here was a man who had built everything on having a great record, but he killed people. He destroyed lives. He had done horrible things. And when it came home to him, he says in Romans 7, he just began to go nuts. And yet now, he says, there is no condemnation of those in Christ Jesus. There's a new movie, and I haven't seen it, but I was just reading the reviews, called Heaven, and it stars Cate Blanchett, who's one of my favorite actors. And in the movie, Cate Blanchett's character tries to actually set off a bomb to destroy a drug dealer who's ruining the lives of people. But it goes wrong, and she ends up killing four innocent people, including children. And I was told in the review, the review said that when Cate Blanchett's character in the movie is told what she has done, that she has killed innocent people, when it dawns on her what she's done, evidently in a great moment of acting skill, you can just see her absolutely collapse and absolutely go into hell. And she never gets out of it as long as the movie goes on. But Paul did what she couldn't do. Paul had the same experience. Paul had the same sense of liability and self-loathing for what he'd done. He'd realized what he'd done. He'd failed the thing that he most wanted to be and do. and yet instead of being absolutely in hell and collapsing, he says now there is no there is no more condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. It's almost like Paul wrote the hymn, though he didn't, which is an old hymn that goes like this, well may the accuser roar of sins that I have done. I know them all and thousands more. Jehovah knoweth none.

Become a Christian means there's a decisive moment in which you pass from death to life, under the sentence. Well, you say, how could that be? Well, that's a good question. I'll get to that in a second, but notice how the narrative shows it happening. It's remarkable. Look, God doesn't say, here's the law of God at Mount Sinai. Okay, you're going to obey it? Now I'll lead you out. No, he leads them out before they get to the law. In other words, this salvation is apart from the law, apart from obeying the law. Ah, somebody says, but they had to trust, didn't they? They had to have a lot of faith. Well, yes and no. Would you notice something? Notice something. It says that they walked through literally a canyon with walls of water in order to get across. Now, here's what my belief is. Some of them walked across like this. Wow. This is great. I knew he could do it. But there was a lot of other people that walked through like this. I'm going to die. Oh, my God. I can't believe it. How long? Look at this. The water. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my. Look. It's going They were all equally saved. The people with strong faith, the people with very, very little faith. Why? It's not just that God saved them apart from their obedience to the law. God saved them apart from the quality of their faith. It wasn't the quality or the amount of the faith that saved them. It was the object of their faith. They just believed in him. He fought for them. It had nothing to do not only with their righteous moral behavior but even the quality of their faith and just how strong their faith was in their heart. Not at all. And they crossed from death to life. To become a Christian is a change primarily of status that happens in a moment. And if you don't understand that, you don't understand how salvation works. And I would even go so far as to say you may not actually have that salvation, no matter how hard you seem to be working for it. Anybody that stayed on the other side and tried to fight for themselves, was gone. Dr. David Martin Lloyd-Jones has a little, you know, used to use this as a little test with people. He would say, can I explain the Christianity to you? And they would say, okay. And then he would finish, say, do you understand that? They say, oh, yeah. So let me ask you a question. Are you a Christian? Oh, they'd say, I don't know, but I'm trying. And Dr. Lloyd-Jones used to say, the minute somebody said, I'm trying to be a Christian, and I realized they didn't understand the first thing about it. They were understanding Christian, they saw Christianity as the same as Buddhism or Islam or Confucianism or any other religion when it's fundamentally different. Salvation comes through a decisive, irreplaceable act in which decisively there's a change of status and you cross from death to life. There was once you were under condemnation no longer. Well, somebody says, how could that be? How could that be? And here's why you should ask that question. it's not too hard, even though it's a little hard for modern people, to read this about the Egyptians being covered with the waters of judgment. You know, in the Bible, the judgment, the floodwaters, they are symbols and they represent the judgment and the justice, eternal justice of God, you know, like Noah's flood and so on. And when you see it coming down on top of the Egyptians, since they're about to do an act of what's today called euphemistically

surprising. It doesn't bother us quite so much to see it happening since you have genocidal maniacs having come down on them. But you know what? Look at the people who are getting through without even just sort of being wet. Look at these people. Look at the ungratefulness of these people. Look at the continued stupidity of these people. Look at the...look where you know where they are going to be doing in the future. They are not great. How is that they are able to pass unscathed. How is it possible? Okay, last question. How is it possible? Here's what we have to be escaping from, and here's how we can escape from it through a decisive act, but why is it possible for anybody? Why were they able to do it? And the answer is this. Notice something interesting about who Moses is. Verses 11 and 12, it tells us that the people were acting stupidly, horribly, horribly, faithlessly, right? Verse 11 and 12. Verse 13 and 14 shows us Moses acting beautifully, wonderfully, strongly, faithfully. And in verse 15, the Lord said to Moses, why are you crying out to me? Commentators for centuries have noticed something very odd. In verse 15, Moses is rebuked, even though he hasn't been doing it. He gets the rebuke that the people deserve. He is rebuked as if he'd done what the people had done. Their sins are imputed to him, and he gets the rebuke that they deserve because he is their mediator. He is their representative. If you say, well, I think you're just exaggerating. You're reading too much in. I don't think so. I mean, if that was the only instance of it, but there are others. Because you see, for example, later on in the book of Exodus, we read this. The next day, Moses said to the people, you've committed a great sin, but maybe I can make atonement for it. So he Lord and said, what a great sin the people have committed. Now forgive their sins, but if not, blot me out of the book. But Moses is only pointing. You see, Moses is the mediator. The people went through because they had a mediator, but actually this is just pointing. It's all symbolic and it's pointing to a greater Moses and a greater mediator. You know, there's a place where Jesus called himself a greater Jonah. He says, a greater than Jonah is here. You know why? Remember when Jonah was in a sea storm and there was a flood, but it was a flood of divine justice, and he said, throw me in. And when he was thrown into the waters, everyone else was saved. And when Jesus calls himself the greater Jonah, this is what he's doing. What he's saying is, as horrible as it is to go down into the deep water, And as you're sinking down, you feel the enormous weight of the water pressing in on you and beginning to crush your bones. As horrible as that is, I experienced the reality to which that points. I experienced the reality which Noah's flood points, to which the Red Sea points, to which Jonah points. Because when I was on the cross and I cried out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken in me. I was experiencing the flood of God's wrath. I was the true Moses. See, Moses just got the rebuke you deserve, but I got everything you deserve. And if you put your faith in me,

I will lead you out. You will cross over because I have taken what you deserve. It's all about Jesus. Now, if that's true, here's where we are. Let me apply this. Are you saved? Do you need to be saved? Do you understand the implications of being saved? Here's a summary thought or two. If there's anyone here who says, I'm really not sure what I believe about Christianity, actually. I'm not sure I believe it or trust it. If you are living your life without God in the center,

I appeal to you, with all due respect, would you stop being so psychologically naive as to think you're not free. Don't be so psychologically naive as to think so. There are things in your life that maybe if you don't feel like a slave right now, would you please look beneath the surface and realize that if you would fail those things or lose those things, they'd be after you, and they would say, serve us or we will kill you, and they would. And God says to you, I am the only Lord and Master that if you get me, I can fill your heart completely, and if you lose me, I can forgive you completely. I'm the only master and Lord who, if you get me, will fulfill you, and if you fail me, will forgive you because I died for you. That's why Jesus Christ says, my yoke is easy, my burden is light. What he means to say is, every other yoke will crush you. My yoke is the only one that frees you. My yoke is the only one that is not a burden. Secondly, Christian friends, you are saved, pardon me, you are free in principle, you are liberated in principle, but I would suggest if you look at your life, you'll see that you're only liberated in principle. I mean, once the Israelites got across the Red Sea, were they perfectly wonderful people after that? No, you haven't read the rest of, I mean, we're going to keep on looking. No, of course not. They had to live out every day what had happened to them to live out in actuality. And here's what I would like you to consider. Christian friends, there's a lot. Look at your lives. Are you still find yourself filled with anger about something right now? Do you find that circumstances are paralyzing you right now? Do you find, for example, that you're still having trouble getting over the past? You know what's going on? You're on this side of the Red Sea, and your old masters have come to the other side of the Red Sea, and they're screaming at you and yelling at you and saying, serve us or die, and you're listening to them. Don't do that. In New York City, so many of you have got such incredible talents. Do you want those talents to be your servants or your masters?

What if things aren't going very well in your career right now? Are you utterly cast down? If you're a Christian, they're on the other side of the sea, and they're yelling at you and saying, serve us or you will die, and you're saying, oh my gosh, I'm going to die. You're not going to die. It tells you in Colossians 3 what to do. Colossians 3 says your life is hid with Christ in God. Christ is your life. And this is what you must do. If you find, do you not find, it's one thing to be upset. It's another thing to be completely destroyed. It's one thing to be kind of worried. It's another thing to be paralyzed with fear. When you realize you've gone so far over that these things that should be your servants in your serving Christ, have become your masters. Look at them and say this. Do it today.

You are not my joy. Christ is my joy. You are not my safety. Christ is my safety. You are not my life. Christ is my life. I don't need you to have a life. I've got him. You can't die for me. He died for me. And as you do that, and that's what the Lord's Supper is here to do in some ways is to make what Jesus Christ, that liberating action of Jesus Christ, to make it real to you. As you do that, you'll be able to live as free men and women instead of what we tend to live like. In principle, you're free, but in actuality, to a great degree, you're not. Take hold of your freedom. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us this. Make your our son's sacrifice real to us through the Lord's Supper. We ask for this in Jesus' name. Amen.
