Please read the passage that's printed in your bulletin from Exodus chapter 4. Now, Exodus chapter 3, which was looked at last week, and Exodus chapter 4, we're looking at this week, are really all the same narrative. We're going this summer through the life of Moses, and so we're looking at big chunks. And that means that though I'm going to read to you from Exodus 4, I'm going to be ranging over the account in Exodus chapter 3 and 4 that tells us about God meeting Moses at the bush. Okay, so let me read to you the passage that's right here that's listed from Exodus 4, but we're going to be looking at the broader context. This is Exodus 4, 10 to 17. God has met Moses in the burning bush. If you were here last week, we read that. Moses is out as a shepherd in the desert, and he sees a bush that's burning but is not consumed, and he says, this is weird. I shall turn aside to see this great sight. And he comes over and God speaks to him out of the bush, says, Moses, Moses, take off your shoes, take off your sandals, this is holy ground. And he reveals himself to Moses and he says, I want you to go to Pharaoh in Egypt to lead my people of Israel out of bondage. And Moses said to the Lord, O Lord, I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant. low of speech and tongue. The Lord said to him, who gave man his mouth? Who makes him deaf or mute? Who gives him sight or makes him blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now go. I will help you speak and will teach you what to say. But Moses said, oh Lord, please send someone else to do it. And then the Lord's anger burned against Moses and he said, what about your brother Aaron, the Levite? I know he can speak well. He is already on his way to meet you and his heart when he sees you. You shall speak to him and put words in his mouth, and I will help both of you speak and will teach you what to do. He will speak to the people for you, and it will be as if he were your mouth and as if you were God to him. But take this staff in your hand so you can perform miraculous signs with it. And this is God's word. There's two great things that this historic event teaches us. God meeting Moses and calling him and making him a leader in the burning bush. And Dick Kaufman was here last week, and if you were here last week, you heard the first of the things. This passage teaches about God and it teaches about us. And last week, Dick talked about what this teaches us about God. And he brought out a fascinating point. And this really is the case. If you read carefully, we're told that you can know God personally. This passage teaches us you can know God personally because the God who reveals himself in the burning bush is not just a Holy God in general. But the God who reveals himself in the bush is the angel of the Lord. The angel of the Lord. Now, Dick talked about this last week. And this mysterious figure in the Old Testament, the angel of the Lord, who sometimes seems to be speaking for the Lord, but other times speaks as the Lord. Dick pointed out that this mysterious figure is an Old Testament manifestation of the second person of the Trinity, Jesus Christ. And that the reason Moses can meet the holy God is because there's a mediator, Jesus Christ. We know God, and we can know a holy God, though we're sinful, because of the mediator. Now, we're not going to backtrack at all. We can't go back over that. That was last week. If you weren't here last week, I would suggest getting the tape or talking to somebody else who was here, because that's very important in a sense of foundation for what I'm about to say tonight. But we have to move on, because the This passage teaches us, as though it's possible to know God personally, there is no knowing. I'll say this, and I know this will not be illuminating as I say it, but that's what the purpose of the sermon is, is to unpack it. There's no knowing of God without calling. God, you can't know God unless God calls you. There's no personal relating to God without vocation. modern people seem to be searching. There's all sorts of people talking about how modern people are searching and seeking. And I've discovered that at least here in New York that when people go for a spiritual search they think that they think it's their idea that they're searching. They think it's their idea. They also believe that the purpose of the search is to find some cover up the holes and the needs and the gaps and the weaknesses they found in their lives so that they can go back onto the path of life and reach their goals. In other words, New Yorkers who are searching believe that their searching is their idea and that the goal of their search is to find some spiritual experience that will help them reach their goals. And the Bible says, uh-uh. The Bible says, number one, if you are searching, it's only because God has already called you. you would not be seeking him if he hadn't already come to call you and when you find him when you find him you never find him just to have an experience but to find him and to know him personally is to be given an entirely new agenda for your life you become a person in mission you become completely reoriented to the world. You can't use God. You can't. Almost everybody I know that I've met in New York who's trying to find God is trying to find God to use God. They're trying to find a God who will kind of help them over the rough spots that they've discovered in their lives. The average person gets out into life in their early 20s and thinks basically I can make it if I try hard enough and somewhere, somewhere you grow up. And some of you do it at 22. Some of you do it at 42. Some of you do it whenever. And you say, you know what? I can't. The first of the steps in Alcoholics Anonymous, the first of the 12 steps is what? I'm powerless over my problems. There's a number of ways of putting it. Now, that's only the first step. You haven't even begun to recover unless you realize that you are not in charge, that you're not strong enough to handle life. And of course, when you grow up, you immediately say, I need something spiritual. And you go to try to find a God who will help you reach those goals you can't reach without Him. So you're out to use God. This passage tells us that can't be done. There is no way to know God without being called by God. There's no way to even search for Him without having been called. And there's no way, once you find Him, of now going back to life and having Him help you reach those goals. To know Him is to get a whole new set of life goals. orientation to your priorities, to get a whole new life's agenda. Let me show you this. Let me show you, first of all, how Moses is called in and then he's immediately sent out. He's called in by God, otherwise he wouldn't have found him. And then once he finds him, he's sent out in a whole new way. And that'll tell us something about what it means for us to know God and be called by God. Look, first of all, now, again, I told you this a minute ago, I'm going to have to range over chapter 3 and 4. First of all, let's notice how Moses is called in. If you go back to chapter 3, and let me just read this to you, we see Moses saw that though the bush was on fire, it did not burn up. And so Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange sight, why the bush does not burn up. But when he gets over to the bush, now he thinks it's his idea, by the way, he says, oh, oh, I will turn aside from my ordinary routines. I will go look at this strange sight. This is odd, a bush that's burning. Dick mentioned last week that the bushes of the desert, if they do catch on fire, explode usually. But certainly if they catch on fire, they're consumed. This was weird. So Moses goes over. And when he gets there, it were told, and then God called to him from within the bush, Moses, Moses. Moses, and verse 5, do not come any closer, said God. Take off your sandals. Where you are standing is holy ground. I am the God of your father, of Abraham, of Isaac, and Jacob. And Moses hid his face. Okay, what do we learn here? First of all, somebody's going to say, that's Moses. Moses, of course, got this call because he was an extraordinary leader. He was used greatly of God. God. Just because Moses was called doesn't mean we're all called, and you're wrong. You're wrong. It's true that Moses had an extraordinary calling, and therefore the circumstance of his calling were extraordinary. And we don't necessarily expect miracles or dramatic things to be the way in which we're called, but the pattern's the same. In 1 Corinthians 1, Paul writes the Corinthian. He's writing an entire church, and he says, brothers and sisters, remember what you were when you were called. Not many were wise, not many were influential, not many of noble birth, and he goes on to make whatever point. But don't you see what he assumes? He assumes every single person who is sitting in that congregation in Corinth was called or wouldn't be a Christian. Why? You will not seek God unless he first calls you. Paul says in Romans 3, verse 11, no one seeks for God. Let me put it to you. bluntly, the Bible says that a search for the real God cannot originate in your heart. If you are searching for the true and real God, the origin, the impetus, the impulse for that search did not come from inside. No one seeks for God. Romans chapter 8 verse 4, Paul says it another way, the natural mind is enmity toward God. It will not submit to the true God. Indeed, Indeed, it cannot. The Bible says that the heart, the natural human heart, the natural sinful human heart, its goal in life is to get away from God. Its goal in life is to avoid the real God. No one seeks for God unless God has called you, unless God comes in. That's the reason why you have this wonderful little hymn. "'Twas sovereign mercy called me and taught my opening mind. The world had else enthralled me to heavenly glories blind. My heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first." That's the point. That's what the Bible says. says. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first. Sovereign mercy must have called me and opened my mind up. Well, now somebody's going to object right away, and this is a very fair objection. They say, you know what? This doesn't make sense. You're saying that nobody seeks for God, that even if you seek God, it's only as a result of calling. But everybody seems to be seeking for God. The other day, I saw an amazing sight. I saw on a TV show, I saw Robert Bork. Remember Robert Bork? Very, very conservative candidate for Supreme Court justice who got axed by the liberals, you know, a few years ago. I think he was nominated by Reagan. And then there was Camille Paglia, a bisexual postmodern feminist. They were sitting alongside of each other, and somebody said, do you believe there's a spiritual awakening in this country? do you believe people are searching for old-fashioned religion? Do you believe people are searching for God? And they both said, absolutely. And I said, this must be true. This is almost proof. This is as close to proof as you can. I couldn't believe. They both said, absolutely. Didn't agree on anything else. But they both said it. They said, oh, people are searching. People are searching like never before. nations for it. But they agreed. Now, well, he says, so they agreed. So it's, you know, it's Camilla Pagli and Robert Bork against Paul. I mean, I'm sorry, Paul wins, and here's why. The way people seek to avoid God, the true God, is by searching for a counterfeit. See, most people don't avoid God by becoming atheists. Atheists always have been and always will be a very small number of any population or culture. Rather, the way in which people try to get away from God is they seek a controllable God. They seek to create or fabricate a controllable God. The reason that people don't want to be near God, the reason that people hate God, the reason that people stay away from God is because our human hearts are absolutely, desperately afraid of one thing. Losing control. Losing our sovereignty. and the only way we can avoid the true God is to fabricate a false God that's controllable. Now, let me give you the two basic kinds. I'm not saying there aren't an infinite variety of false gods. When people in their natural selves seek spiritually, they search for something. What they're really searching is for a God they can control. How do they do that? Well, like this. Let me give you the two basic kinds of controllable gods. a God that's nothing but moral standards. A God of all law. The other basic kind of counterfeit God is a God of all love. Just accepts us. You see a God of morality only. A God of moral standards. A demanding God. You know why that's a controllable God? Because you can control Him by being a good person. You can control Him by good works. You can control Him by being extremely moral. And then He owes you a good life. You've got Him. If you can earn your salvation by being a good person, which is what that kind of God... That's the way you get that kind of God. These people think that they're very religious. They think that they're seeking God. But they're doing their very best to avoid the real God because this is a God you can control. This is a God when you believe you're being religious and you're going to church and so forth and you're being so good. You feel like God owes you. That's why you get so mad when your prayers aren't answered. when your prayers aren't answered? You've got a controllable God. You've got a God, you see, that you can use. Then you've got the other kind of false God, which is basically a God of all love, all love. A God who accepts you no matter what. A God who will receive everybody no matter what. And in the end, you know, everyone will be saved. And a God who really wants you to enjoy life as best you can. And certainly it doesn't demand anything. It's just love itself. That's a God you can control too. That's a God that demands nothing of you. You know, in other words, the God of all law is a God who you can get to have him owe you. The God of all love is someone that you owe nothing to. It's not the biblical God. The biblical God, the real God, on the one hand says, I am holy and you must forsake your sin, but I have made a provision. You couldn't possibly be free from sin through your good works. I've made a provision. I've sent my son to die for you. In other words, this is the gospel. Jesus Christ came to live your life that you should have lived and die the death you should have died. And therefore, through him, you can be absolutely and utterly accepted, absolutely and utterly freed from sin. You can forsake sin. in, but sheerly through the grace of God, you can be cleansed. Don't you see, a God of all law, who you can satisfy through good works, you're trying to be your own Savior. And a God of all love, who you can do anything you want under him, you're trying to be your own Lord. But only the biblical God is God alone Savior and God alone Lord. And therefore, you have to completely surrender. You have no claims on a God like that. You cannot ever say, you owe me. All you can say is, I owe you. How much I owe you. How gratefully I owe you. But you lose total control with the a real God. And therefore nobody, but nobody, seeks a God like that. God has to come and intervene. God has to come and disturb you. God has to come and do something to shake you up. Now, when you take a look and see how Moses is called, you have a wonderful little pattern of how we're called. Let me show you how you know you're called. Let me show you how it works. In the very beginning, notice,

Moses doesn't really sense God after him. He just sees a bush burning, a very strange sight, and he goes to see. Now, Thomas Kuhn, many years ago, wrote a book called The Structure of Scientific Revolutions. And in that book, he says scientists, in fact, not just scientists, nobody, no scientists, he says nobody is really objective when you look at facts. you don't ever just let the fact speak for itself. Everybody comes with a set of assumptions about how life is. And you work that fact into your assumption. He says, for example, in the old days, everybody assumed there was a framework. And that is that the earth was in the center and all the heavenly bodies were revolving around the earth. So when you observed movements in the heaven, it all seemed to do what? You saw it go from here to here. Well, that seems to fit into the framework. You were interpreting what you saw in the framework. But in his book, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, he says, what happens is you go along with your framework and you're not really open to new data. You always tend to explain the data in terms of the framework until some piece of data comes in that puts stress on the old framework, a piece of data that does not compute, a piece of data that shows that your framework is not in touch with reality. A piece of data that creates stress that doesn't fit. And you say, Wait a minute. This doesn't fit. Here it is. And yet, if all that I believe about the world is true, but it doesn't seem to fit. And then suddenly somebody says, What if the earth is revolving around the sun? Let's try that on. And suddenly all the data begins to fit. And suddenly there's a crisis and there's a revolution. revolution. He says that's how science has moved. Not bit by bit, but bit in revolutions. The Bible says that ordinarily, all of us just sort of move on. We have our little ways of understanding life. You know, a lot of you were raised with a view that basically said, God is good when you're in a crisis, but basically God helps those who help themselves. I mean, didn't your parents tell you that, some of you? God helps those who help themselves. You've got to work pretty hard, you know. You can be anything you really want to be. God is there, you know, for a crunch. That's a worldview. But then suddenly a burning bush shows up. What is a burning bush? A burning bush is something that doesn't compute. It didn't compute. Moses went aside. It disturbed him. He says, wait a minute, this doesn't fit into my worldview. I've never seen a bush that can burn and not explode. You see? Now, it can be very mild the way God calls you through burning bushes. is, for example, it could be that the first thing that disturbed your view was that you met a Christian that was open-minded. In other words, you explain Christianity this way. You said, some people have to believe in moral absolutes and all that because they have personal psychological need for authority. And that's the reason why some of these people are into the born-again thing. And then you meet a very open-minded, more open-minded than you, loving, more loving than you, self-controlled, more self-controlled than you, Christian. It's a burning bush. And it makes you turn aside. It makes you say, wait a minute, wait a minute, what's going on here? But very often it's not so mild. Sometimes it's much more severe. You say God helps those who help themselves. Basically, you know, you can be anything you want to be. And you find that you come up against a wall. You come up against to the limits of your ability. You know, a great,

Every so often I use. Because it's such a good one. One of my heroes. A guy who's passed away now. He used to preach in London. A congregational minister. Named Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones. Before he went into the ministry. He was a doctor. Physician. And he had a guy. Who was a hero of his. Who was one of the greatest. Physicians in the country. And was one of the most. Honored men. One of the most. Wealthy men. One of the most. Influential men. And he was in love. With a woman. Who died. And Dr. Lloyd-Jones. Watch that man's life fall apart. And one day he saw that man come in. Some of you have heard this before. And Lloyd-Jones realized here's a man who had everything that a man could possibly ask for in this world. In fact, here's a man who had everything that Lloyd-Jones thought he needed and wanted and he realized this man was utterly unable to deal with life as it was. A burning bush. Something coming in. Something that makes you rethink the whole of your priorities. All of your values. makes you think about the foundations. What am I really living for? What are the problems of life? What, do I have what it takes to face death? Do I have what it takes to face life? He said, I suddenly realized, at that moment, I looked at that man, Lloyd-Jones says, and I saw the utter vanity of all human greatness. What was that? It was the call. It was the burning bush. Now I tell you, the call can come any old way. It can come mildly, it can come severely. It can be a disease. It can come through a sermon, believe it or not. A book, a lecture. It can come from a group of people that don't operate the way you think. It very often comes from some trouble in your own life. But here's how you know. At first you don't think God's involved, just like Moses didn't. It's something that comes in and challenges your whole framework, your whole way of thinking about things. What's the most important thing in life? But once you get closer, eventually God starts to call you out of it. Moses, Moses. And what does he say immediately? Take your sandals off. I am not a tame God. You can't trifle with me. What happens when you're really being called? At first, you're disturbed. At first, you know, you're just going with the comes along that doesn't compute and that makes you start to rethink everything. And then suddenly, here's how you know you got the call. God speaks to you and says, I am who I am. If you're a moral, religious person, you begin to see that you can't control this God by being a goody two-shoes. And if you're a secular, wild, avant-garde person, you start to see that you can't. This is not a God that is like Santa Claus that will give you toys no matter how you live. You suddenly say There's a God here that I can't trifle with There's a God here that I've got to give myself to There's a God who I've got to surrender to

Here's how you know the calls come to you start to say If there's a God He's all that matters If there's a God My relationship to Him is all that matters Instead of God being on the periphery God being someone who helps you with the gaps God being somebody Who you use to sort of explain The origin of the universe God becomes central. You take your shoes off. Has that happened to you? You know, my children are being born and raised in the church, awash with religious stuff. They are not Christians until and unless this happens to them, that they see God as the most important thing, that they see a God who they cannot control, that they see a God that they can't control by being good, and they can't avoid by being bad. It comes at you. Don't you see? It comes and it disturbs you. Has that happened to you? Have you turned aside? Have you taken off your shoes? Have you hidden your face? Well, now, the only other thing I've got to show you, but I'll have to do it rather briefly, is when you see God personally, don't you realize, by the way, Like, controllable gods you can pray to. You can placate. But you can't know them. You can't know a moral god. That you're just always being good to. And hoping that he'll give you goodies. Because you're being good. And you certainly can't know a kind of loving god. Who lets you do whatever you want. It's only the real god that you can really know. But once you know him. He says. Now go. You see that. We read this. Chapter 4. Verse 12. Look at it. It's right there in your bullet. What does he say? Now go. Go. I've got work for you to do. I'm not a tame God. You're not living for yourself anymore. You see, when you come to God hoping that he will sort of help you reach your goals, you will find that's not what you need. Here's the irony. Remember the guy that held up a sign, and every so often you see the sign, nothing is worth dying for? nothing is worth. There's a man without a mission. Nothing is worth dying for. Means. And by the way, 45 to 48% of all the people, they continually survey people. Is there any cause for which you would die? And I think the 53% that say yes, an awful lot of them are kidding themselves. Nothing is worth dying for. Here's what's interesting. If you have nothing bigger than yourself to live for. If you have nothing more significant than your safety. Nothing more significance than your needs. Nothing more significant in your life than your comfort. Here's the irony. There's nothing bigger than you that you're living for. If you don't have a mission in life, your life makes no impact. Your life is making no difference. And in the end, because nothing is more important than you, your life isn't important. Because nothing is more important than you. There's nothing you will give your life for. your life in the end isn't important. God says, if you know me, my cause, my truth, and my people are more important than your safety and your comfort and your bank account and your reputation. I want you now to live for your Christian brother and sister. I want you to live for your non-Christian neighbor. I want you to live for my glory. Not for yourself. And ironically, says God, that's what you needed all along. you came to me to try to fulfill yourself. The only way you'll be fulfilled is if you fulfill my calling. Now go. And here's the final, here's the final comfort. You notice what happens? You've got to end. You notice what happens when he says, now go? Moses says, now this is wonderful, isn't it? Oh Lord, please send someone else. these are immortal words and what does God say

he's mad but he says well how about if I put you on a team

here is a patient God if God has brought you to himself and you have been doing this for years. You've come to him. You've known him. You've heard the call in, but you're refusing the call out. You've come to know him, but on the other hand, he's been trying to get you to put him first, and you haven't been willing to do it. What does he do? Does he ever give up on you? No, I don't think so. You remember in the boat, they come to him when the storm is raging, and they say, Master, don't you care that we perish? and he gets up and says, o ye of little faith. Just like here. He gets up and says, o ye of little faith and then he does calm the storm. You know what that means? Now, when you go to God and say, don't you care? That's a pretty lousy prayer. But it's a prayer. Don't you care? Jesus says, that's pretty lousy faith. But it's faith. And we have a God that's so patient with us and so committed to us that he acts anyway. He rebukes, and then he acts anyway. He works with you. He doesn't despise the day of small things. A bruised reed, he will not break. A smoking flax, he will not quench. He's that gentle. He is calling you. He'll continue to call you. He'll say, get out of yourself. It'll be such a relief. It'll be such a relief to stop thinking so much of yourself. Lose yourself to find yourself. Lose yourself in my service and you'll find who you really are. And he works with us because he's that patient. His anger sometimes burns, but he says, I'll work with you. What a God. He's not a tame God, but he's not a harsh God. He's the real God. Let's pray. Give us, Father, the ability to see the real you as we now break the bread. be known to us in the breaking of the bread we ask in Jesus name amen