I'd like to read to you from Romans chapter 8, the same passage we looked at last week. Romans 8, it's printed in your bulletin. Just as last week we looked more at the first few verses, this week we'll be looking at the latter verses, but I'll read you the whole. Therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Jesus Christ the law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law was powerless to do, in that it was weakened by the sinful nature God did by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering. And so he condemned sin and sinful man in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fully met in us, who do not live according to the sinful nature, but according to the Spirit. Those who live according to the sinful nature have their minds set on what the nature desires, but those who live in accordance with the Spirit set on what the spirit desires. The mind of sinful man is death, but the mind controlled by the spirit is life and peace. The sinful mind is hostile to God. It does not submit to God's law, nor can it do so. Those controlled by the sinful nature cannot please God. You, however, are controlled not by the sinful nature, but by the spirit. If the spirit of God lives in you, and if anyone does not have that spirit of Christ, he does not belong to Christ.

you. He who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who lives in you. Therefore, brothers, we have an obligation, but it is not to the sinful nature to live according to it. For if you live according to the sinful nature, you will die. But if by the spirit you put to death the misdeeds of the body, you will live, because those who are led by the spirit of God are sons of God.

And this is God's Word. soon keep this page open because we're really going to be looking at these last few verses that are printed at the top of this page of the bulletin. Last week we began, and this week we conclude, to look at how the cross of Jesus Christ shapes us psychologically, how it shapes our self-image. We began looking at it last week, And in Romans 8, we saw that the cross tells us two things. When we see Jesus Christ dying on the cross, it tells us two things about us. It tells us many things about the world and about God and about Christ himself. But we're focusing here on what does the cross tell us about us. When we see him on the cross, we see two different things. First of all, his death means that I am more disordered. I am more flawed. I am more in trouble. My condition is more serious than I thought, because only the death of the Son of God on the cross could deal with it. That's what the doctrine, that's what the cross of Christ means. First of all, it shows us that there's something really wrong with me. I am more sinful. I am more flawed than I thought. But that's not the whole picture, and we must not stop there, of course. The second thing we see, Jesus dying on the cross tells me, tells us, that we are more valuable than we could imagine. You know, the question is, what is something worth? And the proverbial answer is, whatever anybody is willing to pay for it. Now, that's not quite true because anyone isn't maybe the best word there because any particular individual might not be a good assessor of the value. If you were going to try to assess how much your house was worth, you wouldn't just grab anybody off the street, how much do you think that house is worth? You'd go find somebody qualified. Who is qualified to tell you how much you're worth? Who is qualified to tell us what a human being is worth? And the answer is, when we look on the cross, as Archbishop William Temple once put it, my worth must be what I am worth to God. And oh, that is a marvelous great deal, for Jesus died for me. Hear that? My worth must be what I am worth to God. And oh, oh, that is a marvelous great deal, for Jesus died for me. See, look what he was willing to pay to get you. First Peter puts it this way, you were bought, you were redeemed, not by corruptible things like silver and gold, but by the precious blood of Jesus Christ.

Infinity. You know, if this was the only apple left in the world, what would its worth be? Well, you couldn't even assess it. It would be invaluable. What is the blood of Christ worth? That was paid for you. What are you worth? Something infinite. Now, when you take those two things together, the Bible tells us in this passage, the Spirit of God, when you are born again, the Spirit of God comes into your life, and the Spirit of God takes these true truths that we see on the cross and applies it to you. That's what Romans 8 is about. The Spirit of God takes these two, you might say, these two moral truths about who you are and applies them to your life more and more so you're shaped by the cross when you look at yourself. And it's only as that happens that you become more and more transformed into the image of his own splendor. We saw these two things are here in these last few verses, verses 13. Look at verse 13, which is on the other side. That's where it says the Spirit shows us our sin. It gives us a self-appraisal, and bit by bit, as the years go by, the Spirit applies what the cross tells us about our sin. It shows us ourselves. It shows us our flaws. And therefore, the Spirit, through the cross, gives Christians a deep ability to assess without repression, without denial, your real flaws. But that was last week. This week, the second thing the Spirit of God does, and we see it in verses 15, 16, and 17, is the Spirit of God comes in, and it's the job of the Spirit of God to show us our sonship, to show us our value, to show us that we've been adopted into the family of God. And as a result, Christians do have a, let me just summarize this before I get into it, have a unique self-image. I've said that ever since I got to this church. Christians have a unique self-image because of the good and the bad news of the cross. It means that a Christian, somebody who's allowing the Spirit to do this, has a humble boldness.

I'm a loved sinner. There's a humble boldness. It's unique. There is a confidence, total confidence eventually, without the shred of self-importance. And there is complete warmth and approachability without a shred of weakness. Because you see, a Christian is somebody who's always thinking about the ultimate ground of the being of the universe. The God, the King of Kings, you see. A Christian is always looking at that and saying, he'd do anything for me. me. A Christian is somebody who, you know, there's all these great titles. Paul Tillich used to say, who is God? What is God? The ground of all being. Boy, the ultimate ground of all being. Christians are always looking at the ultimate ground of all being, the foundations of history and time and space. We're looking at the absolute cosmic transcendent God and we're saying, saying, he'd do anything for me. Look what he did. Look at the price he paid. And you see, that gives us a unique self-image. Now, what we're going to do, since we looked last week at how the Spirit shows us our sin and makes us humble, now we're going to see how the Spirit shows us our sonship and makes us bold. And I have to say one thing real quick. Whenever the Bible talks about the fact that all Christians are sons of God, there's going to be people who are going to say, wow, how insensitive to not use gender-neutral language at this point. And if you want to refuse to see the historical context, you may, but you're going to miss out on something wonderful. When Paul was writing and he was saying, in Christ, all Christians are sons, he was saying something unbelievably radical because he was writing in a time in which women were oppressed. He was writing in a time in which sons got the inheritance and the wealth of the family, and daughters did not. And so when Paul comes in and says, every Christian, slave or free, male or female, is a son of God, he was saying something radically egalitarian. Don't you see? He is saying, there is no difference. No matter who you are, you're an heir. You're a son. Now, if you want to ignore the context and just be offended, you're going to has said by choosing this image. Don't you see? The Bible says we're all brides if you're a Christian. And when we were preaching on Ephesians 5, we're going to use lots of feminine pronouns and nouns for Christians. And when the Bible says we're all sons, that tells us something else. And when we're going to use a lot more masculine pronouns, then I hope that nobody will have trouble with that. Now, this is what the Scripture says. on the positive side, the spirit is not a spirit of fear on the negative side. On the positive side, it says the spirit is a spirit of adoption or sonship. Not a spirit of fear. See what it says? It says on the one hand, you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you have received the spirit of sonship. What that sentence means, as we unlock it, The secret to becoming who you are in Christ. On the one hand, number one, the Spirit has not brought us again into a spirit of fear. And that word again, for you did not receive a Spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, means that before the Holy Spirit comes into your life, you are a slave to fear. See, that's what it has to mean. When Paul says, in comes the Holy Spirit and you won't be a slave to fear again, he means that the Spirit of God will not drive you forward with fear. But before the Spirit of God came in, you were. Now, to understand this, it's really marvelous because it shows you how both liberal and legalistic religion, both legalistic and permissive religion, no matter what kind of religious background you come from, it has trouble with the gospel. The gospel does On the one hand, the permissive types, the more liberal, let's call it liberal religion, really doesn't like the fact that the Bible here tells us that the Spirit of God moves us to obey the law. You see, further up in the passage, further up in the passage, it says that the purpose of the Spirit of God is in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us. The Spirit of God does lead us to obey God's law. Now, Well, how does that bring us freedom? Because if you've got this moral law on the outside, that means you can't follow the dreams of your heart. To be free means to follow your heart, to decide what's right for you. Well, the answer of the Bible is, I'll make it real brief, the answer of the Bible is, who are you? You know who you are if you know yourself at all. Who are we sitting right here today? We're Jekyll and Hyde. We're noble and ignoble. We're beautiful and ugly. there's your true self and there's all sorts of other things in you that are contradicting that. I have two things that I really want to do at the same time when I see a great big piece of meat. I love fatty foods. I like the pleasure that comes from fatty foods. I also would like to live past 45. And I want them both. Yeah, so somebody says, ah, yes, you know, the trouble with the moral law is you've got to be free to follow your heart. Which part? The one that wants to eat the fatty food or the one that knows I shouldn't? They're both in my heart. You see, you're Jekyll and Hyde. And the Bible says that the Spirit of God comes, and it does show you the outline of perfect humanity that we want to be. Where is it? It's in the law of God. The law of God's not oppressive. Look at it. It says we should have integrity. It says we should have purity. It says we should have compassion. It says we should have generosity. generosity. It says we should have honesty. That's what I want to be. So the Spirit of God comes and writes the law of God, the Bible says, on our heart. And it shows us, it strengthens those parts of us, those desires of the heart that will free us, and those desires of the heart that will not. See, I've got two desires, eat fatty foods and be healthy. Which of those two desires should I follow if I want to have, you see, freedom? The Spirit comes and it supports those desires that are the real ones, that are the true ones, that will go to make me what I want to be. But the Spirit never does it out of a spirit of fear. And that's the key here. The Spirit of God, his job is to come in and motivate you to obedience, motivate you to morality, motivate you to decent behavior without any recourse to a spirit of fear. Those of you who ever come to the four o'clock service, and probably there are none of you, because you'd usually come to the four. You wouldn't be here. But afterwards, I have a question and answer time after the four o'clock service. And one thing that comes up again and again in the four o'clock service, I mean, in the questions, is this. They say, let me get this straight. You're saying that when I become a Christian, there is no condemnation for me. You're saying that when I become a Christian, that when I receive Christ, and accepted, not on the basis of what I do, but on the basis of what Jesus has done. Therefore,

since I didn't earn my standing with God, I can't unearn it. It means since it's all done by Jesus, I can't lose it. It means there's no condemnation for me. Is that right? I say yes. And they say, boy, I'm glad I don't believe what you believe, because if that was true, I would lose all incentive to live a moral life. If I really believed what you believe, if I said all I need to do is just receive Christ right here and I'm in. I don't have to, you know, sweat and toil to live a good life all the time, hoping that I'll get in. I can't lose it once I get it. Boy,

I'm glad I don't have what you have because I would lose all my incentive for leading a moral life. And then, you know, my every time, my recourse is every time. It's almost every other week, I say, you're telling me that if you lose your fear of rejection, you have lost all your incentive to be moral, which means the only incentive you ever had to be moral, to be nice, was fear. The Spirit of God comes instead. It will not do that. The Spirit of God, He will not do that. He comes in and says, look at what Jesus has done for you out of gratitude, out of love. love. Lead this kind of life. Don't you see every other philosophical system and every other religion, even irreligious people. When I ask irreligious people who say, I believe in being moral. And I say, why? They say, well, if it wasn't for morality, you see, if it wasn't for leading these kinds of life, society wouldn't work. It would break down. In other words, everybody else, every other religion, every other philosophy, every other motivation, except the gospel and the cross of Jesus Christ. Every other motivation for obeying the golden rule, for obeying the Ten Commandments, for obeying the Tao, for obeying the Eightfold Path. I don't even talk about Christian ethics. There's all essentially the same in many ways. Any other spirit that motivates you to live a good life is a spirit of fear to one degree or another. I better do it or I'm going to get it. I better do it or I'll be punished. I better do it or else things won't work out. The Spirit will not act that way. You have not gotten a Spirit again to fear.

I wish you'd be honest at this point. I've got to move on to the second point, the last point, but I wish you'd be honest for a moment. Some of you are moral and there's no joy in your life at all. Don't you see why? You're operating out of a Spirit of fear. Some of you are addicted. You know there's things wrong in your life. and you try so hard to overcome those addictions and you can't. Seems like even the more you try, the worse it gets. I'll tell you why. You are operating out of a spirit of fear. I know enough about this to know.

You're doing it because I'm going to get caught. I'm doing it because it's absorbing me, because it's making it hard for me to do well and it work. A spirit of fear. It won't work. A lot of you are moral but joyless. A lot of you are religious but unbelievably insecure and defensive and always having to shoot down other people who don't believe just what you believe. It's a spirit of fear. The spirit of God's job is to come in and get you to live out of your identity as sons and daughters of God.

To live out of that, out of the gratitude of that, out of the power of that. Which brings us to our second and last point. He is not a spirit of fear. He's a spirit of adoption. He is a spirit of sonship. Now, when Paul was writing, Paul was writing something about something very, very, very specific. In the Roman world, adoption meant this. A child was adopted not because of his or her performance, but obviously through a legal action of a parent. And once the adoption happened, what was affected was not a change of nature. Oh, boy, how many people think What it means to be a Christian is for me to get myself together, to put it all together. How many times have I talked to people who said, you know, have said to me, well, you know, thank you very much for offering me to come to Christianity, but I've got to get my life straightened out first.

Adoption was not a change in nature. When a child moved from not being adopted to one minute later being adopted, there was a change of legal status. mission into rights and privileges and powers that beforehand weren't true. That's the reason why in John chapter 1 verse 12 it says, as many as receive Christ, he gave exousia, he gave authority to become children of God. That's the Greek word, exousia, which means rights, authority. There's a change in legal status, and the Spirit of God comes to you and shows you what

Believe on Jesus Christ who died for you. If you receive him as Savior and Lord, the Spirit says, you will have these tremendous rights, these tremendous powers, this tremendous exousia. And just the knowledge of that burns into you like a blowtorch, burns into you and gives you the power to live the kind of life you want to live. Not out of a spirit of fear, but out of a spirit of exaltation, out of a spirit of gratitude, out of a spirit of elation. Now, what are those? What are those? Throughout the Bible, what are those rights, the exousia? And there's three that the Bible continually talks about, three. Access, freedom, and inheritance. And you can actually see them alluded to very, very directly right here. If you understand these three things, look at these three things, these three things, Access, freedom, and inheritance. I'll go through them briefly. They're both a test and a means. On the one hand, they'll tell you whether you're Christian or not, or whether you're just a moral person operating out of the spirit of fear. But on the other hand, they're a means by which you can build up the power, build up the motivation, build up the force, the spiritual force and dynamic in your life that will enable you to push out into the world with power. because as you look at these things and you say, I'm going to live out of those things, I'm going to remember those things, that's how the Spirit of God moves you and changes you. Number one, access is pretty simple. The word Abba, Father, the Spirit gets you to pray Abba. Now, you know the word Abba is Aramaic. It's not Greek. Romans was written in Greek, but Paul preserves the word Abba from Aramaic. That was the language of Palestine, the language of Jesus. You know why? There was a New Testament scholar named Jeremias who said, the first time any pagan or any Jew or anybody heard Jesus refer to God as Abba, it must have split their eardrums. It must have split their minds. It must have been absolutely, they must have been thunderstruck. And here's why. The Bible says God is a consuming fire. God is the transcendent God of being, God of all being. And here is Jesus going up and saying, Abba, which translated, it's the familiar form of the word father. In Aramaic, it means daddy. Daddy. Here's somebody going before the consuming fire and saying, Daddy, I've got something to talk to you about. Everybody was thunderstruck. Do you know why? No, but there's no greater concept than the idea that the universal God of the cosmos is your Daddy, is your Father. It's talking here about unbelievable access. It even says the Spirit of God leads you to cry, Abba Father. That word cry does not mean an address. It's a loud, elemental cry out of deep emotion. It's a flood of filial feelings. It's a tidal wave coming out of your heart. It's a whole shift in consciousness. That's the job of the Spirit of God, to get you to see that you have that kind access. By the way, somebody says, you know, I have no concept of this because I had a bad father. So the whole idea of God being a father makes no sense to me. And that can't be true because if you're unhappy with your own bad father, you could only be unhappy with a bad father out of some conception of what a good father is. You couldn't even complain unless you could complain against bad fathering because you know what good fathering is. Here it is. Here is a father who will always let you bother him. Kings, queens, presidents, prime ministers, they're busy. You don't go after them. But little children can come and say to the king, the queen, the prime minister, would you help me tie my shoelaces? Children can do that. What would be impudence and what would be rudeness on the part of anybody else is normal behavior for a child toward that great person. And the Bible says you have the right to do that. In Luke 11, Jesus actually uses the word for prayer. He says, pray shamelessly, unadaira, pray shamelessly, pray audaciously, pray with bold-faced effrontery because he is your father. Do you believe that? Do you come near him like that? Do you recognize that? You can tell whether a person sees God as a police magistrate or as a father. No offense to policemen out there, but let me just tell you something. We're always happy, sort of. It's sort of comforting to see a police officer around. It also makes you nervous. You're always watching your speedometer. and you don't go and ask a police officer to tie your shoes, but you do ask your daddy to. And the Bible says, do you understand that you have to be able to pray like this, that you have to be able to pray relentlessly, shamelessly. You can bother him about anything. Nothing is too small. You take a look at the Bible. Look at Abraham arguing with God. God says, I'm going to destroy Sodom. Abraham says, not if there's 50 people good there. Okay. Not if there's 45 people. Well, all right. Well, how about 40 people? How about 30? How about 20? How about 10? The impudence of it. No. Abraham knows this is my father. Access. The Spirit says, you've got that kind of access. You're his child. Secondly, freedom. When you adopt someone, you know what you're doing? When you adopt somebody, you're saying to them, I will treat you as if you sprang from me. I will treat you as if you were my biological child. I will treat you as if you were my natural child. That's what adoption means. Do you know what that means in this case? There's this amazing place in John 17 where Jesus says, Father, I want you to love them even as you love me. That's what adoption means. That's what the spirit of sonship is. The spirit of God is right now trying to convince you that because Jesus died for you on the cross, when you believe in him and you're adopted, God loves you as if you were his natural child. Imagine how much he loves his only begotten son. Imagine how he welcomed him when he came back from the cross and the grave. And that's how God treats you. That's how he looks at you. And therefore, when I say freedom, anybody who remembers that is never defensive. Do you know that you're a son, a daughter of the King? You never have anything to prove. When people attack you, you take it positively. When people criticize you, you take it warmly. You're not afraid to let people see who you are. You're not afraid to let people come in. Why? You have nothing to prove. If you're a controlling person, if you're a defensive person, if you're an envious person, you're acting like a slave, not a child. A slave, not a son. And that means you haven't heard what the Spirit is telling you yet, and you're being marled out of a spirit of fear. Lastly, inheritance.

Inheritance. It says in verse 17, if you're sons, then you're heirs. Further down in this chapter, chapter. It's not written out here. Further down in this chapter, I didn't put it in the bulletin, it says this, the creation was subjected to frustration, not by its own choice, but by the will of the one who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom of the children of God. We have to end on this, but now think of this. This tells us in a staggering statement that at the end of time, on the last day, God the Father is going to give us what's coming to us. We're going to get the inheritance. In some amazing way, each of us is going to get all of it. It says we're going to get the fullness of his glory. The Bible says fullness. The problem is with earthly fathers, if you've got seven kids, you've got to divide it up seven ways. But not the great heavenly Father. We all get his fullness. We're going to get glory. What is glory?

God. It's got something to do when you hear the best music, when you taste the best food, when you fall in love with the absolutely right person, you're getting a dim hint of it. We're just told that on the last day, the glory of God will come down on us and it will be so blindingly powerful that it will envelop all of the created order and all of nature will be glorified with us, will take nature with us. St. Augustine says the joy of the glorified soul will just spill out into a glorified body and that will spill out into a glorified nature. Creation is longing for us to get our inheritance because it's going to be so powerful, it's going to take nature with it. And if Psalm 96 is right, rule the earth. The trees will clap their hands. Look at the trees out there. They're pretty beautiful, but they're going to be something much greater than they are. They're going to clap their hands. And if the trees will clap their hands on that day, what will we be like? If the trees are dancing on that day, the Bible says, what are we going to be like? Do you understand that? Paul is that. Why do you think Paul was able to face anything? Why do you think he was able to face suffering and death? Why do you think he was able to face the things he was? Wouldn't you like to have the courage that he had? Wouldn't you like to have the stick-to-itiveness that he had? He was always thinking about his inheritance. He was always saying, these little sufferings are not worthy to be compared with the glory that will be revealed in us as children of God. Look at these three tests and just remember the place where Jesus said, Abba, Father, was in the garden.

In the garden of Gethsemane, where he said, Father, I don't want to have to die, but if this is the only way to do it, thy will be done. And he said on that day, Abba, Daddy, see what he had to do so that we could use that word too. Are you using it? Number one, do you pray relentlessly, shamelessly, lovingly, constantly? recently? Number two, you don't have to prove anything anymore to anybody? Number three, do you understand your inheritance so that the greatest times in life are leaveable and the worst times in life are bearable because you know about your inheritance? Are you living as a son or daughter of the king? Are you letting the Spirit make you cry these things? Cooperate with him, as we give you the bread and the cup, cooperate with the Spirit who tears into your heart to get you to see that you're a son or a daughter of the King. In Jesus' name, we pray. Now, let's pray. Our Father, we ask as we partake of the Lord's table that you would help us, that you would help us to understand that we're like children sitting down at this table. You're the father, you're at the head of the table, and when we get the cup and we get the bread, we're sitting around your table, and it's all possible because Jesus Christ, our big brother, our elder brother, was willing to die for us, to bring us in so that we too can call you Abba. Help us to live with the access, the freedom, and the confidence that comes from knowing that if we're your children, we're your heirs. Help us to grab these things, grasp these things, change us with this knowledge, and let the Spirit do its work now as we receive the elements. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
