Today we're going to be looking at a parable in Luke 7. I'd like to turn your attention to it. It's in chapter 7, and I'm going to read verse 36 to 50, the parable of the two debtors.

Now one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him. So he went to the Pharisee's house and reclined at the table. when a woman who had lived a sinful life in that town learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisee's house she brought an alabaster jar of perfume and as she stood behind him at his feet weeping she began to wet his feet with her tears then she wiped them with her hair kissed them and poured perfume on them when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this he said to himself, if this man were a prophet, he would know who is touching him and what kind of woman she is, that she is a sinner. Jesus answered him, Simon, I have something to tell you. Tell me, teacher, he said. Two men owed money to a certain money lender. One owed him 500 denarii and the other 50. Neither of them had the money to pay him back, so he canceled the debts of both. Now which of them will love him more? Simon replied, I suppose the one who had the bigger debt canceled. You have judged correctly, Jesus said. And he turned toward the woman and said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I came into your house, and you did not give me any water for my feet. But she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You did not give me a kiss, but this woman from the time I entered has not stopped kissing my feet. You did not put oil on my head, but she has poured perfume on my feet. Therefore I tell you, her many sins have been forgiven, for she loved much, but he who has been forgiven little loves little. Then Jesus said to her, Your sins are forgiven. And the other guest began to say, Who is this who even forgives sins? And Jesus said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. This is God's word. One of the things I hope you'll learn from looking at these parables each week with me in August is that when Jesus says, I have something to tell you, you should run, he's about to throw you a grenade, an intellectual spiritual grenade, not a physical one, but it goes off. Here's Jesus, and he's been invited into the home of Simon, who's a Pharisee. Please keep in mind, the Pharisees were the rich and the religious leaders, and Jesus was more critical of the Pharisees than anyone else. He was unremitting in his criticism of the Pharisees. As a result, generally, Pharisees would have nothing to do with Jesus. This shows that Simon was special. He was interested in Jesus. He was like Nicodemus, actually, who was also a Pharisee. He wanted to learn more about Jesus. There was an openness you don't see in the other Pharisees. There was a curiosity. There was a spiritual interest. He invites Jesus into his home. And Jesus is reclining as he eats because everyone did not sit on chairs when they ate, but they sat on couches. They leaned on one arm, on one elbow, the left. They usually ate with the right. And their feet were therefore not under the table, but they were up on the couch. We're told that a woman came behind him, came up to his feet, began to weep and wipe his feet with her tears. poured perfume on his feet. She was a sinner. She was a woman of ill repute. She was a prostitute. Simon immediately says, this guy, Jesus, says he's divine. Well, if he was divine, he'd know who that woman was.

And if he knows who that woman is, if he knows that she's a sinner, if he knows she's a prostitute, then if he was really divine, he wouldn't have anything to do with her. you have to realize what an amazing situation this is if you can imagine being in a restaurant yourself with a group of friends and a person who's obviously a streetwalker dressed that way and all her glory comes in and gets down at the feet of one of the men and begins to weep and uh wipe his feet and kiss you know imagine the awkwardness imagine the first the last or the stairs or the frowns or the who knows what to do next. It was an extraordinary thing. It would be an extraordinary thing now and it was an extraordinary thing then. Jesus perceives that Simon not only disapproves, but says this proves that this man is not a prophet from heaven. And Jesus says, I've got a story to tell you. And in this story, Jesus talks about two debtors. One, both of them owe a lender money. Now, if you can't pay the lender money, you go to prison. In one case, the debt to the lender was 500 denarii, which is roughly, depends how you look at it, a little bit less or a little bit more than a year's wages, an annual wage. That's how much that was. 50 denarii was something like maybe a month's wages. The point is both of them owed The lender forgives both. And Jesus says, now who probably would be more in love with the lender? Who would be more full of joy and adoration to the lender? And Jesus asks that question. Simon thinks about it and says, I suppose the one who had the bigger debt forgiven. And Jesus says, and this is where you have to be careful when Jesus says, I have something to tell you. He turns around and says, Simon, you and this woman are those two debtors.

this woman shows me love this woman shows me passionate worship this woman has come and has embraced me and loved me in this way and you have not you are the debtor and she is the debtor in the parable now the reason Jesus' statement and his teaching is so important is for this reason here you have two people the woman and Simon who both want to see Jesus they both are in the presence of Jesus. They both listen to Jesus. They both listen to his teaching. One of them is transformed and changed. One of them is blown away. One of them has an eruption of love and joy, and her life is transformed, and the other one is detached and cool and interested.

One of them is sent away condemned and confused and miffed, and the other one is sent away way totally changed. Why the difference? Now, the reason that's very important is because everybody in this room is in the presence of Jesus, not in my presence, not in Scott's presence. You're really not here ultimately just to listen to some people up front here. Jesus Christ is present now. He is just as able to do what he did for that woman today. And see, when you come and read about him, him, when you pray to him, when you consider him, you are coming into his presence. And I'm showing you that everybody will be either like Simon or like the woman. Everybody in this room, for example, will go away like Simon, detached and unaffected, a little confused and maybe angry, or like the woman, totally transformed. Now, which are you? Are you like Simon or like the woman? How do you explain the difference? Two people in front of the same person, seeking the same thing, listening to the same message. One changed, one not. One praised by Jesus. Praised. He says, you did this and you did this. Praised. Do you know what it's like to have a person you admire to the heavens look at you and say, you're great?

One is praised by Jesus. The other one is condemned by Jesus. One changed, one unchanged. What makes the difference? I'd like to show you that the difference is two spiritual conditions. They come to Jesus in two different spiritual conditions. And let's all play doctor today, if you don't mind, for a minute. Let me show you the symptoms of the two conditions so you can diagnose. The symptoms and then underneath the causes of the two conditions.

The symptoms of the two conditions and the cause of the two conditions. All right, let's look at the symptoms. Let me give you some tests that show you the difference between real Christianity and mere religion. M-E-R-E. Mere. Let me tell you the difference between real Christianity and mere religion, between the woman and Simon. Now, I'll give you three little symptoms, but they're basically as you're going to see. If you're intelligent, most of all of you are very insightful, you'll see that all three of the symptoms are essentially the same.

Simon comes to Jesus in an intellectual, detached kind of way. The woman comes with her whole being. Can you imagine, Simon, what his reaction is when Jesus says, Simon, why didn't you kiss me? Why didn't you hug me? Why didn't you weep over me? When I came in. Can you just imagine Simon saying, you're kidding, right? What do you want of me? I brought you into my house. Come on. We're having a nice little chat. We're having a nice little conversation. You don't really mean that you expected me to embrace you and weep and fall down at your feet and receive you with this kind of passion and this kind of drama. And Jesus says, yeah.

See, the first difference you can see between the man and the woman, between Simon and the woman is that Simon comes in an intellectual way, in a detached way. He doesn't have his whole self there. He's not really letting Jesus into the center. He's got questions. He'd like to have a discussion. He would like Jesus to answer a few questions. He's checking him out intellectually. But the woman has been moved to the depths. The woman, not only has, of course, intellectually she's heard the message, but there's the tears and there's the will. There's the whole person involved. with a head. She comes with her whole being. He will address Jesus only with his intellect. She lets Jesus address her entire being. Or let's put it another way, another symptom, way of thinking, seeing the difference between the two. You know, this is very important because a lot of people say, well, a Christian is someone who's interested in Christ and who studies the teaching of Christ and tries to follow Christ. Both of these people are like that. Both the man and the woman are listening to Christ. They're studying what Christ has to say. They both show the interest. You know, Simon, as a Pharisee, it was an amazing thing to have Jesus in. They both are saying, I want you into my life. They're both listening to him. Now, in a sense, they're both in church. They're both sitting there. They both say they believe in Jesus. But that's not where the real difference is. In one case, Simon comes detached with his head only. She comes with her whole heart. Let me put it another way. Simon stays in control of the interview. And the woman gives Jesus control of the interview. You see, Simon is approaching Jesus the way many of you do. Many people do. Simon is interviewing Jesus. In other words, Simon is sitting down and saying, Jesus, I've been looking at you and you do miracles and that's very impressive. I've heard your teaching and it's remarkable.

And I'm trying to figure out right now whether it would be advantageous to me to have you in my life as a shepherd and as a guide. So would you fill out these forms in triplicate, please? In other words, he is in control. Jesus is the applicant. He is interviewing Jesus to see whether or what he thinks. You've been in an interview like that. It means no commitment. Stay in control. You know, if someone is interviewing you for a job and they really need you and they haven't been able to find anyone else with your skills, but you know how those interviews go. They're not going to show their hand. They're not going to say, man, we need you because they want to negotiate. They want to stay in control. They don't want you to know how desperate they are. Otherwise, you might have them over a barrel of negotiation. So you have these interviews to see whether I want you, whether you want me. And, you know, we're sort of, we're afraid to commit to each other. Jesus cannot be approached that way. Jesus is not like one of those stores in the malls that puts little free samples out front. Jesus is not someone you can interview for the job of Lord and Savior.

Instead, you have here what the woman does, and that is she makes a commitment. There is no way to even begin to talk to Jesus unless you're willing to come with your whole being and make a commitment. Commitment, let me give you a definition. recognition. Commitment is putting your weight on something to the point of vulnerability.

No vulnerability, no commitment. No commitment, no relationship. My word, it's true everywhere. I was noticing one of the hard things about being linebackers, linebackers are in the middle, you know. You've got the people up front and the people behind the linebackers are in the middle. So when the other team has the ball and the ball is snapped, those linebackers have to almost instantly commit either to the run or to the pass. If they wait for the play to transpire, if they wait to see whether the play is going to be a run or going to be a pass, if they don't guess, if they don't make a commitment, what will happen is the other team will gain yardage every time and they'll lose the game. So what the linebackers have to do is they have to make a split decision to commit to the run. Now, to commit to the run means you literally put your weight forward. You rush forward. but when you commit to the run, that makes you vulnerable to the pass. If you're wrong, if it's a play action pass or something like that, if you're faked out, you're dead. You're benched. But you see, that's the way it is. There is no commitment without vulnerability, but without commitment, you lose. Same thing is true in relationships, though. You want to know somebody? You've got to open up. You've got to let them know a little bit of yourself. You've got to be personally involved. Oh, that makes you vulnerable. As soon as you're affectionate with somebody, they can twist you. As soon as you open up and tell a little bit more about yourself, they can use that. So a lot of you, right, have been in a position where you've been used. You hate that vulnerability. So you don't make yourself vulnerable, then there's no commitment. You don't commit yourself to anyone and you'll be tremendously lonely. Oh, we hate it. no relationship without commitment but no commitment without vulnerability how we hate it so we stay detached so we interview people so we keep our options open so we sit loose you can't do that in life without losing in football you can't do that in life without losing in relationships how much more is this true that if you want to have the ultimate relationship with the ultimate person, there's got to be ultimate commitment. This woman does it, Simon will not. How does she do it? In an amazing way. She brings an alabaster flask of perfume. Now the thing that is very important to recognize in this situation is that it's very, very, very, very problem. That she, like most prostitutes, wore that around her neck. It was a necklace. It was normal for prostitutes to wear around their neck a necklace with a very small jar or a flask of perfume. It was part of the alluring. It was part of what made her attractive. It was, in a sense, a cosmetic. It was part of her job. It was a tool of the trade. And do you know what she's doing? when she takes her hair down and takes the flask off. For a woman to take her hair down in public was so scandalous, it was grounds for divorce.

For her to take the tool of her trade off and pour it at his feet was to say, I have a better use now for this perfume. She was changing the direction of her life. I know a lot of us would like so much to think that I can get Jesus in my life peace and inspiration in my life, but the fact is that there is no way to relate to Jesus without becoming radically vulnerable. And that means making him master of everything. Your job, your behavior, your ethics, the way you use your money, your relationships, your sexuality, your thought life, your intellectual life, everything. There is no way to stay in control and relate to Jesus. No way at all. Look at him. Look at her. Look at what she's done. If there's anybody in this room who wants to compare yourself to her, do it right now. I tell you that everybody in this room has The things that are important to them. And you're going to pour them out at somebody's feet. There is something and someone that you're going to live for. Who gets your heart? Who do you live for utterly and entirely? And whoever that someone or something is, will they satisfy you like Jesus? Will they never let you down like Jesus will never let you down? Do you see? There is no way to do it. There's one more way to put it. I'm trying to show you the contrast between Simon and the woman. The difference between a real Christian and mere religion is not, well, the Christian is moral and the non-Christian is immoral. Huh? Simon was the moral one. She's lived an immoral life. The difference is not that a Christian is interested in Jesus and talks to Jesus and studies Jesus and emulates Jesus. They both do that. No, the difference here, she comes with all of her being and she is willing to address him in terms of personal commitment. loses control. She puts him in control. Or let's put it one more way. Simon insists on treating Jesus like any other guest, whereas this woman gives Jesus the preeminence.

Simon insists on treating Jesus like any other guest. This woman gives Jesus the preeminence. The reason that Simon must have been very miffed when Jesus says, Why didn't you hug me and kiss me? Why didn't you weep over me? Why didn't you kiss my feet when I came in? You know, Simon is saying, give me a break. I brought you into my house. What are you talking about? What do you want? He is insisting on treating Jesus like anyone else. Jesus will not be treated like anyone else. Why not? Well, look, either, we've done this before, either he is who he says he is, he's the Son of God, he's your creator, he's your Redeemer, and he is not like anyone else, so you don't dare treat him like anyone else. Or else he's a liar. Or else he's a fraud. Or else he's crazy. Or else he's ill. Or else he's deranged. But he's not like everyone else. He couldn't be. How could anyone treat him like anyone else? Either he should be removed, either he should be spat upon, or else he should be treated the way she treats him. You know, another way to put it is when she took that flask off of her neck, that was also probably the most valuable thing she had financially. And it was her way of saying, Lord Jesus, you are not one more thing in my life with everything else. You're more important than anything else to me. You're the most valuable thing. The most. See, Simon the Pharisee kind of comes out the way a lot of people come out of. They say, okay, Jesus, I'm interested. I've had diets, I've had the silver mind control method, I've had re-parenting support groups, and maybe Jesus will help too. One more thing. But this woman sits down and says, no, look, the difference between real Christianity and mere religion is, in religion, you use Jesus to help you get to other things. In real Christianity, you say, you are everything I want. See, for example,

says this. I've been pretty good, but I'm mad. Why? Because though I've been pretty good and I've been pretty moral, I'm still not married and I want to be. Why should I serve him then? Or though I'm pretty good and I'm pretty moral, my parents never loved me. They hurt me. They neglected me. They abused me. Why should I serve God if he won't give me just a basic happy family? really. I've been pretty good. I've been pretty moral. And yet my career is in tatters. I've worked real hard. I've been real good. I've kept my nose clean. And yet God won't give me the success that I have worked so far for. Why won't he? And when you say, why should I serve God if he won't give me this or that? What you're showing is that this and that is the God, is the real thing you live for. In other words, if you say, if I can't have God and this and that, I won't have either. If God won't let these things come into my life, which I need and I want so badly, then you can have God. You've said that, even to me. It's on people's hearts, and most people are very, very careful what they say in front of ministers. Very careful. They won't use four-letter words, but they'll say that. They don't realize what a dire thing that is. You don't realize how revealing that is. There's the difference between Simon and the woman. What the woman says is, I refuse to see anything as more valuable than you. I can never again be mad at you, oh Lord Jesus, because there isn't something else in my life. I pour everything in my life at your feet. If I have you, I have everything I need. I have everything I want. I won't use you as a means to an end. I won't manipulate you anymore. You are not one more thing in my life.

You're my Lord.

Remember the hymn? Take my love, my Lord, I pour at thy feet its treasure store. Take myself that I may be ever only all for thee. That's what she did. You see the difference between Christianity and real religion? A real Christianity and just religion? You see the difference? Well, where does it come from? Where does it come from? trying to say that a real Christian is just someone who's more sold out. The trouble with Simon was he just wasn't committed and he wasn't sold out enough. So let's just really work harder than we ever had to be really. The difference between Christianity and mere religion is not that Christians are just more religious than anyone else. Yeah we're more submitted and more surrendered and more sold out than anyone else. That's not it. No. Let's look beneath the symptoms for a minute. Now that we see the differences causes. Jesus shows them up in the parable. You know, this parable is a remarkable thing. Don't you wonder, I mean, ministers wonder this all the time. You get up and very often you say this, you say, the Bible teaches that Jesus died on the cross and paid the debt for your sins so that God can receive you into his arms and be your heavenly father. And there, you know, people out there who believe that. Now, you know, you have skeptics who have a lot of trouble with the coherence of that. They have a lot of trouble with the authority of scripture, the idea of the existence of God. I'm not talking about them right now. Some of you might be in that boat. But right now, I'm looking at Simon and this woman because they both are people who believe. They both believe in God. They believe that they're sinners. Both of them believe that they make mistakes. They do wrong things. Both of them believe they need to be forgiven. Both of them forgive. But listen, look, how many times as a preacher do I see some people say, yeah, I know I'm forgiven. So they're still unhappy. They're still depressed. They're still upset. They're still bored with their lives. And other people say, me, forgiven. And they're blown away. And there's an eruption in their life of love, joy, and power, just like the difference between makes a difference. It's not just that the woman is more disciplined in life, that she's more sold out because she's a more committed kind of person. Listen, friends, if you want to do a temperament analysis, you want to take a Minnesota multiphasic personality inventory or a Myers-Briggs or something like that, are you trying to do it on these two people and see which of them is more disciplined? Guess which one is going to come out looking more religious, more disciplined, like having more fortitude and so forth? It'll be Simon. If you think that's the difference, Jesus says, Simon, the difference is you don't understand the gospel. The gospel is you're more, you don't understand the depth of your sin and you don't understand the cost of salvation. If you understood that really, if you grasped it truly, you would be exchanged to this woman. Let me just, I'll just outline this for you and show you how that comes out of the parable. Whether you're a Christian and you know you're a Christian or you're not sure where you are, that is the thesis. Jesus says, if you are not living a life of joy and repentant joy, see, even like her, even when she's seeing just how many mistakes she's made, even when she looks at her sins, the sins are not in any way mitigating her joy. The deeper she repents, the more joy and the more peace she leaves with. The thesis is that if you're not living a life of sacrificial love, if you don't have a heart fulfilled with peace, if you don't find it easy to love messed up people, if you don't find it possible to enjoy your life content with the peace of God, if instead dead. You are critical all the time. You are complaining all the time. You are feeling sorry for yourself all the time. You are finding fault in everybody else around you all the time. It is because you do not understand the gospel. You may think you do, but you do not. This goes for me. If I have been crabby today with my wife, if I am unhappy with my life, if I feel like everybody around me is stabbing me in the back, you do not think ministers get like that? I get like that and you get like that. You may have had a day like that. You may have had a week like that. If you're a Christian and you've been like that, you're more like Simon, gossipy, crabby Pharisee, than like this woman, changed, willing to lose everything, saying, I've got Jesus, I've got everything I want. It's because you don't understand the gospel today. Some of you have never understood the gospel and you're not Christians, you're just religious. But a lot of you are Christians and you're not living out of the gospel. You're not re-experiencing the gospel today. Or you'd be able to walk away here like that woman.

Here's what Jesus shows in the parable. This is what you have to understand. The first time you become a Christian, this is what you have to understand every day when you renew yourself in the gospel. So you have to have this happen for the first time and then forever, continually. First of all, Jesus says, the parable of the two debtors shows us something remarkable about sin. You know, the man and the woman both know they are sinners. This Pharisee is someone who understands the Bible. He knows he's a sinner. Jesus, in the parable, makes himself the lender, and he makes the man and the woman both the debtors. And the woman is the 500 debtor, and the man's the 50 debtor. What is the difference in the 50, and the 500. Some people have read this and superficially they think, oh, this means that the woman needed Jesus more than the man, needed salvation more. Why? She was a worse sinner. She was immoral. She broke the Ten Commandments much more than he did. So she needed salvation more than Jesus. You think that's what he's saying? He's saying the opposite. Oh, there's some of you may feel that way. You may say, well, you know, the skid row people and the messed up people and the people in prison, they need this born-again stuff. They need conversion. But the rest of us, really, we need some instruction. We need moral reformation. Don't expect us to have this mighty catharsis. That is the exact opposite of what Jesus is trying to say.

The beauty of this illustration is this.

He could have done it anyway. He could have said, here's somebody with a debt of 50 denarii. And here's a person with a debt of five million. The point is, he says very clearly, neither could make good their debt. Neither had one cent with which to make good their debt. And that meant that legally they were in the exact same position. The thrust, the genius of the illustration, is though the debt in one sense seems greater than the other. Though in one sense, one person seems to have sinned a whole lot more than the other. The fact of the matter is they're in the same boat. Because you see, if they can't pay their debt, they both lose everything and they go to prison. And it makes no difference. If her debt was five million, if it was a million times more than his debt, if it was a trillion times more than his debt, the fact is that both of them are in the same boat. If you want to see an analogy, it's this. Here's a person who's been murdered. Why? Somebody took a little stiletto and stuck it in between their ribs and it punctured their heart and they died. Okay? Here's another person who's also been murdered with a machine gun. Hundreds of bullets in the heart. Hundreds of bullets all through their body. And they died. Now, which one is more dead?

Well, you know, it depends how you look at it. You might say the one, well, no, you can't. They're both dead. One's pretty dead and one's ugly dead.

But they're in the same position.

Jesus is saying the same thing and it is an astonishing thing. Come on, do you see what a bombshell this is? He is saying to the Pharisee, to the morally upscrupulous person, to the person who understands the Bible and is unusually religious and good to people and honest and generous with his money and so forth. That's the way they were. and he looks at him and says, I want you to know that you are in the same position as she is. You are as unable to make good your debt. You are as liable to punishment. You are as condemned. There's no difference. Now, is anybody out here confused and saying, How could that be? How could that be? How could a person who's lived a life like she did, and a person who's lived a good life like... How could Jesus say you're both equally condemned? if you don't understand this view of sin, you cannot be a Christian. That's what Jesus is saying. It's a difference between Simon and the woman. Do you know what sin is? Look at the parable again. Jesus is a lender. Everything that these people have came from Jesus, in a sense. Everything you have is on loan. Your body, your brains, your capacities, everything. Some of you say, I've worked hard for what I've had. I've worked hard for what I got. Yeah, with what, though? Did you work hard for your talents? Did you work hard for your IQ? Did you work hard for your health? You worked hard to earn things with things that were absolutely given to you. The Bible says God gave you everything you have. You owe him everything, and therefore you must live a life of dependence. You're dependent on him. The things that you have are not yours. You should be living, as a trustee, you should be living a life of dependence. And Sin is a desire to live independent of God. Sin is a desire to deny that everything you have is alone.

Sin is a desire to refuse to acknowledge the fact that everything you have is alone and everything you have really belongs to God.

Sin is a desire to live independently of him, to be your own master, to not have to depend on him at all. Now, there's two basic ways to do that. Through religion and through the rejection of religion. Everybody says, oh yeah, if you reject religion, you reject church, and you reject God, and you live a life of immorality, obviously that's the person who's trying to live an independent life. But the religious person, Simon, has also been living an independent life. If you believe that your good deeds and your good works will get you into heaven, it's your way of avoiding having to depend on God as your Savior. Would you look into your heart right now and see how deep the sin is in your heart? Some of you have got your life plans laid out and things aren't going well. Why are you so mad? Why are you so discouraged? I'll tell you why. You cannot stand to be dependent on God's wisdom. You can't stand to be dependent on God's wisdom. You want to be in control. You want things to work according to your blueprint. Why are you so worried? Why are you not able to sleep at night? I'm talking to anyone here, whether you're a Christian or not. I want you to look inside and see the depth of your sin. Your sin is a desire to be independent of God. You hate dependence.

Even after you become a Christian, this is so deeply rooted that it continues to plague you. You hate dependence. That's the reason why some of you absolutely hate the idea that things aren't going your way. You know, you've chosen a career and you're not sure it's going to work out.

you don't know whether you're going to be able to keep your job. You don't know whether anybody's really going to ever want to marry you. You don't know whether your marriage is going to last. You like it when you're in control and everything's going according to plan. As soon as things don't go to plan, as soon as you're flying blind, you hate it. You get mad at God. Why? Why are you mad? Most of the time when people say how mad they are at God, I sit down, I listen to them, and what they're really saying is, I'm mad that I have to be dependent on his wisdom instead of my own. Or, when you fail, you hate that. Oh, you beat yourself up. Oh, you won't forgive yourself. What is that? It sounds so noble to say, I just can't forgive myself. What it means is, I really don't really want to be dependent on anyone's bleeding charity. I don't want anyone to have to cover for me. I don't want God's bleeding charity. I should be good enough. I should be disciplined enough. I should have been moral enough. I should have been smart enough. You keep beating yourself and it looks really noble, doesn't it? But really means is, I refuse to be dependent on God's forgiveness. I refuse to be dependent on his wisdom. I hate it.

Friends, in your natural condition, until Jesus Christ comes and opens your eyes, either through religion or through the rejection of religion, you will seek to live an independent life. You will hate God. You will rebel against God. And the religious person, though he is not technically breaking the law as often, the Ten Commandments is often, the religious person, until God opens his eyes to show him the depths of his sin, is seeking just as much to live a life independent of God, being his own savior. He's just trying to use religion to do it. And therefore, though he may technically have not broken the law as much as this woman did, Simon is in the same condition. Because you see, he still doesn't understand sin for what it is. God, it's rejection of the mastery of God over your life. It's refusing dependence on God. He doesn't see the depths of his sin. He doesn't see it. What Jesus shows him is the difference between him and her. The difference in the 50 and the 500 is not that she needs salvation more, but she realizes she needs salvation more. Do you want to know the reason that her life is transformed and his is not? She knows she's a sinner. Now you try, put that in your pipe and smoke it. This means that if you do not have the joy that she did, if you don't today walk away with the same peace that she did, it is because you don't know you're a sinner. You don't see the depths of your sin. And therefore, when you hear that Jesus forgave you, it doesn't transform you. You don't like being dependent on forgiveness. You don't like the whole idea. You can be good enough. You ought to be good enough.

that even that was her sin. That was the depth of her sin. And she says, I give it up. I depend on you. I put myself in your hands. I stopped trying to be my own savior. I stopped trying to be my own God. I stopped trying to live for my own glory. I stopped trying to be my own counselor. I give it up to you. And all along, I saw that I've been trying to live a life of independence of you. I haven't seen the depth of my sin until now. And so now when he says, thy sins are forgiven, she's transformed. You say it to Simon and he doesn't give a rip. Why? So what? I know I've got a few sins. But in his mind, sin is just a lack of conformity to some of the rules.

But lastly, the other thing that she sees that he doesn't see, not only how deeply sinful she is, but she sees the cost of salvation. She sees the expense of salvation and he does not. not. The lender, how does the lender forgive? There's only one way to forgive a debt, to eat the cost yourself. Do you think when the lender said, okay, I forgive you the 500 denarii, I forgive you the 50, that somehow that debt went off in the thin air and kind of went down? You cannot forgive a debt, you can only transfer it. Do you hear me? Somebody has to pay. Somebody. Look, if you're a developer, and you've taken out this huge loan from the local bank, and you go back to the local bank and you say, hey, I have to default on my loan. I'm really sorry, though, and I'll never do it again. Do you think that's going to cover? If the bank forgives you, the only way the bank is to forgive you is to eat it itself. The bank will have to get together. It will have to get a board together. They'll have to say, we're going to have to eat this. We're going to have to lay people off. We're going to have to restructure. We're going to have to pay the ourselves. There is no way to forgive a debt without paying for the cost yourself, without eating it. And that's what the lender did. And that's what Jesus did on the cross. And you see, if you don't see the extent of your sin, you're not going to be amazed and thrilled by the grace of God. Here's what this woman was doing all of her life. She was always looking at God and saying, you treated me like this and now you want me to give myself to you? No way. I won't. And now she suddenly realizes her sin and she suddenly realizes that he's looking at her on the cross and saying, you've treated me like this all of your life and you want me to give myself to you? Yes, I will. I will. And she's amazed and she's changed.

That's astonishing.

Simon, and some of you out there like Simon, You're detached, you're intellectual about it, you're keeping control. You're interested in Jesus, maybe. The reason that you're going to be sent away empty, the reason that your life has never been changed, though some of you may have believed that you've been believers for years, but there's never been this move to the depths. You've never seen this stuff happen that's happened to this woman. You know why? Because you think of sin as merely a failure to obey some of the rules instead of seeing underneath it all that you are seeking to live a life of independence. You don't see how beastly you've been to him and how rebellious, nor do you see the extent of what he's done. In spite of your rebellion, in spite of you never wanting to depend on him, in spite of you constantly complaining about the fact your life is not going the way it's going, he has been sitting there all along saying, if you come to me, I'll pay for it. If you come to me, I'll forgive.

So let's conclude. Some of you are like Simon. I hope you see it. You know what the real difference is between Simon and the woman? The woman has a personal relationship now with God. Simon had an intellectual one. Simon says his prayers. The woman prays. Simon believes intellectually. The woman worships. The woman knows him. The woman pours out her heart to him. The woman experiences his love and shows his or her love. The woman lays everything at his feet and seeks to be vulnerable by making him master every area of her life. She's got a personal relationship, he's got an intellectual one. Which do you have?

How can you miss it? I'm saying if the shoe fits, wear it. How can you miss it? Then what should you do? You should recognize your sin as more than just a lack of conformity to the law. You should recognize what he did to deal with the debt. and you should take the flask off your neck, put it at his feet. Now, Christian friends, let me just say this. If you really think that this parable is only directed at people who have never received Christ as Lord and Savior, you've got another thing coming. Did you hear what I said earlier on? There's a sense in which inside, being a Christian, you can have your Simon days and you can have your women days, huh? You can have your Simon days and you can have it. Why? I do know that you slip back into patterns of demandingness when you forget that sin is that desire to be independent. And you slip back when you forget the depth of your sin and the wonder of grace. So what happens is if your life's not going very well right now, if you're critical, if you're finding fault with people around you, if you're just so mad at the way things are going, you've slipped back into Simon patterns. Instead of Jesus being your all, you're thinking, why can't I have these things that are so important? Instead of looking at Jesus and realizing what he's done for you, you're continually saying, well, if he's really done all this for me, how come this and that and this and that hasn't happened? Repent and rejoice in the grace of God. God, it's not until you see how much you've been forgiven that you will be able to love. No life without love. No love without a sense of God's forgiveness and saving grace. How real is that to you? Everybody, everybody can leave here like Simon or like the woman. Go to him now.

take everything that you have off your neck put it at his feet he will not disappoint let's pray our father as we pray as we receive the offering we ask that you would show everybody here everyone here what it means

to recognize the gospel and then to respond with wholehearted commitment Father there are some people here who have never understood the gospel ever and therefore their relationship with you is a very detached one would you move them across the line into commitment or at least move them to decide today that they're going to discover what it means to really be a Christian and Father there's many of us here also who are not experiencing the wholehearted transforming joy and commitment because we forget the gospel. Would you show us how easy it is for us to fall back into self-righteousness, into Phariseeism? How easy it is to no longer depend really on your grace but on our works? How easy it is for us to become self-righteous and demanding? Would you please show us how easy it is to fall back into Phariseeism and help us to break it now? And Father, we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.
