Genesis 3, verses 7 and 2, the end of the chapter. But the Lord God called to the man, Where are you? He answered, I heard you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from? The man said, The woman you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate it. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said,

With pain you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband. And he will rule over you. To Adam he said. Because you listened to your wife. And ate from the tree. About which I commanded you. You must not eat of it. Cursed is the ground. Because of you. Through painful toil. You will eat of it. All the days of your life. It will produce thorns. And thistles for you. And you will eat. The plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow. You will eat your food. Until you return. To the ground. Since from it. You were taken. you are, and to dust you will return. Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living. And the Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and his wife and clothed them. And the Lord God said, the man was now become one of us, knowing good and evil. He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat and live forever. So the Lord God banished him from the garden of Eden to work the ground from which he had been taken. After he drove the man out, he placed on the east side of the Garden of Eden cherubim and a flaming sword, flashing back and forth to guard the way to the tree of life. This is God's word. One of the reasons we've been working on this chapter is because we're trying to find out why everybody's so unhappy. Why is everybody so unhappy? Why is life so disappointing? disappointing, even when, and almost, I should say, especially when we're successful for a while. Why is there so much hatred? Why is there sickness and death, and why are we so scared of it? And unless you've got a working theory, a working theory that explains why life is just one misery after another, you're in a lot of trouble. A lot of you are in a lot of trouble because you don't have any theory. And that's the reason why you're constantly shocked and surprised and covered with confusion of face and taken by storm, because you've got no theory at all. There's got to be one. And the scripture gives us, and we've been looking at it, gives us an unsurpassed one. And all month we've been looking at the facets of it. We're told in the deep past, humanity, First of all, came to believe that God is not good. And that we know better than God what is right and wrong. And that you can't trust Him. And that's why we're always mad. Because things are never going the way we want them to go. And we think it's His fault. Secondly. So first we learn. Deep in our hearts. We don't trust God. And that's why we're always mad. And secondly. We're taught. Because we don't trust God. We've got to put our trust in something else. For meaning in life. So we worship other things. work or achievement or power or money or family or romance, something, you've got to. We're incurably religious, but since those things are finite and fragile and vulnerable and they come and they go, we're always insecure. And thirdly, last week, we saw that no matter how hard we try to say we are the ones who determine what's right and wrong for us, no matter how much we seek to live an authentic and write our own scripts and create our own reality. We can't get rid of an indelible sense of nakedness and shame. A sense that we're wrong, that we're bad, that we're cowards. And we write it off as psychological complexes and we blame people for it. And yet there it is. And so we're always ashamed. Always feeling inadequate. See those three things? We don't trust God, so we're always mad. We worship the wrong things, so we're always insecure. We spend lots of times desperately trying to cover up our nakedness, but we're always ashamed. Let's call those the dynamics of death. The things that are operating in our hearts, and I think anybody, anybody, no matter what your perspective, you have to look and say, of course, I see those things in my heart. It's the reason why life is so miserable. Now, we've only got one week left because we were looking at this through Lent. We only have one more week. there any way out? Does the text tell us at all that there's any way out? Can these dynamics be broken? Can they be healed? And the answer is yes. And the reason we know that is because God instantly begins to seek to heal Adam and Eve through questions. Now, these questions, we looked I looked at one last week, but this week I'd like to look at them in general. These questions are designed to lead Adam and Eve to self-discovery. These questions cannot be, I think we said this last week, they cannot be for the purpose of information. God can't be asking them to learn because he knows the answers. Instead, he comes afterwards to lead us to self-discovery that will heal us. God is a counselor here. the educational psychologist will tell you that we forget most of what we hear, but we remember most of what we say. And so God, instead of coming and telling him the answer, seeks to be a counselor and lead them to self-discovery. He does this all the way through the Bible. In fact, it's remarkable how God, who knows everything, is so gentle in the way in which he asks questions. You see, for example, in Genesis 4, in the next chapter, is falling into tremendous jealousy toward his brother Abel. And God comes to him and doesn't say to Cain, let me tell you what's wrong with you. Instead, he says to Cain, why are you angry? Why is your countenance fallen? Cain, look at yourself. Look carefully. You say you're mad because of Abel, but are you sure that's the real cause? Or remember the book of Jonah. Jonah wants Nineveh to be destroyed. finds out that Nineveh will not be destroyed, Jonah's racist attitudes toward the Assyrians rise up and choke him, and he becomes bitter and depressed because a city, a huge city, had found mercy. He was mad. And God comes to him and doesn't say, you idiot. Instead, he comes and says, Jonah, do you do well to be angry? What's he asking him? He says, is your anger justified? What is your anger based on? Look at yourself, Jonah. It's powerful because, you know, when Cain won't answer the question, why are you angry, Cain? Look at yourself. Then God turns to him and says, Cain, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you, but you must master it. What an amazing statement. You know what God is saying? Look, he's saying, Thanks, Cain. You think your anger is justified. You see it as righteous indignation. You see that your anger is a friend, but it's not. Unmask it, Cain. See it for what it is. It's not righteous indignation. It's jealous pride. And Cain, you think it's your friend. It's your enemy. Look, it's like an animal crouching in the shadows outside the door, waiting for you to come out. spring on you. It will kill you. It will smother you. You've got to renounce it. You've got to see it for what it is. You've got to master it. What is God after here? What is this great self-discovery that will bring spiritual healing? I'll tell you what it is. I'll use the biblical name for it. I won't gussy it up and call it renewal. I won't call it by its Greek name. I notice, for example, even the business textbooks are coming out and using the Greek word for it just to avoid it. I read a recent book on long-range planning for businesses. And it says businesses have always got to engage in metanoia, it said. Yes, businesses have always got to see that they're not where they should be, and they always have to be changing, and they have to experience metanoia. Everything we can do to avoid the word because we think the word is so gory. God is trying to lead Adam and Eve to repentance. Repentance. And it's the only way to heal. It's the only way out of all the anger, of all the insecurity, of all the shame. It's the only way out of the dynamics of death. Somebody says, well, I think repentance is psychologically unhealthy to tell people to repent. Well, you're living in the first part of the 20th century when a lot of psychologists believe that. People are beginning to realize it's not as simple as that. Carl Menninger in his book, Whatever Became a Sin, this is a quote from him. He's a respected psychologist. And he says, So long as people live under the shadow of real, unacknowledged, and unexpieded guilt, they will continue to hate themselves. But the moment they begin to accept their guilt and sinfulness, the possibility of radical reformation opens up. See, for most people, they think of repentance in the broadest possible terms as flagellation, self-flagellation, self-hatred, beating yourself, groveling in the dirt. And then you come to 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10, which to me has been one of the most pivotal passages in the Bible for me, in which Paul says, and I quote, Quote, godly sorrow leads to repentance, which brings deliverance and no regret. But worldly sorrow brings death. Wait a minute. That brings you up short, doesn't it? Here's Peter and here's Judas. And on the same fateful weekend, they both betrayed and denied their master. And six weeks later, Peter is free. Peter is confident. in the streets and leading a movement that's going to change the world, and Judas has killed himself. And they both experienced sorrow for what they'd done. And one had a sorrow that led to life, and the other one had a sorrow that led to self-destruction. Godly sorrow leads to repentance and no regret. Worldly sorrow leads to death. What's the difference? You know what this is saying? This is saying that there's a kind of sorrow over your flaws. There's a kind of awareness of your weaknesses and your nakedness that can actually destroy you. And there's a kind of awareness of it that will lift you up and liberate you. Let me put it in the most stark possible terms. If you tell me, I've repented over that. I've repented over that. And all I do is feel worse. And all I feel is more in bondage. And all I feel is more despair. bear. And I don't experience any freedom and I don't experience any cleansing or joy. I've repented and I just feel worse. Then you haven't repented. You can't have. No regret, cleansing, life. Repentance is under life, the Bible says. And therefore, it's of utmost importance for us to understand what God is trying to get Adam and Eve to do. He's seeking repentance. He always Real repentance. Godly repentance. And I want you to see that repentance is not bad news. It's the way to life. It's the way to health. It's the way to joy. Look, let's put it this way. At the heart of God's questions, he shows us what repentance is. Now, I'm going to say it to you, but I'm going to have to expound it, of course, and unpack it. Repentance comes when we give priority to the personal in our relationship with God. Repentance comes when we give priority to the personal. And that's what God is trying to do. Let me show you this. You know, it's interesting how he starts right off saying, where are you, Adam? Anybody who's ever experienced spiritual healing realizes that there's no change. You may be a skeptic about Christianity and you may say, well, yes, I have trouble with Christianity intellectually. But there's a time that comes when God turns the tables on you. Instead of you talking about him in a detached way, you suddenly realize he's talking about you. On the way into spiritual healing, you always have a sense that God's addressing us. You always have a sense that God is coming to you and addressing you as a person. But the first question, where are you? Leads to

an answer which isn't good. The first question that comes and says where are you? The answer should be why are you behind the tree? Why are you out there? Why are you over there? Why are you hiding from me? And the answer is not straightforward. What would the answer be? I'm hiding because I sinned. Instead, he says, I'm hiding because I'm scared. Now, what that is, is nothing but a smoke screen. Because the real, well, why are you scared? See, that's very typical of human beings. We center on the symptoms instead of on the disease. We complain about it. So God goes deeper, and right here is the key. And right here is something that we have to look at if you want to understand the difference between repentance and remorse. Between godly sorrow and worldly sorrow. He says, all right, let me be more specific, Adam. Did you eat of the tree? I commanded you not to eat. Look carefully. I. He doesn't just say, did you break the rule? He says, have you trampled on my word, the thing that I said? Spiritual healing always comes when there's a transition. position. Until God opens your eyes, we all tend to define sin formally. God defines it personally. Put it another way, we always see sin as simply as the violation of a code of formal rules. But God sees sin as a spitting in his face and a front to him personally. Now, for example, example, David. David the king. David the king saw Bathsheba. She was married to somebody else, and he fell in love with her. And what he decided was he wanted her. And so he took her. Now, maybe at first he experienced a sense of freedom. Maybe he said, I'm doing this to be authentic. This is who I really am. I'm in love with Bathsheba. Maybe she said, like Woody Allen said, said, the heart wants what it wants, and that's that. But eventually he came to realize that he was a slave to his passions. And when he came to his senses, he wrote Psalm 51. And in Psalm 51, he said, against thee and thee only have I sinned. Now reflect on this with me. That doesn't seem fair, does it? What do you mean against thee and thee only have I sinned? If you David, first of all, he had an affair with a woman who was married to another man. Then he had that other man killed in battle. Put him into a place where he could be killed. Then he took Bathsheba and married her. Why would he say to God, against thee and thee only have I sinned? Why would he say that? Because David began to get healed. And in healing, you start to realize primarily sin is not the breaking of a code, but the violation of a relationship. It's a stabbing of God. It's a spitting in his face. Well, somebody says, how is that? Here's how it is. Remember what we said earlier in the month and what I said earlier in the sermon? The essence of sin is a belief that you are more loving than God, that you're better than God, that you know better than God what is the right, loving, and good, and fulfilling thing for you. And this is what's at the bottom of all sins. Please look. There's always two layers. When David looked at Bathsheba, here's what went on in his heart of hearts. He says, look at her. She's married to somebody else. I will never be happy in this life if I don't have her. And if I obey God, who says, thou shalt not commit adultery. If I obey God, my happiness is over. The law of God, then, is not good for me. The law of God will not make me happy. If I obey the law of God, I will be miserable. If I surrender to God completely, I'll miss out. The law of God is cruel. Therefore, God is cruel. rule. I know better than God what will make me happy. Now, listen, he's the king of Israel. I doubt not only he didn't say that out loud, I doubt that he said that out loud. And not only that, I doubt that he even was able to say it consciously to himself. But don't you see that to commit adultery and to take Bathsheba meant that he had to presume and assume that God was not good, that he was better than God. And therefore, the prior sin underneath the adultery was a trampling on the love and goodness of God. Character assassination, a radical questioning of the morality of God is at the bottom of underneath any other sin that you do, anything. Of course, you don't think about it like that. Of course, you don't say, you think David said it, but it's there. And when you come to your senses, and when you begin to truly repent, the first thing you say is, against thee and thee only have I sinned. You know, some years ago, I met a family that was in a terrible way because of this. There was a husband who had abandoned his wife and their little son, and he disappeared for years. Nobody even knew where they were. And it left the wife, the mother, and the son in a terrible state economically. And she slaved and worked so hard, because she did not have marketable skills, in order to provide for her son. She went to the mat. She sacrificed mightily so that he could have decent living, so that he could go to decent schools. She was strict, because he lived in a very poor community. And he was surrounded by people and surrounded by friends who, if the son developed their habits, it would ruin his life. So she was strict, but she loved him dearly. And she had quite a few rules. When he was in college, living at home, the father showed up again after years, moved into town, and like the serpent, came across town and started to say to the boy, you know, this mother with all of her rules, I know what she's like. She doesn't like you, she doesn't love you, or she'd let you be free. And he believed her. And he started to break all the rules. He started to sleep with girls and leave them pregnant. He started to hang out with semi-criminal elements. He began to do a lot of things that were wrong. He broke the rules. But you know what was so obvious to all of us who knew the family. Was the real evil. Was not that he broke her rules. But that he broke her heart. And every time he broke a rule. What he was actually doing. It was a dagger at her heart. Because she loved him. Because she had invested in him. she'd had the highest stake in him. And the real evil of every one of those sins was not the breaking of the formal code, but the trampling on the relationship and the despising of the love. Now, you must recognize that every single time you sin, it's a dagger in the heart of God. Now, somebody out there is trying to say, gosh, in other words, sin's worse than I thought. but how can this be liberating? I don't feel liberated as you talk about it. In fact, I feel worse. I feel more slimy than ever. I don't know if I agree with you, but I'm afraid that if I do agree with you and there's a lot about it that you're saying that's compelling, I'm afraid I'm going to feel more despair. What do you mean godly sorrow leads to no regret? Here's what I mean. And let me just show you. The difference between repentance and remorse is right here. Here, let me just give you a few contrasts. Repentance is repentance, but remorse is self-pity. Or let me put it another way. Repentance is grieving over the pain of God, and remorse is grieving over the pain of you. Look at Adam. God comes and says, what have you done, Adam? And what does Adam say? I'm scared. And instead of admitting his sin, he's complaining about the consequence of the sin. two different things. In remorse, you're looking at the consequence of the sin. In repentance, you're looking at the sin. In remorse, you're grieving over your own self and what your sin has done to you. In repentance, you're grieving over what God has done. Now, maybe you think that's a subtle distinction. Okay, it is a subtle distinction. But it makes not only all the difference in the world. It's all the difference in the universe. You can see it even at a human level. Let me show you. Over the years, when I was in my first pastorate, I did so much marriage counseling. this before. There was no marriage counselor in town. And what always happened, it went like this. It could be the man or the woman, but one person was very cold and very cruel. Cold and distant. And had been that way for years. And the other person complained and complained, and the offender did nothing about it, and the offended complained. And one night, he, the offended, or she, says, my bags are packed. and then the offender calls up the pastor. I don't know how many times this happened, and said, his bags are packed, or her bags are packed. And I said, would you come at least and talk to the pastor with me? And she said, I will. So can I see you right away? And I said, yeah. Over they come. Now, this would happen at least two or three times a year. And you'd sit down, and here's what would happen. The offended would sit there and say all of how bad they've been treated, how cold and how distant the other person was. What would the offender do? The offender would sit there and say, yes, I'm so sorry. It was so wrong of me. I will do anything. I promise I will change. Now, when I was a young man, I used to say, well, I've got to figure something out here. this person's sincere. And I used to think that on the spot, I could tell. But I couldn't tell. But there was always an acid test. There was always one for sure way to know whether this was repentance or remorse. And the answer is whether it lasted. And here's why. Don't you see how it works even at the human level? Repentance frees and remorse just enslaves. In repentance. The offender. Looks at the offended. And says. Look at what I'm doing to her. Look at how much she's given me. And look at what I've done to her. And therefore. The coldness. And the distance. And the. And the lack of love. And the lack of concern. My self absorption. Is terribly wrong. Excuse me. Is terribly. Terribly. And as a result. Because. The offender. Is repenting. Over the sin. he starts to realize how bad this is. And the coldness in the distance becomes a heinous looking thing. He begins to see it as his enemy. He begins to see it as like an animal crouching at the door trying to get him. And he says, I have nothing to do with you. But what if it was remorse? In remorse, you're not sorry about the sin. You're sorry about the disgrace. In remorse, you're not sorry about what you've done to her. You're sorry about what this whole thing is doing to you. the disgrace of my wife leaving me. The terrible inconvenience of it. The terrible shame of it. The terrible guilt of all of this. Oh, it's a subtle distinction. But it meant all the difference in the world. Because if you were experiencing remorse. If you were basically experiencing self-pity. If you were basically saying, I'll do anything just to get rid of the consequences of this sin. That means that you really didn't see that how you behave was all that bad. You basically saw the other person as being fairly unreasonable. I'll do what I have to do to get things together, but you don't recognize that the thing that you've been doing is your enemy. The thing you're doing is a heinous thing. There's no expulsion of it, and it'll be back. It'll be back. You see, when God is leading you to repentance, God is saying, it's crouching at the door. Its desire is for you. You've got to see it for what it is. Repentance is repentance. Remorse is self-pity. In repentance, you lose the enchantment. The sin no longer has its enchantment over you. Come look, David. It's not authentic freedom. It's adultery. It's not authentic freedom. It's believing that you are smarter and wiser and more loving than God. But underneath it all, and here's what you really have to see, real repentance is based on the knowledge of God's love. If there's anybody out there saying, boy, I'll tell you, if I really believed what you say, if I really believed that every time I sinned, I was stabbing God in the heart and trampling on him, boy, I would feel terrible. Well, let me ask, let me just tell you something. Look at the Christians that the history books tell you about. Look at the early Christians. Look at the joy they had. they had. Look at how when they were going to the lions or worse, they were singing hymns. Why? I'll tell you why. Why is it that you look at them and you say, boy, I wish I had their joy. I can't even face my boss on Monday. I can't even face my problems. And yet they were able to face the lion. They were able to face the gladiators. They were able to face all this. I wish I had their confidence. I wish I had their joy. Let me tell you why. They were better repenters than you. Why do you think they had the joy? I'll tell you why. Because the thought of Jesus dying on the cross for them was the most thrilling and galvanizing thing. Your response to somebody offering you help is directly proportionate to your consciousness of need. You know, if you're walking up, you're getting on a bus, and somebody comes up to you and says, hey, let me help you on. You look at them and you say, what do I look like? Huh? If you don't see that you need to be helped on, the offer of help is something that can actually be an insult. You believe that Jesus died on the cross. Let me ask, is it the most galvanizing thought? Is it the most thrilling thought? Does the knowledge of what he did for you, is it the one thing, is it something that leads you to tears every so often? Is it something that lifts you up and makes you confident? It did them. Why? Because they knew they were sinners. And the more they knew they were sinners. And the more they repented. The more astonished. And amazed. And lifted up they were. By the idea. That he. What he'd done for them. And as a result. Of that. The more they repented. The happier they got. The more they were able. To admit their sins. Because. You see. The more. You know. You're loved. The more. Secure. You are. To admit. You're false. And. If. You. Understand. That. God. Is a. Loving. God. That. Jesus. if you understand the gospel. The more you admit your faults, the more you feel his love. The more you see his love. The more astonishing his love is. And that's what we call the big cycle. The more you see you're loved in the gospel, the more you repent. The more you repent, the more you see you're loved. The more you see you're loved, the more you can admit. The more you admit, the more you can receive your love. That happens in the gospel. And the reason Why we are not as joyful as they are is because for us, the cross tends to be more of a conception and not a power. If you say, but the more I see my insufficiency, the weaker I feel, it means you are rejecting even now. You're trampling on the blood of Jesus even now. You're rejecting his love, just like David did. Every so often, I've had to look at somebody who says, I'm just so awful. I'm so terrible. and the more I see what God requires of me, the more unworthy I feel. Every so often I have to look at that person, a person like that, and say, well, there's one sin that you're really missing. The reason you're so miserable is there's one sin you're not repenting of. Your arrogance. Your inability to see that on the cross Jesus paid for every bit of it. In other words, there's a sense in which by continuing to feel less and less confident, As you look at your sin. You're doing. The very thing. The serpent. Wants you. To do. You're. Refusing. The idea. That he. Really. Loves. You. Refusing. The idea. That he. Really. Died. For. You. Repentance. Leads. To. Life. What. Is. Repentance. It's. Seeing. What. Your. Sin. Cost. God. What. Is. Repentance. It's. Recognizing. His. Love. And. Refusing. To. Now, lastly, one last thing. Did God's questions succeed? We see what his questions were after. We see how his questions were after us to make us, you know, to bring us to self-discovery, to bring us to repentance. But did they succeed? You know, I was talking with my wife about this yesterday. We were trying to debate. Did they succeed? Did Adam and Eve repent? And if you look at it on the surface, you'll see it seems like they didn't. At every point, when Adam and Eve could have been direct, they talked about their problems. You see, they just wowed in self-pity. What did you do wrong, Adam? Well, what's wrong with me is I'm scared. I'm experiencing nakedness and shame. But why, Adam? What did you do? Well, I really didn't do anything. She made me do it. Okay, what did you do? I really didn't do anything. That made me do it. It made me do it. and he didn't ask the serpent because the serpent knew well the point is it doesn't look like it worked in fact it looks like the questions are over because all God does is start to pronounce doom and the way to the tree of life is closed because we're told at the end that God sat down and put cherubim which are angels in front of the tree of life, the eternal life, and said, put a sword, a flaming sword that turns every way. What is that sword? It's justice. We all know that. You can't have the benefits and privileges of the United States government if you break its laws. If you beat people up, if you kill people, you shouldn't try to draw unemployment. You shouldn't expect police least protection. In other words, justice says that you can't have the benefits unless you obey. And because they wouldn't obey and because they wouldn't repent, justice is there saying, the way to the blessings of eternal life, the way to joy, the way to harmony and peace is blocked. It looks like that's the end. The questions are done. God looks like he stops trying to get them to repent, and the way is closed. Is that what it's, is it true? After talking to my wife yesterday, I went back and sat down and I realized it's not, not at all. First of all, in verse 20, God, Adam names his wife. Did you know, if you look carefully, you'll see, especially in chapter five of Genesis, both Adam and Eve are both called Adam in the beginning. It says in Genesis five, God named them Adam, because the

dirt. And what it really was referring to was the ones made from the dirt. And therefore, actually, Adam and Eve don't really have names at this point. And it says in verse 20, Adam named his wife Eve. And you know what the word Eve means? Mother of the living. Now, she wasn't a mother. Why would he name her mother when she didn't have any kids. In fact, doubtless, he didn't even really know what the heck, and she didn't know really what the heck it meant to give birth. The point is, he believed the promise. The promise was, remember, God said, I will declare war on evil, and there will be an offspring that comes out of the woman who will destroy evil. In fact, when Cain is born in chapter 4, verse 1, What does Eve do? She says, I got him. That's what it says in the Hebrew. I got him. Now, I've watched a woman give birth to three sons, and they don't say, great. You know, they don't do that. I say, they don't say, incredible. I got him. What was she talking about? She thought maybe Cain was the one. The fact is that the questions of God do not end. They're not like my questions. If I ask you a question, the words go off into the air and they're gone. But the questions of God remain in history. They're abroad. They're at large. Some of you are going through very difficult times right now. Some of you are trying to say, what's wrong with my life? Why are things getting the way they are? You know why? It's the questions of God. Jonah, fleeing from God. Out comes a storm. There's a story I read, it's a Grimm's fairy tale, about a witch that had a roadside inn. And in the roadside inn she had a very comfortable bed. And it was so comfortable people always slept late. But if you were in that bed when the sun came up, you were turned to stone. And so a young man comes in and he rents the room and he gets into the bed. who is a servant of the witch who has pity on the young man, but she is a mute and she can't write or read. And every night the witch locks her in a room. So what does she do? The only thing she could do is she throws things at the young man. And every time he starts to fall asleep, he gets hit with a piece of glass. Every time he starts to fall asleep, gets hit with a stone or a pencil or a book or something. And he figures out where it's coming from and he complains and he yells at her. She can't say anything. She can't write. Finally, at 4 a.m. in the morning, not able to get to sleep, in total despair, he gets up, he curses, and he says, I curse on your house and I curse on you. And off he runs. And of course, she's very, very, very sad. Why? He has no idea what she was trying to say. And he also had no idea how much love there was in what she was trying to say. Now, the fact of the matter is God is constantly throwing things at you. Bits of glass, pencils, all sorts of things, because he doesn't want you to be spiritually asleep when history ends and you turn to stone. As a matter of fact, It's God actually coming to you and asking the original questions. Where are you? What have you done? Why do you think you're experiencing this shame and this anger? Is your anger justified, Cain? Is your anger, do you do well to feel this way, Jonah? Look at yourself. The questions remain. He never stops asking the questions. He never closes up. He constantly comes to you and tries you to get to see yourself with the skill of a surgeon. With the precise, gracious violence of a surgeon, he seeks to get you to see yourself. It's violent, but it's merciful. But lastly, not only are the questions not over, not only does he continue to try to get you to see yourself and your weakness, but also the way is not closed. Oh, you say, but yes, it is. If you look carefully in the Hebrew, it says the sword turns every way. There is no way in. Every way. You come from the east, you come from the west. The north is south, up or down. It turns every way. There's no way in. No way in. Justice will keep you out. But the Bible tells us there is a way. It says it in Hebrews. In the book of Hebrews, the writer puts it this way. Now, he says, let us draw near. What is he saying? What does it mean? It means this. He says there was a way opened up. It was through Christ's flesh, his body. You know what that means? When he was on the cross, what was Jesus doing? He was advancing against the sword. And it fell on him. And it broke his body. But in breaking his body, it broke itself. The justice of God was... Boy, I hope you understand this. I'm saying this with reverence. The justice of God was broken and smothered by God himself. self. God sent his son to pay the penalty. It smote him, but it smote itself. It broke him, but in breaking him, it broke itself because the penalty was paid. Now that's the only way in, but it is the way. If you try to go in behind him,

you know, there's so many places in literature, so many times the plot device goes like this. Everybody's in danger and one person says, I'll run off this way and I'll take all their bullets and then you can go free. How many plots are based on that? How many plots are resolved on something like that? One person gives the life for the rest. It happens all the time. You know why? Because it answers something deep in us. At the end of the book, People of the Lie, Scott Peck says, what is the only solution for evil? He says it's a mystery. And then he quotes C.S. Lewis out of the Narnia Tales. and he says this. If one person who has not sinned himself gives his life for a traitor, the table will break and death itself will start working backwards. There's a way in through the new and living way, his flesh. Do you know that? Do you understand that? Do you recognize that? Then you'll be able to repent. There's two kinds of people here. who have come on in through Jesus, and yet you don't have the joy that you ought to have because you're not repenting like you should. Repentance means looking at the love of God. If you do not have the kind of freedom, the progress over enslaving habits, if you find yourself really caught in all sorts of remorse all the time, what you have to do is you have to recognize that I'm not doing godly sorrow. I'm actually trampling on the love of God at this very moment. If I look at my sins framed by the love and grace of God. If I look at my sins and myself framed by the love and grace of God, I'll experience liberation. But if I look at my sins without that, disbelieving in his love, or if I don't look at my sins disbelieving in his love, either way, I'll be lost. Just as there is no sin so small but it deserves condemnation. so there is no sin so great that it can bring condemnation on those who truly repent. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask only that you would help us to see today that this is good news. Repentance is the way out. And that you, O Lord God, continually and continuously come to us and counsel us. Help us to see in many cases the suffering and the difficulties we're experiencing right now as your counseling. You're throwing things into our beds so we can't sleep. But you're trying to get us to look at ourselves. And help us to see that there's a new and living way into the tree again. Help us to see that repentance is unto life. Father, I pray that everyone in this room would have this text applied to them by your spirit. We all have to have it applied in different ways. We all have different things we have to do personally to begin to practice it. And act on it. Lead us all by your spirit. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.