Tonight's scripture reading comes from Psalm 103, verses 1 to 18. Praise the Lord, O my soul, all my inmost being. Praise his holy name. Praise the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit and crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all the oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel. The Lord is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love. He will not always accuse, nor will he harbor his anger forever. He does not treat us as our sins deserve. Or repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. For he knows how we are formed. He remembers that we are dust. As for man, his days are like grass. He flourishes like a flower of the field. The wind blows over it, and it is gone, and its place remembers it no more. But from everlasting to everlasting, the Lord's love is with those who fear him, and his righteousness with their children's children, with those who keep his covenant and remember to obey its precepts. This is the word of the Lord. The Lord is with us. The Lord can be your father. And I'm not sure, but I think it's not overstatement to say this is one of the two or three most important things the Bible tells us. Because, listen, this is Galatians 4, verse 4. When the time had fully come, God sent his Son into the world to redeem those under the law that we might receive full rights as sons of God. Why did Jesus come? Why was he born? Why did he live? Why did he die? So that you and I could have a family relationship with God, so that we could call God Father. That's the meaning of his life. That's why he did everything he did. And therefore, it should be a source of wonder to us to say God is our Father should never be a commonplace, should never be something that we just say, yes, of course. I know that. There should always be a wonder about it. It ought to be electrifying. Is it? Well, we'll try to help that along tonight. If God is our Father, what does that mean? Five things. First, it means to live in covenant. What do I mean by that? The word covenant shows up here, but let me explain. It's pretty popular today to say, all. All people are God's children. And is that how the Bible speaks, that all people in the world are God's children? Does the Bible say that? The answer is yes and no, but mainly no. And here's why. If you think of a definition, how do you define Father? Look it up in Webster's or just brainstorm yourself. And there's always two ways to define Father, or there's two aspects of fatherhood. One is a father is your literal source of your physical existence. You come because physically something came out of a father into an egg and you, in other words, there's got to be a father. So we could say, yeah, fathers are, you know, literally the physical source of your existence. But father also means to have a certain relationship. Of love and care and, you know, to be in a particular relationship. And how many of you have had a conversation like this or heard a conversation like this in a movie? Where a young person says, you were never a father to me. And then the man says, but you're my own flesh and blood. Ah, it takes more than that to be a father. It goes, you were never there for me. You were never really my father. Have you ever heard a conversation like that? Have you ever had a conversation like that? The point is, yes, maybe you were the bio, my biological progenitor, but that's not what it means to be a father. Be father means to be there for me and so on. So in other words, we all believe that the second part of the definition is more fundamental than the first. That to be a father means to have a particular kind of relationship, not just to be the physical source. And the Bible feels the same way. And that's the reason why there's one place or maybe two, where the Bible says, like in Acts 17, where Paul is preaching to the Greeks, and he says, we are his offspring, talking about God. In other words, yeah, everybody in the world is created by God, therefore all in some way is children. But that's not usually how the Bible talks. The Bible actually talks about God being your father, if and only if you have entered into a particular kind of covenantal relationship with him. That's the reason why we have John, John chapter 1, verse 12, talking about Jesus, where it says, as many as received him, Jesus, as believed on his name, they receive power to become children of God. Become. The Bible says, it's only when you enter into a particular kind of relationship with God, when you receive that relationship with God, that he becomes your father. And you will never have the benefits, the enormous benefits, of being a child of God, if you think it just happens automatically. It's something you've got to enter into. It's something you've got to receive. Okay? Point one. And that's the reason why it says, he has compassion on his children. What is that? To those who fear him, verse 13, and down in verse 18, with those who keep his covenant, which is the same thing, by the way. He's not father to everybody. He doesn't have that father relationship with everybody. He has, a relationship with those, he is a father to those, who have entered into this covenant relationship. So you have to live in covenant. Well, what does that mean? Well, we'll keep on talking. All right? Point two. To have God as your father means to live not only in covenant, but to live in grace. Look what it says. We're sinners, verse 10. We do iniquity, verse 10. We do transgression, verse 12. Transgression is a word that actually means willful rebellion. And verse over, all the way in verse, 14, we're dust, which means we're weak. So we're weak, and we're sinners, and we're transgressors. And yet, because God is a father, we're told, from everlasting to everlasting, the Lord's love is on them. Those who fear him, those who are in covenant. Now, what that means is, God loves you, permanently, in spite of your sins and flaws, because he's your father. Now, this is the most fundamental, fundamental thing about, about this truth, this idea that God can be your father. When you relate to a boss, you're working for a boss, you can have a very cordial relationship with your boss, as long as you're performing. If you're doing your job, if you're not embezzling the money, in other words, as long as you're doing your job, and you're following the laws, and following the rules, you can have a great relationship with your boss. But if you don't perform, the relationship's over, because your relationship is based on your performance. But with a father, what happens to a father, who's got a child, who starts going off the rail, who doesn't perform? What happens to that relationship? The relationship intensifies. The father's heart is more engaged. It's painful, but it's because, it's painful, but your heart is engaged because of love. Your relationship with a child is not based on performance. And that means everything. That's the thing. That's the difference between a family relationship and a business relationship. There's two ways to relate to God, as a boss or as a father. As a boss, as long as I do all these good things, then God blesses me. And if I'm not doing good things, then I feel like I've lost him. Or as a father, in which case, in spite of your sins, in spite of your transgressions, in spite of your iniquities, his love is on you from everlasting to everlasting. This is amazing. Now think about this. When God, when Jesus was asked, how should we pray to God? Jesus said, say, our Father. Think of all the other things that God is. We've been talking about them all year. He is King. He is Judge. He is the High and Holy One that inhabiteth eternity. He's all these things. And so when Jesus says, just say, Father, does that mean that it, that it wipes all the others out? Or is Jesus saying, oh, he's not high and holy? He's not King? He's not the righteous judge? He's just Father? No, of course not. But what this means, when he says, just pray our Father, everything else that God is, if you have a family relationship with him, is filtered through his fatherness. I mean, if you want a perfect example of it, think of the President of the United States. What does it take to get in to see the President? You've got to be important. You've got to have accomplishments. You've got to have power. You've got to have achieved a lot. Or you don't have power. You don't have time. You never get in. And then, of course, you can't just go in any way you want. There's appointments. There's hoops to jump through. There's all that sort of thing. Unless you're one of the President's two little kids. And they can just run on in. Daddy, and because, does that mean he's Daddy? He's not the President? No, he's the President. But the point is, to his children, the fact that he's the Father is the way in which they experience everything else. Anybody else that runs toward the President, will be shot. Shot. In fact, everybody needs an appointment. But at 3 a.m. in the morning, even I don't think, even the President's wife isn't going to say, could I have a drink of water? I think the President would say, get it yourself. I have the most difficult job in the world. I need my sleep. But the children, Daddy, I need a drink of water. Nobody gets, in other words, yeah, he may be the President, he may be the potentate of the world, but he's Father. And as a result, the children experience all that through his fatherness. And Jesus has the audacity to say, that's how you relate to God. Infinite holiness,

infinite omnipotence, gentled for you. It's all filtered. Of course he's still the judge. Of course he's still the, the holy one. Because he's your father, his love is on you from everlasting to everlasting, no matter what. So to have him as father means, you relate to him on the basis of grace, and you live in that grace. Thirdly, it doesn't just mean to live in covenant, and to live in,

you know, to live in grace. It also means, to live in confidence when bad things are happening. And here's why I want you to think about this. Verse 8, 9, and 10. Now, you have to understand all these, this whole psalm is about the great benefits of God as a father. He's a father. He's not just a king, he's a father. So he has compassion, he loves his children, and then it says in verse 8, 9, and 10, the Lord is compassionate and gracious, right? Okay, then it says, slow to anger, abounding in love, he will not always accuse, he will not harbor his anger forever, he does not treat us as our sins deserve, or repay us according to our iniquities. That's an amazing three verses. You know, first of all, it's saying that even though God's your father, he still gets angry at you. A good father will get angry, even though he loves you. Why? Because he doesn't want, if you lie, a little child lies, father gets angry. Why? Because he loves you. He doesn't want to see you be a liar. You're under threat right now, and the father wants to do something about it. He's mad at what you've done. And he's mad because he's got to do something about it. Okay. In other words, because he loves you, he gets angry. Father's getting angry. But this passage is saying, look carefully. God does get angry as a father. He does accuse,

but he never repays you for your iniquities. What? He never repays you. Now, I want you to know, now here's where those of us who are human being fathers and mothers know there's a way of getting angry at your kid that's for them. And your anger is basically, basically a form of love. And you only, you will discipline the child, but you only bring into the child's life as much, you know, unhappiness, deprivation, or whatever you're going to do because the child's lied. Now you can't go to the party. You have to be in your room. Whatever you do, you're angry, but whatever you're bringing in that person's life, just enough to try to wake the child up, to get the child on the right track, to keep the child from doing it again, right? Okay. You're mad for his sake or her sake, but let's face it. You know this also happens. Because we're sinners, very often parents are just mad at our children for our sake. The child has ruined our day. The child has made us look bad. The child has done something and we thought we were going to do this today and now we have to do this instead. And we're just mad. And when you say, go to your room, you know why. You ruined my day. I'm going to ruin yours. It's just payback. It's pay. I'm making them pay for their iniquities. I'm not trying to help them. I'm not loving them. I'm just mad at them. You hurt me. I'm going to hurt you. We're told that if God is your father, he never does that. Never. He never does retribution. He never does quid pro quo. The eternal punishment that you deserve for your sins has fallen into the heart of somebody else. Not you. And now when God disciplines, when God lets bad things happen to you, when God sees you doing something wrong and he lets some of the consequences come through and you feel you're being handled roughly by God, it's only out of his fatherly love. It's never payback. He's never abandoned you. He never will. He's working all things together for good. John Newton once wrote a woman who was suffering and he said to her, everything is necessary that God sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. Would you think about that for a second? That's an amazing statement. What he's saying is God is your father and therefore, yes, some bad things are happening to you. But because God is your father, he's never just paying you back. He's never just hitting you because of your sins. If something bad has come into your life, it's because in some way or another it will be a benefit to you. And if something that you want is not in your life or is being removed from your life, then though you don't want to believe it, it's not of benefit to you. Everything is necessary that he sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds because he's your father. Now, do you believe that? Everything is necessary that he sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. Do you know what kind of confidence you'd live with? Do you know even when everything's going wrong, you'd say, okay, the father knows what he's doing? Do you believe that? If you believe that and you can rest in that, it's because you finally are admitting God is your father. So if God is your father, live in covenant. If God is your father, live in grace. If God is your father, live in confidence, even when things are looking bad. Fourthly, if God is your father, have an intimate relationship with him. Live in intimacy. The word compassion, it comes up again and again and again. Verse 13, Father has compassion on his children and the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. All the Hebrew commentators say it's astounding. That word is a very emotional word. It's talking about a deep emotional connection between God and us. And one of the things that's very strange,

parents know. When a parent, when your child is very, very little and you have to rock them and you have to feed them and you have to, you know, you know, careful when they're sick, it's very intimate. There's a lot of skin contact. There's, you know, it's very, very intimate. And then they grow up and now they're adults. And yet you never, parents never lose that hunger for intimacy. I guess it was forged when they were little. You want to talk. You want to hear. You want to hug. You want to open up to them and have them open up to you. You want that. And of course, sometimes you can get it. Sometimes you can't. But I tell you, if even in us flawed parents,

that desire for intimacy with our children is never gone, if something good like that even exists in our hearts, then it must be there to the trillionth degree in God's. And it is. Because he's the perfect parent. And that's the reason why we have these amazing passages like Romans 8, verses 15 and 16, where it says, by the Holy Spirit we cry, Abba, Father, and the Spirit himself bears witness with our souls that we are God's children. Did you hear that? First of all, the Spirit comes into our life to help us pray, Abba, Father. Some of you have heard this. It's very famous. The word Abba is an Aramaic word for Papa. It's a diminutive. It's the word that a small child would use with his father. And we're told here, it's one thing to believe God is my Father in some kind of theological general way. But what God wants is he wants, and he gives the Spirit to help you, he wants you to pour your heart out to him and trust him. Look at verse 14. He knows your dust. He understands that you're dust. What does that mean? He understands you're weak. He understands. He knows how frail you are. This is an invitation to get intimate. This is an invitation to open up. The Holy Spirit's job is there, is to say, is to get us to say Abba, not just our Father in a kind of formal way, but to open up to him as Father. And verse 16 says, the Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we're children of God, which is another way of saying God sends his Spirit into our heart to give us an assurance of his fatherly love. And so when the Spirit is opening up us to pour our hearts out to him, and intimately, the Spirit can also send his love into our hearts. John, Thomas Goodwin, the old Puritan, tells a story how he was walking along one day and he saw a father and a son in front of him, walking ahead of him. He couldn't quite hear what happened or what was being said. But at one point, the father turned and picked the little boy up and gave him a big hug and said, I love you. And the little boy said, I love you too, Daddy. And then he said, come down. They kept on walking. And Thomas Goodwin said, was the child more a son when he was in the father's arms than before or after? No. Relationally, legally, no. But experientially. The boy was experiencing his sonship. And what Romans 8, 15 and 16 is saying is the Spirit's job is there to help you do that. The Spirit's job is there to get you, to open up to Father and to have the Father's love come down into us. Do you have a prayer life like that or do you just say your prayers? If you don't have a prayer life like that or if you're not seeking a prayer life like that, you don't know what it means to have God as Father. And why Jesus would say, the number one thing I want you to know when you go to God is to go on the basis that He is your Father. That's why He starts the whole prayer out, Our Father. So if God's your Father, live in covenant, live in grace, live in confidence, live in intimacy, and lastly, I'll just say, live in gratitude. And here's why. How do we get all this? The whole point is we do not get what we deserve. Huh? The whole point is we do not get what we deserve. He does not repay us as we deserve. What do we deserve? I can show you what we deserve. Verse 15 and 16. The life of mortals is like grass. They flourish like a flower of the field. The wind blows over it and it's gone and its place remembers it no more. That's not what it was supposed to be like. The Garden of Eden. We were put there and we were supposed to last. We weren't supposed to die. We were not supposed to be forgotten. We were not supposed to lose our place. But because of sin, we were cast out of the garden and now we do lose our place. We are forgotten. We are ephemeral. We are temporary. We pass away like the grass. And yet, the whole point is God is our Father because we don't get what we deserve. Well, how is that possible? Why don't we get what we deserve? And here's why. When Jesus Christ was on the cross, the only time in all the Gospels that he prays to God and doesn't call him Father,

the only time he doesn't call him Father is when he's on the cross and he says, my God, my God, why have you forgotten me, forsaken me? Jesus lost his relationship with the Father so that we could have it. Jesus was forgotten so that we could be remembered forever from everlasting to everlasting. Jesus Christ got what our sins deserve. All that our sins deserve fell into his heart. Now, what should you do? If you want a covenant relationship with God so that you can say, our Father, you've got to believe that Jesus did that for you. Believe that. Rest in that. Ask God to be your Father because of what Jesus did and he will be. That's the covenant. But it's not enough because the first part of this whole psalm keeps saying, oh, my soul, forget not his benefits. Oh, my soul. What is that? Who is the psalmist talking to? He's talking to Jesus. He's talking to himself. Oh, my soul. Do not forget his benefits. And of course, as we go on through, we get to the fact that he's God the Father. What is the psalmist doing? The psalmist is telling you and me what we need to know. We don't really believe that God's our Father and we're going to have to take ourselves in hand and say so. If your father or mother really did you wrong and you've got all these family background issues, this is the love that you need. Don't put pressure on them. Don't sit in your head and say, why weren't they what they should have been? Well, there's no parents that are what they should be. Psalm 27, verse 10 says, though my mother and father forsake me, the Lord will bear me up. This is what you need if you have a bad family background. This is what you need if you feel like a failure. This is what you need if you feel lonely. You need to behold the love of God that has turned you into sons and daughters. You need to, take hold of your soul and say, look. And that is the medicine that will solve, will heal what ails you. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for being a father and we know what it costs you. We know what it costs your son. It costs his life that we could be able to see you and we say through him, our Father. He got what we deserve. And we pray, Father, that you would turn us into the kind of people who live with their heads held high, who live compassionately, who live happily, who live joyfully, because we know that through your son, you are our Father. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.