Let me read. Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand, and we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance, perseverance, pardon me, that suffering produces perseverance, perseverance, character, and character, hope. And hope does not disappoint us because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given us. You see, at just the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his only love for us in this. While we were still powerless, while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him? For if, when we were God's enemies, we were reconciled to him through the death of his Son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life? And this is God's word.

Now, we're looking during the period from here, started last week until,

Easter, which roughly corresponds to the period of the church year called Lent. We're looking at what the cross means. What does the cross mean? I think I referred last week to the fact that in Jesus Christ Superstar, there's this one song in which Judas is singing, and he says, did you mean to die like that? Was that a mistake? Or did you know your messy death would be a record breaker?

not quite a rhyme, but pretty close. Did you know your messy death would be a record breaker? And Jesus' death is a record breaker. There's no doubt about it. It's the death. There's never been another death that's been talked about so much. No more famous death, no more discussed, sung about, depicted death. Nothing else, no other death has ever come close. This is the record-breaking death. Now, the question that's asked is, did you know? Did you mean to die like that? Was that what you intended to do? And of course, the Christian answer is, oh yes. Yes. Oh yes. Why did he die? For many things. That's what we're looking at. Every week, we're looking at another thing. And he died, last week we saw, for our freedom, but this week, let's look in on this, he died for our forgiveness. Now, this is pretty basic. But the reason it's so basic is because it's so rich, so you can never get tired of looking at it. Look, let's look. I pulled out a book that I had to buy in college many decades ago. And the book was an overview of 36 systems of psychotherapy. 36 systems of psychotherapy. And it was a pretty brief book, so there's only a couple of pages on each one. And that was good because it boiled it down and it showed that every system of psychotherapy had some problem that it thought was really a kind of root problem that human beings had and they would try to get to. And so many of the systems had different words for this root. Low self-esteem and poor self-worth and bad self-image and and, uh, and, uh, uh, yeah. You know, sense of failure and so on. What's hilarious about them is that I guess if you want to have your own psychotherapy, you've got to have your own jargon, of course. That's how people make themselves professionals, is they develop their own jargon that nobody else understands, and they teach it to one another in expensive courses of instruction. And then once you learn the jargon, then you can be a professional, too. And I guess that's one of the ways in which psychotherapies work because really all these different words, there's all sorts of interesting words, like dis-ease. Have you heard that one? Dis-ease, only with a, you know, a dash between dis and ease. All the different words are basically talking about the same thing, guilt.

Guilt is pervasive. And I propose here to show you that guilt is more pervasive than we want to believe. Because a hundred years ago, to feel guilty was a good thing. It showed that you were a civilized person. It was considered good. If you're capable of guilt, that means you were civilized. Today, our culture tells us that people that feel guilty are immature and messed up people. To be wracked with guilt shows that you haven't gotten it together. And therefore, we don't want to admit just how pervasive guilt is. But one psychologist says guilt is, a guilty conscience is the daily seasoning of life. And I don't think we know how pervasive it is. Because we don't want to admit how much guilt there is in our life. We don't want to admit it. We don't want to admit it how often we use it. We use it on people, and we don't want to admit how effective it is when we use it on people. We don't want to admit how often it's used on us and how effective it is. We don't want to look down underneath so many of the problems in our lives. If you thought of the problems of our lives as rocks, if you had the insight and the guts to pull those rocks up to see what was really underneath them, you would find little guilt worms under the rocks. Yeah. Look under your anxieties what you're really anxious about. Certainly look under the anger. Look under the bitterness. Look under your anxieties. Some of you just can't take criticism. You're just devastated. Why are you so devastated? You say, well, I'm devastated because the criticism isn't true. It's just not true. It's exaggerated. Okay, maybe it is, but why would you be devastated then? One of the reasons we're so blown away by criticism, even when it's false criticism, is that a little voice inside says, if they only knew what was wrong with me, if they only knew what a mess I was in, if they only knew what a mess I am, if they only knew what I had done, you see, guilt is down there. It's under shyness, absolutely. It's under being work-driven, I think, very often. It's under all these things. It can be a deep-seated thing that's very, very hard to understand, to feel. Somebody once said that guilt is a lot like an oil leak way under water. You can't tell what it's coming from. All you know is that the water all around the area is very foul, and you can't quite tell where it's coming from. Or it could just be the fact that you're kicking yourself like crazy, and you can't stop kicking yourself over something you did last week. Guilt, a guilty conscience, is the seasoning of everyday life. What do we do about it? How do you have a guilt-free life? You know what I'm going to say, I hope. The Christian faith has resources to deal with guilt that are absolutely unparalleled. The Christian faith has resources, in fact, I'll go so far as to say it has ways of getting out of conundrums of guilt that I don't think can be gotten out of any other way. Look at just what this, there's plenty of passages, but look at what this passage tells us about guilt and about how it's dealt with. I'm going to show you, first of all, it tells us about the feeling of guilt. By the way, I've never had a sermon in which my points rhyme before, so I hope you realize what a red-letter date this is. Yeah, it tells us about the feeling of guilt. What is it? It tells us about the dealing, God's dealing with guilt. And it also tells us about the healing of guilt. How we can take what God's done and use it in our lives. And it's never rhymed before, so this must be, you know, sort of the climactic sermon of my career, probably. So, the feeling, the dealing, the healing. Look, it's also helpful mnemonic advice. Look, number one, the feeling of guilt, what is it? Here's my thesis for you. The feeling of guilt is that my guilt and my wrongdoing is not just a feeling. That's what guilt feelings are. Explain. In the last century, we've been taught that guilt is a feeling. Period. That guilt is psychological. Completely psychological. That it's nothing more than that. We've been told, therefore, it's completely subjective. But is that true? Does it make sense? Does the theory hold out? Does it hold water? That your guilt is completely a matter, some people would say, and these are overlapping ideas, some people would say, yes, your guilt comes from the standards that your family set on you, that you couldn't reach. Others say, no, it comes from the standards that society has put on you, which you couldn't reach. And others would say, and in a way these are not mutually exclusive things, they all overlap. Others would say, guilt comes from your inability to adjust your expectations and your choices to reality. So the problem is, guilt is always a maladjustment. You're maladapted. You have to adjust your expectations and you have to adjust your feelings. You have to adjust your choices and your standards to reality. And that's where guilt comes from. It's all a feeling. It's all subjective. If you're able to deal with the family and society and make these adjustments, it would go away. Does that make sense? Is that really what's happened? Are we finding that to be true?

I mean, I talk to people all the time, very modern people, right here in New York, the most modern place. People who don't believe in sin, they don't believe in hell, surely. They don't even believe in God. They're living in authentic freedom and they're creating their own reality and they're waking up every morning feeling ashamed.

They have a voice in them. You do. You have a voice in you that calls you a coward, calls you a fool, calls you a sinner.

Makes you feel vile, makes you feel guilty. What are you going to do with that voice? Call it a complex. Call it the pressure of modern life. Call it the pressure of modern life. But when Lady Macbeth walked around trying to get the spots of blood she saw off of her hands, she bore witness to the fact that guilt is a feeling that my wrongdoings are more than just a feeling. That's what guilt is. The essence of the feeling of guilt is that my wrong is more than a feeling. That there, guilt is the sense of moral accountability. That there's a sense of moral accounting. Let me give you some synonyms. Some synonym phrases. Guilt is a sense that my wrongs have created an objective record. Guilt is a sense that I should be paying for that record. I have to do something to deal with that record. Guilt is a sense that my sins have a being of their own.

Guilt is a sense that I need to suffer for what I've done. Guilt is a sense that there's a moral accounting, a moral objective record. There's a damn spot. As Lady Macbeth would say. That my wrongs have created. See the feeling of guilt is the feeling that my guilt, my wrong is more than a feeling. There's something outside of me. Something that has to be dealt with. Something objective. And that's the reason why, look, you know at the end of that wonderful, terrible movie, Schindler's List. Schindler's a German industrialist, very wealthy man that has a change of heart during World War II and he actually makes himself poor. He uses all of his wealth to bribe German officials to save 1200 Jews from death. And at the very end of the movie, as he's about to leave, as the war is over, he suddenly looks at his car and he realized if he had sold his car, he could have saved 10 more lives. He suddenly realizes if only he had changed his heart earlier, if only he had used his power earlier, he could have saved maybe hundreds and thousands of more lives. And he falls to the ground under the weight of his guilt. Now what are you going to say? Well, Mr. Schindler, the real problem is you have to adjust your expectations and your choices to reality. Guilt is a completely subjective thing. Your family raised you to believe that it was wrong to have people of other races put to death in the ovens. You have to extricate yourself from that. You have to understand. You have to readjust. Guilt is only a feeling. Is that what you're going to say?

There's a lot of guilt. There's a record. There's a moral accounting. There's a damn spot someplace. I've got to pay for it. That's what guilt is. Try to get rid of it. You try to get rid of it by saying guilt is nothing but subjective. It's all relative. You can turn yourself into a monster. That's the reason why the Swiss theologian Emil Brunner put it this way. Get this. Guilt means that our past, that which can never be made good, always constantly constitutes one element in our present situation. How's that for a great? Emil Brunner, he's a Swiss theologian. He says guilt means that our past, that which can never be made good, always constitutes one element in our present situation. What is he saying? Guilt is the sense that our past is present. That we can't get rid of our past. We'll never be able to change it. That's what guilt is. The sense that we can't make it good. And you try to throw it away. You try to say it's all subjective and it's not objective at all. And you'll see, you can succeed for a while. But your sins, like Arnold, always say, I'll be back. And they always come back. Because guilt is the feeling that our sins are more than feelings. And by the way, now where do you get that out of the text? I'll show you. Guilt is a feeling that our sins have created a moral objective, an objective record because the Bible says we live in a moral universe. That the universe is not simply made of metal and simply made of wood and simply made of nature. The physical, but it's also made of moral truth and moral values and moral principles. And those moral values are every bit as real and you will knock your head against them every bit as hard as you will against a brick wall if you won't acknowledge that they're there.

And therefore, the Bible says that not only are your feelings of guilt not subjective, but they really have to do with an objective reality. God's opposition to our sin is not a feeling merely either. There is an objective reality about our guilt that creates a problem not just for us, but even for God. Now, what I'm telling you, this might sound very strange, and I'm saying it as reverently as I can and I realize that these are difficult issues to talk about in a coherent way, but I know that I'm speaking good theology when I say guilt is not just a problem for us. Our guilt is the only real problem God ever faced. How do I know that? It's here. It says in verse 6, what? It says, you see, at the right time, when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. At the right time!

God is so powerful, He never has to wait for things. When God said, let there be light, what did He say then? He said, let there be light. Did He then say, okay, now what do I have to do to go get light? Or how do I have to make light? No. You see, God's power is so absolute, so ultimate, when God says let there be light, there is light. Instantly. Immediately. He doesn't wait. That's power. Just to intend it. For God to intend something brings it into being. Let there be light, and there was light. Let there be life, and there was life. Let there be sky, and there was sky. Let there be sea, and there was sea. But God cannot say, let there be forgiveness, and then there's forgiveness. God can't do it. I know I'm being very, I know I'm skating on thin ice. This is what the Bible says.

Jesus had to come when the time was fully come, it says in Galatians 4. At the right time, Jesus had to die. Something had to be done about that record. It had an objectivity to it, that even God could not just say, okay, I forgive you. Don't you see forgiveness is the only problem that the Almighty God ever had?

Imagine a human judge, and somebody brings a convicted, proven rapist before him, and the rapist says, I'm sorry for what I've done, and the judge says, oh, okay, well then it's alright, you can go free. What would you do? You'd want the judge's head, you'd say, we would want the judge's job, you'd say, we can't have a society if you do that. And you think, that if you will not accept those kinds of standards for a human judge, that God would have lower standards than that? You can't have a universe if you don't have justice. You see, our guilt has a being of its own. There is really, just like a physical accounting, what comes up must come down. You jump off that balcony, there's a physical accounting, because gravity is real, because the earth is real, because there are physical laws. There are moral laws. There is a moral accounting, that's what guilt is, a sense of it.

You have a kind of sick feeling on the way off of a ten-story building to the sidewalk, I understand.

In the moral universe, that's what guilt is. The sick feeling on the way to the bottom. Knowing that some place, I'm going to have to come up against it. It's a reality, it's there. And God has to deal with it, just like we do. God cannot just say, let there be forgiveness, and there's forgiveness. It has to be paid for.

Think of that. In other words, let me put it, to summarize this, because God will not be able, because of his holy nature, to overlook sin, and to overlook evil, because he does not overlook evil, and does not overlook evil, we have hope for the future. Christians have hope. We know that the brokenness of the world will be over someday, the evil of the world, the oppression, it will be gone, because God is committed to seeing it go, because he will not countenance it, he will not accept it. Because he does not accept evil, ever, we have hope for the world. But because he does not accept evil, ever, what hope do we have for ourselves? What are we going to do about the guilt? What's he going to do about the guilt? And that brings you to the next point. So the first point is, the feeling of guilt is that guilt has an objective reality to it, that it's more than a feeling. There's a moral accounting that even God himself has got to acknowledge and deal with. But then secondly, that's the feeling of guilt, how does he deal with it then? How does he deal with it? And the answer is right here, but it's all through the Bible. And I mean every part of the Bible. He deals with it through the principle of self-substitution. This is the heart of the Gospel, this is the heart and essence of the Christian message, self-substitution. We see it right here, where it says, you know, at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly, in the place of the ungodly. John Stott put it perfectly, he just sums up the entire Christian faith in just one sentence or two. Stott says, the essence of sin is us substituting ourselves for God, so the essence of salvation is God substituting himself for us. It's right there, it's all there. You see the appropriateness of the cross, you see the wisdom, look, see what he said, Stott says, as the essence of sin is us substituting ourselves for God. Now, what's that mean? What is the essence of sin? Breaking rules? Yes, of course, but the essence of sin is this, you either are an accident with no purpose, or you were created by God, and if you were created by the creator God, you belong to him. And if you belong to him, you owe him everything. And when you make decisions as to how you're going to live your life, how you're going to spend your own money, how you're going to use your own body, how you're going to use your own gifts, and how you're going to use your own talent, and only sort of have recourse to God when you're in trouble, praying for some kind of help, unless you're willing to acknowledge his lordship over you, his ownership, you see, his authority over you, you, by just simply living your own life with very little reference to God, you're substituting yourself for him. That's the essence of what sin is. Taking upon yourself prerogatives that only God has. You see, you think you'd be put in jail for impersonating an officer if you're not a police? You know, if you're not a policeman or woman and you impersonate an officer? You think you'd be put in jail for that? Of course. It would upset the entire authority structure of the whole city if people went around, you see, dressing up as policemen. Dressing up in that sense. How much more disruptive to the order of the cosmos is it for you to dress up as God, which is what you're doing?

But, Stott says, as the essence of sin is us substituting ourselves for God, so the essence of salvation is God substituting himself for us. And then the next sentence, Stott says, in other words, because we put ourselves where only God deserves to be, he put himself where only we deserve to be. He died in Christ. God came and took what we deserved. The law of moral accounting still works. And it worked on Jesus. He paid. He suffered. All the stuff you intrinsically know you deserve went to him. Self-substitution. That's what it is. The law of self-substitution. God made him sin who knew no sin, Paul says, 2 Corinthians, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. There is no more profound and dramatic and intense principle than this whole concept of self-substitution. If you get into any story where it happens, it's so intense, it's so dramatic. You know, I remember a story I heard some years ago about a man who lived with his family high in the mountains and he, all by himself and his family, he lived because he operated a train trestle, a railroad trestle, over a mountain pass where there was a river. There was a river there. Once a day he had to open the trestle for a single boat and then he had to close it for a single train. One day to his horror the trestle was open and he realized because he could hear it that the train was coming.

And of course this was a long time ago when there wasn't, it was not a high tech age and there was no way for him to contact the train. Nor would the train be able to see the trestle was open until the last minute until it was too late. So he rushed into the operating room and he began to close the trestle and he looked down way below to the place where the gears were and he saw his little son playing in the gears. He called to him, his son couldn't hear him, and he suddenly realized either his son was going to die or all those hundreds of people were going to die.

You're on the edge of your chairs. Why? Because you see there's nothing more dramatic than that. There's nothing more intense than that. There's nothing more than that. Okay, you don't have an adjective. There's nothing more than that. That's the ultimate story. It's the ultimate trauma for one to die so many would live. Don't ask me what happened. It's a fictional story. But it could have happened. But you see all the stories are like that. All of them. I actually had about four or five different movies and stories I was going to go through and I realized you get the picture, don't you? Because you see there's some kind of imprint on our collective unconscious. This is the ultimate act. That one would die for many. Substitution. That's how it happened. And you know, however, let me back away from that little story I just told you. The thing that we see in this passage is, however, that we don't have the father in heaven sending his poor little infant son down into the gears unwitting, unknowing, and being crushed by them. The Bible tells us here that Jesus Christ himself in an absolutely and totally free voluntary action substituted himself for us. That's the whole burden of these verses here in 6, 7, and 8. It says very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man, though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his love for us in this. While we were sinners, while we were still powerless, while we were still enemies, you see over and over Christ died. What's that mean? There was no obligation. There was no constraint. Put it this way. The doctrine of the voluntary self-substitution of God. What a long phrase. But that doctrine is so precious because it tells us, because it tells us that Jesus Christ was the only one who ever died and made death a personal act. Jesus is the only one who ever chose to die. You say, what about people who committed suicide? What about people who have given their lives in heroic action? They chose the moment of their death, but only Jesus actually chose the fact. The people who committed suicide chose the moment of their death. They didn't choose the fact of their death. They were going to die. Jesus Christ is the only person in history who absolutely freely, without any constraint at all, without any constraint at all, walked in and poured out his life on the cross for no other reason other than the love of him for us. That's the self-substitution of God. Because we put ourselves where he deserved to be, he put himself freely, completely freely, voluntarily, where we deserve to be. So one theologian once put it this way, it is in a sense that Jesus Christ walked into the cross and took his soul in one hand and his body in another hand and rent himself asunder. Absolutely free personal act. Jesus is the only one, only person in history who ever used death. And because he died when it had no claim on him at all. See, he's the only one who ever chose the fact of death. Death is an executioner for sin because of guilt. But Jesus was the only person who ever voluntarily died, see, while we were yet sinners. No constraint. While we're powerless. And as a result, he paid it all. Every bit. Every single bit of it. You know, I mean afterwards, after the 11 o'clock service, somebody came up and said, well, you know, the idea of just somebody dying for us. You know, people die for their friends I mean, we have lots of these stories. And I said, yeah, we have lots of these stories. This is different. People dying for their friends are not really dying for their friends. They are dying for themselves. They might just, what they're doing is they're postponing the deaths of their friends, maybe. And they're actually making, they're doing, having a little bit of effect on the moment that they die, but they're not doing, they're not dying for their friends like Jesus died for his friends. Jesus didn't have to die, period. Ever. But while we were sinners, while we were powerless, freely without constraint, he ripped himself to pieces. He ripped himself away from his Father. And therefore, therefore, the value of what he did is absolute.

What if I had the last apple in the world right here? It's unique. How much would it be worth? Some of you people out there, you know, who are managers and marketers and entrepreneurs, you're, wow. I don't know what it's worth, but may I have it, please? You know. Think of what it's worth. The seeds in here and all that. It's the uniqueness, right? How unique is this? What is the value of what Jesus did for you? It is absolute. The self-substitution of God. At the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. Now lastly, that's how he deals with guilt. It has an objectivity, so he has an objective, you know, thing to do about it. Guilt is not just a feeling that we can deal with through our feelings. Guilt is an objective record which we have to deal with an objective act, and that's what happened. But, lastly, lastly, how then do we actually, let's go back to our feelings, okay? Let's go back. We moved away from our feelings, and now we come back. What do we actually have to do to use what God has done in our hearts so that we are healed from guilt and we live guilt-free lives? Now, I'll tell you, I'm speaking to anybody here, whether you believe or whether you don't know you believe or you don't believe, but I'll tell you this. We all have a tremendous amount of problems applying this to our lives. Plenty of Christians I know, I see you're scared to death. Why? There's still guilt there. I see you kicking yourself. Why? There's still guilt there. I see you're driven by your work. Why? There's still guilt there. You're not as healed of the guilt as you should be. Well, how do we heal ourselves of the guilt? Well, there's two ways. And they're both important, and they come together. Number one, you're healed of guilt to the degree that you grasp the magnitude of your sin. This is the very opposite to what you might say modern, the modern

popular opinion would say. The way you deal with your guilt is you minimize the sin. The way you deal with your guilt is you stop thinking about your sin. You decide you're not a sinner, you're not so bad. Christianity says the other way around. Absolutely. You will only be healed of guilt to the degree that you're willing to admit the magnitude of your sin. You know, C.S. Lewis put it this way. He says, you know, there's a kind of hot chocolate that's just too hot to hold, and even too hot to taste, but you can drink it. It's not too hot to drink. It's the only thing, it's too hot to do anything but to drink it down. Somebody once said, you know, if you have a log, and you got one part on you, and you got one part on the ground, trying to throw it is very hard. In fact, it might fall on you. The only way to really get control of it is to take the whole weight on yourself, and then you can heave it. There's all sorts of little metaphors and illustrations. But let me explain. This is actually telling us right here in verse 8. It says, God demonstrates his love for us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And that means God's love is demonstrable to the degree we see that we're sinners. Do you see what he's saying? He says, look how loving God is. You were a sinner and he died for you. So you see, until you see you're a sinner, Christ's love is not demonstrable. In fact, to the degree that you see that you were a sinner, to that degree, Christ's love is demonstrable. The greater you see the nature of your sin, the more transformed you are when you actually get a hold of the cross. Which means, the more galvanized you are by the love of God, the more transformed you are by the love of God, it's always based on the depth of your grasp of your own sin. Or I'll put it, let me put it a couple other ways. If anybody here says, I believe Jesus died for me, and yet you know that that's never changed your life, turned you around, it's not something that you weep over when you think of it, it's not something that thrills you and electrifies you and fills you with confidence and boldness, you know why? Because you don't really know you're a sinner.

Because what makes God's love demonstrable is that he died while we were sinners. To the degree you know that, to that degree you see the love of God is demonstrable to you, it's palpable, it's dazzling. Here, let me use an illustration to explain it. Jesus has a great one. When he told Simon the Pharisee, Simon the Pharisee liked Jesus, and there was this prostitute who really loved Jesus, throwing herself on his feet, and Simon says, Jesus, why do you let that happen? And Jesus says, well, let me tell you a story. There was a man that owed, there was two men who both owed the same master money, but the one man owed fifty, and the other man owed five hundred. He forgave them both. Which one will love him more? And Simon said, well, I guess the one who was forgiven five hundred. Right, said Jesus, and who is forgiven much, loves much. This is one of the glories of the Gospel. There's no other religion that works like this. Absolutely, the mathematics of this just doesn't fit any other religion. What is he saying? He says, Simon, you like me, she loves me. You know why? Because you think your sins are this much, and she thinks her sins are this much, and as a result, who has more joy at my word? Who has more rapture at my action of forgiveness? Why, it's going to be her. The reason that you're not galvanized, the reason you're not transformed, Simon, is because you don't know what a sinner you are. Or another way to put it, the BBC had a religious reporter some years ago named Gerald Priestland, who once did a series of programs on religion, and in one of them he gave a testimony how he'd been raised a Christian, but he'd always been a guilt-ridden person, and the way he got away from feeling guilty was he got rid of Christianity. And in the testimony, he said, I used to see Jesus up on the cross, and it was a terrible sight. Because all I would be told is, look at how sinful you were that you made that happen. And one day, he said on the therapist's council, he realized the only way he would ever feel confident and bold was to get rid of the idea that he was a sinner, and get rid of the idea of the cross, and get rid of the whole idea of Christianity, and that's how he is the wonderful man he is today.

What a misunderstanding. Let me put it to you like this. Imagine you were about to lose your home, because you were so far behind, you hadn't been able to pay for it. And you owed so much money that finally the mortgage company has come, and tomorrow you're going to be thrown out. And it's all because of financial mismanagement and stupid bonehead errors. And yet, what happens at the last minute, a friend of yours comes by and puts down a check for exactly the amount you need. Puts it on the table, and said, here, this is my gift to you. This will be all you need you'll be saved. What do you do? You look at that check and say, oh my friend, that check is a terrible sight. You know why? Look at the number on that check. $50,000. That just reminds me of what a terrible person I am that I needed this. It reminds me that my foolishness and it reminds me of my stupidity, it reminds me of just how much in debt I am. I just hate the very sight of it, just the very sight of the check makes me feel terrible. Does that make sense? That's what Gerald Priestland is saying. That's what they say when they say, look at the cross, it's a terrible sight, it just makes me feel like a sinner. No, listen to me. The number, $50,000, has been haunting you, of course. It shows you what a jerk you are. It shows you what a fool you are. The number's been haunting you. But in a single act of sacrificial love, you now glory in that number. Do you see? The number shows how much your friend loves you now. The same number. It's been transformed to turn around. The same number that haunted you now proves how much he loves you. And you glory in the check. And the greater the number that came from your debtedness, the greater the glory in the sacrificial love of your friend. Do you get it yet?

Simon, who forgives little, who is forgiven little, loves little. Who is forgiven little, loves little.

I can tell you, the people who worship the best, are the people your whole life flashes before your eyes every time you have a worship service. And you see the size of that number that used to haunt you, and now it's on the check with Jesus' name on it. And you know what it cost them.

Think. Think. Alright, there's the other side, of course. I told you there are two things you have to do. We've already done them, in a sense. The first thing is you're healed of guilt to the degree you're willing to admit your sin. You've got to admit your sin. If you do what your old priest did, you could become a monster. If the way in which you get away, from your bad conscience, is to say, I'm not really bad, you know what that can turn you into. It can turn you into a Stalin, a Hitler, an Idi Amin, you know, somebody who can do anything. You know, it's a little bit like you come to a doctor and you say, I've got this tack in my rear end. Doctor, do something about it. And the doctor says, well, I'm going to give you shots all around it so you won't feel it.

Isn't there a simpler way?

It's like saying, let me get away from that terrible sight of what Jesus did for me. What a terrible sight.

So you have to admit the size of your sin, otherwise you'll be healed by guilt only by deadening your conscience and turning you into a hard person and maybe even an inhuman person. But on the other hand, what you have to do is you have to continually look. The only way you're going to be able to really find your guilt being healed is you have to look and continually and continually look at the radical nature of what he's done for you on the cross. And you know, the argument that maybe you didn't get because it wasn't until I studied this passage these last two weeks that I figured it out. Jesus, when God says we're justified by his blood, how much more will we be saved by God's wrath? From God's wrath. And you know what he's saying? That how much more? What it's saying is the fact that the minute you believe, you're justified. The word justified means more than forgiven. It means not less than that, but it means more. It means you're righteous in his sight. It means you're justified. It means you're perfectly perfect legally and forensically in his sight. And he does it the moment you believe when you're still ungodly, when you're still powerless, and when you're still an enemy. And he's saying, listen, that's the hardest thing that could be done. He's already done the hard thing. Judgment day will be a snap after that. Do you see what he's saying? Because he says how much more will we be saved from God's wrath? And that's probably judgment day he's talking about there. He says if you're justified by his blood now, when you're an enemy, how much more will he be able to accept you on judgment day when you're his friend? What he's trying to say is the hardest thing is past. The biggest thing is past. The difficult thing is past already. I'll put it another way. There's a sense in which the moment you believe and are justified by his blood, that's what it says, by his blood, you are as loved as you ever will be. God loves you perfectly. Five billion years from now, when you are absolutely clean and pure, he won't love you any more than he loves you this minute that you believe. How much more? Which is another way of saying how much easier is it going to be for God to handle judgment day if he's done this for you now? He's done the hard thing. He was ripped. He was torn. He paid it all. And while you're ungodly, while you're still a sinner, simul justus et peccator, you know, at the same time, both just and yet a sinner, because you believe that he died for you and you're justified by his blood. And that's the hardest thing that can happen. Everything else after that. is a grave. Everything else is a working out. Everything else is a consequence. You're in. Don't you see? The doctrine of the cross of Jesus is very much like the sun and the stars. When the sun's up, even though you know the stars are there, innumerable stars, they can't be seen. They're covered by the glory of the sun.

And when you understand what Jesus did on the cross, it shines out in your life that even though there's all those innumerable sins, you know that God doesn't look at them. They're covered. Have you learned guilt-free living yet? Have you learned to look at what Jesus did for you? Do you dare to continue to say, it's not good enough, it can't cover me, I'm too unworthy? Do you dare to say, I still need to pay for my own sins? Do you dare to look at the work of Jesus Christ on the cross as a kind of little piece of butter, and your life is sort of the great big piece of bread, and it doesn't quite cover it?

You know, rebuke yourself for that. Get on yourself for that.

Repent for the real sin, which is to be discouraged by your sins, thinking that they can't be covered.

At the end of Pilgrim's Progress, not at the end, it's more in the beginning, in the middle, sort of the middle beginning, you know, Christian is a guy who's journeying along and he's got this burden on his back, and it's the burden of guilt. And he's trying to get rid of it. Mr. Legality tells him to climb the mountain of morality, and he says, if you get to the top of the mountain of morality, the burden just falls off. Oh, says Christian, and it's funny, because the higher he tries to go, the worse the burden seems to get. He says, you know, you'd think, as I'm climbing the mountain of morality, that it would be getting a little lighter as I get toward the top, but it's getting worse and worse and worse. And finally he comes to a hill, and at the top is a cross, and at the bottom is a grave. And as he gets up the hill a little ways, he looks up, and he just sees the cross, and just seeing the cross, he says, his burden falls off, and rolls down the hill into the grave, and is gone forever. And it says he kept looking at the cross. He was amazed, says the text, that just looking at the cross would have loosed his burden. And the more he looked, and the more he looked, and the more he looked, the more he understood. Until, it says, that the springs in his head were loosed, and water came down his face, and he gave three jumps of joy, and he sang, blessed cross, blessed rather be, the one there put to shame for me. Keep looking, friends, until you're leaping for joy, until you're crying, until the springs in your head, you know, are loosed. You know, you're not crying enough, and you're not happy enough.

Because those two things, when they're happening all the time, they tell me that you finally have been healed all the way down. You've taken, if you're a Christian, your guilt's gone, but you may not have been healed in the conscience. Look at your sin. Glory in the check. Keep looking like Christian did, until you can both cry and sing for joy. Blessed grave, blessed cross, blessed rather be, the one there put to shame for me. Let's pray. Would you give us, oh Lord, the joy and the tears that come from knowing, knowing and understanding, that we have been justified by his blood at the right time, while we were without strength, you died for us, ungodly, but now we are justified by his blood. We thank you for all this, and ask for it in Jesus' name. Amen.