Chapter 13, where Jesus eats his last supper with his disciples, and I'm going to read from verse 1 all the way over to verse 17, so come with me. It was just before the Passover feast. Jesus knew that the time had come for him to leave this world and to go to the Father. Having loved his own who were in the world, he now showed them the full extent of his love. The evening meal was being served, and the devil had already prompted Judas Iscariot, son of Simon, to betray Jesus. Jesus knew that the Father had put all things under his power, and that he had come from God and was returning to God. So he got up from the meal, took off his outer clothing, and wrapped a towel around his waist. After that, he poured water into a basin and began to wash his disciples' feet, drying them with the towel that was wrapped around him. him. He came to Simon Peter, who said to him, Lord, are you going to wash my feet? Jesus replied, you do not realize now what I am doing, but later you will understand. No, said Peter, you will never wash my feet. And Jesus answered, unless I wash you, you will have no part with me. Then Lord, Simon Peter replied, not just my feet, but my hands and my head as well. Jesus said, a person who has had a bath needs only to wash his feet. His whole body is clean, and you are clean, though not every one of you. For he knew who was going to betray him, and that was why he said not everyone was clean. When he had finished washing their feet, he put on his clothes and returned to his place. Do you understand what I have done for you? He asked them. You call me teacher and Lord, and rightly so, for that is what I am. Now that I, your teacher and Lord, have washed your feet, You also should wash one another's feet. I have set you an example that you should do as I have done for you. I tell you the truth, no servant is greater than his master, nor a messenger greater than the one who sent him. Now that you know these things, you will be blessed if you do them. This is God's Word. This is the Last Supper between Jesus and his disciples. It's not mentioned here in the Gospel of John, but in the Gospel of Luke, Luke, we're told that at this Last Supper, a fight had broken out between the disciples over who was going to be the greatest in the kingdom. You see, the disciples believe that very soon, imminently, Jesus Christ was going to take over and cast out the Roman oppressors and come into the nexus of power and into the media's eye. And at that point, they felt that they were arguing over who was going to have the highest office in the cabinet. And one person was saying, I want to be Secretary best you deserve as Secretary of the Interior, and they were fighting with each other. And the irony of the situation is lost on them, because here they are, totally saturated in the world's understanding of greatness and power, when they're standing at the very doorstep of the most blatant contradiction of that worldly model of greatness and power ever in history. Because, see, Jesus is about to ascend to the heights by descending to the depths. Jesus Christ is about to pull off the greatest victory by being captured and tortured and oppressed and murdered. Jesus' understanding of power and success is so completely topsy-turvy that there is not a single culture or ideology that can really understand or accept it. It cuts against everything we know. We've talked about it before. Jesus says the way up is down. The way to power is to serve. The way to get happiness is not to seek your own happiness, but the happiness of somebody else. An inside-out understanding of greatness. Right in the middle of it, right at the doorstep of it, here are the disciples arguing about who's going to get the bigger office. Now, the one in the corner with all the windows. Now look, Jesus Christ, obviously here in John 13, is illustrating with his deeds what he tells them with his words in Luke 22. He looks at them and he says, Who is greater, the one who sits at the table or the one who serves? I am among you as one who serves. And the word serves he uses is a word that means the most menial and the most humble of all kinds of service. Jesus basically says, Who is greater, the person who sits at the table at Lyserk

he says, I'm among you. I walk in the shoes of the busboy, the grease monkey. Now, why would he actually use that as the paradigm for his career? And now you see what he does here in John 13 is he gets down on his hands and knees and begins to wash their feet. And we know, and we've mentioned this a couple of weeks ago, that washing someone's dirty feet in that environment was something only slaves did. And in many municipalities, it was even illegal to make a slave do it. It was so disgusting and so low and servile. Yet Jesus Christ takes a position of a sort of a slave below slaves, and he turns to his friends and he says, oh friends, oh dumb friends, how many times do I have to tell you? This is what life is about. This is what I'm about. This is what I live for. If somebody gave you a machine and it was all full of lights and wheels and beeps. And they said, here, this is a present for you. It's big. It's very impressive. You say, well, it's very busy. It's very impressive. But what is it for? Right away, you'd say, what is it for? And what if your friend said, well, I don't know what it's for. And you'd say, well, then what good is it? And we have to find out what it's for. Let's ask the ones who made it. Is there a label on here anywhere? Let's find out the manufacturers and ask the ones who made it. You live in New York. You're so busy. Your lives are full of lights and beeps and wheels, you see. New York, the relentless New York, the merry-go-round that won't stop, the giant Nintendo on steroids that nobody can turn off. And here you are in the middle of it. You're so busy. But the question is, and your life is full of lights and wheels and beeps. Some of you got beepers on this morning. But my question is, the question is, what is it for? What is it for? You know, in Woody Allen's movie, Alice, here you have an Upper East Side lady that has it all, and she starts, she goes a little weird. Why? Because she starts asking the question, what is it for? What am I in school for? Well, to get a good career. What am I trying to get a good career for? So that you can become independent. So you don't, so you can live So that you can do the things you want to do. And then she begins to say, but what is that for? What is it for? And you see what happens. As soon as you begin to think into life more than six inches deep, you're into religion. As soon as you start to ask any kind of substantial question, not look at this wonderful machine, look at my life, look at all the wheels and the lights and the noises and the bells and the beeps. As soon as you say, what is it for? you know what is really what really matters what is life all about what does it mean you're into religion because just in the same way the only way you're going to find out what this machine is for is by getting in touch with the manufacturer the only way you're going to find out what life is for and what life is about is to get in touch with the manufacturer and here you have the manufacturer and he is saying let me tell you what life is about let me tell you what I am about. Let me tell you what you should be about. It's for this kind of greatness. It's for this inside-out greatness. Life is about kneeling love. Life is about love that gets on its knees, that comes down out of its place. Jesus said, that's what I'm about, and that's what you should be about. That's what life is about. Until you understand that, all the beeps and all the whizzes and all the whirls and all the lights mean nothing. So what basically Jesus is saying here is this is what you should be living for. This is what I'm living for. This is what you're living for. Kneeling love. Now, what's that? Well, let's take a look. What is kneeling love? First of all, kneeling love is what Jesus lives for. You notice in verse 3, we have a very clear and explicit statement of what was in Jesus' mind when he got down and began to wash their feet. It says he remembered, remembering that he had come from God and he was about, the hour had come for him to return to God, he got down and began to wash feet. Jesus is thinking about his mission, about his career, and there's two parts to it. First of all, he comes down. Just as he leaves his place of honor at the table and sets aside his normal garments, in the same way the Bible tells us, that though he was God, though he was the high and lofty one who inhabits eternity, though he was the God who's so great that heaven and highest heaven could not contain him, to whom the entire universe is nothing more than a piece of belly button lint, that great God came down and became a human being. We sing about it at Christmas each year when you sing, Veiled in flesh the Godhead see, Hail the incarnate deity, Pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus our Emmanuel. But that's only half of the career, only half of the mission. Not only does he come down from God to being a man, but secondly, he doesn't come just as a man but as a servant. He doesn't come as someone who leads a great political party to victory, but instead he comes to be crushed, to be disgraced, to be tortured, and to die. A servant is somebody who is willing to die. Why? Listen, where does the term come, take the hit? Have you heard that term? take the hit. It's a football term originally. And here's the example. There's a quarterback, and he's holding onto the ball, and if he can just hold the ball two more seconds before he throws it, it's at the end of the game. He's got a receiver who's just coming open, and if he can just hold the ball two more seconds, he knows that he can get that ball to that receiver, and instead of losing the game, they will win the game. There's only one problem, And that is, there is a defensive player, a defensive end, steaming right toward the quarterback's head. And it looks like he will get there in, oh, it looks like, about two seconds. What does the quarterback do? Well, now, the problem is that there has been a lapse. There has been a failing. There has been wrongdoing here. Why is that defensive end coming in, steaming, ready to take off the quarterback's head, and nobody is standing in his way? He's absolutely, you know, coming in clear. Why? What's the problem? There has been sin. The reasons for this is complex. Is it maybe his blocker decided to take the coward's way out? Instead of really going in there and taking the hit, the blocker kind of was afraid, didn't like the look in his eyes. Is it cowardly blocking? Was it a bad draft pick? Was it that the line coach did not give proper coaching and training? Was it the fact that there's some selfish guy who is at home when he should be on the line because of a contract, a salary dispute? line who really isn't there for that position. Well, you see, the reasons for the lapse is complex, but there's a cost now. Who's going to observe the cost? If the quarterback eats the ball, if he just goes down and he avoids what looks like an injury, then the whole team takes the hit. The whole team loses the game. But if, on the other hand, the quarterback decides to stay in the pocket and get the ball and win the game, he may get injured. So what does the quarterback do? There's a hit that has to be taken. Who's going to take it? Will it be the line coach? Will it be the blocker who missed his block? Who will be blamed for the loss? Will it be the quarterback? Will it be the whole team? Who's going to take the hit? Your community leaders come to you and say, there's a lot of poor people in this community. They're going to starve in the streets. We need to raise taxes. We need to build hospices. We need to build shelters. And what do you say? There's been wrongdoing here. There shouldn't be people starving in our streets. What went wrong? And again, the answer is very complex. Very complex. What causes all these poor people to be here? Very complex. But the issue is now, who takes the hit? Who absorbs the cost? And of course, neighborhoods say, not in my neighborhood you don't. It's not my fault that those people are out there poor. Don't raise my taxes. Let them go someplace else. Who's going to take the hit? There's a cost. There's a lapse. about. But there is a cost. Who's going to absorb the cost? Who's going to take the hit? You know what a servant is? I'll tell you what a servant is. You know what a servant heart is? A servant heart is one that gets up and says, I don't know whose fault this is. I know it's not my fault, but I'll tell you what. I will bear the cost. I will take the hit. I'm the one. let it be me. Jesus Christ when he gets up and decides somebody has to clean off the feet nobody wants to do it. Nobody here wants to get down and do it. Jesus Christ says somebody has to do it's not my job but I'm going to make it my job. It's not my fault but I'm going to do it anyway. What he was actually saying is this is just a picture of the fact that I have come to take upon myself the cost of all the sins of the world. the sins of the world the misery of the world who caused it well the answers are complex we can't deny the world's a wreck they can't deny this tremendous greed and selfishness and infinite cruelty and immense misery who is to blame everybody says well it's not really my fault the reasons are complex who though is gonna bear the cost of it look at for example look some of you know you've been very badly mistreated. You've been very badly mistreated by people. Who's going to bear the cost of that? Well, you say, I'm bearing the cost of it, but I shouldn't. They should bear the cost of it, all right, but think about it. Maybe they mistreated you because they were messed up because somebody mistreated them. Who's going to bear the cost for them? And what about the fact that some people think that you're to blame for problems in their lives? Who will bear the cost? Jesus Christ gets up and says, I will take the hit. I will bear the cost. And you see, we're not talking here about the cost of a lost football game, and we're not even talking about the cost of extra taxes. We're talking about the infinite misery and cruelty of all the sins of the centuries. Jesus Christ came to take it all on his back. You see, therefore, the magnitude of what he suffered. Do you see the fact that he suffered estrangement and alienation? He suffered spiritual despair. suffered physical torture. God himself poured out the infallible lava of divine justice, everything that sin deserved, into Jesus' heart. He was the servant king. He got down on his knees. He left his place. He knelt low. That's what his mission was about. Behold your servant king. This, friends, is the only way out. This is the only way to freedom. Don't you see, when somebody bears the cost, is their freedom. Think about it. You see, don't, you don't think if that quarterback sits in there and he, and he waits and he takes the hit and he wins the game. And of course he's got a shoulder separation. Now he was hit, he was hurt. Don't you think that line coach, don't you think that cowardly blocker comes up and says to the quarterback, thank you. If you hadn't taken the hit, I would have been living this down. If you hadn't taken the hit, the media, everybody would have hung the whole defeat on me if you hadn't taken the hit, but now I'm free. Let me be a little bit less trite. I once heard a pastor talk to a person, to a parent. I wasn't the pastor and I wasn't the parent, but I once saw and heard this interchange once. The parent came and thanked the pastor for spending two years putting together the life wife of this man's messed up son. And he came to the pastor and he said, my dear pastor friend, the reason my son was a drug addict, the reason my son was the mess that he was, was because of the way in which I treated him, my failures, my sins of omission, commission as a parent. These things have been around my neck. These things have been over my head for years. And you entered into a relationship with him and you took his abuse and you took his, his midnight night phone calls, and you took all the trouble that he, you were drained by him for two years, and now his life's together, and now he's back on his feet, and now he's living a self-sufficient life, and now he's forgiven me. And the parent said, thank you for taking the hit. Thank you for bearing the cost. Because you have borne the cost, I'm free. Finally, I'm free. If you hadn't borne the cost, I would be still crushed under the weight of it. Don't you see? Somebody's got to bear the cost for the sins of the world, for the sins that you have done and that have been done to you. Somebody. And if somebody doesn't do it, then you either have to pay for it, and you'll never be done, or you're going to have to spend all of your life trying to make the other people pay who you think deserve to pay. And Jesus Christ has died. What does that mean? If he has died and he's borne the cost, that means your sins can no longer separate you from God. This is the gospel. The Gospel is that your sins cannot bring you into condemnation. They no longer can stand between you and God. It means that God can completely receive and accept you, that all of your guilt, anything that you've ever done is all taken away from you, and God regards you as perfectly beautiful and righteous and acceptable. And He enters into your life and He brings His own power into your life. And He grows you into a beautiful thing until someday at the end of time you're going to be as radiant and as noble and as beautiful as Jesus Christ himself. You'll be a lamb and a lion just like Jesus. You will be like Jesus, fair, more fair than all the jewels that lie beneath the earth. You'll be more beautiful than the sun and the moon and the snow upon the mountain. That is what you're in for, because Jesus Christ bore the cost. One more thing here, here, and then we have to move on. This also proves the radical voluntariness, again, of Jesus' death. We talked, we looked at this some months ago. There's a place where Jesus says, no one takes my life from me. I lay it down of my own accord. You remember that? And here again, we see Jesus is under no obligation. Everybody is shocked and amazed that he would feel that he would need to wash feet. The reason Jesus is washing feet is to show that this is far beyond, he's not obliged to do it. It is completely voluntary. He doesn't owe us this. He doesn't owe it at all. He says, no man takes my life from me. See, when death meets you and me, we are its victim because we deserve to die. But when death met Jesus Christ, death was not, Jesus was not a victim of death. death was not Jesus' fate, it was his deed. And as one old teacher said, it's almost as if Jesus Christ walked into the room and took his body and his soul and ripped them apart. He died the death. He was willing to do that. Look at him. Look at him in the face and say, oh, servant king, what are you doing down there at my feet? Would you kneel this low for me? and he looks up and he says, sure, of course, that's why I came. What does Jesus Christ live for? He lives for you. And dear friends, Christians are people who have decided to make this, the sight of Jesus Christ kneeling at our feet, something we do not deserve, something beyond all hope. When you make that the hub of your being, the hub of your life, the vortex of your life, If you make this the thing that gives your life meaning, I tell you, it's nothing but one joy and one surprise after another. It's like looking into the face of an enemy and finding their only love and understanding. It's like looking into the jaws of certain defeat and finding victory. It's like listening to a great song. A great song, the more often you listen to it, it just sort of works its wonder and love into you and joy deeper and deeper. Except in this case, it's like being inside the song itself, if you take my meaning. majesty, real majesty, no glitz, kneeling love. And by the way, don't you see here the main reason that most people can't find God? It's the complete reverse of what you think. Why is it that most people can't find God? Why do they complain about it? It wasn't that long ago I saw that the Hanna Barbera put together little animated Bible stories, cartoons about the stories of the Bible, and in the most repulsive way, they said, these Bible stories are the stories of man's ancient search for God. That's completely repugnant to everything the Bible says about God. The Bible nowhere says that you should be trying to search for God. In the book of Job, Job 11, it says, can you by searching find out the Almighty? No. People think that the reason we can't find God is because he's too distant and high. That's not true. The Bible says the reason you can't find God is he's too close and he's too low. He's at your feet. He's in your face. Is God sort of like someone who's a Delphic Oracle who only speaks in riddles so you have to be a kind of a genius to unravel what he says? Is God someone who hides on the top of a mountain so that you can only find him by cunning and by bravery like Indiana Anna Jones, maybe you may come before his feet. No. The Bible says Jesus Christ has come right up into your face. He's at your feet. He's died for you. And he's saying, now, would you give yourself to me as I've given myself to you? See, Peter can't figure it out. Peter says, what are you doing down there? Because Peter does not realize what dire straits he's in. He doesn't realize he needs a dying Savior. He doesn't realize he needs a foot-washing Savior. And therefore, he has a great deal of trouble understanding what would cause a person seated at the table of honor to do something so strange and so weird. And so he says, get up, Jesus. What are you doing this to me for? He doesn't see his need. If you also find the idea of Jesus having to die for you, to pay your penalty so that you can be accepted by God? Do you feel that's a repugnant doctrine? Do you feel that, well, I'm not that bad, I don't believe God's that mad? See, your problem is, the reason you can't find God is because Jesus is not too far away and too high. He's too near and he's too low. Jesus says to Peter, unless you let me wash you, you can have no part in me. Unless you see that you need to be washed. A friend of mine once was preaching on the substitutionary death of Christ. He was teaching. He was a lecturer. And he was teaching, and he was saying, Jesus Christ died on the cross to pay our penalty so the wrath of divine justice could fall on him and not on us. Somebody stood up at the back of the lecturer and said, that's primitive and obscene. He got up and said, this teaching is primitive and obscene. And my friend, who is very good at thinking on his feet, You're right. It's primitive. Any child can understand it. Punishment and payment by proxy. Any child can understand that. And it's also obscene because our sin has turned the world into a sewerage place. And yet Jesus Christ, the pure and great God, is willing to come into that sewerage and become involved in our obscenity. And that's what happened to him on the cross. Now, the person who objected was objecting to the idea that he was in such bad straits God to die for him. And if you also object to that, if you're spending all of your time trying to clean yourself up to make yourself acceptable to God, you're in the same boat, the same spot, the very same place. Like Peter, you don't see that Jesus needs to get down there. What are you doing down there, Jesus? Get up. He's too close to you. He's too near to you. you. He's almost in your face. The way to find God in some ways is not to look up, it's to look down. The way to find God is to see that you were so sinful and weak and helpless that he had to die for you. He had to do that. He had to get down that low. Oh, servant king, would you do this for me? that's how a Christian life begins with those words. Now look, lastly, Jesus doesn't just show that the whole meaning of his life is kneeling love. He then says in verse 14, if I, if I, your teacher and Lord, would wash your feet, so you must wash one another's feet. There's the meaning of your life. Do you see that? First of all, what Jesus says is, if I have knelt down like this, if I have given myself to you, in the same way, you must give yourself to others. This is really what life's about. What life is about is kneeling love. Now, what Jesus is teaching us here, and what we see in the Bible, is that the essence of love is kneeling love. The essence of love means in being committed to someone else's greatness and glory. Remember, the last couple of weeks we've talked about glory. Glory is the lastingly important. important. Kneeling love is not necessarily to please a person, make them happy this moment. Kneeling love is to sacrifice whatever is necessary to give somebody what they need for their lasting greatness. The Bible tells us that human nature is really made of eternal stuff, that we were built originally to be like God, to reflect God, to get near God, to know God, and then just to and delightful and wise and great person. And therefore, we believe that kneeling love, you see, has this cosmic perspective on every individual. Kneeling love means I see things that can bring you to God, and I'm going to do whatever it takes to get you there. So there's a counterfeit of love, which isn't just like Christian love, but it's actually the opposite of Christian love. It's the opposite of kneeling love, love. It goes like this. There's a kind of worldly selfish affection that says, I love you. I want to have you. I want to own you. I want to meet my needs through you. But kneeling love says, I love you. I want your best. I want your freedom. I want to bring you to God. And I will do anything it takes to get you there. And even when I don't like you, I will love you. That's how kneeling love talks. And Jesus Christ says, this is the meaning of life, to have a life characterized by that. You know, when you talk to somebody who's characterized by kneeling love, you don't walk away thinking, what a great person. Or what a humble person. You go away thinking how great you feel. Because here was somebody who concentrated completely on you. You go away feeling like a million dollars. You don't go away saying, my, what a humble person that was that I talked to. Real humility never feels like humility when you're experiencing it through somebody else. instead it makes you come away feeling so incredibly valued. Jesus says, this is what life's about. But look, here's the secret. Here's how it comes. He says, if I, your teacher and Lord,

have washed your feet so you should wash one another's feet, there's the key. A Christian is somebody who thinks, if he did this, You see, you're letting it dawn on you. Your eyes glisten as you think about it. There's a kind of person that says, I want to base Christ's love for me on my love for others. So you're running around, burning yourself out, trying to serve people, trying to help people, hoping that then God will accept you and listen to your prayers. This says it's the other way around. You're like Peter. It sounds very humble to say, I'm trying my best. I'm trying my best. I'm taking care of this person. surely God will love me now. That sounds very humble, but it's actually very proud. Like Peter, you don't see that your straits are so dire that you need a God to die for you. Instead, you have to turn it around and say, every day, if my teacher and Lord did this for me, it dawns on you. A Christian, when you're in your right mind, here's how you act. A Christian, when he's in his right mind or she's in her right mind, you say, I am no one's creditor. I'm everyone's debtor. A Christian, when you're in your right mind, you look out at the world and you say, world, you owe me nothing. Nothing. Because I deserve to be thrown into the fire. And yet, by the free mercy of God and by Jesus' infinite sacrifice, I am rich in eternal terms beyond the imagination of an earthly billionaire. And so when I look out at the world, I don't say, world, you better treat me nicely. You better thank me. You better be good to me. near, get upset when somebody picks his pocket of 25 cents? In the same way, I can kneel in love because I've been loved. I can impoverish myself because I can't impoverish myself, because I am eternally rich. That's how a Christian feels when he's in his right mind. Are you in your right mind today? Or have you given up on people? Are you in your right mind today? Listen, let me close this way. The way to understand how you can have this kind of life of service and kneeling love is to, at the same time, recognize if. The word if, it's all in that little word if. You have to let it dawn on you today. If he did this for me, then I can start to live like this for others. Because when you say, if he did this for me, that just wells up in your heart. Do you remember, any of

Simultaneously, some months ago during a Lord's Supper, when we were celebrating the Lord's Supper, I pulled out a poem by George Herbert and I began to read it. And let me just point this out to you now. I read it kind of just little pieces of it. George Herbert was an Anglican priest who decided to write a poem about the idea of Jesus Christ as a busboy, as an innkeeper. back when he was alive which is three or four hundred years ago when you came into an inn there would be somebody who would run on up and would say do you lack anything that would be the innkeeper and his job was simply to serve you now in this poem he calls Jesus Christ love he calls and he and he paints Jesus as the innkeeper and this is how the poem goes because this is perfect in relationship to John chapter 13, where Jesus says, I'm the bus boy. Love bade me welcome, yet my soul drew back, guilty of dust and sin. But quick-eyed love, observing me grow slack from my first entrance in, drew nearer to me, sweetly questioning if I lacked anything. See the innkeeper. Do you lack anything? A guest, I answered, answered, worthy to be here. See, George Herbert responds, I'm not worthy to be here. I'm not worthy to be your guest. Love said, you shall be a worthy guest. I, the unkind, the ungrateful, ah, my dear, said love. Pardon me. I'm not reading my own handwriting. Love said, said, You shall be he. I, the unkind, the ungrateful, I said. Ah, my dear Jesus, I cannot look on thee. But love took my hand, and smiling did reply, Who made your eyes but me? Truth, Lord, but I have marred them. Let me go where I deserve. And know you not, says love, who bore the blame, my dear, Here I will serve. You must sit down, says love, and taste my meat. So I did sit and eat. Well, can you get the impression? George Herbert says, You come on in. You realize that Jesus Christ is there, willing to serve. Like Peter, you say, I don't deserve you. I don't deserve to be here. But Jesus Christ comes and says, Don't you know I bore the blame for all the things that you've done? You must sit down and taste my meat. and I did sit and eat. Jesus Christ is kneeling at your feet. He's not too high for you to find. He's too low. He's not too far away. He may be too close. If there's anybody here who recognizes that you yourself have never actually seen your need, maybe you have been trying very hard by being a nice person to get God to love you instead of seeing that God has done everything for you by kneeling at your feet. Today's the day for you to say, Lord Jesus, Lord God, have you, Servant King, done all this for me? Up to now, I've been thinking I need to make myself acceptable, but now you're telling me that you've done everything for me, I just have to receive it? You must sit down and taste my meat. Oh, friends, sit down and eat. Let's pray. Father, during these next couple of moments, help us to see that you're asking from us. you are asking from us a willingness to see that your son by kneeling at our feet has done everything he has served us he has given us everything that we need now father we pray that you would strengthen us to have the strength to be weak to have the strength to admit that he has done everything for us that we can do nothing to add to this great salvation and we ask father that you would enable us to sit down eat at his table, to sit and be served, to sit and have our feet washed. I pray, Father, that everybody here who understands this might then find that the knowledge and realization of this great kneeling love would become the new motor and dynamic in their lives so that we could find the joy and the fulfillment of those who kneel and wash one another's feet. Father, let the vision of this tremendous life become reality. We know these things. Blessed we will be if we do them. Now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.