Okay, the teaching, the teaching. This year, when we've met together, we've been talking about community and the importance of how the gospel creates community. Now, what I've given you tonight is a very, very practical guide that I feel, I mean, it's...this is the fruit of many years of ministry. It's something actually we wrote up and I've used in the past. I want to make sure at some point in the future what I've got here for you is put in an even more permanent form than this. But I would really like to urge you to consider taking not maybe all nine of these practices, but probably at least five or six of them, and devoting at least a full week in your small groups, thinking about each one of them at some point. Find some time to do it because what I'm going to do is give you a survey of nine community-building practices that the Bible talks about, nine disciplines, nine things that you all have to be doing together if the community is going to be more than just rhetoric, just a nice idea and become a reality. If you turn to page 3 at the top, this introduces the nine practices. There is a term that Paul uses over and over again, and not just Paul, but it's used over and over again in the New Testament, where it says Christians are members of each other. They're members of one another. And that, the word members right now, you know, used like member of a club or member of a church. But think of what the word member means. meaning of the word member in English is a body part. So we do talk about dismembering. Remember that? You know, dismembering means you've had, you know, an arm cut off or something like that. That's what the term means in the Bible. When it says you are members of each other, Paul is saying you are the limbs and organs of one another. You are the eyes and arms and heart of one another. You know, the body can't do without a liver. And so the fingers and the hands and the arms need that liver. They're not the liver, but they absolutely need the liver. The liver goes, they're going to be dead. And Paul says that's the relationship of Christians to each other, that you are profoundly interdependent and without the other members of the community you are profoundly incomplete. We live in the most, not only do we live in the society in the world, but we live at the most individualistic era of history in our own, you know, country's life. And therefore, what I'm saying here actually goes against the default mode of thinking. But this is what the Bible says. Paul says, for example, look at this in the middle of the paragraph. When Paul in Ephesians 4.25 says, you shouldn't lie to each other. He doesn't say, do not lie because that breaks one of the Ten Commandments, though it does. He says, do not lie for you are members of one another. So what he's doing is he says, when you tell a lie, you're cutting yourself off. You're depriving someone else of the truth and you're putting a separation between you and that person. Instead of you having the common ground of knowing the truth about reality, you're giving this person a false understanding of reality, therefore you're dividing yourself from them. And guess what he's saying? It's like the arm saying, I don't need the liver. I mean, see, lying is a sin against God. And because it's a sin against God, it creates all kinds of other problems in life because God made reality. And therefore, when you sin against God, you set up strains in the fabric of reality that can only lead to breakdown. But what Paul's pointing out here is that when you lie, you're cutting yourself off. You're actually going it alone. You're going it alone. And that's fatal. No part of the body can go it alone. They've got to be connected. So the implications of this idea of the interconnectedness, how absolutely incomplete we are without each other, which of course the average

urban, especially American Christian just doesn't really believe. You just really don't believe it. I mean, anybody that comes to church just once on a Sunday, you know, say three out of four times, three out of four Sundays in a month, and thinks I'm part of that church has no idea at all what this, it's just no idea of this at all. Obviously thinks that you can do without other Christians, and most people do think that way. They feel like you can do without Christians. Paul says, no, you can't. Now, years ago, I was always very impressed with Paul saying, do this because you're members of one another. This term one another, love one another, bear one another's burdens, confront one another, challenge one another, confess your sins to one another. If you took all the one another passages in the Bible in which Christian fellowship is being described using this term and this concept, and you add them all up, what do you get? long list, but you begin to realize some of them seem to relate to others. And what I did some years ago was look at every single one of them and try to divide them into categories. And I came up with these nine categories. And each of these categories is a discipline. And what I want to do now is only, I only have time, all I can do is look at the kind of introductory paragraph of each of the nine so you see the full range of what you need to be doing to build community around yourself, around, you know, in your small group or in your part of the church, amongst your friends. You need to be doing all nine of these things. Now you're going to find that some of these things I have more, I have longer, there's more material connected to some than others and I'll show you some of the reasons why. In some of the cases I think it's because some of them actually are more attitudes than, in a couple of cases, they're more attitudes than they are practices, in which case I wanted to reflect that by talking about the attitude but not listing a bunch of to-do's because it has more to do with the attitude, the demeanor, the tone than it does with the actual practice. And that's the reason why probably some of these might not necessarily, I'll show you why, it might not be the sort of thing you'd want to spend a whole evening with your small group talking about, and others you might want to have more than one. So let me just give you the overview and the intro and go as long as I can, all right? And by the way, these three, these nine community building practices fall into three categories of three each. Roughly speaking, I'll just show you this in these two pages, there's affirming one another, which is basically learning to be friends in Christ. And secondly, there's three versions which is essentially learning to be family in Christ. And lastly, there's serving one another, which is essentially learning how to serve one another. Ha-ha. Surprise. And let's move right ahead. First of all, what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to have to page you through here and just give you intro by looking at the introductory paragraph for each of these. The first one is affirming one another's. This is on page four. So we're on page four, smack in the middle. abilities, and gifts. Right? Okay. No, it's four. Yeah, it's on both. Page three and four have all of them listed. Yeah. I won't say who it was, but by way of prayer request, Glenn Clankeneck made the mistake. All right. Okay. Yeah. Yes. Never mind. At our prayer meeting, we used to do that all the time. I won't tell you who this brother is, but his initials are G-L-E-N. All right. Affirming one another's strengths, abilities, and gifts. Here's something. There's just a lot of places in the Bible where you read things like this. Honor, which means praise the accomplishments of one another. Praise the accomplishments of one another. That's Romans 12.10. Or James 5.9. which means don't roll your eyes at one another, which is another way of saying never make people feel little. So Romans 12.10 where it says honor one another means make people feel big. And James 5.9 when it says don't grumble against one another literally means don't make people feel small, don't disdain them. And Romans 12.3-6 says basically confirm gifts of one another. Now, looking at this paragraph, the Bible calls, therefore, for a general mindset that loves to praise and express appreciation. If you want to do community building, you need to be lavish in your praise. I know this for a fact, not only because I know it from reading the literature on parenting. I also know it from actually having experienced parenting, but by and large, if you say one critical thing to your children for every one, you know, affirmation, in other words, if you basically have an equal amount of criticism and affirmation that you give to your children, you will ruin your children. If it's one to one, it's no good. If it's two to one, it's no good. It needs to be about five to one affirmations for criticism. Now, that doesn't surprise me, it shouldn't surprise you, about sin and about guilt and about shame and about the fact that all of us know down deep. Now, we don't, we're not conscious of it, but all of us know unconsciously that we're not right with God. All of us know that. That's what the Bible says. We all know that. And as a result, we're much, much less likely to believe praise than we are to believe criticism. And when we just simply know, and I know this from my own experience, that with children, if you really are what you would call even-handed. If you say, well, I give the kid as much praise as I give him criticism, that won't be enough. That's too much. That's too much criticism and not enough praise. And I'm not saying you should sit around with a little counter, but what it means is the Bible says we're supposed to honor each other, and we're not supposed to belittle each other. And therefore, we need to find all kinds of ways of catching people being good. and telling them they are. I suggest that there's three things you need to be looking out for in the people around you. And we have to keep moving. There's nine of these. But at the bottom, I point out the fact that when I read the Scripture, it says you need to find where people are growing and making progress and tell them. If you see somebody being more poised under pressure than they used to be, If you see somebody being more balanced than they used to be or getting less, yeah, well, in other words, if you see any kind of progress, tell them. Any kind of growth in character, any kind of progress in love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, meekness, you know, self-control, tell them. So first of all, when you see spiritual fruit growing, catch that and praise them for it. Thank them for it, you know. Notice it. Secondly, gifts. they've got abilities that they're good at. You're supposed to say, you're good at that. You need to do more of it. And lastly, sacrifices. When you see people making a sacrifice, appreciate it. When you see them doing something that maybe other people don't do, see. Or when you see people doing the right thing and it costing them, tell them about it. And therefore, Therefore, look around you for fruit, gifts, and sacrifices in the people right around you and make sure none of those things go unnoticed. Now, let's keep on moving. I know there's a lot to talk about. I gave you a whole bunch of practicals on this. B, which is on page 5, the second thing the Bible says much about is affirming one another's equal importance in Christ. Now, the reason I've given you so little here is I gave you actually in the last, in January's handout, I put a bunch of stuff in there. But what am I talking about? Read with me through the paragraph. There's a general mindset that we are to have that refuses to be impressed with the world's status ladders or pecking orders. This is the second thing the Bible says about Christian community. And let me tell you, this is not going to be easy. The distinctions that the world notices out there are not supposed to be things that in here we follow. What does this mean? Well, it certainly means that people of different races and classes are not to be getting different treatment the way they get out there. It certainly means that I would even go this far, and I'm going to go down to the second half of that paragraph. 1 Corinthians 12? Look here. 1 Corinthians 12 admits the brute fact that many people have greater gifts than others. Some people have got speaking ability, brilliance, leadership ability, and other people have gifts that don't get that kind of... Some people are more gifted than others. And yet, 1 Corinthians 12 says, verse 25, every member must be treated with, literally it says, as equal anxiety. We should be equally anxious to honor the people whose jobs don't get the spotlight because they don't take what the world considers a lot of talent and brilliance. See, not only are we... And this is... Pardon me. New York City is a meritocracy. That is to say, we heard about this before we got here, and there's something I appreciate about New York. Are there parts of the country where it matters where you're from and what your pedigree is and even what you look like? The joke about it, the Waylon Jennings song, too dumb for New York, too ugly for L.A., they don't care that much in New York what you look like, really, not compared to L.A., that's for sure. Boston, they say, what does he know? New York, they say, how much does he make? Philadelphia, they say, who's his family? They don't care about your family. They don't care even how many degrees you have. What they want to know is are you productive, ROI, you know, return on investment. And therefore there's something about New York that has always on the one hand been egalitarian, saying we don't care if you're male or female. We don't care if you're gay or straight. We don't care if you're from the south or the north. We don't care if you've got a British accent or a southern hillbilly accent. We don't care. Are you smart? Are you productive? Can you bring in the goods? That's very, in a way, egalitarian. On the other hand, it's horribly unegalitarian because what it means is the most gifted, the most brilliant, the smartest, the most talented people are worshipped. And even that is not something we're supposed to be bringing into our church. 1 Corinthians 12 says we're supposed to be equally anxious to honor the person who doesn't necessarily have lots of brilliant gifts. and what does this mean? Certainly, as I mentioned here, James 2 at the very end says we're not supposed to show favoritism of the rich over the poor. What does that mean? Well, I gave a lot of information in the last, when we didn't get to it. I mean, it's a big subject. It's a huge subject and actually it's very easy in any church, including Redeemer, to find places where we are not in compliance with this. and this is something that we should never stop talking about. You might say, well, how do we practice this? Well, the answer is in the micro, you need to look around and make sure that you are careful, that you don't find your prejudices affecting you in the way in which you treat a brother or sister in here. The whole idea behind Paul's confrontation with Peter in Galatians 2 was that Peter was not eating with Gentile Christians. And, you know, Paul had to say, look, I know out there in the world Jews don't eat with Gentiles, you know, because they're unclean. But inside the church, that's over. We don't do that inside the church. We're all brothers and sisters in Christ. So talking about our equal importance in Christ, regardless of these distinctions that the world makes, and especially New York City. You know, New York City thinks of itself as incredibly egalitarian. On the other hand, it's not at all. Money. and by the way, you know, you've heard me exhort you on this back in October, but out in the world, pretty women get a leg up over non-pretty women. Rich men get a leg up over less rich men, even in the dating stakes, do they not? And actually, we shouldn't be doing that either. In other words, if a guy doesn't want to go out with a woman who's a godly woman, but she's not terrifically great looking, you know, a sister in the church, something like that. Well, then you know what? I'm not sure you're practicing this. Do you see how slippery this whole thing is? This isn't the sort of thing necessarily you can just, you know, say, well, what are the action steps here? There's a lot of action steps, but it does mean at the very least this needs to always be on our agenda. And we should never be tired, we should never get tired of talking about it, even though, because every time you talk about it, it's always a bit painful, and yet we always And so maybe in some ways that's the main thing to say about B, but that's the second community building practice. C, affirming one another through visible affection. This is the one that I suggest you not do an evening on with your small group. But let me read you this because it's actually there. There are a remarkable number of directions in the New Testament to greet one another with a holy kiss. Okay. look Romans 16 1st Corinthians 16 2nd there's greet one another the holy kiss and there's or the kiss of love 1st Peter now it's very customary for us to mentally kind of skip those verses because on the one hand we would say well in a different culture yes of course everything was done with kissing and we don't do that for various reasons but what I think it's saying is how do you express affection? How do you express warmth? And by the way, the easiest way to express warmth, you know, as I point out in this paragraph, you don't have to read it with me, that by and large, races are different. Some races are more emotionally and visibly expressive than other races. And I have to say, some genders are more emotionally expressive than other genders. Wait a minute, there's only two genders. Okay. And you know which And therefore, there has to be culturally appropriate or even I'd say gender appropriate ways of expressing visible affection. But I'll tell you, here's one that works across the board that anybody could do and nobody ought to feel weird about. And yet it's really pretty hard work and that is to listen. Become really, really good listeners. And you'd be surprised how often in the Bible there are exhortations to listen. To listen to one another. without jumping in, interrupting, correcting, you know, to really, really listen and let the person believe that you really, really are interested. And the only way to make a person really believe you're really, really interested is to be really, really interested. But nevertheless, that's one of the practices. And by the way, the listening and the warmth is something. It's got to be one of the nine things you're thinking of when you say, say, how do I do a better job of building community here? Now, into the next category. And now we're over on page seven, sharing with one another. And there are three things I want you to share that we need to work on sharing. The first is sharing one another's space, goods, and time. This is what the Bible calls hospitality. And you know, the term brotherly love and the term hospitality very often are used together. The word hospitality is the Greek word philoxenia, which means the love of strangers. You know xenophobia, which is the fear of the alien, other races, other classes, other nations, xenophobia? Well, the Bible actually commands that Christians be marked by philoxenia, the love of strangers. strangers, and Philadelphia, which is the love of brothers and sisters, it means treating one another as if they're family, are almost always pulled together, and here's the reason why. Hospitality, according to the Bible, is not entertaining. Hospitality is treating a stranger as if they're family, see? And hospitality means not just to be warm as a listener. That's another That's important. But hospitality means opening your wallet, opening your possessions, opening your home, and finding practical ways to meet people's needs so that they feel accepted and they feel included. And I'll tell you what you do. Listen, you might say, well, we don't have homes. We live in New York City. We're at Redeemer. We don't have homes. Well, let me go down to the bottom. No, not to the bottom. Let me turn you over to the bottom of page 8 and 9. Can I just show you certain ways that you can talk to your friends and your small group and the people around you and say, here's how we can practice what the Bible says? Hospitality is a command taken very seriously in the New Testament. If you look near the bottom, here are the simplest. You see where it says A and B at the bottom under number 2? now go up to number two where it says New York City New York City hospitality practice has to take into consideration some unique aspects of our city life first many or most of us do not live in houses with spare bedrooms remember those remember spare bedrooms and secondly urban people do not just live in their homes but around their homes see suburban people live in their homes but urban people live around their homes which means you create a home campus pubs, stores, galleries, parks, atriums, stores, and proprietors within the neighborhood where you live and often sometimes around the neighborhood where you work. So your living campus, you know, where's your dry cleaner, where's your this, there's a neighborhood around where you work and then especially the neighborhood around where you live and you tend to live around your domicile, not just in it. And once you take that into consideration, Recreation, hospitality for urban dwellers includes taking people into your campus, not just into your little apartment where they may not fit hardly. It means taking them into your favorite restaurants and paying for them or taking them into other parts of your home space campus. One of the simplest and most basic acts of hospitality is to invite neighbors into your home who live on your floor or your apartment building. That's number one. Do you know your neighbors? Neighbors, that's the easiest kind of philoxenia you can do in a place like New York City. Secondly, a second most basic act of urban hospitality is to invite neighbors, colleagues, or friends to come to Redeemer and then take them into your home campus, take them out to eat or something. We might say Redeemer was built on that particular form of urban hospitality. You know that. C, over on page 9. The third major act of urban hospitality is for Christians to eat together as often as you possibly can. my first powerful experience, this is just for me, Tim Keller, my first powerful experience of Christian community was my small group Bible study in college. And I'll never forget this. We had a Bible study weekly, just like a lot of you do. But four days a week, this is in college, four days a week, we met for 30 minutes at 5.30 to pray for each other. Every weeknight, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. And then at six, we walked into the campus cafeteria 15 minutes before it closed. I remember it was finished serving at 6.15. So we would pray five nights a week for 30 minutes and then eat together. Utterly transformative. I mean, you can't do that unless you're on a college campus. And even now, my guess is most college students would say, I don't have the time for that. But it was completely transformative. I mean, I was a brand-new Christian. I really became a Christian during that time. And it had a huge impact on me. some ways, and talking regularly has as much of an impact on you really as a Bible study. And the last form of urban hospitality is to sponsor a small group in your apartment. Now, there's four. But on top of that, there's corporate. Those are individual urban hospitality. Here's three versions of corporate urban hospitality. Contact the diaconate and tell them you want to help them in their work. Because you know what the diaconate is? Among other things, The diaconate is our way as a body to do hospitality for the city. Because what the diaconate is doing is giving practical help. See? Treating people, in many cases strangers, as family. The diaconate is essentially our way as a body of doing hospitality. Secondly, volunteer through Hope for New York. because most of the ministries they're involved with entail sharing time, goods, welcoming heart with people who their world tends to exclude. That's hospitality. And then thirdly, volunteer Sunday services ministries. I mean, if you want literal hospitality, hand out bulletins, you see. Work in all those ways that make Sunday work. Hospitality is utterly crucial for Redeemer. And most people, when they think of hospitality in an urban setting, think, having people into my home, making them a meal, how can I do that? I don't have the money to do it. I don't have the space to do it. And the answer is, think about these things. Now, page nine. Secondly, we also have to do sharing one another's needs and problems. Another thing that the New Testament talks about all the time are things like bearing one another's burdens. Let me read you this for a second. Go down to the middle of this paragraph on page 9. We see where it says the famous Galatians 6. The famous Galatians 6.2 text, where it says, bear one another's burdens, tells us to bear one another's burdens. Picture how you help a person who's trying to carry a load, which is too heavy. To bear the burden means you come under it and you let some of its weight, some of its responsibility and some of its pain come on to you. And so the terms like bear one another's burdens, encourage one another,

mean that you have to be willing to be emotionally involved. I have found that because we're so busy that there's probably less willingness to do that than there used to be in our culture. were almost more willing to give money than to actually sit and... When you listen to someone unload on you, that you feel a certain... It's really scary. And you know you've got a certain responsibility, and you're also... You don't feel good. And you come home, you don't come home whistling. It's because some of that person's pain has fallen onto you because you were willing to listen. See, when somebody's in pain and you kind of brush them off or you make them feel it's not completely safe to unload or you show that you're really not interested in hearing it too much, that person bears all the pain themselves. But if the person comes and really feels listened to and feels sympathy and a certain amount of encouragement and they really unload, you know, they go home feeling a little bit lighter. They don't feel like they're all alone. And you come home feeling heavier. What happened? You bore their burden. and I don't like to do it, and you don't like to do it. I mean, over the years, it's hard, really, really hard to bear some people's burdens, and you do have to be careful. If you find yourself burning out on other people's burdens, maybe, well, then obviously that's not good either. You might be doing it because you like to be needed, and that's a problem. Any one of these disciplines could be taken to an extreme, by the way. the less, that's one of the things we're supposed to do. We're supposed to bear each other's burdens and I have here a set of practical ways of thinking about how do you really come alongside of somebody who's suffering, somebody who's gotten bad news about health, somebody who's gotten bad news about a family member who's dying, somebody who's gotten bad news about a job. How do you come alongside of them? Keep on going. Page 11. I've got to get done. We're now on the sixth of the nine community building practices and the sixth of them is not just sharing our goods not just sharing burdens. The sixth one is sharing one another's beliefs, thinking, and spirituality. Americans are pragmatists. And what that means is in churches, people don't like talking that much about theology. But the passages that I'm thinking of here, like Romans 12, 16, which says, It says, become of the same mind, which means work for consensus on your beliefs. Or Ephesians 4, 14, 15, don't be blown about by every wind of human doctrine, but speaking the truth in love, be joined and knit together because of the truth. Or agree with one another in the Lord, Philippians 4, 2. All these texts in the context, I'm not sure you can see them pulled out of their context like I just read them, But all these texts in context are urging Christians to read the Bible together and to try as much as possible to come to consensus on issues, to talk about theology, to love theology, and to come more and more to one mind on various issues. The distinction you have to make here is this. There are lots of pastoral issues, very often having to do with sex. There are lots and lots of vocational issues. Like, what does it mean to be a Christian in my field? And there are lots of political issues. How can I, as a Christian, you know, with my understanding of what the Bible teaches, be involved in, you know, the political world or political parties? And Redeemer, I don't think, has really done a tremendous job at helping Christians do theological reflection together on what the Bible says about these various issues. The danger with going there in the past, The good thing about Redeemer has been we've tended to major on the majors. We say here's the gospel and we're going to get together on the gospel and we have not, we haven't been as nearly as combative as many churches who have a, you know, many congregations that have got a position on almost everything. You know, there's 3,000, they have 3,000 different positions. Here's where we stand on tongues. Here's where we stand on politics. Here's where we stand on everything. And because Redeemer has tended to major in the majors, We've avoided that. And yet at the same time, I wonder whether we haven't become folks that haven't really learned how to do what this says here, which is learn how to study the Bible together and reflect theologically on issues and try to come to a greater degree of consensual, biblical, communal wisdom on so many of the issues facing us in our society and our culture. So read what I have there, and that will give you some more ideas there. Now I'm trying to push on so we really finish in five minutes. The last three issues are, two of the last three are practices, and one of them is an attitude. And two of the last three are a set of practices that we really need to be good at in this church. church, and every small group or every active Christian in the church needs to know something about them. One is that we are supposed to serve one another through accountability. Look at the passages in the middle of this. This is page 13, serving one another through accountability. We must allow ourselves to be accountable to others to live as we should, even in the more private areas. In particular, we have to be willing to admit where we have besetting sins to some of our friends, and we have to look to the community to help us overcome them. Now, this is absolutely against the American way, which is an extremely privatized culture. But here are some texts. James 5.16, confess your sins to one another. Romans 15.14, admonish and confront one another. Though, Galatians 6.1, humbly and gently challenge Daily, Hebrews 3.13. Encourage and coach each other to do what is right. That's Hebrews 10.24 and 25. Wisely, joyfully counsel one another. That's Colossians 3.16. Now, if you go down to the next paragraph, I want to go one step further. One of the problems with this whole area of where we hold each other accountable for our lives is that almost all churches, and we will be one of them, by the way, tends to err on one side or the other. There definitely are churches that have overdone this whole area of accountability. They've been abusive, and or, they hold people accountable over areas where the Bible hasn't spoken. So very often, the leaders will hold you accountable. You need to ask permission to miss church on Sunday. You need to ask the leader's permission to date somebody. So on the one hand, you have churches that have overdone this, and they've actually, they hold people accountable where the Bible hasn't spoken. You know, we, our Presbyterian Church and our confession of faith is the Westminster Confession, and there's a chapter 20 in our Westminster Confession on liberty of conscience, which is very important, because it says where the Bible has left the conscience free, our church cannot bind it, which means if the Bible doesn't say, Thou must do this, then we as elders or ministers can't come and say, You must do this or we will discipline you. So when the Bible says, Thou shalt not commit adultery, we can come and say, You must stop your affair or we will discipline you. That's okay. But on the other hand, declares that everyone must be in a small group, and this person is not in a small group, we can't come and say, we're going to discipline you because you're disobeying your elders. Why? Because of Westminster Confession 2020, which I think is biblical, and that is where the Bible has left the conscience free. We're not going to bind it. And there's abuse of churches, which I think go past that. But on the other hand, where probably most churches in the country are, and maybe redeemer, and that is we don't do enough accountability. And so what I suggest in here is that you think through what that means. And I also suggest at the bottom of the second paragraph, the second last paragraph, the last full paragraph on page 13, notice there's four areas that I think we ought to find ways of trying to gently talk to each other because there's four areas where self-deception is really, really easy. areas is devotional life and level of spiritual experience. We need to hold each other accountable to using spiritual disciplines. There's a lot of people out there, as I said yesterday, whose marriage with Jesus is a marriage on paper. There's like no actual spiritual contact. B, life balance, like work and health and rest. C, use of money. And D, sexuality. And E, family relationships. How are you getting along with other members of your family? In all five think we need to find gentle ways of opening up where we have besetting sins, where we have problems, and really listening to each other and allowing your friends to hold you accountable in certain areas. Okay, we're almost done. Now we have to jump. See, all this stuff on confessing sins to one another, there's a lot there because there's such a possibility for abuse. I gave you a lot of information, the process. Over on page 17, serving one another through forgiveness and reconciliation. This is close to accountability, but it's not the same thing. This is on page 17. And here, I won't say much because there's so much to say, I better not say much. The Bible says, here's three things you need to know about this. Matthew 5 says, if you know someone has something against you, you need to go to them. Matthew 18 says, if you have something against somebody, you need to go to them, which means it's always your move. If there's a relationship that's falling apart, one person has something against you, you have something against them, the relationship needs to be ruptured, it's always your move to go and do reconciliation, forgiveness, repentance, whatever it takes to get the relationship back. And you can't inside a church between brothers and sisters have ruptured relations issue is where people aren't speaking to each other, aren't dealing with each other, that can't be allowed to be maintained. The Bible actually lays out an entire apparatus by which we can deal with that. It's in Matthew 18. However, let me consider, I want you to consider one other thing. Matthew 5 says, if somebody has something against you, go to them. Matthew 18 says, if you've got something against somebody, go to them. And then it says one more thing, and that is in Ephesians 4 2, literally it says, put up with one another. That's one of my favorite verses. And I don't think it's that way in any English translation. It always means, you know, bear with one another or something like that. But literally it means put up with one another, which means you shouldn't be a person who's constantly needing to go to people to make relationships right. There's something wrong with If you can't put up with people. So there's, on the one hand, the mistake of always having to go and make everything right anytime anybody upsets you, or even that you have to go to them anytime you're, you know, in other words, you can't be oversensitive, or what most of us are, is that when the relationship starts to go south, we just don't do anything about it. And there's quite a lot in here about how you can make relationships go right, get back on the right footing if they're wrong. And I am, this is it. If you go all the way to the very last page, which basically is page 26, the last of the nine community building practices is an attitude rather than a practice. In fact, in some ways it's a dynamic for all of them. Let me just read you it. There's a general mindset, serving one another's interests rather than your own. And over and over again it says, be like Jesus Christ, for he did not please himself. That's the beginning of Romans 15. Christ did not please himself. He didn't live to always have his needs being met. Put the interests of other people ahead of your own. Over and over and over again it says that. In fact, Galatians 5.13 is very, very scary. It says you should be douloi of one another, which literally means bond slaves. Paul says we owe one another a debt of love, which means to say that because God has loved us, we're supposed to be paying our debt back to Jesus for what he's done for us. to other people. We ought to assume that we owe them because of what Jesus has done for us. Strong words. And yet, in a way, this isn't one more community-building practice, as I put down here. In a way, this is the dynamic that is the heart or the energy behind all the other practices. But Jesus Christ did not please himself, so don't you please yourself. If only we could be a community of people like that, how different we'd be from the world, and how much the world would want to hear what the gospel is if we were a community like that. So here, let me just, let me close in prayer. And, oh, is it the Q&A now? I forgot the Q&A. It was going too long. All right, look, quickly, I am really sorry. You know what? I knew it was a long, and I was I was thinking, I'll never get through this. And I said, I'm getting through this. And then I realized why. I forgot the Q&A. You know what? I think I'm going to close in prayer anyway. I'm sorry. I am very sorry. Confess your sins to one another. So I'm the one, and you're the other. Honestly, as I was moving on through it, I was saying, hey, I'm getting through all this okay. And then I realized I forgot the Q&A. Forgive me, please. So I'm going to close in prayer. And you know what? But one of the reasons we're going into our breakouts afterwards is to talk about these things. So ask the questions in the breakout. Forgive me. Let me close in prayer. Our Father, it is harder to bring people into community here in New York City than it is to bring them to faith. We know that. We've known it for 20 years. It is harder to bring people into community than it is to bring them to faith. Harder to get them into a relationship with each other

And yet we also know that our relationship with you is bound up with our relationships with each other. It's through community that people see who you are so often. It's through community that we come to be more conformed to the image of your son. And so we're really not relating to you like we should because we're not relating to each other. And these strong words like we're members of each other and we're to be bond servants of each other

words. We do confess, Father, to you that we are no longer in compliance with the blueprint you have for our lives. We ask at Redeemer that though we often have had great experiences of community here, we by and large fall very short. And we ask that you would keep us from ever giving up and help us to more and more build up the body of Christ where we can all finally find the family, the love, the friendship that our hearts long for. So be with us to that, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.