That night, Jacob got up and took his two wives, his two maidservants, and his eleven sons, and crossed the ford of the Jabbok. After he had sent them across the stream, he sent over all his possessions. So Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him till daybreak. When the man saw that he could not overpower him, he touched the socket of Jacob's hip, so that his hip was wrenched as he wrestled with the man. Then the man said, Let me go, for it is daybreak. replied, I will not let you go unless you bless me. The man asked him, what is your name? Jacob, he answered. Then the man said, your name will no longer be Jacob, but Israel, because you have struggled with God and with men and have overcome. Jacob said, please tell me your name. But he replied, why do you ask my name? Then he blessed him there. So Jacob called the place Peniel, saying, It is because I saw God face to face, and yet my life was spared. The sun rose above him as he passed Peniel, and he was limping because of his hip. Therefore, to this day, the Israelites do not eat the tendon attached to the socket of the hip, because the socket of Jacob's hip was touched near the tendon. The word of the Lord.

Well, we've been going through the life of Jacob. The stories really aren't like the stories of other cultures and the stories of other religions. The fulfilled disabilities. When you read the Bible looking for that sort of thing, you get frustrated because so many of the narratives, so many of the stories show the central figures and protagonists being very deceptive or lacking integrity. Very often you look through a narrative, a biblical narrative, and you see absolutely no virtue to be found, no one acting in an exemplary way at all. And it's because the Bible is here not so much to show you how to live a good life, as it is to show us how to meet God, whose grace we need, and live a new life. How God comes down into the lives of people who don't look for his grace and don't deserve his grace, but to whom he gives his grace. Now, when you get to the Jacob narratives, you see that more than anywhere, because you just never see Jacob doing it right, almost. And now we get up to this place where there's a very famous spot where he's wrestling. And in this very fascinating and dramatic scene, we really learn the principles of how to have a life-changing encounter and experience with God. Because you see, near the end when it says, the sun rose on him, Hebrew narrative is so spare. There's so few details that every detail is there for a reason. And if you remember in Genesis 28, the sun was setting on Jacob, but now it's rising on Jacob. What's that say? This is the new day. He's been dealing with God all along, but this is the day in which he is a really, truly changed man. This is the absolutely, radically, life transforming encounter with God. How can we have an encounter with God? How do we meet God? Not just know about him or believe in him in some general way. How do we actually have a life-changing encounter with God? And there's four principles here. And these are the four reasons why Jacob was able to have an encounter with God. And they're the four principles that I think will be involved in anyone's encounter with God. You have to meet God yourself. You meet God in your weakness. You meet God at the center. And you meet God in his weakness. You meet God yourself, and in your weakness, you meet God at the center, and in his weakness. First, you have to meet God yourself. That seems pretty obvious. Look at verse 24. After he had sent them across the stream, he sent over all his possessions, so Jacob was left alone. alone. Now, what has led up to this story? Jacob had to run away from his brother Esau for his life just to survive because Esau had sworn to kill him, but now he's coming back to his homeland with all of his family and with his entourage and everything. He's coming back, but he hears that Esau is on his way with 400 men toward him, and he's terrified. Jacob says, surely that means we're going to be attacked. So what he's done is he's sent ahead of himself, he's divided up all of his entourage and his servants and his livestock, and he sent them ahead in waves. And each wave is going to hit Esau first, and the servants are directed and ordered to just lavish presence of all sorts, kingly presence on Esau as a way of mollifying and persuading and turning his heart toward Jacob. But now it's the night before, the next day, and that next day Esau will get to them. Tomorrow Esau will reach them. Jacob is not sure what's happened to anyone that he's sent before, for all he knows they're all dead. He's put everybody in front of him except his immediate family. And tomorrow they'll meet Esau. Tomorrow is the day of crisis. So what does Jacob want to do the night before the great day of crisis?

alone. He wants to, it makes perfect sense, he wants to think, he wants to reflect, and he wants to pray. We've already seen, if you read the chapter, the first part of chapter 32, we've seen that he's already begun to pray. And so when he seeks to be alone with himself, when he seeks to get alone, that's when he has his encounter with God. Now here's the first point. If you want to have an encounter with God, you've got to meet God personally, individually, yourself, alone.

Now, what I just said does not contradict all the things we say around here about the importance of community, not at all. What I just said does not go against anything we've said about how you have to have friends and relationships and community is necessary for finding God, community is necessary for growing in God. I'm not going against anything I've just, any of those things. Well, here's what we are saying. How many of you grew up in a church and you liked it? And you knew all the people and you were very much a part of it and you felt moved by the services and you believed what they said. You believed the message. You really did believe it. And then you moved away. or you moved away for some other reason, and in the new place you went, God just seemed totally unreal to you. You tried this or that church. You prayed occasionally, but it's just all unreal. You don't find this great need. You don't find the need to go and pray and worship or anything. You just became unreal. Why? Or here's something else that happens. Very often, you know, in the

to a church, and the church is great because it's filled with people that are intelligent and vibrant and warm, and they bring you in, and you love it. And you hear people talking about what Christ means to them, and you hear all this, and it fills you with hope. It inspires you. You really love it. but it gives you so much strength. You believe them. You believe the message. You believe what you hear. And then if something moves you away from that church, from that city, you might try another church here or there, but you suddenly find it all becomes unreal to you. You don't really need church. You don't really need other people. You don't need to worship or pray. It all becomes unreal. Why? Here's why. It is possible to be caught up in the movement and not meet God yourself. Or, put it this way, It is possible to listen to other people's experience of God. Encounter with God. To see other people's reality. The reality they have. The spiritual reality. The joy that they have. That fills you with hope. There is a God. He can change lives. Great things can happen. So you are inspired and you have hope and you are lifted up. But you haven't had an encounter yourself. You haven't had an experience yourself. you haven't, it hasn't penetrated you. You're living off other people's encounters, other people's experiences. They're filling you with a certain amount of hope and encouragement. They're evidence that there's a God, but you haven't met God yourself. You might have been, you've been overshadowed by God, but not penetrated.

And this is very sobering. Again, this does not go against what we're saying about community here It just shows that truth is multidimensional. This is just another side of it. But let me put it to you in the starkest terms. The most important life issues you're going to have to face, you will only face alone. For example, let's say you suddenly discover you have some kind of life-threatening disease, and you're in the hospital, and you're going to face incredibly dangerous surgery. surgery. Nobody knows what's going to happen. Well, now, here's what everybody's going to do for you. They're going to surround you. Your friends will be there. Your family will be there. Your pastor will be there. Everybody will get around you and say, you will not face this alone. And that's what we ought to say. In a way, that's right. You're not going to face this alone. We're here for you. And boy, do you love that. And you're so happy that they're surrounding you, and the flowers come in, and people pray for you. You don't know what you'd do without them. But I want you to know that when they wheel you into that operating room, they're not going to wheel in your family and your friends and your pastor. You know what they're going to do? They're going to just wheel in you. And unless you have God in your head and in your heart talking to you, you will be utterly alone in the universe.

You have to meet God alone. You have to meet God yourself. You cannot live off what other people do and say. easy. I want you to know, come to Redeemer and think that you're experiencing God when you're experiencing other people's experience of God. You're filled with hope, and it's evidence that there is a God because you see him changing other lives, but he's not actually changing yours. He's just sort of giving you a certain amount of consolation. You have to meet God yourself. That's the first principle. The second principle is you not only have to meet God yourself, but secondly, you have to meet God yourself. You have to meet God in your weakness. Now, I'm going to say, this is the scariest. I'll be real honest about it. And I know it's scary. I'm not doing it lightly. I'm going to try to be as gentle as I can. And I'm talking to myself.

There is no more vivid place in the Bible that shows you that we do not have a tame God than this. And let me show you, let me put it to you like this. Look at how Jacob is finally getting it together. I mean, this is the first place we see Jacob actually starting to do things right. First, why is Jacob there? Why is Jacob there that night? You know why?

Here's the Esau's coming. He's got every bit of evidence to believe, every reason to believe that Esau's coming to kill him with a small army. Why doesn't he just go back? Why didn't he just turn around and leave? That's by far the most safe thing. Why does he keep coming? Why does he go home when he knows that his very life is hanging by a thread? The answer is that in chapter 31, verse 2, God appears to Jacob and says, I want you to go home. It's time to go back to the land of your fathers. Go. And so the fact that Jacob doesn't turn tail and run, the fact that he's there is because he's willing to obey God

at the risk of his very life. so here he is obeying God to his mortal peril, and the other thing we see him doing is praying. He gets alone. He sends his family away. He says, I got to be alone. What? To reflect, to pray. Earlier on in chapter 32, he prays in verse 9 and 10. We see that Jacob is developing a prayer life. It's a very good prayer. So, all right, now let me ask you a question. What, in all of the teaching you've ever gotten and all the expectations you have about how God operates, what do you expect, how do you expect God to respond to a man who has obeyed him at the risk of his life, who's put his life on the line to obey his word and follow his will, and who's seeking him in prayer, and who's filled with fears and is at the end of his rope? How does God respond to a man who's utterly obedient, seeking him in prayer, scared, and at the end of his rope? that. He clobbers him. He knocks him down literally. He assaults him, puts a hammerlock on him, and maims him for the rest of his life. This is not the God of liberal religion. This is not just a beneficent, you know, God who just is up there, you know, that liberal religion says, oh, I just believe in a God of love who accepts everybody. That's not this God. But look, is this the traditional God? the God that your sort of typical conservative Christian church talks about? Oh no. You know why? Because what you hear there is, if you obey, and if you obey to, you know, to your own hurt, and you do everything right according to God's will, and you pray, and you have your quiet time, and you go to church, and you study your Bible, and you do everything right, God will clobber you, knock you down, cripple you for the rest of your life. This is not a God of anybody's religion. This is not a God of anybody's imagination. Who in their right mind... Why is this text here? It must have happened. Who would have thought it up? What kind of idiot would think of a God like this? Who could have imagined a God like this? This must have happened. This must be a real God. This must be the real God because nobody else could have invented him. This is a God who, as C.S. Lewis puts it Chronicles of Narnia, there's a place where the characters are talking about the Christ figure, and they say, safe? Who said anything about him being safe? Of course he's not safe, but he's good.

He's the king, I tell you.

Now, we're doing surgery right here, and here's how the surgery goes. With surgery, you've got to be, Kenway doctors. I know some of you up there are doctors. You've got to go right down the middle, so let's be careful. On the one hand, we must never forget John 11. We must not forget Jesus at the tomb of Lazarus. When Jesus gets there, he's going to use Lazarus' suffering, sickness, and death, isn't he? He's going to use it. Isn't he going to do great things through it? Yes, of course he is. He's got a plan for it. He's going to use it for wonderful purposes. But he sees Mary and Martha crying and he melts into tears. He gets to the tomb itself and he's furious, angry at the tomb, at the disease, at the death of his friend Lazarus. What this means is God has plans for our suffering, has plans for us in our suffering, but he's never clinical about it. He's never remote from it. He's utterly involved with us. He weeps to those who weeps. But having said that, this text, in a way that's more vivid than any other place I know in the Bible, tells us that in general, hear this, God has to wrestle us into a transformed life rather than comfort us into a transformed life. He has to wrestle us in.

When does Jacob figure it out? When does Jacob have the turning point and realize that this is God? God. You see, when you get down to verse 28, the cat's out of the bag, because in verse 28, this mysterious wrestler says, you have wrestled with God and you have prevailed. So when you get there, he's let the cat out of the bag and he says who he is. You see, in the very beginning, Jacob certainly didn't know this was God, and at the very end, he certainly did. Jacob knew the stories. In fact, if you've been coming to Redeemer for a year or so, you've heard them too. Jacob the story about how a mysterious stranger appeared to Abraham and Sarah, his grandparents. He probably even knew the story about how a mysterious stranger appeared to Hagar, his grandfather's other wife, Hagar. And he knew that mysterious stranger was the Lord. So by the time he gets to verse 28, he knows that this is not a man that he's been wrestling. But where does he understand it? Where does the penny drop? Where does the penny drop that this is God in his arms? Where does he begin to discern God, you see? Where do the blinders fall from his eyes and he begins to recognize God in his midst and his presence and he starts to cling to him and say, I don't want to lose you. I want to hold on to you. Where does that happen? Well, you can't tell very well reading it in English, but all the commentators and scholars say it happens in verse 25. because in verse 25 it says, and the man touched the socket of Jacob's hip and it was permanently devastated. Now you see, they're right. That translation says touched, and indeed, the Hebrew word that's used there is a word that means the merest touch, a tap, the merest contact. And what we're being told is that Jacob, mysterious figure to a draw, you know, for hours, suddenly sees the man reach over, touch his hip, and immediately, incredible pain, he realizes his one leg is utterly useless. And he suddenly realizes that the person in his arms could have incinerated him anytime he wanted to. And that's the turning point. That's where he begins to not let him go. You see, he was wrestling. When somebody attacks you, why are you wrestling? You're wrestling to get them away. But look at verse 26. He won't let him go. He's changed his wrestling. Now he knows who it is. He says, I can't let you go. I want you in my life. When did that change happen? At the moment of pain. At the moment of weakness. At the moment he realized he was utterly vulnerable and defenseless. And this is what I said about being scary, and I'm talking to myself as well as to you. This is a God who says, I want to bless you, to change your life. I want to wake you up to who you are. I want to wake you up to who I am. I want you to see the stupid things you've been doing in my life. The only way I can get you into a transformed life, I'm going to have to wrestle you in. I can't comfort you in because that's just not the way we work.

I know that's true in my life. Most of you know that's true in your life. The famous C.S. Lewis phrase, God whispers to us in prosperity, but he shouts to us in adversity. Ah. And there's a hymn that talks about this.

I asked the Lord that I might grow in faith and love and every grace, might more of his salvation know, and seek more earnestly his face. Instead of this, with his own hand, he seemed intent to bring me woe, crossed all the fair designs I schemed, blasted my joys and laid me low. Lord, why is this, I trembling cried, will you pursue me to the death? Tis in this way, the Lord replied, I answer prayers for grace and faith. These inward trials I employ from pride and self to set thee free and break thy schemes of earthly joy that thou mayst find thine all in me. God becomes, out of love, the enemy of your old self, the self that's not built on God, and brings you into weakness so that you can wake up and begin to grow a new self.

So you meet him yourself. him in your weakness. Thirdly, you meet him at the center. Now, what do we mean when we say that? The third principle is God only meets you at the center of your life. There's two themes in Jacob's life that are reflected by two words in the narrative that show us that all the lines of Jacob's life are coming together at this point. The first one is, and you can't really see it too easily when you're reading it in English, but in Hebrew the irony comes out. Verse 24, it says that this man wrestled with him, but in the Hebrew you know what it actually says. It says, a man came and Jacobed with him, because the word Jacob is the word for wrestle.

Somebody finally is out Jacobing Jacob. The reason Jacob's name is wrestle is because that's his life. He was a wrestler, a grasper, a grappler, somebody who was always trying to get the upper hand, trying to jockey for position, trying to get the advantage, always out to attain and obtain. He was a wrestler, see. He was a conniver. He was a schemer. He was always looking for a way to get the upper hand. But with whom was he wrestling all of his life? If you asked him, what is the theme of your life? See, the reason Damar is the climax of his life is he says,

The problem of my life, Jacob would have said at this point, is I've had to wrestle with Esau. I wrestled with him in my womb, in my mother's womb. I wrestled with him in Rebecca's womb. I wrestled with him for the birthright. I wrestled with him for my father's favor. I wrestled with him for the leadership of the family. And Esau is the problem with my life. He's the reason why I haven't been able to have the life I wanted. He's the one who has stood between me and the life I wanted, my happiness, my joy, my honor, my love. He's the one who's come between me and the life I want. I've been wrestling with Esau. He's the one. And in the middle of the night,

this mysterious figure comes and begins to wrestle with him. Why? What's God saying? Oh, gee. He's saying, you idiot. I'm the one you've been wrestling with all your life. life. You thought the climax of your life was tomorrow morning. No, it's tonight. You thought tomorrow you were going to meet the person who you've been wrestling with all your life. You thought tomorrow you're going to meet the person who's the big problem in your life. Oh no, tonight you do. Because the problem beneath all your problems has been you've been wrestling with me. You've been trying to resist me. You've been trying to fight with me. You've been trying to fight me out of your life. You wanted to be your own Savior and your own Lord. And he says, you realize that I'm at the center of what's wrong with your life. Until you realize that I'm the one you've been wrestling with all your life. Not Esau. Not Isaac. Not anybody else. Not Laban. Me. You're not going to really understand yourself. And you're not really going to really have an encounter with me. So on the one hand, the one theme of his life is wrestling. But the other theme of his life is blessing. You see, when he says, I will not let you go until you bless me? Oh my. If you've been here for the weeks we've been going through, you know that the theme of Abraham's life was the promise, but the theme of Jacob's life is the blessing. Jacob grew up devoid of inner blessing, with a kind of hole, a kind of emptiness, an inner vacuum. He was not convinced of his own distinct beauty. He was not convinced of his own worth. He was not convinced of his own value. And so what was he doing? Why was he out there wrestling? He was out there wrestling with everybody because he was trying to fill that hole. He was out there. Why was he trying to fool Isaac? To get the approval of his father, to give himself that inner blessing. Why did he do anything to get the beautiful Rachel as his wife? that hole with his inner blessing, you know, to get the blessing. But suddenly, the penny drops. And this is the very essence of spiritual experience. Jonathan Edwards' whole book on the religious affections, in which he tries to distinguish the difference between a nominal Christian, a person who believes about God, and a person who actually knows God, all boils down on to this one point. Jacob has been using God as a means to an end. He's been talking to God. He negotiates with God. You can see it at the end of chapter 28. He says, all right, God, if you will help me get the leadership of my family, if you will help me develop an inheritance, if you will help me get a family, okay, I'll serve you. In other words, here's what Jacob's been doing. There's the blessing. God, God, can you help me get it? I'll, you know, I'll work with you if you can help me get it. Suddenly, the penny is dropping. And this is the place where Jacob goes from being a person who knows about God to knowing God. He's fighting this man off in the beginning, but at the end, he's holding on to him. And here's what he's saying. I will not let you go until you bless me. And here's the penny dropping. Jacob is saying, I've been an idiot.

Here's the approval I was looking for in the approval I wanted for my father. Here's the beauty I was looking for in the beauty I wanted in my wife, Rachel. Here's the beauty behind the beauty. Here's the approval behind the approval. I've been using you all my life. I've been saying, God, Lord, help me get the blessing there. Help me get the blessing there. Blessings here. The blessings right here. You have the blessing that I've been needing all along. You are the source of the blessing. You are the only thing that will fulfill me. I've been an idiot. And you can tell that when you go from using God as a means to an end, when you go from saying, God, God, help me get the thing I really need to be blessed, to saying, all I want is you yourself, your approval, your beauty, your riches, your friendship. That's what I've needed all along. That's what I was trying to get in all these other things. I will not let you go till you

bless me. And you realize the sign that Jacob really has finally changed, because he's holding on in spite of the pain, and he's holding on in spite of the danger. See, when this man says, let me go, it's almost dawn. Here's what Jacob is saying. Jacob says, I'm not going to let you go, even though I'm in pain and even though you're hinting that if I see the divine face in the sunlight, I might die. I don't care. If I don't have your blessing, I don't have anything. I can't go back to Rachel. I can't go back to Esau. I can't go anywhere else. These things will never satisfy me. I get it now. I see it now. I will not let you go, regardless of the peril. It doesn't matter what the conditions are. It doesn't matter the situation. I will not let you go unless you bless me. Do you see the point? We have a tendency, when we first go to God, we go to God because we think we know what the center of our life is. Well, listen, what happens is, you know, you're deeply in love with somebody, and they break up with you, and you go to God. Why? Maybe help to get him or her back. Maybe help to find another one. In other words, you're going to God in the periphery of your life. You say, I know what the center of my life is. Here's where I'm going to get the blessing. Oh, God, will you help me? Get it. But God says, I'm sorry. I do not meet you in the suburbs of your life. I only meet you downtown. I will not be an additive. I will only be the center. And what God is saying to Jacob, God is saying to us, he says, I will only come into your life when you begin to see that your lack of relationship to me is the problem beneath all your problems and a great relationship with me is the solution beyond all your solutions that you've planned. Until you see that I have been the center all along, and so you see I am the center, until you make me the center, we cannot have an encounter. encounter. So you meet him yourself. You meet him in your weakness. You meet him at the center. And Jacob's done that. He's done all these things, by the way. You see, he's met him alone. In his weakness, he finds God's reality. He's recognizing that God is the only one that can bless him. So he's made God central. And what happens? He gets the blessing. And one of the most astounding things is in verse 28, 29, and 30, when it says, you have been wrestling with God and man and have prevailed. Now that, you know what he's saying there literally. God is saying, you have been fighting me, you've been fighting everybody else, you've been a conniver, you've been a wrestler, you've been a terrible person, and I reward you. I mean, the paradox of it is evident in the fact that what he's saying is, here's a man holding on for dear life. Here's a man utterly crippled. Here's a man completely powerless, holding on for dear life, and God stands over him and says, winner. Okay, Okay, how can God say winner to a loser? How can God say good to a bad? How can God say accepted to the unacceptable? Jacob is completely perplexed by it, because even though he's excited, you see, in verse 30, he calls the place Peniel, saying, I got this close. I almost saw God's face. I saw, you know, the face in the dawn. I began to see some of the lines of God's face. I got this close to God, and yet my life was spared. He's astounded his life was spared. Now, a lot of modern people say, well, why would that be so surprising? Maybe Jacob had a primitive view of God, a primitive view of God, a God who, you know, as a lot of people would say, well, back then, didn't people believe in God of wrath and of judgment and justice and hell and all that. And now don't we believe in a God of love that he accepts us? Now look, common sense says if there is a God, he'd be perfectly loving, of course, but he'd be perfectly everything else, wouldn't he? He'd be perfectly holy. He'd be perfectly just. He'd be perfectly pure. Jacob is shocked that all he did was get a blow that woke him up and did not get a blow that killed him. He says, how can God look at my life and tell me that all these years I've been fighting with people and I've been trampling on people, I've been cheating people, including God himself, and to say, winner, triumph, reward, trophy, crown. How can God do that? How can the holy come into the unholy? How can God accept me? Now, if you say, well, idea. I don't understand that. I believe in God. He accepts everybody. Kenneth Clark is an incredible example of the same problem, the same conundrum. Kenneth Clark was a famous art historian, brilliant man, high intellectual, lived in the middle of the 20th century. He was the producer or director of the famous BBC series Civilization. Very, very, very award-winning and so on. and he was a skeptic, he was secular, he was a cultural gatekeeper, he was incredibly respected, but he tells this amazing incident in his biography. He says, when I was living in a villa in France, there was a curious episode. I had a religious experience. It took place in the church of St. Lorenzo, but it did not seem to be connected with the beauty of the architecture. I can only say that for a few minutes, my whole being was radiated with a heavenly joy more intense than anything I had ever experienced before. And wonderful as it was, it caused an awkward problem in terms of my action. My life was far from blameless. I would have to reform. My family would think I was going mad. And then I began to think, maybe it was a delusion. For in moral terms, I was completely unworthy of such a flood of grace. so gradually the effect wore off and i made no effort to retain it i was too deeply embedded in the world to change course but i had felt the finger of god i was quite sure then you see what happened here's kenneth clark complete skeptic and he experiences to his shock the beginning of blessing he feels love he feels joy beyond anything he ever could have imagined imagine, but he instinctively realizes it's a holy presence and that he's morally unqualified for it and that he's going to have to change. In fact, he's confused. He says, I know that I am not morally qualified. I know. How could this be? He says, I must be crazy. I can't understand it. Why would God let this sort of thing happen to me? See, he's as confused as Jacob is. is. He knows the problem. Jacob knows the problem. You know the problem. How could possibly God bless something so flawed? And the answer is, there's one more principle, one more thing in this text without which you can't have an encounter with God, without which Jacob couldn't have had an encounter. You have to meet him yourself. You have to meet him in your weakness. You have to meet him in the center of your life, but you have to meet him in his weakness. What do we mean? Verse 25 is astounding to any Hebrew reader. Everybody knows who this is. Everybody knows who the mysterious figure is. And it says in verse 25, and when the man saw that he could not overpower him. When the man saw that he could not overpower him. Wait a minute. This is God. He could not overpower him. Now on the one hand, don't forget the power touch. In absolute terms, of course God had the power. this. How do we understand it? I can understand it like this. When my kids were teeny little, when my three sons were very little, they used to want to wrestle me.

Okay, so how does a 30-year-old man, well over 200 pounds,

wrestle with two, you know, toddlers without killing them? Well, it's actually fairly easy. You just can't use all your weight. And so what I used to do is I used to lay on my back. So I took all my weight off of any possibility of getting on them. I used to lay on my back, and I said, okay, kids, let's arm wrestle. So I'd get on my back, and I'd put my arm up. And, of course, the whole idea would be arm wrestle. And the point is that they could use their entire weight. The two of them with their whole bodies would grab my hand and try to put my hand back. And I used to try to put them down. It was fine. In other words, I just took my weight off of them. I made myself weak. weak. And sometimes, especially as they got older, I could not overpower them. Of course, in absolute terms, of course I could, but I didn't because I was on my back. I made myself weak. And sometimes they hurt, and I said, hmm, you know, I'm going to have to do something thing about this. God made himself weak so that he failed to overpower Jacob. But he didn't fail, and yet he did fail. You see, if he had won, if he'd incinerated Jacob, he wouldn't have gotten what he wanted. What he wanted was a changed heart, a changed life, an awakening. So he lost. lost, he failed in order to win. If he won, he would have lost. But because he lost, he won. Now, is that just kind of cute? Is that just kind of a cute paradox? No, it's pointing to the ultimate place where God won through losing, triumphed through defeat, and it's only in that ultimate place that answers Kenneth Clark's confusion, and Jacob's question. On the cross, Jesus wrestled. With what? With the full weight. Jacob didn't get the full weight. God took most of his weight off. He made himself weak. So all Jacob got was a blow that woke him up, but didn't destroy him. But on the cross, Jesus Christ went into our place and took the penalty we deserved. In other words, he got the full weight of omnipotence. He got the full weight of justice, but he held on. He said, I won't let go. Why not? Until they, we, get the blessing. Because what was he doing on the cross? cross. He was taking the curse of the law, which we break, in order to get the blessing for us. Therefore, Jesus Christ is the ultimate Jacob who took the devastating blow of justice so we just get the blows of love that wake us up. Here's the reason why you can only meet him in his weakness. In his weakness. You have to meet him in your weakness, but you have to meet him in his weakness. You can only meet him in his weakness. What do I mean by that? Number one, you can only meet him because he became weak for us. This is the reason why Kenneth Clark, to his shock, began to realize this grace can come to you, but I don't get it. How could it be? I'm so unworthy of it. This is the reason God could bless someone who deserved a curse because he cursed someone who deserved a blessing.

Jesus Christ got all the weight of omnipotence. devastating blow of God's justice so that all we get are the bearable blows of love and grace to wake us up. And not only can you only meet God in his weakness because if he hadn't become weak, God couldn't accept us, but we can only meet God in his weakness because only when we see him being weak for me and you, only when we see him being weak for us, does our heart get melted and that inner emptiness finally get filled with real blessing. Here's the irony. There is nothing more loving than a weak God, a God who would empty himself of his power, empty himself of his greatness, come down and live a life of a servant and die on the cross for us. There's nothing more loving than a weak God, but only a holy God would have to be weak. Only a holy God, a God of justice, would have to be weak. See, there's plenty of people who say, say, I just hate this idea of wrath and justice on the cross and Jesus having to pay the penalty. That's so primitive. Okay, fine. Let it go. But then you don't have a weak God, do you? You have a God who just loves everybody, but he doesn't have to become weak in order to love him. And I want you to know that I've never seen anybody with an inner emptiness and an inner, who lacks inner blessing, be healed just by being told, you know, God loves everybody. He loves everybody. buddy. That won't change you. What will change you is to say, He valued me so much that He was willing to go through that for me. He was willing to become weak for me so that in my weakness, it could be turned to strength. His strength was turned to weakness so that me and my weakness, it can turn to strength. Only when I see a God who has become weak for me, does that really change me. Does it really melt me? Does it really... I begin to move from just knowing about God to having an encounter with him. Are any of you feeling it right now? But don't you realize only a holy God, a God who has to pay the penalty for sin, is loving enough to become weak.

Hey, friends, is there anybody feeling like you're being jumped by God? God only jumps you to bless you. you. Is there anybody out there saying, I'm really in the weakness now. What am I supposed to do? Just hold on. I know that sounds a little bit trite, but you know what? Why is Jacob in the end actually the victor? Because when he was utterly weak, when he didn't understand what God was doing, all he knew was, I'm going to hold on. I'm not going to stop loving you. I'm not going to stop serving you. I'm not going to stop seeking you. I don't feel good. I don't feel anything at all. I feel nothing but pain, but I'm going to hold on. And he won. Hold on to him. Even when things feel incredibly weak, thinking about how he took the ultimate weakness for you, the only weakness that could really kill you. Think about what he did for you and then hold on. And somehow, Somehow, somehow, hundreds of ways, but somehow, your weakness will be turned to strength. This is the fight of your life. And in this fight, to surrender is victory. Let's pray. Thank you for giving us the time for us to consider how God in his love sometimes wrestles us in a transformed life. life. We ask that you would make it possible for us now to those of us who are experiencing weakness to look to you and hold on. Those of us who are feeling in many ways that we need an encounter with you, help us to look to what you did for us on the cross. And we pray that you would make yourself a reality to us, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
