As we have done for the last couple of years, we start in the fall, which is now, and we're going to proceed through the next nine, ten months, the next year, essentially, to look at a particular book of the Bible consecutively, going right through it, passage by passage, chapter by chapter, and so on. And we've done that for the last few years, and this year, So here, we're going to take a look at the first letter, the first epistle of John the Apostle, the same one who wrote the Gospel of John. And we're going to be taking a look at this small, short, but really significant book, 1 John. And tonight I'm going to read you the first four verses, which give us the nub of what the whole book's about. And we're going to take a look at that tonight to begin to get into this great teaching. So instead of looking at Paul, which we were looking at the writings of Paul a couple years ago, instead of looking at Peter's works, which is the right we were looking at last year, we've got John this year. And there's nothing more interesting than looking at the same truth through three different personalities to see that our individuality is intact. In fact, we don't become less of who we are. We don't become less of an individual when we become Christians, but more of an individual. And we're going to see, on the other hand, The same themes, there's the same great truths that dominate all of these men's writings. Let me just read to you from 1 John 1, chapter 1, verses 1 to 4. It's printed in your bullet. That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at and our hands have touched, this we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared, we have seen it and testified to it, and we proclaim to you the eternal life, which was with the Father and has appeared to us. We proclaim to you that we have seen and heard, so that you may have fellowship with us, and our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. This is God's word. Many great themes in this. this passage, many important themes that are in this passage that we will be looking at all year. Let's get acquainted with them. Let's introduce ourselves to them. There is a reason why he is writing. He says, I write this to make our joy complete. Now, I suppose it's very natural to So read that and see the word our and think that John is using the editorial we. That's normal for many writers to talk about himself, you know, for a writer to talk about himself. And instead of saying my joy, say our joy. The editorial we is often used, but that's not the case here. John is not saying I'm writing to you these things. I want you to read all these things. stand and grasp all these things so that I can be happier. It's possible that a person could write for that reason. That's not the point. If you read through the four verses, you'll see that in the beginning, when John says the word we or our, he's talking about the apostles who were eyewitnesses of the events of Jesus' life. He says, we looked at him, we felt him, we saw him. And he's talking about us, we the eyewitnesses. But then, verses 2 and 3, he says, I'm telling you about what we saw because I want you to know what we know, and I want you to experience what we've experienced through Jesus. So by the time you get down to verse 4, he's really not talking about we, meaning himself. He's not even talking about we, meaning the apostles. He's talking about us, Christians. Christians, and therefore he says, everything I'm writing to you is to get us, that's what's so wonderful, not just you, but us. There's a whole sermon here that I could go to, there's a tangent here that I've thought about, but I'm not going to get to it, because it's not the main point of this text, it's not the main point of this verse, but John's joy cannot grow unless his brothers and sisters joy is growing. No individualist is this guy. Individualistic Christianity really is no such thing. John doesn't say, I can be happy and you can't be. I can get happier even though you're not. John can't say, you can get happier even though I'm not. John says, the things I'm telling you about, the things I want you to get a hold of here, I want you to get a hold of because I want you to have that fullness of joy. Complete joy. And my joy can only increase as your joy increases. That's another whole sermon. And I won't go down that track. But what John is saying is that there is a connection between Christian hearts. There is a connection. It is impossible for us to grow in joy individually. individually. If you, for example, are trying real hard, you know, you show up at a church, maybe you show up at a couple of churches because you want teaching, you want inspiration, you want help in some way, you want your spiritual life cultivated. And so you come and then you go back and you might know a couple of people, you might even, you know, know some other folks at this church or that church, but basically it's you and God, period. You work on your own spiritual life. It's a private thing, you say. I don't like to talk to other people about my faith, and I don't like to talk to them about their faith. It's a private thing. I'm working this sort of thing out. You see, John says it's impossible. Your joy will not increase by itself. It can't. Our joy. But that's not the main point. His main point is it's possible to have what he calls here joy complete. What's he mean? I've been thinking a lot about this for actually several weeks now because I've known this was coming up. And, you know, you read all the different commentaries, and most of the commentators say, well, complete joy, complete joy, full and total perfect joy, Which is what John's talking about here Obviously that's not something that's possible on earth So John must be talking about the fact that someday in the future The end of time, the great day, the eternal state It'll be possible for us to grow in the knowledge of these things And grow in the certainty of these things And grow in the experience of these things Until we get to the place where our joy is full and complete So John's talking about something way off in the future And I'm sure that there's a sense in which that's true but I believe that not only here but a number of other places Paul talks about it and John talks about it in his gospel it's possible to have a kind of fullness of joy right now which is tremendously profound and that just can't be stopped there's a fullness that let me say is possible in this life a fullness of joy that's subterranean Now, here's what I mean by that. We used to live in Philadelphia, and we used to live up in Abington Township, and we lived on the side of a hill. And it took us a while to figure something out. We had a house, and it had a basement in it, and it had a little yard, and it was on the side of a mountain. As any of you from that area, you might even know, it's where Fitzwater Town Road comes down the side of the mountain just before it crosses Susquehanna Street Road. And it's not a big mountain, but there it is. we're all on a slope there. One of the things I noticed that even when it was very, very, very dry, you had a dry summer, things stayed green. I mean, everything grew. The weeds grew, if you didn't watch them. I mean, everything that was in our yard grew. It stayed green. It stayed kind of damp. And when it did rain, our basement filled up. It didn't seem like it was appropriate. It didn't seem like the amount of rain coming down should mean that I should spend the next four hours in the middle of the night bailing, which I often did, of the water pouring into the house. And after a while, most of the other people who own property there, we weren't told about this when we were buying the property, of course, but I guess we should have maybe talked to our neighbors. They said, oh yeah, we've lived here for years. There's a river underneath that runs under all of this division. There's a river here. It's a subterranean river. It doesn't have a name. Nobody can really trace it, but we know it's a huge and deep river that runs underneath, which means that when it's externally dry, it's always still moist enough for things to grow. But when it actually gets wet, it gets really wet. Not only do the waters come down, but the waters come up. Now, it is possible for Christians to have a joy and a kind of joy that's based on the two factors that we're going to be talking about all year. But the two factors we'll moment. John says there's a particular kind of joy that grows out of fellowship with God, fellowship with the Father and the Son. There's other kinds of joy. There are lots of other kinds of joy, and there's nothing wrong with them. There's joy that comes down from above, in a sense. There's external joy. Think of it as the rain or the sun. In other words, you go through life, and sometimes people are stroking you and patting you on the back and telling you're doing a great job. And other times people are looking at you like, how could you have done that? Sometimes the things you do succeed and sometimes the things you do just seem to fail. Sometimes it's hot and parched and other times the rain comes down. So there it is. And there's nothing wrong with those kinds of joy. John says that there's a possibility of having a subterranean river of joy that is there underneath everything else. And when you see a person like this, you find, for example, and, you know, it's all through the Scriptures. You have it in Psalm 1. You have it in Jeremiah 17. It says the godly person, even when the drought comes, he does not fear when the heat comes because the roots go deep and get the water underneath, no water coming down. And when the water does come down, the water comes up too. In other words, a person like this would always be able to find that even underneath very hard times and even profound grief, underneath it, there is a river that does not stop flowing. Now, I don't know how to describe this real well, but I'm making an effort. Those of you who know it know what I'm I'm talking about. You see, there is a Christian joy that when I say it's subterranean, that means there's no unhealthy psychological idea that says that if you have Christian joy, it means no matter what happens, you're just happy. You're praising the Lord. You know, mother fell off and broke her leg. Father just died of a heart attack. Praise the Lord. I know it's God's will. Nothing's going to get me down. That is not what we're talking about here. That is not complete joy. There are people who have decided that's it. In other words, I'm going to act as if everything is happy all the time. No, there is a kind of subterranean joy that never stops flowing, and it coexists with terrible circumstances. It can coexist with it. That means you feel those terrible circumstances. You do have grief if your father dies. Tremendous grief. Look at, here's Jesus Christ, and there's Lazarus, his best friend, or one of his best friends, and Lazarus is dead, and Jesus weeps. Because he's a human being, because he's a perfect human being, you know. He weeps not because he's a weak human being, because he's a perfect human being, because it's perfect, it's right, it's godly, it's holy to weep and to grieve in the face of death and brokenness. Jesus also has an exaltation of spirit underneath all. He is the most discouraged person who never got depressed you will ever see. He is constantly discouraged. He is constantly, I can use the word discouraged. What else do you say in the garden? Father, I don't have any strength left. I'm beaten down. He's always weeping. But there is the river that never stopped flowing. And that's what we're talking about here. It is possible. One of the verses I love the most in this entire book is not only here at the beginning, I believe he sums up this at the end as well. At the very end, John returns to his theme and he says, just like here, he says, I write this so that you can have this fellowship with God and have the same, we can all have this great joy. At the end of the book, he says in chapter 5, verse 13 and 19, right in there, he says, I write this so that you may know that you are of God whole world lieth in wickedness. Now that's an old, the reason I mentioned it that way, say it that way, is every translation translates it differently. In the end of the chapter, at the end of the book, I mean, John says, we know we're of God. I've written you this book so you can know that you're of God, even though the whole world lieth in wickedness. And everybody translates that differently because literally he says, the whole world lies in the evil one. And it's John's I know that this world is a terrible place. I know that this world lies under the power of some tremendous evil forces. John, when he wrote this book, was old, very old, from what we can tell, 80 or 90 or something like that. You can see that by reading through it, and you see that he keeps calling his hearers, my children. And it's hard to find an idealistic 85-year-old man. By the time you're 85, You know, no matter how idealistic you were when you started, no matter how optimistic a personality you were when you started, your illusions have all been dashed. You know, like he knows, that the world lies under the force of tremendous powers of darkness. And yet, he says, you can know you're of God. You can have this complete joy. You can have this subterranean experience. experience. What happens to you, even when things are terrible, even when you're experiencing tremendous grief, a person that's got this sometimes walks around and says, I'm weeping. I'm brokenhearted. But why? What is holding me up? There's something keeping me from being absolutely in despair. I can't despair. I won't despair. And it's not even something I'm trying to avoid or trying to do. There's something keeping me up. It's that river. It's possible. possible to have that kind of joy that's there all the time. And then, of course, when good things do begin to rain down on you, you'll find that not only does the water come down, but it comes up. Because you know the one who's raining down on you is the God that you love and the God that you know and the God that knows you. Now, having said that, joy is possible. Infallible joy. When you have this joy, at the very least, it kind of rolls under the house and just keeps things damp all the time. you know? But on the other hand, sometimes it's defiant. The thing about this joy is that this joy creates a defiance in you, a humble defiance. Don't ask me how that works, but it's there. And that defiance comes like this. When you have had this joy for a while, when you know this kind of joy that is not based on your circumstances, but comes up from the ground, comes up deep from within you. The reason you get a kind of defiance after a while is you say, I know that there is no possibility. There's no, I can't imagine a condition. There is no condition that can take this away from me. Nothing can take this away from me. The whole world lieth in the Wicked One, but nothing can take it away from me. It's impossible because it's not based on anything out there. And sometimes, sometimes the most wonderful thing that can happen to you have every external source of water dry up. Sometimes the best thing is, you know, you don't realize what you really draw your delight from. You say, I'm a Christian, but you don't know what you draw your delight from until it's taken away from you. And then you start to feel like, I'm going to die of thirst. I feel so parched. And you find that it enables you or even forces you to go into the ground, to dig your wells deeper into this thing that we've got. knowing God. Now, you see, I've been saying all this by way of introduction. Next week, we get back into more of the details of how do you know God, but not quite done yet. Let's take a look. This joy comes from two factors, and I'm going to lay them in front of you, and then I'm going to tell you what each factor is. I'm going to ask you some questions here so you can analyze where you are with regard to them, and then I hope that you'll realize that So we're going to be looking all year at each of those factors. The joy that John's talking about, the joy that David's talking about, the joy that Jeremiah's talking about, the joy that Paul's talking about, the joy that Jesus talks about, the joy that Peter talks about is not a joy that can be gotten through direct effort. What I mean by that is that you can't go right for it. You can't get it directly. You can't say, show me how to find joy. If you respond to this kind of sermon, I want to be happy. Jesus put it best when he said, well, Jesus put it best when he said, blessed are those who are poor. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Blessed are the meek. The most wonderful thing about the Beatitudes, in my estimation, is not what he does say, but what he doesn't say. One of the most telling things in Jesus' teaching is what he doesn't say. ever, ever says in the Beatitudes, blessed are those who hunger and thirst after blessedness. Blessedness always comes from hungering and thirsting after something else. You never, ever find this joy by working on it directly. No, this joy is always the result of the interplay of factors in your life. And those factors that John mentions are two. John says there's basically two factors. One of them, I'll describe them here, one of them is more or less active disciplines. The other one's more of a passive thing, a passive disciplines. One's more of an active experience. One's more of a passive experience. By that I mean, one is an experience that you really discipline yourself to do and go after. The other one is more of an experience that you receive. But these two things are the ground of this subterranean stream of joy. We know what those two things are. The first thing is knowing God, knowing the Father and the Son. right here in verse 3. Why is he telling us everything? Why is he writing all this? He says, the life appeared, we've seen it, we testify to it, we proclaim it to you. Why does John proclaim the gospel? That you may know you have eternal life. We proclaim it to you what we've seen and heard so that you may have fellowship with us whose fellowship is with the Father and the Son. So the first reason, right away he says, and the reason we're writing this to you is so that your joy may be full. So joy comes out of this kind of fellowship. It's possible not just to say your prayers. Let me put it to you this way. It's possible not just to sort of say your prayers. That's not what John's talking about. He's talking about an exchange. When you pray, when you interact with God, do you interact? Oh, everybody's into interactive this and interactive that. Interactive television. Interactive, you know, radio. Interactive everything. But a lot of us haven't gotten the interactive age when it comes to prayer. Do you know that there's an exchange going on? Do you know God is, can you show me where? Can you describe, can you articulate to me that God is teaching you things? He's restraining you from things. He's counseling you. Is he teaching you? Is he counseling you? Is he supporting you? Is he showing you things? Do you sense that? Do you sense that he's listening to you? Is there an exchange going on? to you is, is your religion flat, one-dimensional? Is it something you believe, you sort of subscribe to the way you subscribe to the rotary clubs, you know, the Boy Scout oath and that sort of thing? Do you subscribe to it that way? Or is it, let me put it to you this way, do you know him? Is there a personal dealing between you and God? Do you sense these things happening to you? you. Is there anything about you that indicates that you've got that kind of personal interactivity in your prayer life? That's the first thing. And John says, if you have that, then you'll get this kind of joy. The second thing that John says that you need to have, the second factor in this subterranean joy, is not mentioned in these four verses, but comes up again and again, and that is assurance of salvation. Assurance that you're loved. Assurance that you're accepted. See, he says at the end, and a number of other places, chapter 2, verse 3, he says, we know that we know him if, and then he goes on. You see, we said the first factor in this joy is to know him, but the second factor in the joy is to know that you know him. And John says it's possible to know him, but it's possible to know that you know him, to be absolutely certain, to be out of the tentative. Now let me just ask you a couple of application questions here. Let me ask you some, you know, test yourself here. Are you the kind of person that says, if somebody says, are you a Christian, are you the kind of person that says, I hope I'm a Christian. I'm trying to be a Christian. I really want to be a Christian. But you say, nobody knows for sure. there's no way you have that subterranean flow. There's no way you have that river. You know why? Christianity is the only, only, only religion of all the philosophies and all the religions of the world that grant you the possibility of absolute assurance of where you stand with God now. You know why? It's really pretty simple. Every other religion says you're saved by your life. It's very popular today. It's more popular than ever to say that. People today say, well, it doesn't matter what you believe. It doesn't matter where you go to church. It doesn't matter the ritual. It doesn't matter your race, creed, or color and all that. All that matters is how you live. All that matters, hear that all the time. All that matters is what you, whether you're a decent person, whether you're a moral person, how you live. And therefore, that's really the case. All other religions say you're saved by your life and therefore you can't be sure you're saved until your life's done. So you can never know. Christianity is the only religion that says that you're saved by somebody else's life. You're saved by the life of Jesus Christ. It's who he was that brings you in a relationship with the Father. So every other relationship says you're saved by your life, so you can't know you're saved until your life is over, until all of it's in. But Christianity is the one religion that says you're saved by his life, and therefore, if you're resting in that, you're saved now. And therefore, Christianity offers you this. I know a lot of people don't like it. They don't like the fact that there are arrogant people who say they know that they're right with God. And because there are people who say that in arrogance, it's very common for people to say, oh, how arrogant it is for you to say you know that you know, that you know you're of God, that you know you're accepted, that you know you're His, that you know you're well-pleasing to Him. him. And the Bible says, yes, of course, you can say you know arrogantly, but you also can know in utter humility. And so, you see, these two things have to happen. So, let me ask you that question. This is a pretty simple one, but I hope it, this is, this is the end. This is the last question. This is really the end of the, of the message, this overview of the beginning of 1 John and his themes. Let me ask you something. Do you really know, are you 100% sure, is there a very, very deep certainty that you're his? Even though the world lies in wickedness, even though you see yourself with all your flaws, even in spite of all of your struggles, in spite of all your wrestlings, in spite of all your feelings, do you know? Let me put it to you another way. Can you see the divine work in you so that you say, I know that he's in me. Put it another way, can you see things about yourself that are impossible to explain except in terms of God so that you know? Do you know? If you don't know, you cannot. If you don't know, you can't have this subterranean flow that's always there, that keeps you up no matter what so that you ultimately will never ever sink. Those are the two things. have to have regular experience of communion with him, of his love shed abroad in your heart, a sense of dealing, a sense that you've really got interactivity with God. And on the other hand, you have to know that's not an illusion, but that he absolutely loves you and completely accepts you and that you are well-pleasing in his sight. Do you know those things? Those are the two things that I'm going to, we're going to keep coming back to and keep coming back to and keep coming back to. And what's interesting, what's very interesting is that there is really no way that you can get around this. Christianity offers you something through these sorts of things. Knowing that Jesus Christ, who was seen and touched and felt, who came in the flesh, did these things for you. If you are sure of that, you can be sure of that, then you can face everything. Look at the techniques. Quick, go get a book out of the bookstore that say, How to Handle Worry. You know what they'll say? First of all, they'll say, well, remind yourself that worry is debilitating and it doesn't work. Remind yourself that if you worry too much about the exam, you might actually hurt yourself and fulfill the very thing, you might cause the very thing you're worried about. Worry doesn't work. And you might say, that might be the first thing it says. And the second thing it says is when you get worried, use this thought substitution technique and think this instead of this. That's a technique. That's all it is. Now, don't you see, sometimes that'll work, but a lot of times that'll be overwhelmed. Christianity gives you something so much greater. It says, if you know that these things are true, if you know he died on the cross for you, if you know that God, the Word of Life, became flesh and died on the cross for you, then you, and you know that, then you've got a subterranean flood that will face anything. Let me ask you, that's not a technique. technique. Let me ask you something. You're ready to go on an airplane. You're worried. Airplanes crash. People are killed everywhere. Body parts all over. And you start to get on the plane and you're worried. What are you going to do? You're going to use a technique? You're going to say, well, you know, worry doesn't really help much. Worry doesn't change anything. Or maybe you should say, you know, I know what the chances are. Mathematical chances of me being killed on landing here are very slim. So you are working on technique. Or else you turn around as a Christian does and says, I know that the creator of the universe, the one who invented life, the word of life, the one who was there at the beginning, he was willing to die for me. He was willing to be turned into body parts for me. Now, if that's true, then I know that even though bad things can happen here and they can happen on this plane I've got the one who really counts who is working all these things out for good in my life he's overruling these things everything that's going on is going on out of his loving purpose and someday he's going to come back and he's going to put all of this brokenness to rest and he's going to heal it all do you want a technique or do you want to know that you know that the word of life died for you shed his blood for you don't you see which there's only one way to get a joy that's infallible to know the father and to know that you know the Father and the Son. Do you know that? This book will tell you much more about how you can. So come back. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that it's possible for these things to be true. We think it's possible that here you had an old man who had...