Tonight's scripture comes from Acts chapter 8, verses 1 through 8. And Saul was there, giving approval to his death. On that day a great persecution broke out against the church at Jerusalem, and all except the apostles were scattered throughout Judea and Samaria. Godly men buried Stephen and mourned deeply for him. But Saul began to destroy the church. Going from house to house, he dragged off men and women and put them in prison. Those who had been scattered preached the word wherever they went. Philip went down to a city in Samaria and proclaimed the Christ there. When the crowds heard Philip and saw the miraculous signs he did, they all paid close attention to what he said. With shrieks, evil spirits came out of many, and many paralytics. And cripples were healed. So there was great joy in that city. This is God's word. All this fall we've been looking at what Redeemer's vision or mission is, why we're here. And we've continually said you can summarize it with three words, gospel, city, movement. The gospel changes everything. Serving in the city is the very best way to minister the gospel. And we don't want to just be a church. We don't want to just be an institution. We want to be a movement, a dynamic movement of many churches and ministries throughout the city. Therefore, this passage is a fitting, an apt conclusion and summary of the whole series because Acts 8, this little case study of Philip the evangelist going into the city of Samaria and doing ministry there, shows us all three things. This passage shows us what it means to be a movement, what it means to effectively minister in a city, and how to do that by living out the pattern of the gospel in our lives. Look, first, what it means to be a movement. That's in verses 1 to 4. Verse 1 says, Saul was there giving approval to his death. Now, this is the very end of the story in chapter 7. And in chapter 7, we learn about Stephen, who was the very first martyr, the first Christian martyr who died, was executed, stoned to death for preaching the gospel. And in verse 1, we see Paul was there. St. Paul later on would be converted. But there was something about what he saw in Stephen that though he was there passively, approving, he didn't participate, he didn't throw any stones. But there was something about what Paul saw in Stephen that terrified him, that radicalized him, that alarmed him. And verse 3, we're told that Saul began to be the active leader of a persecution. He was trying to destroy the church. And as a result, even though verse 1 says the apostles stayed in Jerusalem, the apostles sort of went underground, everybody else, all the lay people, had to flee for their lives, and they were scattered. But the persecution's effect was actually to strengthen the church, to spread the church, and to spread the gospel. Because verse 4 says, those who had been scattered, that's everybody, all lay people, everybody but the apostles, preached the word wherever they went. And the word preached is not the word you and I think of. When you and I think of the word preach, you think of somebody publicly speaking to a group. But this word is actually the word evangelize. And what we're told is that everybody evangelized. Now, here's what happened. At the church in Jerusalem, there was great preaching. And, you know, I guess it grew because people brought their friends to hear the great preaching. But then the persecution happened, and they were pushed out. And now we're told that they took what they had, what they had learned from their teachers and preachers, and they began to gossip the gospel, share the gospel. They began to counsel their friends with the gospel. They began to evangelize. Everybody did. They took what they had, and they began to take and do it themselves. You see, the church is not supposed to be a body of people with a small number of providers. That's me, you know, providers, ministers, and everybody else just kind of coming in, being customers. God used the persecution to turn the church into an entire community of providers. So everybody was in mission. Absolutely everybody. Everybody was evangelizing. Everybody was embodying the gospel, sharing the gospel, teaching the gospel, gossiping the gospel. Not in big pub, just from person to person. Now, this you see all through the Bible. In Genesis 12, God comes to Abraham and says, Abraham, I want to bless you. Isn't that wonderful? I want to bless you. I want to come near to you. I want to bring you in close to me. I want to be intimate with you. I want to give you my love. Wow, that's what we want. But then he says in the same sentence, I want to bless you that you may be a blessing. See, God never calls you radically in without sending you radically out. He never calls you in and blesses you and fills your heart with love except to make you to be a blessing. To send you out to others. And that's the reason why he says to Abraham, I'm going to really bless you. Now, get out. I mean, go take a look at Genesis 12. God says, I'm going to bless you. I'm going to love you. I'm going to... Now, get out. Get out of Ur of the Chaldeans. Get out of your country. Get out of your culture. Get out of your comfort zone. That's the paradigm. And I want you to see some other thing here. When God used the persecution to send out the people so that everybody would be blessed, so that everybody became a person in mission, one commentator in the book of Acts says this. He says, Notice, it was not because of some mission plan that was approved and put into action by the leaders of the church that this great expansion happened. It was ordinary believers taking the opportunity to share the message wherever they went. The apostles became the stabilizing, verifying, and unifying element in a mission that moved to new areas and groups without their planning or control. Now, that is a movement. In a bureaucracy, people at the top completely control everything. But in a movement where everybody owns the mission, everybody's participating in it, then what happens is, even though you still need leaders, the apostles were stabilizing, verifying, and unifying. And yet, there was a spontaneity about the church. All kinds of new initiatives bubbled up all over the place. The apostles did. They didn't send Philip to Samaria. He went. And so what happens is, God uses the persecution to turn his church into a movement, a movement in which everybody's in mission, in which everybody's initiating. That's actually a big part of what God's calling Redeemer to be. By the way, I would say most of the time, and we're going to talk about this as we go on here, most churches that get renewed, most Christian communities that get renewed and turned from a kind of, you know, kind of faithfulness, a fat and happy institution into a dynamic movement in which everybody owns the vision. Usually it happens through trouble. Usually it happens through persecution. Usually it happens through something very bad, very rare for a community to voluntarily seek it. And that's what we're trying to do at Redeemer over the next 10 years. So first of all, we learn here about being a movement. The second thing we learn here about the importance and the nature of city ministry or urban ministry. Now notice, that everybody's scattered. Verse one, they were scattered. Verse four, they were scattered. And in the Bible, that's significant because when the people of God are scattered or when they are dispersed into dispersion, urban ministry, city ministry becomes very important. So in the Old Testament, when the Babylonians conquered Israel, conquered Judah, what we see is just like here at Acts 8, the Jews were scattered away from Judah, from Jerusalem, and they come to a pagan city, Babylon, which was just as filled with people they didn't like as Samaria. We'll get to that, why the Jews and the Samaritans didn't get along. But the Jews, and you can read about this in Jeremiah 29, the Jews were scattered away from Jerusalem. They were put into a big city, Babylon, big pagan city, and then God tells them, counterintuitively, to seek the joy of the city. He tells the Jews, I want you to seek the peace and prosperity and shalom of Babylon and pray for it. For if it prospers, you prosper. Your community will prosper if you pour yourself out in deeds of service and seek the prosperity and the peace of the city where you are. It's actually common sense. Here's what God is saying. He's saying it's us. Same thing he said to the Jews. He says, if you love the city, if you pour yourself out, if you pour yourself out for the city, if you seek the good of the city, how much of a better witness could there be to show the city that your God is God? If you want your community and your faith to grow, then care about the city. So urban ministry was crucial to the Jews being scattered, and now it's crucial to the Christians being scattered. In fact, the whole book of Acts is all about Christians and cities. Do you know almost everything that happens in the book of Acts happens in a city? That every, well, the entire early church, its history unfolds in cities? That virtually every Christian you meet in the New Testament is a city dweller? That when Paul wanted to reach a province or he wanted to reach a nation, he went to the biggest city in that nation and he started churches there? Do you know why? First of all, to reach the nations, the best way to do it is to reach the city. Some years ago, I heard a lecturer say, now if Paul really wanted to reach the nations, what he could have done is he could have done it in a city. He could have learned a new language and gone into this nation and learned a nation, and it's very hard to learn a culture and to learn a language and minister there for 10 years and then he could have gone to another nation and learned the culture there and learned this language there and ministered for another 10 years and that might have killed him, but if he was still alive, he could have tried it a third time and learned a third language and learned a third culture and ministered in a third nation and by that time, that's 30 years, he'd be dead. Or he could go to a city, go to Antioch, go to Rome, and in every city, there are dozens and dozens of ethnic groups and nationalities and people groups and in that city, they're all working in the lingua franca of the city and all Paul had to do, and this is what he did, he went to the cities and he ministered in cities and automatically, the gospel got into the lifeblood of dozens and dozens of national groups and it spread to the nations. You go to the city to reach the nations, but also you go to the city to reach the culture. If you go to a village, you might win a lawyer or you might win an artist, but if you go to the city, that's how you have an impact on the art world, that's how you have an impact on the legal profession. And because Christians were inordinately focused on cities all during the first two or three centuries of their history, so that by the year 300 AD, over half the populations of the Greco-Roman cities were Christian, but the countryside was pagan. In fact, do you know where that word pagan comes from? It's a Greek word that means a man of the country or a farmer. See, the farmers, the people in the country were pagans and the people in the cities were Christians, but as the city goes, right? Whatever has captured the city, that's where the culture is going and that's the reason why that brutal old pagan culture was displaced by Christianity because people went to the cities. Do you see the importance of city ministry? And even though, let me say this very clearly, the Bible says, Jesus says, take the gospel to every creature. That means you have to have Christians everywhere there's people. You have to have churches everywhere there's people. You have to have churches everywhere there's creatures. I always like that verse. Take the gospel to every creature. When you're a little boy and you first hear that, when you think of creatures, you know, the Black Lagoon, stuff like that, but what Jesus is saying is you need Christians every place and there's no warrant for saying, oh, every Christian has to live in a city, but I want you to keep something in mind. Over the next 150 years, at least, massive numbers of people are moving into the great cities. See, in Europe, 150 years ago, the rural areas got to their carrying capacity so that in order to find jobs, you had a family of six or seven or something like that, most of the people couldn't, there was no, no more land. You know, only one or two kids could get the farm and so what happened about 150 years ago or more at this point, what happened was the rural areas of Europe reached their carrying capacity and people began streaming into the cities and the first great mega cities of the world were the European cities. They became huge. The same thing is happening now in Africa, Latin America, and Asia and what is happening now is the cities, the cities of most of the world are growing enormously in size. Somebody says, basically, there's a new Bangkok. I mean, the number of people moving to cities, there's a new Bangkok, as it were, formed every three months. Now, you know what that means. What it means is eight or nine million people are moving into cities like every three months in the world and so for the next 150 years, massive millions of people are moving into cities which means in most of the world, the cities are growing in size. And in all of the world, because of technologies, cities are growing in influence. And therefore, for at least the next 100, 150 years, 200 years, most human beings are going to be moving into cities and the church does not know much about ministering in cities. And what does that mean? It means we've got to be there. It means we've got to go there. It means we've got to be good at urban ministry. It's incredibly important. But here we also see in verses five to eight what exactly we need to be effective. There's three marks of urban ministry. You know what they are? Three marks of effective ministry and they are word, deed, and racial reconciliation. Yeah, look here. First of all, look at verse five. Philip went down to a city in Samaria and proclaimed the Christ there. That's word ministry. That word proclaim, is what you do think of, it's the word for preach. It's the word for public proclamation, public teaching of the Bible. Except notice what it says. He preached the Christ. He knew what the Bible's about. The Bible's not just about various principles and things you have to believe or do in order to be blessed by God. Oh no, the Bible's about Jesus. It's about Jesus Christ and how he came to earth to rescue us and to save us by his grace. So first of all, we see that Philip did not just show up in town and just do good deeds. He preached the word. He called people to repentance. He showed people the life-transforming message of the gospel. That was the first thing he did. But the second thing is deed. Verse seven. Evil spirits came out of many and many paralytics and cripples were healed. Look at that. People were delivered spiritually from interior evil. But on the other hand, it says paralytics and cripples were healed, which means people were getting help for their physical needs. Now don't be distracted by the fact that this is miraculous because it's not the only way to give people help for their physical needs. In fact, you can go to Acts chapter four and you see it. In Acts chapter four, you see a place where it says that the early Christian community, they shared everything they had. So there was no poor person among them. See, all of Jerusalem saw the Christians taking care of people in need. Helping them with their physical needs. And then it says, and as a result, the apostles preaching was received with great power. It makes perfect sense. It even says so in verse six. It says, when the crowd saw the signs, they paid attention to what was said. Or, in short, people will listen to our words if they see our deeds. If they see us loving the city, if they see us meeting people's needs, if they see us caring about the city, they're going to listen to the word. So it's got to be word and then it's got to be deed. But now the third thing, the third mark of dynamic, effective urban ministry is racial reconciliation. You say, where? I don't, I see where I see. Where does it say anything about racial reconciliation? Well, that's actually one of the things that's more remarkable about the whole chapter. Samaria and Jerusalem, or I should say the Samaritans and the Jews utterly hated each other. There was tremendous racial animosity between the Samaritans and the Jews. And what's so amazing to me, one of the most amazing passages in the Bible is verse five, because it's not, because Philip isn't so unlike Jonah. Jonah? Yeah. Jonah, the book of Jonah is about God calling a Jewish prophet to go and preach to the Nineveh, to the Assyrians, and there was great racial animosity between the Jews and the Assyrians. They were mortal enemies. And God says to Jonah, I want you to go and preach to your mortal enemies. I want you to call them. And what do you remember about the book of Jonah? You probably remember one thing, but there were actually two things that happened. One thing that happened was Jonah tried to run away and God had to send a storm and he sinks and he's eaten by a fish and regurgitated, the only regurgitated prophet we have. But you probably have heard that part of the story, but the part you probably haven't heard about is that he goes to Nineveh and he goes to the Assyrians and he preaches to these people that he hates and unfortunately for him, they repent. And he's furious because he wanted to see God nuke them. And the book ends with him still furious. I mean, God is trying. He says, the world tells every, listen, whatever culture you grew up in, whatever people group you grew up in, your people group has taught you to look down on some other people group to say, oh, those people. Hmm? And God is trying to overcome the Jewish prophets antipathy to this other racial group. And at the very end of the book, he's still trying. It just hasn't worked. And here's Philip. And he just goes. He's a Jewish evangelist, a Jewish Christian. And he goes to Samaria. He just goes. No fish. He's not swallowed or regurgitated and he just goes. Why? Do you realize how amazing this is? The gospel works on the pride of our heart and the inferiority of our heart. My experience of racial tension between racial groups is there's a combination of superiority and inferiority going on there. We all deepen our hearts because until the gospel changed our hearts, we all have a, we struggle with inferiority. So what we do is we try to say, our culture is superior. Our people are superior, not those people over there. We laugh at those people over there and that creates, this tension. Ah. But what the gospel does is it works on both your superiority and your inferiority. It says you're a sinner. Total sinner. Absolutely lost. Gotta be saved by sheer grace. Nothing you can do about it. That destroys your superiority. But then it says, but the son of God was willing to come. He loved you so much, he was willing to come and give himself for you. That destroys your inferiority. And when your superiority is knocked down, your inferiority is filled in and lifted up, you can reach out. It's astounding, but crucial for the Christian church, especially in cities where there's so much multi-ethnicity in cities, for us to show the rest of the world how the gospel does destroy your superiority and your inferiority and therefore gives, brings people together who outside in the rest of the world would not be able to be, makes people friends who out in the rest of the world would never be friends. And you know how it begins? It begins very simply. You have to use the gospel on your heart. You have to look at your own superiority and inferiority, work on it, and then when you come into the church, just be aware of the fact that you tend to basically just gravitate toward people like you. You're just, our default mode is to be just like the world told us to be. Go after people like you. Hang out with people like you. And you have to catch yourself. And you have to start to reach across the barrier and use the gospel and make friends with a brother or sister who's not like you. And that's how it starts. And unless we're able to show the world people getting along out in here that can't get along out there, then we really haven't applied the gospel ourselves. So therefore, word, deed, racial reconciliation, marks of effective urban ministry which changes the world because it changes the city. Now lastly, I told you the text, the text shows us how to be a movement and how to minister in the city out of, living out of a pattern of the gospel. Do you know where the pattern of the gospel is? It's the whole chapter. It's something I only realized recently. Look at all this life and joy in Samaria. Urban Samaria. So amazing. Look at all this life and joy. Where did the life and joy come from? Well, the life and the joy of verses five to eight follows the death and the misery of verses one to four. Look at all the misery up there. There's death. There's destruction. Verse three, verse two, godly men buried Stephen and mourned deeply for him. That's a word there means just agonizing grief. So verses one to four, there's death, there's destruction, there's agonizing grief. And in verses five to eight, there's life and joy. Huh? Death, misery and death. Joy and life. But here's what I want you to see. The joy and life doesn't come in spite of the misery and death. It comes through it. The joy and the life comes because of the misery and the death. The death has caused resurrection. How does this work? The pattern here is a gospel pattern. Paul, here's the irony. Paul sought the destruction of the church and what did it lead to? The expansion of the church. Paul sought, Saul sought, to scatter the church but all it did was it lead to more gathering. He was trying to scatter it but actually it just led to more gathering. He tried to kill it, it led to more life. If you try to put the church to death, it leads to resurrection. And here's why it happened. If you go back to chapter seven and you read about Stephen, that's how it happened. When Stephen was put up, in front of a kangaroo court, you know, on trial for his life, was he scared? Maybe. But was he angry? Did he know that these people were about to kill him? Did he lash out at them? Did he call them, whatever? No. We're told his face was like the face of an angel. He had joy, he had radiance and as they were killing him he said, Lord, forgive them, they don't know what they're doing. And because he died like that, it electrified the church. In other words, his death, he accepted his suffering, he accepted his death, he accepted and died nobly, he died faithfully, he died faithful to God and faithful to his friends. And as a result, that particular kind of death led to resurrection, it led to more life. He died that others might live. The Samaritans found new life because he died. Jesus, you see a pattern there? Oh yeah, there's two places. First of all, this pattern has happened constantly in the history of the church. The greater persecution and greater violence toward Christians and greater oppression and greater trampling toward Christians does not lead ever to violence in return. It doesn't. It leads to greater love, it leads to greater joy, it leads to... For example, the best example of Acts 8 today in the 20th century actually is China. Because after World War II when the communist government took over they threw all the Western missionaries out and they killed a lot of the Chinese pastors. They threw the Western missionaries out and they said, that's the end of Christianity in China. But you know what happened? Ironically, the very same thing that happened here in Acts 8. Because actually, the Chinese church had become too dependent on the Western missionaries. They were the providers and the church were the customers. And when they got... They brought in the money. They brought in... They had their fingers on the controls. But when they got rid of the Western missionaries, what did it do? And they began to persecute the church. It turned them all into people of mission. It turned them all into providers. It turned them into people that preached the word, that evangelized everywhere they went. It made the church indigenous. And the church just exploded in growth. In fact, as I said over and over again, you try to kill the church, you try to persecute, you try to persecute the church, you try to stamp it out. If you use violence on the church, it only makes it grow. And the response is not growth and violence. The church doesn't grow like that. It grows in love. So for example, the persecuted Chinese church, which today, even today, after having grown 50-fold at least over the 50 years from the throwing out of the Western missionaries to the time that... You know, to like, you know, about five or six years ago, they'd grown 50, 50-fold at least. But the Christian church in China, even though even today, it's only five to seven percent of the population. You know, in 2008, there were these great earthquakes in the Sichuan province of China. 68,000 people died. And a million Chinese people volunteered and came and did relief work. A million volunteered and came and did relief work. But even though the Christians are only five to seven percent of the population, probably up to half of all of the volunteers were believers, Christians. Because the more you kill Christians, as Tertullian said, the blood of the martyrs is seed. The more you kill them, the more you oppress them, the better the church gets, the livelier the church gets. The more death, the more resurrection. The more destruction, the more expansion. The more scattering, the more gathering. Why would that be? This has been true for 2,000 years. Why would that be? How could it be? You know, there's an awful lot of other people groups and groups and associations that when you start to oppress them, they fight back. They get guns. They shoot you. Why are Christians different? It's because of the gospel. And what's the gospel? The gospel is Jesus. Why was Stephen able to take the condemnation of a kangaroo court with radiance? Why was Stephen able to give his life so that Samaria would live? The answer is because he was looking, literally looking, by the way, just before he died, he says, I see heaven open and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. He was looking at someone who also, when he died, said, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. He was looking at someone who didn't just get the wrath of a kangaroo court, but the wrath of cosmic justice on all human evil. Jesus Christ took all of our punishment for our sins. And Jesus didn't just die. He didn't just die so that Samaria would live. He died so that the world would live. And because Stephen was looking at Jesus do that, he was able to take his suffering with poise. He was able to take it with faithfulness. He was able to take it with joy. And his death led to resurrection. Now, by the way, Jesus' death changed Stephen so that he was able to die in order that others may live. It can happen to you too. Now, I'm not suggesting, though it might happen, that you be martyrs. Here's what I'm suggesting. It's the principle of the thing. If you give your finances with radical promiscuous generosity for the needs of the city, if you give like crazy out of your finances, that's a kind of death. You know why? You're dying to all kinds of stuff you could have afforded. All kinds of fun things you could have done, you could have afforded if you hadn't given to others. But if you die, if you experience that death, the death of radical financial generosity, there'll be joy in the city. That death will lead to resurrection. Or what if you just stick your neck out and say, I want to identify in New York City as a Christian. And I don't mean be obnoxious about it. I just mean be willing to let people know you're a Christian. There'll be some death. Oh, yeah. Some people, I mean, you know, some people will walk away. Some people might avoid you. You might miss out on a job. You might... Get passed over for promotion. You're experiencing a death. But if you are willing to open up to other people about your faith, that death will lead to life for others. It will lead to resurrection. If you just pour yourself out for others, the way Jesus poured his life literally out for you, it'll lead to joy in the city. That's the principle. That's the pattern of the gospel. His death leads to your life. His death has led to your eternal life. And now, seeing what he has done for you, it'll enable you just to pour your life out for others and there'll be joy in the city. And if there's joy in the city out of the fact that you're living out the pattern of the gospel in your life, it'll change the world. Let's be that kind of movement. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you've given us this vision. You've given us this model. You've given us this pattern. You've given us this power. And now, we ask that we would realize it here as a church. Lord, we ask not just this for Redeemer, but for all the churches of the city, and not just for the churches of this New York city, but the churches of the cities of the world. Help us to follow, become a movement, to minister effectively in cities out of the gospel, its power, and its pattern. We ask this in the name of the one who came not to be served, but to serve, and give his life a ransom for many. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
