I first came to this church one year ago today, exactly. It was last year at the Easter evening concert put on by this church. A friend invited me, and I enjoyed the music very much, but I found myself actually more impressed by the testimonies, which I heard on that evening, and they really piqued my curiosity. It was a tough time in my life and I was in the throes of a very painful divorce at that time. And perhaps in retrospect, I shouldn't have been so surprised to have been attracted to a church because I'd always had a vague kind of interest in spirituality and religions of different types, so I'd never pursued anything very seriously. But something about this place touched me in a special way. Well, after I came here, my friend gave me a copy of C.S. Lewis' book called Mere Christianity, and I found it fascinating. And I kept coming back here to Redeemer Church because, well, it's a little tough to say, but it's been a tough year for me spiritually as well, as those of you who know me will testify. I've been interested in a lot of other religious traditions, including some less spiritual, I should say, less scripturally oriented forms of Christianity. But there's something very special about this place here. I started finding answers to some of my questions, which all my years of reading and searching and many years of psychoanalysis on top of that had not really helped me to find. And I'm really grateful for the preaching of Tim Keller. Of all the things I'm thankful for tonight, one of the main ones is that I don't have to speak after him. And also the counseling that I've received from Jeff White and the instruction of Scott Sherman and the friendship and support of many members of this congregation. And just before I stop, I'd like to address myself briefly to those of you who may be here tonight thinking you just came to hear a nice concert or something and, in other words, be in about the same position I was last year when I came. And what I'd like to say is that, well, last year as part of, as a member of this group which you hear playing tonight, I recorded a version of the song called Amazing Grace, which I'm sure most of you are familiar with. It's the one that has the lyrics that go, Amazing Grace, How Sweet the Sound, Has Saved a Wretch Like Me. Well, if somebody had told me a year ago that today I would be up here talking about amazing grace and saving a wretch like me, I would have told them to get their head examined. But I guess the amazing thing is that God is really there, and I think I found that he really cares about all of us. And that's what has kept me coming back to this church throughout this past year, despite everything. And that's what's going to keep me coming back to the extent that I can. I'm very thankful to everybody, and I hope that somebody who's here tonight, I don't know who, will hear what I have to say and be touched in some special way. Thank you very much.

This is an anonymous testimony from a married woman. There is a Bible verse that I want to share with you that has been very meaningful to me. Loving Christian friends first quoted this to me eight years ago, and God has kept bringing me back to it over and over. It is this: Those who wait on, or hope in, the Lord will renew their strength. Isaiah 40:30. The first time I heard this verse was when I had given up on having a family of my own. I was in my early 40s, and I was sure I would never be married. I even began looking into single-parent adoption as a way to create at least part of the family that I wanted. A respected friend encouraged me to fill my emptiness by getting closer to God, rather than by trying to use another person. On that day, I went to purchase my first Bible. I met my future husband in the Bible section of the bookstore. This verse was again made meaningful to me during the relationship struggles that led up to my marriage and the ones which occurred following it. My husband was diagnosed with a chemical imbalance which causes emotional dysfunctions. On his return from the hospital, he became a Christian and was baptized at Redeemer. I, too, had come to faith, and together we began trusting God. God again encouraged me, through his word, to wait and hope in him on the issue of children. Not only were we unable to have our own children, but I was technically over the age limit for adoption by the time we began applying. However, God was with us and we received approval and were blessed by a beautiful new son. I know that other trials and difficulties still lie in the future, but God has taught me and continues to teach me to wait for his timing and trust in his goodness and mercy. I still hope to see my husband completely healed of his affliction. I hope that we will be able to adopt another child. But most of all and most fundamentally, my hope is in the Lord.

This is an anonymous testimony from a single woman. When I came to New York a number of years ago, I thought I was strong, and I thought New York would make me stronger and tougher. Professionally, I did very well, but somewhere along the way, I became involved with a married man. As I became more deeply involved with him, for the first time, I came to see weaknesses and flaws in myself that I never imagined. Instead of finding myself becoming harder and tougher, ironically, I found myself developing something I had never had, a humility and a sense of my own finiteness. The affair and the guilt it led to made me see my limits and my spiritual helplessness. Before now, the only born-again types I had ever known seemed to be losers, failures who turned to religion when everything else fell apart. It was easy to rationalize this. Clearly, they had come to believe in a God because they had nothing else. They had not made it. In the course of my business, however, I met some people who had really made it to the very top, but were extremely devoted Christian believers. They broke my stereotype, and for the first time in my life, I could not immediately write off people who seemed to have a strong religious faith, and my new secret spiritual helplessness made me open to listen to them. My Christian friends did not live in New York City, but they referred me to some believers who did. They attended Redeemer and soon had me coming to it. It broke another stereotype, that of mindless and hypocritical fire and brimstone churches. I also saw the effects this message was making in the lives of real people. But maybe the most important reason I kept coming back was that I finally knew that I did not have all the answers anymore. An openness had occurred in my heart that now I know was God's doing. As the months went on, I continued to come to Redeemer and some other ministries. As I talked to other Christians, bit by bit, I got more pieces to the puzzle. By that, I mean the puzzle of how I related to God and he to me. Then one night it all came together in what must be a very unlikely way. I was watching the Music Man movie on TV. The Music Man, for those of you who don't know, is Professor Harold Hill, a fraud and a con artist who goes to small town after small town posing as a music professor, getting people to give him big money for the uniforms and instruments to create a boy's band. He then skips town, leaving the shocked and angry citizens calling for his blood. Miss Marion, the town librarian, discovers that he is a fraud, but having begun to love him, decides to continue loving him in spite of his scam all the same. At the climax of the movie, just as he is supposed to skip town as usual, he is shocked to realize that she loves him, even though she knows he is a fraud. The revelation of that transforms him on the spot. He decides to stay with her and be exposed, take the punishment. Her loving him, in spite of his dishonesty, finally made him honest. She loved a fraud, and it made him genuine. It all made sense. I saw I was a fraud, and God had known it all along. But he died for me, and now was drawing me. I also saw that what transformed him was not just her love, but his knowing her love was completely undeserved. If I accepted that fact, that in loving me, God loved a fraud, then his love would transform me too. What a strange way to realize the beauty of the gospel. But that's how it happened. Yes, I did end the relationship that originally brought me to my knees, but building an obedient life will take a lot more than that. Now I'm growing and looking forward to my future with Christ. And I've been coming to Redeemer for about a year, and I don't know why I'm doing this.

This is the story. I was raised in a Christian, though broken, home and made to go to church on Sunday, and I resented it. I barely made it through confirmation when I was 12. I argued that I was closer to God in Central Park than in church. When I had my interview with one of the deaconesses, I said I had questions about some of the things that Christ did. I said that I didn't believe that Christ walked on water. The woman answered that it was fine just to believe what I believed, and that was enough. She said many of the stories about him were just stories. It was only the beginning of many doubts. At 18, I left the formal church, deciding that churches breed hypocrisy. I had to look this up in the dictionary: The professing of virtues and beliefs that one does not possess. I would worship God in my own way and preferably under the trees. I was a fledgling flower child, and I never quite lost that, even when the 60s ended. The greatest question then was whether God was dead, and the flower children said God was love, and I believed the latter. Okay, so I believed in rainbows, sunshine, and daffodils. I still love these things and more. I also sought the truth in other beliefs. I read Herman Hesse, and toyed with astrology, I Ching, palm reading, Eastern mystics. I dabbled with channeling. If this had been another time, I would have probably been an herbal healer or burned at the stake for being a witch. What I didn't know then was that I was really searching for the Lord I had rejected years before. So I lived close to 20 years in a godless life. I wrote my own rules and rationalized my various little sins as human frailty and not so serious. I had been completely accepting of the concept of free love and thought sex outside of marriage was okay for two consenting adults. And when on a routine checkup I found I was pregnant, I was completely shocked. I actually was shocked. My lover had told me he had a vasectomy, so for five years I hadn't used any birth control. I asked the doctor how soon would it be safe to have an abortion, and he said, get dressed and come into my consulting room. He asked me if I'd ever wanted to have a child because I was 37 and it gets very risky after 35 for your first child. And then he said, before you consider an abortion, consider having this child. I have more women coming to me crying after an abortion than women who keep their babies. This, by the way, is a doctor who had his own abortion clinic and did thousands of abortions. So he saw nothing morally wrong with it, only the effects on the women afterwards. But the thought of keeping this baby terrified me. To me, there was nothing more helpless than a woman alone with a child. I cried for six weeks. My little sin was getting bigger every day, and the choices more frightening. Do I kill the baby or keep the baby, alone with no father? And to make matters worse, the baby's father swore he would kill me if I kept the baby, yet he refused to even help pay for an abortion. And on top of it all, when I was 10 weeks pregnant, I was fired from my job. I wanted this baby, but my fear of poverty and social ostracism increased. I was from a white middle-class background. My family all gave me conflicting advice. When I told my father, who was a psychiatrist, he said he only wanted me to be happy. He said it was going to be really hard physically and financially. He thought I should consider an abortion because it would be so difficult. And as a doctor, he believed in a woman's right to have an abortion. He said women would always want them and that I was fortunate to have a choice. Was I? My older sister said that her child was like a ball and chain, and once you became a mother, you're never free again. My mother said, I hope you're going to keep it. I told her I was afraid, and she said that God would honor me if I did his will. Her words stayed in my mind, but the terror increased. I was afraid of the pain of childbirth, dreaded being poor, feared judgment. I had cried until I could barely open my eyes, and I had only days left before it would be too late for an abortion. I knew I could never give my baby away, knowing it was living somewhere without me. One night, exhausted and crying, I made a pact with God. I said I would turn my life over to him, and I promised my child to him that I would raise my child with the knowledge and love of him. I needed his help. I could not do this alone, and what amazed me was that I had these words to say, someplace that had been ignored for years. I prayed, and I read the Bible until I fell asleep. The decision had been made. The next day, I woke up with an incredible peace that everything was going to be all right, and the most wonderful things began to happen. I had a sense of peace I can't describe and I knew I no longer felt alone and I was able to sleep for the first time in weeks. Then the miracles began. I found another job and they were willing to put me on the payroll even though I was pregnant. Believe me, this is very unusual, to say the least. The job that I had been fired from said that instead of being fired, they had put me on an extended leave of absence so that I qualified for 100 percent medical coverage. All my bills would be completely paid for. That was a miracle. A girlfriend who had two children called and said, don't buy anything. I'll give you clothes and a baby swing, whether it's a boy or a girl, I've got it all. Another friend organized a baby shower, and I was given everything from a baby mattress to a microwave, a new stroller, and a silver teething ring. Later, I was given two cribs and two used strollers, more than I needed. In my complete ignorance of the Bible, I read the Psalms and parts of the New Testament and prayed the Lord's Prayer. I felt a closeness and comfort I'd never felt before. When my daughter was born, my sister and her husband gave my mother money to give me. I didn't have to go back to work for nine months. My choice in favor of life for my baby instead of convenience for me was soon to get another test. When my baby was one month old, we found out that my mother had cancer of the stomach. I lived with my mother until she died two years later, and I saw her incredible courage and her strong faith in the Lord. But the week before she died, her doctor suggested I give her double the dose of morphine and do her a favor by taking away her pain. When I asked him if it might kill her, he said, that's the point, you'd be doing her a favor. I refused to kill my mother. She was a believer who trusted in God, and she didn't feel he was letting her down by allowing her to suffer. Within days after she died, the landlord tried to evict me from the apartment I had lived in with her, leaving me little time to grieve. It took two years in court, but I won the right to remain in the apartment. The verdict was based on the fact that I had lived with my mother exactly two years and one day before she died. If I had given my mother the overdose of morphine when the doctor suggested a week early, I would have lost my home. The Lord provides for us so richly even when we don't know it. I thank him and praise him continually, even in my suffering, for his love and faithfulness to me. I am sorry for those who are quick to abort suffering. They miss all that God can give us in the midst of our trials and as a result of them. I continue to seek him. I have a wonderful child who's a reflection of his love for me. I can't read enough about Jesus and how he's touched many lives. I have chosen to live my life as a reflection of his love, to share with others. That's only the beginning. I have a long way to go, for serving the Lord will be my life's work. We continue to need your prayers. Redeemer has given us the strength of God's family, and now I know that he walks on water, heals the sick, and comforts the troubled. But now I believe in him. I have two quotes from the Bible. "Call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me." Psalm 50:15. "And therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new."

Mine was the fairy tale testimony to most believers. Having sincerely understood and made a commitment to Christ at a very young age, I grew up in a believing household. No serious rebellion to the gospel occurred in adolescence, no dramatic turn away from the church. Yet something was wrong. I now understand that the interpretation of the scriptures being encouraged by my community and my family included a lot of denial, denial of emotions. The most important among these was the emotion of anger, a reoccurring theme in my childhood. When I would rightly or wrongly experience anger, the response was the inappropriateness of that anger or that emotion. It seemed as if I had no right to feel angry. Each interaction of anger always resulted in my increased anger at myself. If I couldn't be angry at the people around me, I needed to be angry at myself for feeling angry in the first place. Somewhere inside, of course, I retained my anger at those around me, and the seeds of bitterness were sown. Emotionally, I grew more and more alienated from and bitter at the world. I began to conclude that no one could ever like or accept me because I was such a terrible person. As is not uncommon with children, I began hoping for a friend who would come and rescue me. I longed for someone to free me from this trapped condition. I prayed regularly for the Lord to send me someone who would untie the horrible knots of self-hatred that kept me unable to move. Here in New York, I met a friend whom I thought met that bill. I began the slide into the horrible sea of codependence. Mutual projections drove my friendship. I know now that I was not interacting with a person, but with the idol I had longed for, I had hoped would come and rescue me. Collected years of expectations were implicitly placed upon my friend, and when the anticipated behavior of this Savior did not satisfy, tremendous tension ensued. Since years of semi-conscious idolatry were riding on this friendship, I would not adequately adjust to the real personality of my friend, but instead wanted this friend to be more and more like the one I thought I needed. Each time something went wrong, I did what I always had done. I grew angry at myself. Or, of course, I was also angry at my friend, and my self-anger became a tool of manipulation. The dependencies worsened and a growing depression deepened. The worse things got, the more I pulled back from activities and other friendships, and the more effort I devoted to this relationship. Worship is defined by our devotions, but also drives our desires. Many years of interaction with an imaginary friend had substituted for feeling accepted and healthy in fellowship with real people, and I would do anything to avoid such loneliness again. I was driven compulsively forward in this friendship. My friend, the idol I had long created in my mind, had finally arrived, and I certainly did not want to lose what I had longed for. Finally, in a rather dramatic episode, the illusions fell apart. I had lost my friend, and I thought my life. At the pit of my depression, I now thought I had no one. I now walked the edge of a cliff. In my mind's eye, I stood and looked into a dark abyss. For those who saw me that weekend, all remarked that, upon looking into my eyes, all they saw was death. Indeed, I almost took my life. However, my Christian friends who had been present all along lovingly and now firmly called me to repentance. No one doubted my salvation, but they recognized the limitations I had placed upon God in my life. On a Monday, in the middle of the day, I finally let go. It was either that or I take my life. I turned the turmoil over to God. Extraordinarily, I felt as if pierced straight through with love. I felt forgiveness and a release from the need to hate myself. I felt whole. Since that day, wholeness has not left. My idolatrous friendship was destroyed. My life has needed reworking, but the thing I craved, I received: acceptance and wholeness. This is not a testimony to say I lived happily ever after. I am very much a work in progress. Since then, I have experienced tremendous pain, much grief, and still have tremendous confusion about aspects of life. Christ did not wave a magic wand. He healed someone who had been sincerely his for many years, but was still compromised. My hurts were not just the results of my own deeds, but were legitimate and were, in many cases, the results of the sinfulness of others. My idolatry as a response to this pain, long nourished and subsequently acted upon, kept Christ at arm's length from certain aspects of my life. I was afraid to trust him with everything, and my fears almost consumed me. He prevented that. He let me see what I had longed for. He let me see the abyss, but he did not let me go, and he would not let me fall.

This is my own story. There are those among us who feel that they have a self-made personal relationship with God, but still cannot quite commit to a concept of church, still cannot openly say that they accept Christ, the Bible, and who feel they do not agree with organized religion as it exists. As Ben Kingsley said in Gandhi, I too once felt that I was a Hindu, a Muslim, a Christian, that my relationship with God surpassed any and all conventional definition. How wrong. I want to talk about my experience of being born again. One of Satan's greatest successes in recent times has been to put a blemish on the term born again. We can't even mention it nowadays without our friends rolling their eyes and going, oh, you are one of those. We have to reclaim the expression born again and undo the devil's work. I am born again and proud of it. In the process of being born again, I went through three phases. As Tim Keller says, three things. Listen up. Phase one, step one, was acquiring knowledge of God, of Christ, of the Holy Spirit. Two, was dying completely. And three, as a final act, opening up myself so the Holy Spirit could be poured into me. Step one, knowledge of Christ. I did not know God or Christ or the Holy Spirit until I became a Christian, but I knew of God, of Christ, of the Holy Spirit, thanks to my Christian friends who took the time to talk to me, and I had the basic fuel for the journey. I grew up in a Buddhist Taoist Chinese home. We worshipped many assorted idols, including the kitchen god. I attended a Methodist school, so I did my share of Sunday school and chapel every Friday morning. Just before I started university, I was introduced to the Ananda Marga Yoga sect and spent a couple of years in the group. For those of you who have experienced it, group meditation and chanting can be very blissful for a time. Yoga meditation is probably the best example of religion being an opiate for the masses. Yes, you can bliss out, but like any other drug, reality remains the same when you come back. Then you have to go back for another hit. At university, I lived in a Jesuit hostel, Xavier Hall. There I was blithely fed a steady diet of Hegel, Marx, and Mao. I was also exposed to the Jesuit, actually ex-Jesuit, theologian Hans Kühn, who to the Roman Catholic Church, as a crude comparison, is someone somewhat like Jerry Brown is to the Democrats. All these experiences took me on long detours, basically leading nowhere. There was always this feeling of not being complete, a void, this separation from God at the end of it all. I knew about God and Christ and of the Holy Spirit, but I had not died yet. Second thing, dying completely. Number one was knowing of God. Step two is dying completely. Dying completely does not mean slitting your wrists. It is the death of the old self, the old values, the trying to earn my place in heaven, denying my own propensity to sin, my sinful nature, by enjoying sin. If it feels so good, it can't be sinful. It's natural. The denial. That had to die, to be washed away completely before I could be born again. Five years ago, my father accepted Christ on his deathbed. Since then, a majority of my extended family, which has 76 members, have become Christians. There are many fantastic stories of conversions in my family, including that of my mother, who was struck down by a stroke and ended up in hospital for some time, sharing a room with a nun who gave her Christian instruction. I, on the other hand, was still in my own relationship with God's state. Life was good. I was lending billions of dollars at the bank I worked at, and being relatively successful in my career. In 1989, I had six vacations: Monaco, Swiss Alps, Saint Martin, Copper Mountain, Hong Kong, Philippines, Block Island Race Week, etc. Every carnal fantasy was being fulfilled. Yes, I inhaled. On paper, my life was wonderful. But the void and silence from God was getting louder and louder. I started to wake up in the middle of the night and hear the silence and emptiness. My separation from God was becoming this ever-widening gulf. I didn't even know I was looking at hell during those moments, peering into the dark void of eternity without God's presence. One night in June of last year, this deafening silence from God became unbearable. I knew I was not going crazy and the pain was real, but I could not shake this truth. My life was totally meaningless. All the mental pillars that held me up were wispy cloud pillars of self-delusion. I looked at my life and saw this jumbled mass of hard-driving ambition and dark lust. That night, I allowed my old life to end. Take my life and take my body and use it, God, I said. I'm dead. Fill me up with your Holy Spirit and use me. That's step number three. Opening yourself up so the Holy Spirit is poured into you as your old self dies. I literally felt it. Love pouring in. Maybe it won't happen to less emotional persons, but it felt like being struck by a bolt of non-painful lightning. If I had not known of God beforehand, I would not know how to open my whole self up. This is why I thank those Christian friends who witnessed to me. This is why those who are Christians should evangelize, so that non-Christians can fill up their tanks with the knowledge of Christ, of God, of the Holy Spirit, even if they do not know Christ yet, do not yet have a personal relationship. All these things happened last year, and I'm now a baby Christian. Like any baby, I'm still growing, learning, stumbling, and falling from time to time. And as Shakespeare says, still mewling and puking. But the dark void of emptiness is gone. I can look at eternity in the eye and see myself reflected. Small speck. For those who hesitate before saying they are Christians, stop trying to save yourselves. Don't be so hard on yourselves. Step one, fill up your tanks with the knowledge of Christ. Don't worry if it's still all loosey-goosey. Step two, when God cooks your goose, let your old self die. Step three, as you die, let the Holy Spirit be poured into you so you're born again. It can happen anytime, right now, right here, in your bedroom late at night, on the subway on the way to work, out jogging around Washington Square Park, or sitting around at someone's house. Thank you for your purchase of this audio recording produced by Redeemer Presbyterian Church of New York City. The net proceeds from the sale of Redeemer recordings are used to support ministries of Redeemer Presbyterian Church. This recording has been remastered to provide the best sound possible, given the audio environment of the original recording session. This material is copyrighted, and no unauthorized duplication, redistribution, or other use of all or any part of it is permitted without prior written consent in each instance from Redeemer Presbyterian Church. For consent, please contact the Director of Media and Communication for Redeemer Presbyterian Church. For more information regarding ministry materials produced by Redeemer Presbyterian Church, please visit our online store at www.redeemer.com.
