Our scripture reading comes from the book of Ephesians, chapter 5, verses 18 through 21. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. This is the word of the Lord. Last week we said we're starting a new series on Christian practices. So we have our beliefs, but an awful lot of people who believe in God and Christ are as messed up and as selfish as everybody else. Their beliefs haven't really produced changed character. Why? Because beliefs and automatically become changed character. You have to turn beliefs into character with something in the middle. Between beliefs and character comes spiritual disciplines or Christian practices. And unless you understand what those practices are and unless you're participating in them, you will not actually change your beliefs into character. Now, one of the ways we do that is prayer. We haven't come to that Christian practice. I have, I think, probably there's more places in the Bible that command that practice than any other. But the second most commanded Christian practice in the Bible is one that when you see it, usually you don't even realize it's a command. We're commanded to sing. We're commanded to sing God's truth, to sing God's praises. We're commanded. So, for example, all the way through the Psalms, There's something like 100 places where you're commanded to sing to God. So, for example, Psalm 133. Sing joyfully to the Lord, for it is fitting thus to praise him. Praise the Lord with the harp. Make music to him. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully and shout for joy. And when we read all that, we say, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But you know what that is saying? It says, skillful and joyful singing. skillful done well, joyful done from the heart, skillful and joyful singing of God's praises is a command. And it actually says it is fitting, which means it fits you. It's what you spiritually need. Or take a look at the passage we're looking at here tonight, Ephesians 5. Very famous. It says be filled with the Spirit, does it? I knew I could make it. Be filled with the Spirit. And then it says it gives you five participles, That is five things that, as we will see, flow from being filled with the spirit. Result from being filled with the spirit. And also enhance and are associated with being filled with the spirit. But of the five participles, three are about music. If you're filled with the spirit, you will speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. That's another way of saying all the range of music. If you are filled with the spirit, you will speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You will sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord. We'll get to that in a second. Then it says being grateful to God for everything and serving one another. So there's five results, but three of them are music. Do you realize how important singing is? If you do not learn how to, how important it is to sing God's praises regularly with others, to listen to God's praises sung, you will actually not be changed by the gospel. Now, why would music be that important? this text, especially in light of the entire history of music in the Bible. And there actually is a kind of biblical story of music. And we'll learn the power of music, the grace of music, and the future of music. The power of music, what it does. The grace of music, what it can do. And the future of music, what it will do. First, the power of music. You know, when it says, make music in your heart to the Lord. Sing and make music to the Lord. That's the language of offering. And when the Bible says offer things to God, those are always valuable things. God never says throw some mud up there on the altar as a burnt sacrifice. You know, mud is everywhere. You don't need mud. The things you're supposed to put on the altar are valuable things. And nothing more important than music. Nothing more valuable. Nothing more powerful. It's one of the great most valuable and powerful things we have. Now, the ancients understood this, and modern people do too. Many things bear witness to the power of music. One of the things I like doing is reading ancient myths and legends. And the Finns, the Finnish people, have a myth cycle, an epic, you might say, a very long epic poem of myths and legends they call the Kalivala. and in the Kali Vala, the first human being, their Adam figure as it were, the very first human being is Vainamirnan. And Vainamirnan handles his problems and deals with things through music. He is a very powerful man because when enemies are coming, he fights them with music. When he needs to bring up mountains or create a new lake, he does it with music. Because he understands that if you get the right music, to write songs, it unlocks the key to everything. Music is powerful. Ah, you say, well, that's very nice and very poetic, et cetera. Well, but they're very pragmatic. Modern people understand the power of music too. Tom Jennings, our music director, gave me a copy in preparation for this sermon of lectures by Igor Stravinsky at Harvard in the 1940s. And those lectures are called the Poetics of Music. And in there, you know, Stravinsky was Russian in the 40s. He says that the Soviets had to get control of the music in order to get control of the culture and the society because nothing's more powerful than music. Music motivates people. Music can move people to walk through a wall. And there's no way to get control of people unless you get control of their music. If you remember the movie Cabaret with Liza Minnelli, there's one place where, you know, This is pre-World War II, and the Nazis are rising. And there's one scene in which a group of people are sitting around talking about, you know, well, the Nazis are a problem, but they're never going to take over. And then, remember, there's a young man that gets up and starts to sing a song. It's a Nazi who's singing this beautiful song. And it's a song that touches the musical heart of the culture. And as he sings, everybody else in the cafe stands up and begins to sing. Remember that? The Nazis had captured the music, and therefore they were capturing society. Because nothing, nothing is more powerful than music. That's why Martin Luther actually says this. He says, if you want to comfort the sad, if you want to terrify the happy, if you want to encourage the despairing, if you want to humble the proud, if you want to pacify the aggressive, there's no more effective means than music. well you say alright so music is very stirring to the emotions so if you put words to music it kind of makes people more emotional about the words no there's more to it than that the power goes deeper than that Stephen Jay Gould was a Harvard scientist some years ago he was asked what is the meaning of life and as a good Harvard scientist he said this he wrote this we are here simply because one odd group of fish

able to transform into legs for terrestrial creatures. We may yearn for a higher answer about why we're here, but there is none. There is no meaning to our lives. If you want meaning to your life, you have to construct your own. Ashley Kahn, who was a music critic, wrote a book on John Coltrane, the great jazz saxophonist's famous album, A Love Supreme. And in the book, which is about the album, Kahn writes this. As I listened to the album again and again, I felt impelled to address Coltrane's spirituality. Though I consider myself a dedicated agnostic and a diehard rationalist, I am ready to admit that there is much that can seem the handiwork of some eternal force under spiritual direction. You know what he's saying? believe in God. I believe like Stephen Jay Gould, that there is no meaning. I don't believe there's a truth or a love behind the universe. I believe everything's just matter in motion. But when I hear this music, this great music, it's hard not to feel that there isn't a divine hand behind things. And then Leonard Bernstein, in his famous, he spoke on a TV show back in the 50s, Omnibus, and he at one point was talking about Beethoven's Fifth Symphony, and this is what he Beethoven turns out pieces of breathtaking rightness. Rightness. That's the word. Our boy Beethoven has the real goods. The stuff from heaven. Beethoven has the power. To make us feel. At the finish of his symphony. That there's something right in the world. Something that checks throughout. Something that follows it's own law consistently. Something we can trust. Something that will never let us down. Here's Bernstein. They're both secularists. They say, we believe like Stephen Jay Gould, basically. With our heads, we believe there's nothing behind the universe, and life actually has no meaning, and we're just accidents. We're just complex pieces of protoplasm that accidentally developed the consciousness so we want to feel significant, but we're not. That's all we are. But when they hear great music, they know better. They can't avoid knowing better. They won't even use the G word, the God word. You know, Bernstein has to talk about the stuff of heaven. And Ashley Kahn says, well, there's a kind of divine hand behind things. I can't help but think, even though with my head I believe there's nothing out there. Even though with my head I believe that we're here by accident. Great music makes you feel like, unavoidably, know that your life's not meaningless. That there is a purpose. That you were created. That you were made for something. Music, all music, evangelizes. It tells you the good news that life is not a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing. And that's the reason why you can feel horrible about life and yet in the presence of great music you weep out and you process your grief and you feel like I can make it. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, true story. He was a preacher at a great big church in London in Buckingham Gate, Westminster Chapel, which is not far from the Thames River. And one Sunday night a man was on his way to the Thames River. To kill himself. To throw him in. True story. Into the river. Throw himself in the river. But as he was walking. He came fairly near this church. That was having an evening service. And the music that came out of the. The windows. The music that came out. Was so lovely. That it made him feel a certain amount of hope. You know. It moved him. He went in. He began. He listened to the sermon. He began to go back. He didn't kill himself. Eventually became a Christian. And went to the church. why? The music evangelized them. The music said there is something to your life. It's almost impossible to commit suicide listening to the Hallelujah Chorus. Because great music, great music makes you feel there's something right in the universe, something that checks out, something that follows its own laws thoroughly, something we can trust, something that will never let us down. That's Leonard Bernstein. it, but when I hear the music, I have to believe it. Why would this be? Why would music have this incredible power to give us meaning? Why does music have the ability? Why is music so meaningful? Well, nobody really can explain how, but the Bible, I think, can explain why it is. Because in Job chapter 38, God says to Job, when I laid the foundations of the earth, the stars and the angels sang for joy. And in Proverbs 8, we're told that when God was creating the world in wisdom, the beings, the angels who are watching, essentially danced and sang for joy. When the spirit was moving across the face of the waters, therefore, and was, just Genesis 1-2, and was bringing order out of chaos, there was music. Music is a witness to the reality that life is that this is not an accident, that there is a God of love and peace and joy behind everything, including your life. And one of the most interesting passages in the whole Bible about music is in, believe it or not, Deuteronomy 31 verse 19. In Deuteronomy 31 verse 19, God has just made a covenant with Israel, but God knows that our human hearts want to forget him. We want to move away from him. We don't want to believe in him. So here's what he says to Moses. Get this. He says, now write down the song I am giving you and teach it to the Israelites and have them sing it so that it may be a witness for me against them. First of all, we're told here God's a composer. God says to Moses, I'm giving you a song. Write it down. This is my song. But why does he want the Israelites to sing it? Because it will be a witness for me against them. What? He knows we don't want to believe in him. He knows that our hearts go astray. But when we sing great music, it's a witness. Music is rooted in the reality of God, and all great music is a witness to that reality. It's a witness telling us there really is a God. Life is meaningful. You are not a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing. That's the power of music. About the good news. That there is a God. Who is a creator. And that we have purpose. And there is meaning in life. But that's. Wait. That's what all music does do. In fact. If you're a musician. And you play. Your music. Well. Whether you believe. In God. Or not. You're evangelizing. You're telling. People. The good news. That there's something. Meaning. In life. That we're. Not. We're. Not. Here. Just. By. An. Accident. You're. Giving. Meaning. To. People. However. That's. What. Music. Does. it always tells people the good news about God as Creator. But there's something music can do. Not necessarily, but it can do it if we use it right. And that is, music can also tell us the good news about God's redemption. Not just about God's creation, but redemption. Not just telling us, like, see, at one level, Ashley Kahn and Leonard Bernstein were hearing the good news that there is a God. But there's another level at which music can operate. operate. So, for example, Anne Lamott, in her book, Traveling Mercies, tells about her spiritual journey, how she really found faith in Christ. And to put it mildly, there was a time in which she was not sympathetic to Christianity. That's putting it very mildly. She couldn't stand Christianity. She didn't want to darken the doorway of a church, and she couldn't stand to listen to a sermon. And yet there was a church near, I guess, where she worked or lived, that music. And she said she kept on hearing this glorious noise coming out of this ramshackle building. And finally, she started to come in and she started to sing. And before she could ever bear to even sit through an entire sermon, she sang. And she says this. She says, something inside me that was stiff and rotting would feel soft and tender. Somehow the singing wore down all the boundaries and distinctions that kept me so isolated. inflated, sitting there, standing with them to sing, sometimes so spiritually shaky and sick that I felt like I might tip over. I began to feel bigger than myself. See, as I sang God's praises, I began to feel bigger than myself, like I was being taken care of, like I was being tricked into coming back to life. God was tricking me through the music. Before she could ever bear or to sit through a sermon, the music began to tell her not just about God's creation and his reality, but God's redemption and his salvation. In fact, Bono, in the introduction to a book on Psalms, says this, words and music did for me what solid, even rigorous religious argument could not. Words and music introduced me to God, not just belief in God, more an experiential sense of God. Now, why would music have this power? Okay. Now let's go down deeper into this text. Paul says, don't get drunk with wine but be filled with a spirit. Speaking to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Singing and making music in your heart to the Lord. Now let's take that apart. What does it mean to be filled with a spirit? Well, you're not going to understand being filled with a spirit unless you understand something about being drunk. Why would Paul say it this way? Don't be drunk. Be filled with a spirit. What? Well, you know what? The first time the Spirit of God fell on the apostles, that's in Acts 1, what did everybody who heard... When they started to talk, when they started to preach under the power of the Spirit, what did everybody who watched them, listened to them say? He said, they're drunk. Remember that? In Acts 1, when the Spirit fell on them, people said, these guys are drunk. Now, why would they say that? Well, here's why. Speak the word of Christ. They began to talk about Jesus with joy and fearless boldness. Well, now, one of the ways you can get a lot of joy and fearless boldness is by getting drunk. Why? Because being drunk takes your inhibitions away. And you're happy. You don't think about your worries. And you're bold. You don't care what anybody thinks. Joy and boldness comes from being drunk. drunk. And so in some ways, being drunk and being filled with the Spirit are similar because being filled with the Spirit also brings, you can see it through the book of Acts, joy and fearless boldness. But Dr. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, I've already mentioned, preached a great series of sermons on this text some years ago. They were very influential for me. Dr. Lloyd-Jones was a doctor, doctor, a real doctor, excuse me, not like my kind of doctor, but a physician. Dr. Lloyd Jones, before he became a preacher, was a physician. He was an MD. And when he was studying the text, getting ready to preach it and trying to say, now, why would Paul compare and contrast drunkenness and the spirit? He would say, well, obviously being drunk and being filled with spirit both bring joy and boldness. But then he suddenly realized something. He says, alcohol is a depressant. So that immediately came to his mind. He actually says in a sermon, in pharmacology and look it up and you'll see alcohol is a depressant. What that means is it brings you joy and boldness by making you less aware of your surroundings, less aware of reality. That's the reason why you're so happy because you really aren't thinking about the consequences. You know, they're not real to you. So alcohol gives you joy and boldness by making reality less real. But he says the spirit is not a depressant, it's a stimulus. And the Spirit does not bring joy and boldness by making you see less of reality, but by seeing more of reality. How does that work? Well, let's think about it. Let's think of an example. Let's imagine you're in a foxhole on enemy lines, right at the enemy lines. And you're all by yourself. And you learn that there are 200 enemy troops coming right for you just two miles away. way. And when you find out about that, how are you going to have the joy and the confidence to stand your ground with confidence when you know, of course, that if 200 enemy soldiers get to you, you're going to die. So how are you going to face that with joy and confidence? Well, one of the ways is a bottle of port. That'll give you confidence because it'll make you less aware of your reality. But there's another way to get confidence, and that is do some reconnaissance. And then you find out there's 2,000 friendly troops only one mile away from your place. And when they get there, they'll surround you, and everything will be fine. So, of course, you're filled with confidence. And that right there is the contrast between being drunk with wine and being filled with the Spirit. Because let's imagine that someone says something to you,

undermines you and really hurts your reputation. And I'll tell you, that hurts. And what if you realize that you'll probably never be able to completely repair your reputation, or at least not for a very, very long time? That really hurts. How are you going to deal with that? Well, one of the ways is a bottle of port. One of the ways is just to not care as much, just to be less aware of your reality. But the other way, if you're a Christian,

is to know what Jesus Christ has done for you and know who you are in him. Because of what Jesus Christ has done for you, God loves you. The only person who's in the universe whose opinion matters considers you an absolute beauty. Now, it's one thing to know that in the head and say, yeah, I believe that. But the reality is, the real reality to your heart is all these people who don't like you anymore. And you're never going to be able to get them back. You hurt your reputation. What is the controlling reality? What is the thing that most captures your heart and your imagination? Is it what Jesus has done for you and who you are in Him? Or is it what these people have done for you and now who you are in their eyes? Which is the reality? And the answer is to be filled with the Spirit. Is to have the Spirit of God come and take what Jesus Christ has done. And make that the controlling reality. Make that so wonderful. So palpable. So real. So brilliant. to your heart that it doesn't matter so much what the people say. Now, there's no way to understand Ephesians 5 unless you actually read also Colossians 3, which is a parallel passage. And in Colossians 3, we read this. This is Paul. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. Listen to this. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish each other with songs and hymns and spiritual songs with gratitude in your hearts to God and whatever you do, do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus giving thanks to God the Father through him. Does that sound familiar? They're parallel passages. In Colossians 3 it says, let the word of Christ, that's the gospel, dwell in your heart richly. And then what's the result? Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and making thanks to God. Over in Ephesians 5 it says, be filled with the Spirit. result. Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and gratitude. Wait a minute. To be filled with the Spirit and have the Word of Christ dwell in you richly is the same thing. And that figures because God, Jesus says in John chapter 16, talking about the Holy Spirit, that when the Spirit of God comes, He will come and take my words and take what I have done and glorify me to you. Glorify me. Make what I have done real to you. So this is what it means to be filled with the Spirit. an abstract idea and lets it dwell in your heart richly, saturates you with it, delights you with it. And then that enhanced understanding of reality enables you to face anything because the Spirit of God is a stimulant. What's all this got to do with singing? Many people ask the question, does the singing come from being filled with the Spirit? Is it the result of being filled with the Spirit? Or is it a means to being filled with the Spirit? And if you question. It shows you don't understand how praise works because the answer is both. C.S. Lewis wrote this in Reflections on the Psalms. It's one of the most important passages, one of the most important things I've ever read in my life. So I'll read it to you relatively slowly. C.S. Lewis says, I think we delight to praise what we enjoy because the praise does not merely express but completes the enjoyment. Let me read that again. We delight to praise what we enjoy because the praise doesn't just express but it actually completes the enjoyment. It's not out of compliment that lovers keep on telling each other how beautiful they are. The delight in one another is incomplete unless it's expressed. This is so even when our expressions are inadequate as of course they usually are. But if one could really and fully praise anything if you could utterly get out in poetry or music or paint the upsurge of appreciation, which almost bursts you, then indeed the object would be fully appreciated and our delight would have attained perfect development. Now, you hear what he's saying? If you really love something, you don't just praise it because you love it. You praise it in order to love it. When you enjoy something, you don't just praise it because you've enjoyed it. You praise it in order to enjoy it more. Oh, let me tell you about this. And you describe it to somebody and you say how great it is. But your words are so ineloquent, aren't they? And your words are so inadequate. And it kind of, you know, Lewis says, the more perfect your praise, the more eloquent, the more beautiful, the more fitting your praise is, the more you can actually enjoy the thing you're praising. Now, how do you delight in Jesus? So much that you can handle enemy troops. groups? How do you delight in Jesus so much that when people speak about you or this or that happens, you can handle it all? How can you be filled with the Spirit? The more beautifully you praise, the more perfectly you pray. See, it's one thing to say, haven't you ever tried to tell somebody else what Jesus means to you? Pitiful. You know, you just feel like, I can't believe it. But it's like I'm trying to get three million tons of stuff through a little tiny opening. But when you sing words that have been written, crafted maybe centuries ago that are so eloquent about what Jesus has done. And then when you stand and you sing, sing it together. And you sing it surrounded by other people who are skillfully leading you in the singing. As you sing it, you're enjoying God in a way you could never enjoy him otherwise. You're delighting in God in a way you never could delight in otherwise. And therefore, you're being filled with the Spirit in a way you never could be filled otherwise. You're being changed on the spot. In a way, when I say something well to you, maybe better than you could say it, just because I've been working at it my entire life,

don't you actually, don't you find you're enjoying Jesus in a way that you couldn't if you were just sitting around thinking about it? But I want you to realize, sorry to the preachers of the world, It's just silly for you to think that in the sermon you're really, really learning. You're really worshiping. And then afterwards you just close with a song. I'm sorry. You're probably being changed more by the song than you are by the sermon. You're probably having the gospel driven deeper into your heart by the song than you are by the sermon. Probably. That's how you have the word of Christ dwelling in you richly. That's how you're filled with the spirit. why an Anne Lamott or a Bono can actually say, it wasn't arguments, it wasn't sermons. I couldn't stand the sermon. But God, through music, was tricking me into coming alive to him again. So music can have this incredible grace. It can bring, it can be a vehicle for grace. Now, lastly, lastly, that's the power music does have. That's the grace music can have. But lastly, I want you to see what music is going to do. you have to put this especially when it says in your heart to the Lord we're told at the beginning of time there was music right? Job 38 music everywhere when God created the world and yet in Romans 7 Paul says this interestingly enough he says the whole creation all of nature is groaning childbirth right up to the present time, for it has been subject to decay and frustration. Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we eagerly await our adoption, the redemption of our bodies. Very interesting. Paul says that even though when the world was made and the world was perfect and there was no sin and evil here and there was no There was no brokenness. There was no disease and death. There was music everywhere. Everywhere. And, we're told, now things are different. Now nature groans. It doesn't sing in the same way that it did. And not only that, he says, we groan inwardly. Now, one of the most interesting verses here, when it says in Ephesians 5, it says if your heart is working right you will be singing and literally it says making music in your heart to the Lord. Do you know what that means? Making music? Composing melodies. It does work that way. When the Spirit of God is really, really working in your heart when your heart's working properly you automatically sing to God. Sing about all kinds of stuff. You know there was a, some years ago somebody tried to help me handle criticism like this. I said, now, when somebody criticizes you, instead of saying, how dare, that's unfair, that's not even really true, that's not right. I want you to think this. Well, that's not true, but there's a whole lot worse stuff that you don't even know about. And I said, well, you know, okay. He says, now, I'll tell you what, let me give you a song, let me give you words of a song, a great hymn. And here's the words. Well may the accuser roar. Of sins that I have done. I know them all. And thousands more. Jehovah. Knoweth none. Yes. The. Accuser. May. Roar. Of sins that I have done. I know them all. And thousands more. But. God. Because. Of what. Jesus. Christ. Has. Done. Doesn't. Know. Any. Of. Them. In. Other. Words. They're. Covered. In. Christ. Well. May. The. Accuser. Roar. Of. Sins. That. I. Have. Done. I. I know them all in thousands more. Jehovah knoweth none. And there's words to, you know, I don't sing. So there's melody to that. Let me tell you, that has been incredibly effective in my life. The Spirit has used it amazingly over the years. And some of you may have heard me quote that in the past before in sermons. If it hadn't been there in the form of a song, it wouldn't have anywhere near the impact. And yet, the simple fact of the matter is, is we don't spend all of our time making melody to God, do we? Our hearts are not filled with music all the time. Most of the time they're filled with groaning. In fact, worse than that, as Anne Lamott said, and as the Bible says, most of the time they're filled with silence. We don't have anything we want to sing about. You know, we've got too many problems. So the universe started in music, and now it's filled with groaning, but we're told, oh, amazingly, listen, it says when God comes back to renew the world, Isaiah 55

Psalm 96

God's going to restore the music of creation. And he's going to restore the music of our hearts. There's never any silence. There's never any groaning. to do that? Here's how he's going to do it. In Hebrews chapter 2, verse 12, very interesting, beautiful little metaphor. Jesus Christ is speaking. The Hebrews writer says, Jesus Christ says this to us. Jesus says, I will proclaim your name, O God, to my brethren. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And the writer to Hebrews is saying that when we stand up to sing praises. If we believe in Jesus Christ, he's standing in our midst and he's singing to God through us. You know what that means? One of the great things about New York City and about Redeemer is there's all kinds of great singers in this city and many of them come to Redeemer. Some of the greatest voices in the world sometimes are here at Redeemer. And they're not up here sometimes, they're out there. Now, if you stand up to sing and one of these world-class voices is right behind you and starts to sing. Has that ever happened to you? It's amazing. Because you've got your puny, crappy little voice. And you start to sing and you open your mouth and next this enormous sound comes right through you, literally through you. And if you're willing just to bring your voice down just a little bit to try to blend in, next thing you know, you sound better than you've ever sounded in your life. You know this, do you? I mean, this is a real phenomenon. Somebody with a more powerful and better voice can just essentially surround and envelop your fairly thin voice and completely hide the flaws of your voice, and yet you're still enhancing. It's still two voices, and it rises up and you sound better than you ever sounded before. You just hope the guy doesn't cough. Because you're singing like this and suddenly when you're singing in your own voice, you sound awful again. That's an image of gospel salvation. You know why? Religion is, I give God a good record. Then he owes me and saves me and blesses me. That's not the gospel. The gospel is, God gives me a perfect record in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ lived the life I should have lived. He died the death I should have died. That means that my flaws are covered in him. That means I'm complete in him. Which means, not only that when God looks at me. He sees the beauty of Jesus. When God listens to me. He hears the voice of Jesus. When it says Jesus is singing in the midst of the congregation. It means that when we stand to sing praises in spite of our flaws and our sin. Jesus sings through us. And God hears this beauty and accepts us and loves us. Now how can Jesus do that? How can he cover all of our sins? How can he cover really what's wrong with our heart? The groaning. You know, I mean some of you do don't sing. You really do groan. You actually can't sing very well. And you know that. And yet, you know, you get up and you sing. Because enough other people can sing well. And it's all right. How does Jesus, why would Jesus Christ do that? Because you see, in ourselves, we're all groaners. We're all groaning. We sound awful. Why does he do that? How does he do it? Here's why. That passage that Hebrews quotes, Hebrews 2.12, where Jesus says, I will praise you, O God, in the midst of the congregation. I will stand in the midst of my brothers and pray. That's the end of Psalm 22. but you know, on the cross, Jesus also quotes the beginning of Psalm 22. The beginning of Psalm 22 says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The beginning of Psalm 22 is nothing but groaning. You've pierced my hands and my feet. You've divided my garments. On the cross, Jesus Christ. Got the silence of God. He was forsaken. On the cross. Jesus Christ. Experienced the groaning of all nature. cross, Jesus Christ paid the penalty of our sins. He groaned. He got the silence of God so that our sins could be covered and someday we could stand before the Father in the new heavens and new earth and sing in him perfectly. Barbershop quartet people, four guys, you know, high tenor and tenor and baritone and bass, the barbershop quartet people say that when their voices blend perfectly, when they are incredibly skilled, when they're singing their best, they talk about a fifth voice. That when the four voices are singing perfectly, there's a sense that there's a fifth voice. Some kind of beauty comes through that is greater than the sum of the parts. And the Bible says when you sing knowing what Jesus Christ did on the cross for you, taking the silence of God so that you could sing in his presence, that will create a melody in your heart. And when that is brought out in skillful, joyful music. We live in New York where there's so many skillful musicians. You know, bad music doesn't give you that sense of transcendence. Great music gives you that sense of transcendence. When you understand the gospel in your heart and you're expressing it in skillful song and you're listening to it expressed in skillful song, that's going to change you. That's going to shape you. You'll hear the fifth voice. You'll hear Jesus' song in your song. it cost him to sing like that. And you'll know what it cost him to stand in our midst. Listen to his song in your song. Sing and make melody in your hearts to the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father, we're going to stand and sing. I pray we'll sing in a way that we wouldn't have sung had we not known all this from your text, your Bible. We thank you, Lord, that you are a composer. We thank you that you're a singer. And we thank you that you love to hear us sing. Now that we're singing. With Jesus. And we pray father. That because he took what he took. And he did what he did. We can make melody in our hearts. To the Lord. Knowing. Not only that it pleases you. But it changes us. And so. We ask that you would show us. How to sing. That you would continually. Inspire us. To sing. And. We pray all this. In Jesus name. Amen.