Tonight's scripture reading is from the book of Luke, chapter 1, verses 26 through 38.

In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be, Mary asked the angel, since I am a virgin? The angel answered, the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. as you have said. And then the angel left her. This is the word of the Lord.

The message that the angel just gave there to Mary is actually a message that had been foretold for many years. There's a place in John chapter 8 where Jesus says to the religious leaders, Abraham rejoiced to see my day. That's a pretty remarkable statement. Abraham, he's saying, Moses, David, they knew I was on the way. They knew God was going to do something. They knew God was going to save the world somehow through someone. And yet Mary's the first person that hears this name Jesus. She's the first one who gets the message that this great salvation is coming into the world through a baby who's going to be born in Bethlehem named Jesus. The Lord who is descending into time and space to save us. She's actually the first person that actually hears the gospel in the form that we have it today. And therefore, I like to say, and I like to think of her, and I think it's perfectly warranted to think of her as the first Christian. And I think it's cool, actually, that our paradigm, the very first Christian, the first person who heard the gospel message in the form we have it now, and the first person who received it in faith was a 15-year-old girl. And here we have our paradigm. A 15-year-old girl, an unwed teenager, mother, and she hears the message and she receives it properly. And if we look at the message she got and look at the response she made to it, we have some idea about whether we're Christians or not. So take a look. First of all, at the message. and there's three amazing statements that the angel makes that are part of this gospel message. The angel says that the child that's going to be born will live forever, that the child will actually be God himself, and that in this child God will become radically vulnerable. See, the first statement there is in verse 33 where the angel says, and just imagine this, that the baby who is going to be born to you, he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And almost as if the angel is repeating himself because he knows it's an incredible statement, he says it again. Read my lips. His kingdom will never end. Then he moves on and says something even more amazing. He says, this isn't just a person with endless life. This is God himself. himself. Because when Mary hears this, she comes back and says, how will this be? Mary's asking a lot of questions. We'll get to this in a second. But Mary says, how will this be? I'm not even married yet, you know? I'm not joined with a husband. What do you mean I'm about to become pregnant? And you know what the angel says? Oh, you're not going to need a husband.

You can hear Mary saying, what? And the angel says, the Holy Spirit is going to come upon you in such a way that the child in your womb will not be just a holy person. There have been a lot of holy persons. This will be the holiness of God itself taking human form. This will be the holy one himself assuming a human nature. This will be God himself. And then more than, even more than that, if you look up into verse 31 and 32, you'll see that the angel says that the most high, that's an interesting way to talk about God. It's, you know, the angel deliberately picks this term for God. The most high will become a child.

Now, you know, it is impossible to get into an intimate relationship without becoming vulnerable. vulnerable. I've ever so often, you know, as a pastor, I've talked to people who've said, now, I'm thinking of marrying this person, but I want to be absolutely sure this person doesn't hurt me. And I always want to say, you might want to forget about marriage then. You know, enter into a business partnership or something like that, you know, and make sure you have a lot of lawyers there when you do that. There is no way to enter even into a friendship or a love relationship, or certainly not a marriage, without binding your heart to the other person in such a way that the person can break it, in such a way that you can be hurt, you can be harmed. There's no way to really enter into an intimate personal relationship without making yourself vulnerable. And Christianity is the only major world religion that says, God has done this. See, God doesn't just love us in some kind of abstract way, God is a God of love. If God is just this sort of life force of love, or even if he's a great big person in the sky and he loves us, how does that make him vulnerable? He's not vulnerable. But if Christmas is true and if the gospel is true, then the God of the Bible is the only God of all the major religions. This is the only religion that claims that our God actually became vulnerable because he became a baby. And you can't be more vulnerable than that. he put himself into such a position that we could harm him. He became fragile. He became someone who could become overpowered, who could be tortured, who could be killed. And he was.

Why? He came back to get us. He came back to pay the price for our sins on the cross. And he did. And this is the gospel. This child is going to live forever. He's going to, he's He's God himself, and he's a God who's actually become radically vulnerable by becoming a human being so he could die on the cross for our sins. And, you know, therefore, what you've got here is a faith, a religious faith that on the one hand is claiming, the Bible claims that our founder is not just a holy man. He is God himself. He's not just a prophet. He's God himself. really just respect Jesus Christ. Do you know that? Because either he is who he said he is and who the Bible says he is, and therefore you can't just respect him. Because if he is who he said he is, then you need to throw everything down and spend your whole life around him and worship him. But if he's not who he said he is, then he's a charlatan. But the one thing is you can't just like Jesus Christ. You can't just respect him. And so, in some ways, the Bible says that the founder of our faith has to be seen as higher than the founder of any other faith. But on the other hand, the Bible says that our God has come lower than any other religion believes God has ever come. And there's the gospel. And I'll tell you something. If you really take this in, if you really take it deep into your life and your heart, if you take into your heart that God has made himself that vulnerable, that he has stripped himself of his honor and glory vulnerable, out of love for us, if that isn't just a concept, but if you realize that he's done that for you, and you sense the kind of love that, what kind of love that is, it'll make you able to become vulnerable for other people. You know why? It's simple arithmetic. If you feel affirmed in a major way, then you can take criticisms over here of a minor sort. And if you realize that God has done this for you, then that's major, and any other kind of criticism you get, or any other kind of vulnerability you experience is minor by comparison.

And therefore, if you really understand the kind of love, the divine love that God has shown you by becoming vulnerable to you, it'll make it possible. You'll be emotionally awash enough in love. Your emotional tanks will be full enough that you'll be able to be vulnerable other people. And not only that, when you suffer and when you become limited and when you sense how limited we are and how fragile we are and how much evil and suffering that we experience as human beings, we'll have a resource to face it. Dorothy Sayers puts it like this. She says, The incarnation means that whatever reason, for whatever reason God chose to let us be limited, for whatever God reason God chose to let us be limited, suffer, be subject to sorrows and death, now know that he nonetheless had the honesty and courage to take his own medicine. He can ask nothing from us that he has not exacted from himself. He has himself gone through the whole of human experience, from the trivial irritations of family life and the cramping restrictions of hard work and lack of money, to the worst horrors of pain and humiliation, defeat, despair, and death. He was born in poverty and he died in disgrace. He suffered infinite pain, all for us,

while. So that's the message that Mary heard and received. But how did she receive it? How did she respond in faith? And there's two things that she shows that we need to look at ourselves and see whether we have responded this way too. She responds, and this is a way to put it, she responds on with healthy dubiousness but then circumspect surrender. Healthy dubiousness and circumspect surrender. Now, healthy dubiousness, here's what I mean by that. People always say, well, religious people, they just don't ask questions. See, I'm a skeptical person, people say. And I ask a lot of questions. Religious people just turn their minds off. They just believe. They stop questioning. They stop reasoning. They stop thinking. They just believe. They just turn their minds off.

Look carefully. It says, you know, when the angel showed up, she did not say, you know, oh, an angel, wonderful. And I've heard about this. This is wonderful. Tell me more. It says Mary was what? Mary was troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. Now that word wonder, it actually, it almost looks humorous on the surface. She wondered what kind of greeting this might be. It's an angelic greeting, Mary. But the word wondered is actually... It's not a terribly good translation, I don't think. The Greek word there is a word that means... It's a word that actually means to take an audit. It's an accounting word, and it means to be furiously rational. It means you're taking stock. You're thinking things out. You're adding things up. You're weighing things. And what it means is that when the angel showed up, she immediately began to ask herself questions like, am I really seeing an angel? I mean, is this a hallucination? What is going on here? Mary's responding in faith. But it's a whole brain experience. It's a whole person experience. It's not just intuition. It's also rationality. It's not just heart. It's also head. She's thinking and thinking, and she's asking questions. She's saying, how can this be? What are you talking about? She's got healthy doubts. She's asking all kinds of questions. Boy, I tell you, this is very important. Here's a couple reasons. There's an arrogance on our part. Very often we say, oh, I'm a modern person, you know, and people back then, when the Bible was written, all those people were credulous. You know, they believed all sorts of things, and they were all superstitious. Listen, I'm sorry, people back then had the same kind of IQs that we have now. They didn't all have 50 as an IQ, and they could think, in fact, Mary is responding exactly the way you would have responded if an angel showed up and started talking to you.

And we have to keep this in mind. that you and I have been trained to not believe in the supernatural at all. But Mary, as a first century Jew, had been trained not to believe that God could possibly become a human being at all. The barriers she had, the barriers she faced against belief are every bit as big as the barriers you face. And yet a combination of evidence and experience shattered those barriers, works now. And I want you to also see something. Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist, earlier in the chapter, an angel comes to him and says, oh, even though you're old and your wife Elizabeth is old, you're going to have a son. It's going to be a miracle of God, and he's going to be John the Baptist. He's going to be a great prophet. And Zechariah asks questions. He's very dubious. He's very doubtful. And you know what the angel does? He says, well, just for that, I'm going to strike you mute, and you won't be able to speak until your son is born. And then the angel shows up and talks to Mary. And Mary starts to get, she's very dubious, and she asks questions, and she wants to know about this, and she wants to know about that. And the angel just blesses her and leaves. So what was that about? I mean, you read Luke 1, and you say, well, I guess, you know, Zechariah got a grumpy angel, and Mary got a, you know, an angel who's in a better mood. No. Well, and if we assume that's not the case, then what we have is a wonderful place, a wonderful, there's a wonderful nuancedness about how the Bible sees doubt. See, in New York City, you know, in a sophisticated place like New York City, spiritual doubt, doubting God, doubting angels, doubting all these things, that's considered an absolute unmitigated good. All smart people doubt everything. They say we're considered good. On the other hand, And in a lot of conservative and traditional religious circles, doubt is all bad. So if you're in a youth group and you say, I have these questions about the Bible, your youth leader says, don't doubt. I'd strike you mute if I could. I'm one of those grumpy angels. No.

But here what you have in the Bible is not doubt being all bad or doubt being all good. There's a kind of doubt that is a sign of a closed mind, and there's a kind of doubt that's a sign of an open mind. There's a kind of doubt that actually wants answers. And there's a kind of doubt that doesn't want answers. There's a kind of doubt that really shows here's a person, and that's what Mary was, who's open to the truth and is willing to get out of the driver's seat of her life if she can be shown that the truth is other than what she thought. And there's a kind of doubt which you see in Zechariah that is using all the questions and all the doubts and all the arguments really as a way of staying in control of your life. Keeping your mind closed. which kind of doubt is yours? Healthy dubiousness is something that's very good and that Mary shows. But then finally she gets to what we can call circumspect surrender because her great words, her immortal words really, in the old King James Bible she says, behold, I am the handmaiden of the Lord. Let it be done to me according to thy word. That circumspect surrender, here's what I mean. circumspect. She knows what she's getting into. She says, behold, I am the Lord's servant. You know, let it be done to me according to thy will. You know, she knows what's going to go on. She is about to have a child. And even if Joseph stays with her, people are going to be able to add it up. Back then, people had calendars. They sat around and said, hmm, married that date, baby that date, and that was it. And she knew, and she was, in a traditional society, in a paternalistic society, in a small town, she knew that she would always be seen as the bearer of an illegitimate child. She knew that the whole community would know either she had sex with Joseph before they were married, which of course was absolutely taboo, or she'd been unfaithful to her fiancé. And she knew that Jesus would always be seen as illegitimate, is the bearer of an illegitimate child, and she said, it's okay. A life of disgrace, I am the Lord's servant. I'll take it. Circumspect, but it was surrender, and here's the reason why. When the angel says, you're going to give birth to a child, and you shall call his name Jesus, right away, even if he hadn't said any of the other things that he says, and he says a lot of other things, Mary right away knew there was something else going on here because parents always have the right to name their children. Why? Because you're in charge of your children. You name your child and you set the standards for the child. You're an authority. You're over the child. You're a mother. You're a father. You have the right to name the child. What the angel is saying is, not this child.

If this person is going to come into your life, Mary, come into your life, people, he's in charge. You don't name him, he names you. You don't call the shots for him, he calls the shots for you. And she says, let it be to me according to your will. In other words, she knows that she is taking her hands off her life. She knows that if this person is going to come into her life, then she has got to humble herself self and say, yes, I'm a sinner needing salvation by grace. Yes, I'm limited and I don't know how I should live and I'm going to take whatever I'm told to do. I drop my conditions. I take my hands off my life. It's almost exactly like years before when God said to Abraham, like he's saying to Mary, Abraham, I want to bring salvation of the world through you, through your body, through your family. I'm going to bring salvation of the world through you. fine. What do you want me to do? Go out. Leave everything you know. All your security. Everything you know. Go out into the wilderness. Okay. Abraham says where do you want me to go to? I'll tell you later says God. And the book of Hebrews says and he went out not knowing where he went. So God said to Abraham get out. And Abraham went out not knowing where he went. It's exactly the same with Mary. Obey me. Follow me. Submit to me. And she humbled herself. And she went out not knowing where she went.

And anybody who wants to become a Christian has to basically say the same thing. Not, oh, I'm going to go to church now and I'm going to follow these rules here and there and I'm going to get inspired. No, no, no. You take your hands off your life and you say, if you really have done this for me, if you really are this to me, if you really are my Savior and Lord, I take my hands off my life. No more conditions. I'm going to follow you even though I don't quite know where I'm going. But whatever you bring me, wherever you take me, it'll be all right with me. Are you willing to say that? This 15-year-old girl, a poor 15-year-old woman, female, in that time and place, was almost at the bottom of the social ladder. And yet everybody in this room knows her name. Because she humbled herself. Because she humbled herself and became a servant, she became one of the great people in the history of the world. Now, how can you do that? You can do that, even though I want you to know that Mary is a greater person than me or you, and here's the reason why. She did this before knowing what he was going to do for her. See, we don't have that problem because we know. We know that Jesus did every single thing Mary did himself for her. Everything she did for her, he did for him. Everything she did for him, he did for her infinitely more. Because we're told in Philippians 2 that though he was God, he became a servant and he humbled himself. I mean, she just said, okay, I'm going to be a marked woman. But he was a God and he became a human being. And he went to the cross and he died. He took his hands off his life. When he was in the Garden of Gethsemane, he didn't want the cup, did he? He didn't want the suffering. But what did he say? He said, not my will but thine be done. That's the same thing.

He said, for their sake, for my brothers and sister, for my people's sake, that they may be saved, let it be done to me according to thy will.

He went out not knowing whether he went. He took his hands off his life. He did everything for her infinitely more than she did for him. And she did it not knowing it. And therefore, she's better than us. the least we can do is to do what she did let us not fall lower in the test than this little 15 year old girl unwed teenage mother in Palestine centuries ago let's say to him behold I'm your servant let it be to me according to your will

and by the way look at how far he came to get to us look at how far he came to get near us what it takes to get near him now. Start with healthy dubiousness and finally circumspect an absolute surrender. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, that at Christmas we can be given this wonderful gift, and that is a model in Mary, almost a little girl, not much more than that, who simply became one of the great people in history because she humbled herself, hands off for life, recognized this great salvation and said, I will serve you, I will follow you, and I won't put any conditions on that. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us all to do the same thing so that in much smaller ways, but important ways, your salvation will get into the lives of people around us just the way your salvation got into our lives through Mary. Mary. Thank you for Christmas and the message of it. Help us to receive it as she did. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
