I'm going to read a passage of Scripture that's printed in your bulletin on page 6, Exodus chapter 3, verses 1 to 15.

Now Moses was tending the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. There the angel of the Lord appeared to him in flames of fire from within a bush. bush. Moses saw that though the bush was on fire, it did not burn up. So Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange sight, why the bush does not burn up. When the Lord saw that he had gone over to look, God called to him from within the bush, Moses, Moses. And Moses said, here I am. Do not come any closer, God said. Take off your sandals for the place where you are standing as holy ground. Then he said, I am the Lord. I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. At this, Moses hit his face because he was afraid to look at God. The Lord said, I have indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt. I have heard them crying out because of their slave drivers and I am concerned about their suffering. So I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up out of that land, a land flowing with milk and honey, the home of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites. And now the cry of the Israelites has reached me, and I have seen the way the Egyptians are oppressing them. So now go. I am sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt? And God said, I will be with you, and this will be the sign to you that it is I who have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain. Moses said to God, suppose I go to the Israelites and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, what is his name? Then what shall I tell them? And God said to Moses, Moses, I am who I am. This is what you are to say to the Israelites. I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, say to the Israelites, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abram, of Isaac, of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever. The name by which I am to be remembered from generation to generation. This is God's Word. Now, we're looking at the life of Moses, and this is one of the most famous passages in all of the Bible, and it is one of the classic examples of a human being having an encounter with spiritual reality, reality, a human being who believed in God, but not until this moment was God a living spiritual reality to him. Now, immediately that raises questions, and let's suggest four of them. And the text tells us, if we ask the text these questions, how do we encounter spiritual reality? What is it to encounter spiritual reality? Why is it possible? And when do you know it's happened? How is it? What is it? Why is it? When do we know it's happened? And the different features of the narrative answer. The bush tells us how. The fire tells us what it is. The angel tells us why it can be. And the call actually helps us understand when we know we've had the encounter. So let's take a look, first of all, at the bush. The first question is, how is it that a person ordinarily has an encounter with spiritual reality? I mean, you can't get through your

I should say most people can't get through life really without some point having a desire for some kind of spiritual experience. How does one come to that? And the first answer is how Moses, we learn about this by looking at how Moses met God in the bush. Notice a couple things. First of all, just a few features, and then we can extrapolate some principles. First of all, he's on a detour. Verse 4, it says, when God saw that he had gone over to look. Now, literally, the Hebrew word there is he turned aside, and it's a word that means detour. And a detour means you're not on the right path, you're not on the main path, you're off on a detour. But there's an irony to that word, absolutely, in the text, because there are two detour and a micro detour. First of all, there's a macro detour. The only reason that Moses ever meets God is because his whole life is on a detour. He was raised to be at least an aristocrat in Egypt. He was raised perhaps or probably in his own mind to be a leader of his people, the Hebrews. But because he had killed a man intemperately, he was a fugitive from justice, and he'd run off into the desert, and his life was over. Everything had gone wrong, everything, everything, at least to his way of thinking. I mean, his life was at a complete dead end. He's in the middle of the desert. He's in the middle of nowhere. And there's the great irony. The great irony is, it's only by being in the middle of nowhere, only by everything going wrong in his life, that he ever gets near God. So, there's a macro detour. His whole life is on a detour. But there's a micro detour. And the micro detour, notice in verse 3, He was out there in the desert because his life had been so screwed up. But in verse 3, it says, so Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange. Now, this word go over means clearly it was on the other side of the ravine. He was with a sheep on the one side. There was a valley or a ravine or something, and he decided to go over. And what this means is that even though his whole life had gone wrong in order to get him near the burning bush, he had to make a decision actually himself go right to it. He could have just said, well, I got sheep to deal with here. Instead, he goes over. And there's one more thing we ought to look and notice is why does he go over? And the answer is that the burning bush is strange. But the word strange in English, it's kind of a negative word. What he means is this is inexplicable. I see something that doesn't fit my current model of reality. In my current model of reality, bushes that burn fall apart eventually. They get consumed. And so what he actually sees is something he goes over, not out of just idle curiosity, but because he sees something that's challenging his present model of reality. The burning bush is a paradigm buster. Do you know what I mean by that? In other words, Here's how it's working. I have a view of reality. And if my view is right, this thing can't exist. But this thing exists. So I need to revise my view of reality. I need to go think about it. I need to rethink. I have a view. If my view is right, this can't exist. This does exist. So I need to rethink my view. And that's why he goes. Because burning bushes that don't get consumed doesn't fit his model of reality. And that's why he went. Now, what do we learn? if we look at these opening items in the narrative, I believe we learn something about how anybody is led into a situation where they have spiritual encounters with God. Some of you are here wanting to know that. First of all, here's what we learn, just briefly. Number one, most people are going to say that their big encounters with God happened because they thought their whole life was on a detour. They were in the wrong job. They were in the wrong city. They were in the wrong relationship. A lot of us feel like we're in the wrong body. You know, look at this thing. I'm not supposed to have a body that looks like this. In other words, there's something wrong with our whole life. There's an irony for the narrator to say, a detour? How could one of the epical meetings in the history of the human race between a human being and God. How could that be a detour? But over and over again, God meets us in the wilderness. He meets us in the desert. When we think our life is on a detour, it's really spiritual mainstream. When we think everything is going wrong, it's going wrong because it forces us to think in ways we wouldn't have thought otherwise. It forces us to seek in ways we wouldn't have sought otherwise. So the first thing we learn is almost everybody tends to meet God when you think your life's on detour, when your plans aren't, when things aren't going according to your plans. When things are going according to your plans. When you think you're on a back road. It's Main Street, spiritually. So one thing is we learn that usually when things are going wrong is when we meet God. But secondly, even when things are going wrong, you still got to go over. I mean, the problems of Moses' life had brought him near the bush, but he had to make a decision to actually go over and turn aside. And to turn aside literally means he had to leave his sheep. He had to leave the ordinary busyness of life and take time to look and reflect and think. And this is important because there's a lot of us who actually are brought near where God wants us to be, but we are unwilling. We just put our heads down and we're busy. We stay busy. We don't want to come aside to meditate. We don't want to come aside to read. We don't want to explore. turn aside. We get near, but not come over. I was reading a sermon by somebody who says this is how a typical New Yorker does it. When you get near a burning bush, I mean, New Yorkers, we just get busy. And this is how a New Yorker would handle a burning bush. Keep your head down. Stay busy. Burning bush? I didn't really get a good look at it. Burning bush? Probably just some rational explanation anyway. Burning bush? I've been paid to watch sheep. Not turn aside and look at bushes. Burning bush? Will somebody please put that thing out? Okay. It's New York. You see? In other words, our lives are going wrong. There's something inside our lives that are gone wrong. We're on a detour. We clearly are being moved toward some kind of spiritual reality, but what we do is we don't want to turn aside ourselves. We are on a macro detour. We won't do the micro detour. We just won't do it. Put our heads down and get busy. I'm glad, in a way, that the economy in New York is so bad that some of you can't even do that.

You don't have enough work to be busy. And unfortunately, what that means is, unfortunately, what it means is you're having to face something spiritually you wouldn't want to do. By the way, this isn't just true for what you might call people who are seeking God. If you're a Christian and you want to continually have spiritual reality in your life, you have got to take time to turn aside. You've got to take time out of the busyness of life. You've got to leave the work. You've got to. You've got to take regular time to be alone with God. You have to. Or there's no spiritual encounter. There's no spiritual reality. But here's one other thing, and it's important to consider. A lot of you don't know a burning bush when you see it. What is a burning bush? A burning bush is a paradigm buster. It's something inexplicable that challenges your current understanding of spiritual reality. It's something that forces you to think outside the box. That's a term that we like to use in New York. forces you because it challenges your model. Let me give you some examples. A lot of people don't even realize what they are, but they are burning bushes. So, for example, for a lot of us, just spiritual emptiness itself is like a burning bush because you've been taught all your life there's a natural explanation for everything. So, why are you unhappy? It must be a psychological reason. So, we go to do therapy. And by the way, therapy is very important and good. It might be a sociological reason. There might be a physiological reason. We go to our doctor. Look, I'm not saying you

But what if after years and years you start to realize that underneath all of the psychological, the sociological, the physiological, there's still a problem? There's a spiritual problem. There's a spiritual emptiness. There's a hunger. What is that? It's a burning bush in that it challenges the secular view of things. Let me give you a couple other examples. Believe it or not, success. There are a lot of people in New York who get successful. find it's not nearly as satisfying as they thought. If they were made for this world, if this world is all it is, then having lots of money and being successful in love, being successful in your career, being successful financially should really make you maybe not perfectly happy, but largely happy. And so many people get to the top and they're not. They're not. What does that mean? It's a paradigm buster. Maybe you don't even know. It's a burning bush. Why are you so unhappy when you're so successful? Now, you can just put your head down and just try which is a typical New York thing to do. Maybe I just need to be more successful. Turn aside. Recognize you had a view of reality that this world is all there is, and yet when you get everything that this world has to offer, you're still unhappy. And what should that make? That should make you think about your model. Maybe you're made for a world beyond this one. Or let me just give you one more example, and it's an intellectual example, but it's also very important just to show you how many burning bushes there are out there. things that are challenging your model of reality. If your model of reality is right, then that shouldn't exist, but it does exist. Therefore, you need to rethink your model, your secular model, your model that says, well, I really don't need God in the center of my life. I recently read books by people that you probably have heard of, but I'm not going to use their names only because I don't really, I'm not sure where they are spiritually, and I don't want you to think that I'm making statements about where their hearts are. I'm just using them as examples. examples. One man said, I'm an atheist and I believe in human rights and that's a problem. And he says, let me explain the problem. And he says, if there is no God, then you know how we got here? You know why I'm here, why I live? Through a series of natural selection by which I trampled, you know, human beings are only here because we trampled on the weaker ones. The species that are here are the ones that trample on the weak one. So if there is no God and if basically that's how things go, on what basis do we say that there's such a thing as human rights, that we're not supposed to trample on individuals? And he says, some of my atheist friends say, well, there are no such things as human rights that are there. You create them through legislation. Well, he says, here's the problem, though. Of course, that happens through the majority. The laws only pass when the majority wants them. How do you say to a majority, you mustn't oppress this individual or this minority? The minority. Does the minority where the individual has rights the majority cannot trample on whether or not they legislate or what? How can you?.. And he said, The more I thought about, the more I realized that there is no God. There really shouldn't be any human rights. There are no human rights. But I know they're there. So, I just take them as there. That's how he ends the book. Or at least... I read another guy who said, All my life, I really that there is no God. The human really can't be valuable. We're really no more valuable than rocks. We're just a chemical accident, and yet I can't help over the years but treat people as intrinsically valuable, and therefore I've started to question my secular atheist worldview. If there is no God, if my premise is right, then I shouldn't feel this way about people, but I can't help but not feel this way about people, therefore I'm going to start to question the premise. Now here's two guys. Neither of them believe in God at this point yet. They both have burning bushes. They both see it. I mean, the average person who says, I don't really believe in God, but I know there's human rights, and they haven't seen that's a contradiction. These guys both agree it is. But one of them will not turn aside, and the other one is. The only reason I haven't told you the names is because I really don't know where they're going or what's going on there, and I want you to think I'm not trying to spiritually stamp one, saying this one's doing fine and this one's not. Do you see the burning bushes for what they are now? Are you willing to turn aside? Are you willing to, instead of being irritated with them, realize it's God calling to you? So that's how we have our spiritual encounters. And by the way, it's usually how we often have our re-spiritual encounters, is through going on a detour and then being willing to take a the micro detour and the macro detour. Now, secondly, what is this spiritual reality? What are we talking about? What is it? And the answer of the text is, it's meeting the God who is a God of fire. Do you know how often God appears in the Bible as fire? Do you know when he comes down on Mount Sinai, he comes down as fire, that when he's leading the children of Israel through the through the wilderness, it'll be as a pillar of fire. That the book of Hebrews, the last verse of chapter 12 says, worship God, worship the Lord in reverence and awe for our God is a consuming fire. Why? I mean, God obviously could have appeared as a lot of different things. Why fire? What does that tell us? Blaise Pascal, when he died, famous mathematician and philosopher, Christopher, they discovered that in his coat lining, there was a document that he had sewn into the lining. And it was a document describing an event that had happened in his life, late one night for about two hours, 1654. And you know how he describes it? It's very, very famous. He basically says, this is what was on the paper. He says, the year of grace, 1654, Monday, 23rd November, from half past 10 in the evening until about half past 12, fire. Just one line, capital letters, fire. God of Abram, God of Isaac, God of Jacob, not of the philosophers and savants, certitude, certitude, feeling, joy, peace, God of Jesus Christ. Now, he is almost, I mean, I'm not sure whether he was conscious, but he's drawing heavily on the words from this passage in order to describe what had happened to him. What had happened to him. Did he not believe in God before? Did he say, ah, you know, 1030 to 1230 on November 23rd, 1654, I didn't believe in God, and then I came to see, he does exist. That's not what he's saying. He believed in God before, but God wasn't a fire to him. Fire has to do with what? It means God became a living reality to him, a spiritual reality. Let's take a look at this, spiritual reality. Let's see how the metaphor fire helps us. First of all, reality. You know what fire is? Unlike water, you can put your hand into water. You can move water around. You know, you can disperse water. Clay and water are shaped by the toucher. But put your hand in fire, and you will find that the toucher is shaped by the fire. The fire will just consume you. The fire will melt you. There's something unyielding about fire. When God, when Moses says, what is your name? and God tells him in this chapter, people for centuries have been puzzling over what that meant. And one of the problems is there's a tendency to pull it out of context, stick it right, you know, on a piece of paper and look at it and try to figure it out. And it's cryptic. But you see, let's look inside the narrative. When does God give this name? It's when God has said to Moses, I want you to start doing some things, and Moses doesn't like to hear it. I want you to go to Pharaoh. I want you to go. Moses does not like this. So Moses starts to say, this doesn't make any sense. How can I do this? I'm not up for this. People aren't going to listen to me. They're going to say, who should I say is calling? And I won't even know. So like, you know, I don't even know your name. So he's actually giving God some trouble. He's actually saying, you know, I don't like this. I don't like this. And what does God say? He says, tell them I am who I am. now. In the context, this is what's going on. What God is saying to Moses, Moses, my name is not, I am who you want. My name is, I am who I am. Moses, you're unhappy because I'm not turning out to be quite the God exactly like you wanted. You wanted a God who would tell you this is this, I'm telling you this and this is this. But Moses, I am not the God who you want. I am not who you want. I am who I am. Now, reality. What does spiritual reality means? something that we didn't make up. And you know, this is very hard for modern people, especially modern New Yorkers. Not too long ago, I talked to a woman who said, you know, my parents believe in Christianity kind of like you do, and it's true for them. But you see, I don't think that would work for me. I don't think that's gonna meet my needs. I need to find a truth that would fit my needs. In other words, I would like a God that fits me. They've got a God, and he says, that's a real God to them, but I think I need to find a real

how? Listen, okay, okay. Maybe you want a God who meets your needs, but how can a God that you actually put together that doesn't contradict you, that nothing about him is incomprehensible, how can a God that you know you made up possibly help you when you most need it? When you feel guilty, really guilty, how can a God who you made up say, you're not, you're pardoned? How, when you feel like scum psychologically, your self-image is scum, how can a God that you know you've made up, you basically put together, come and tell you're valuable?

Don't look for a God who meets your needs. Look for a real God, because how can anything but a real God meet your needs? You need to go to the God who reveals himself in the Bible, who you don't always understand, who often says things that are difficult, who often says things you don't even like, but then at least you know you're dealing with a real person because every real person you know is like that. Don't you realize that? In other words, if somebody came and says, you know, I'd like to get to know you.

And I like to think of you as a stubborn, hard-headed person who never changes his mind. And I like to think of you as a person who almost never gives in. And I'd look at you and I'd say, in other words, you don't want a personal relationship with me. You've already got your mind made up. up. If you want a personal relation with me, you have to let me be who I am. And therefore, spiritual reality, first of all, means you've found the real God. Not a God you've made up, a God that meets your needs, but a real God, a God who's there. Now, somebody says, well, how do we even know that I found the real God? I mean, isn't there a certain level of subjectivity? You're talking about what? And I say, of course, there's a level of subjectivity in spiritual experience. We'll talk about that in a second. But you say, how do we know? There's a test. The Bible gives us the test. In fact, even the metaphor of fire gives us a test because fire is at the same moment paradoxically beautiful and attractive and yet dangerously lethal and scary. It's beautiful and attractive. I know we build fireplaces today just to put fires in there, though we don't need fires to warm our home. We don't need fires to cook. We just want them. We love them. They're attractive, and yet they're scary. They're lethal. You can't play with them. We have a term called play with fire. It means you can't play with it. There's a paradox, and the biblical view of God is a view of God that is not something that human beings construct. It's utterly counterintuitive because it's a God who's absolutely holy and absolutely loving. Now, the two kinds of gods basically out there in the market

are one or the other. There are some people, plenty of people, who say, I believe in a demanding God, a, you know, a righteous God who's actually quite frightening and quite intimidating and, you know, quite respect engendering, but not attractive, not ravishingly beautiful. Then you have a God of, you might say, not so much of the conservative sort, but the liberal sort. You have a God out there in the market that's completely accepting and accepts people as they and takes everyone in and just loves everybody. And that's a God who's very attractive, but there's no discipline, there's no judgment, there's certainly nothing intimidating. And the Bible says neither of those gods are real gods. You know why? It's so obvious. It's so obvious that they are the product of human wish fulfillment. Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud have said that the demanding God of moralism and religion is a God very convenient for people in power. It's a way of keeping other folks under their thumb. But it's also rather obviously convenient to have a God who just loves you and just forgives you and just says everything is fine. Doesn't tell you, stop that, stop that, stop that, drop that, don't go there. How convenient. But the biblical God is a God who is a God of fire, burning with holiness, which is zero tolerance for evil and wrong. but burning with a passionate love that refuses, refuses to stop until he's made us his own.

A burning, fiery God, you see. That's how you know you've got the real one, because it's not a God that you would make up, not a God you'd think up, not a God you would want, at least not for the normal human heart, a demanding God who's really not a God of love who says, just live a good life. For self-righteous people, it's perfect. And a loving God, you know, for undisciplined people who just loves everybody, it's perfect. But an absolutely holy and absolutely loving God, a God who is zero tolerance for sin, evil, and wrong, but at the same time, absolutely and totally committed to love us, save us, bring us, make us his own. That is a God that you wouldn't have made up because, frankly, you don't know how that could be. But there he is. He's like a real person. And spiritual reality means that real person is not just believed, but sensed on the heart. Blaise Pascal didn't just believe in a holy, loving God, but he sensed his love on his heart. He felt it. He sensed his holiness. He felt it. He sensed that he was in the presence of him, and that is an experience of spiritual reality, fire.

Now, that's how it happens. That's what it is. Thirdly,

why is it possible there is i believe now after having read this chapter many years but only this last couple of weeks as i was studying it getting ready to teach you about this today that i realized that the author of this passage wants us to see that there is a bigger inexplicable issue a bigger riddle than the burning bush itself why did moses go over Because he said, this doesn't make any sense. How could a bush burn and burn and burn and burn with fire and not fall apart, not be consumed? There's a bigger riddle. You know what it is? When Moses moves over, the first thing God says is what? Come in, Moses, I'd like to give you a hug. No. Verse 5, in Hebrew, it's much more terse than it comes across in English. Literally, God says in verse 5, stop. Come no closer. closer. When he says, take off your sandals, he doesn't say you're about to get on the holy ground. He says, the place you're standing is holy ground. And Moses was scared, verse 6 says, and he ought to be scared. Why? Because when God came down on Mount Sinai, if even a cow touched it, it died because of the otherness of God, because of the transcendence of God, because of the magnitude of God. All right? So, when God says, take off your sandals, you're on holy ground, why is Moses scared? You know, it sounds kind of nice to us because we've got a hallmark reading card understanding of God. You know, holy means holy. You know, it's reverent and inspiring and organ music in the background. When God said, take off your shoes, you're on holy ground, he's saying you're already standing in a fatal zone. You're already in fatal territory. territory. But, contrary to what we would expect, if you think about this, and if you put it in its historical context, and you put it in its theological context, contrary to that, what happens? First of all, not only does Moses not die, but from chapter 1, from chapter 3, all the way into chapter 4, we couldn't print it all, all the way into chapter 4, 17, Moses continually talks to God over and over, 13 times, I think. There's these interchanges over and over and over again. in. He continually talks to God, and almost everything Moses says is a form of whining.

He's whining to this holy God. He's whining to the Lord of the universe. And here's the great riddle. How in the world can you start arguing and doubting and questioning and whining to the Lord God of the universe right in the fatal zone, and God just continually keep you in a personal relationship. At one point God even says, all right, so take Aaron, your brother. God enters in, this holy God enters into a personal relationship with a whiner. In other words, here's the great riddle. And I think the narrator wants you to know this is the riddle. There's Moses whining, whining, whining, and he's not consumed. Moses is the riddle. Moses is the inexplicable. How could Moses be in the very presence of God, getting the very name of God, to getting this very revelation of this holy God and not be consumed. He's a bigger riddle than the bush. The bush is just a picture of him in a sense. How is this possible? And the answer is, it's actually there in the text. Because it goes back and forth over and over again, Moses said, Lord said, Moses said, Lord said, Moses said, Lord said, you forget that in the very beginning, verse 2, we're told that when Moses drew near, the reason there was fire in The Lord was in the bush. See that? The angel of the Lord.

And it's the angel of the Lord who is mediating the presence of God. God is speaking to Moses, and Moses is speaking to God through the angel. The angel is mediating. And you say, well, that's interesting, but aren't there a lot of angels in the Bible? Yeah, there's a lot of angels in the Bible, and this isn't one of them. Because when an angel shows up, like in the book of Revelation, chapter 21, when John sees the angel. And he sees an angel. Of course, angels are very impressive to look at, they tell me. And he falls down, he begins to worship, and the angel says, get up, stop, don't do that, don't worship me, I'm just a creature like you. But this angel, he takes off his shoes, which is an act of abject, utter worship, and the angel receives it. Why? This is not an angel. Who is this? Years later, there was a bunch of religious leaders that were arguing with this upstart young teacher. And they said, how dare you contradict us? Don't you know who we are? We are children of Abraham. Are you greater than Abraham? And this guy looked at them, and the most amazing things that any human lips have ever said, he looked at them and said, verily, verily, I say unto you, before Abraham was, I am. now if he had said before Abraham was I was that would have been incredible all he would have been claiming was to be about 3000 years old and you know what they would have done they would have said what an idiot and they would have walked away but if you go to chapter 8 of the book of John you'll see what this what happened when he said before Abraham was not I was but I am they immediately tried to kill him because they knew what he was claiming was far more than just to say that I'm 3000 years old or I'm some kind of supernatural being that's been around for a long time. When he says Abraham was, I am, he said, well, that doesn't make any grammatic sense. No, it doesn't make grammatic sense. That's the point. It makes theological sense. He was saying, there's never been a time in which the Word was and never will be a time in which the Word was. As any reference to me, there never was a time in which I was not. There never will be a time in which people can talk about me in the past tense, which means I have no beginning. I have no ending.

I am my own condition. I am my own cause. I depend on nothing for my existence. Everything depends on me for its. Jesus Christ was able to actually take the very name, I am who I am, on His lips and they tried to kill Him, but He had said it before. He was there. It is only through the mediator that this fiery God, both holy and loving, can be known. It's only through Jesus Christ. And you say, how could that be? I want you to think now. Let me pull all the threads together. Don't you see? It's only through Jesus Christ that you can actually have a non-human constructed God, either a God who demands everything or a God who accepts everything. thing. It's only in Jesus Christ and on the cross of Jesus Christ that you have a truly, absolutely holy God and, at the very same moment, a truly, absolutely loving God. Think. You know the demanding kind of religion with a demanding God who's always saying, try your best and be good, and then I'll take you to heaven? The God who sent Jesus Christ to the cross, his only son, his angel, to die for our sins, is a God who's more holy than that kind of human-constructed, demanding God, No matter how hard you try, the things you have done wrong have to be paid for. He's more holy than the demanding God, but at the same time, he's more loving than the accepting God. Ah, the accepting God. I have a God, people say to me, who loves me. I don't need Jesus Christ. He just accepts everybody. In other words, that God is a God whose love costs him nothing. No nails, no thorns, no spear in the side, nothing. Nothing. Don't you see? The God who sent Jesus Christ on the cross is a more loving God than a God who just accepts everybody, but He's a more holy God than a God who just demands that you be as good as you possibly can. Don't you see? If you come to God through Jesus Christ, you finally have a God of fire. You finally have a God that you didn't make up. You finally have a God of intimacy and of ravishing, transforming experience. Here's why. This is common sense. A God who just accepts isn't going to be as exciting, as dramatic, and as life-changing as a God who atones. Atones. And who atones at his own cost. Doesn't just forgive. But atones at infinite cost to himself. To know a God like that. To meditate on a God like that. To seek to know a God like that. To have the Holy Spirit come into your heart and make the truths of what that God did real to your heart. That's what will change your life forever.

Lastly, how do you know you have had this encounter? Not just with God in general, but with God through Jesus Christ, the angel, the mediator. And the answer is the call. Here's the last thing. What's remarkable about every place where someone has an encounter like this, Abraham meets God in Genesis 12, Isaiah meets God in Isaiah 6, there is never, ever, ever, ever any time in which God calls you in to give you an experience without sending you out. You see, Abraham, yes, Lord. I want to make you a blessing. I want to bless you. I want to be with you. I want to come into your life. Now, get out. Get out of your land. Get out of your comfort zone. Get out of everything you've ever known. Go out into the wilderness. I'll talk to you later. Isaiah, I'd like to forgive your sin. I see a coal from the altar. It's on your lips. Your sins are forgiven. loved. You're completely accepted. Thank you, Lord. Now, I have a job. I would like you to go out and be a preacher to a nation of people who will never, ever, ever listen to you. They'll try to kill you the whole time. Moses, though you're a whiner, I love you.

Though you are a complainer, I will be with you. I will be with you.

Pharaoh, you know, the most powerful person in the entire world, and I want you to tell him that his entire free slave labor force you're taking. But here's the thing. They do go. They all go. And here's why. This is the point. How do you know if you have actually encountered God? Not just had an emotional experience, not just sort of created a God that makes you feel a little more inspired and spiritual. How do you know? You go. And it works. And here's why. Moses became a burning bush. This is the answer to the last question. This is my last point. The way you know you've met, you've turned aside to a burning bush that God sent into your life, and you've actually met the real God through Jesus Christ, is you become a burning bush. You know what? What's so neat about the burning bush? A bush. You don't have to be a giant sequoia. You don't have to be an azalea. Just a bush. And yet you can. This is what the scripture says. The very glory of God, the stuff that used to be in the temple and the tabernacle, and it was fatal to people. The very glory of God, the holiness of God that was fatal because we are flawed and we can't live in our lives. When Jesus Christ died, the veil in the temple, the veil covering the holy place, the place where the Shekinah glory of God dwelt, was ripped. It was ripped from top to bottom. Why? Because of the angel. Because of what Jesus Christ has done, you can become a burning bush. That same glory, that same Shekinah, that same holiness can come into your life. And you know, one of the things that's so funny about that bush, as ugly as that bush was in itself, it was a beautiful thing. And it was a pure thing. There were no aphids on that bush. You know, there was no little, can you imagine? No parasites. Any little gypsy moth said, said, hey, let's go over there and have lunch on that bush, they would, that's it.

And in the same way, if you encounter God through Jesus Christ, where there's smallness of mind, courage. Where there's fear, confidence. Where there's sadness all the time, joy. Where there's low self-esteem, you know, a deep sense of inner peace. What happens is God comes into your life and he turns you into something beautiful and you become inexplicable. You become a burning bush.

that people go to. They say, I can't figure this person out. You know, you may just be a bush. You may not be very bright. You may not be very good looking. You may not be very, you know, at top of your class or something like that. And yet there'll be something inexplicable about you. You know why? Because you see, if you have a holy only God, you're always going to be insecure and self-righteous and putting people down. If you have a loving everything all the time and nobody ever disciplines you. You'll never grow or change either. But if you have, in Jesus Christ, an absolutely holy God, an absolutely loving God, a God who is so holy that he had to die for you, which humbles you, but who loves you so much. See, God was so holy, he had to die for you. But a God who is so loving, he was glad to die for you. And when you have a God like that in your life, it changes you. It makes you bold and humble. At once, it changes you. And you become inexplicable. and you become beautiful and people are turned aside to see you. Does that happen? Let me end like this.

Here's a question.

I read it some ways. Are you a burning bush? Are you burning with uncommon light of God's beauty and holiness but not consumed because of the merits and righteousness of Jesus Christ whom you trust and who therefore mediates your relationship with God? If not, turn aside and make it so. And secondly, if you're a Christian and you say, well, yeah, I guess I should be a burning bush, but nobody thinks I'm very remarkable. Nobody finds me very, very attractive. You better turn aside and get the spiritual reality in your life that only comes from reminding yourself of what he's done and falling in love with him again. But it takes time. Turn aside. Get the time alone. Get hotter so that you too can be a burning bush. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for think about these things, and we pray that you would help us to apply the truths to our hearts by your Holy Spirit. I pray for those who have never had this encounter, that they might find you soon. I pray for those of us who have had this encounter, but we have been just so busy on the other side, so busy with our sheep, so busy with our work, that we are not burning very hot. There's There's not much about us that really turns people aside. And we pray that would be more true because we are committed to making changes because we spent this time in this worship service considering this passage and having you speak to us through it. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.
