I'd like to call your attention to Luke chapter 1, to the Annunciation, the Magnificat of Mary, and I'd like to start reading at verse 26. It's a long passage. Let me tell you what this is about. Whenever you come to the Christmas season, the Advent season, you always are turned by preachers and speakers to the early chapters of Matthew and Luke, and someone usually says, this is the first Christmas, let's look at it. I'd like you to consider today that when we listen to Mary, how she received the message from the angel and how she responded to it, what you have here is the first Christian. The first Christian. She's the first one to ever hear the message of Christmas and therefore the specifically Christian message about Jesus. And she responds to it. And her response is nothing less than a conversion. And I'd like to take a look and see how Mary was converted. And because she's the first Christian, she can teach us an awful lot about our own Christian experience. She can help us evaluate whether we are Christians. She can help us evaluate the reality and the vitality of our own Christian experience.

people have over the years, before Mary was born, many people, the Old Testament saints, knew in some vague general way that there was a Messiah coming and that God was somehow going to put things right. But here is the first person to ever hear the actual Christian message that Jesus, the Son of God, was going to descend to earth. He was going to be born a human being and he was going to take up the kingdom of the Father, and he was going to make everything in this world right. She's the first one to hear the message. She's converted by it, but look and see how it happens. And then let's us take a look and see if we can evaluate ourselves according to it. Verse 26, In the sixth month God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be a great one and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. How will this be, Mary asked, since I am a virgin? The angel answered, the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you, and so the Holy One that will be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who was said to be barren is in her sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. I am the Lord's servant, Mary answered. May it be you have said. And then the angel left her. At that time, Mary got ready and hurried to a town in the hill country of Judea, where she entered Zachariah's home and greeted Elizabeth. And when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the baby leaped in her womb, and Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. In a loud voice, she exclaimed, Blessed are you among women, and blessed is the child you will bear. But why am I so favored that the mother of my Lord should come to me As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. Blessed is she who has believed what the Lord has said to her will be accomplished. And Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed, for the Mighty One has done great things for me. Holy is his name. His mercy extends to those who fear Him from generation to generation. The message of Christmas is basically the gospel message. One of the most incredibly frightening, and maybe I guess I could say one of the contestants for the most solemn verses in the Bible, is in John chapter 12, verse 48, where Jesus says, There is a judge for the one who does not accept my word. That very word which I spoke will condemn him on the last day.

On the last day, the message that Jesus brought, if you do not believe it here, it will rise up and condemn you. The message of Jesus and the message of Christmas is the same thing. You sing about it every single year. year, born to raise the sons of earth, born to give them second birth. The most frightening thing about singing these Christmas carols every year is that Jesus says, if on the last day you don't believe the things that you sang every year, they will rise up and judge you by a Christmas carol. Imagine how you respond to this gospel message. It's so critical. How does Mary respond? four ways. And these four ways, these four aspects of her experience are actually four tests you can use to see the reality or the vitality of your own Christian experience. These four things are, she responds, her Christian experience is marked by centrality, wonder, fear, and truth. Look, first of all, centrality. She says, my soul doth magnify and my spirit She says, my soul glorifies and my spirit exalts. I know there's different translations. What is she talking about? Obviously, the soul and the spirit are not two different things. It doesn't mean, well, my soul was glorifying over in this part of me, but my spirit was exalting on this. They're used interchangeably. Her soul and her spirit, what she means by the repetition, which is a typical Semitic approach to make an emphatic point. What she means by the repetition is that she has been moved in the depths of her being. your soul, your spirit, is that which doesn't change, that which lasts forever. And she is saying, I have been moved to the very depths.

Mary is not saying, what an interesting idea. I would like to have an appointment with you to talk more about this later. He's not saying, you know, my curiosity is piqued. It's extremely interesting. Instead, she says, my soul, my spirit. beside myself. She says, Nothing has ever gripped me like this. Nothing has ever moved or shaken me like this. I've never had this sort of thing happen to me before. This is not just the most important thing I've ever heard. It's the second and third and the fourth and the fifth and the sixth and the hundredth most important thing, too. She says, I've been moved to the bottom. All of me. It's involving all of me. My soul. My spirit. In other words, she's saying, at my very depths, every part of me has been gripped by this Christian message. My mind, I've never seen anything like this that explains so much. My heart, I've never felt this kind of feeling, this kind of depth. That's what she's saying. My soul and my spirit. She's been moved to the very depths. There's a centrality about her Christian experience. She's been moved at her center. Now, I want you to keep this carefully in mind for a moment. This happens, but it happens to her in stages. There is nothing more dangerous than the standardized Christian experience. You know, John Bunyan, the author of the great book, A Pilgrim's Progress. John Bunyan lived 300 years ago. We know from his biography that his conversion experience took 18 months. For 18 months, he was in tremendous agony and depression. He got as low as he could be before he was converted to Christianity. Christianity. We also know from the Bible, in the book of Acts, the Philippian jailer, the first time he heard the gospel, there was an immediate dramatic, it all came together, he understood it, and suddenly he was a Christian, and he was baptized immediately. And it's so very wrong for you to say it has to be like John Bunyan, it has to be a slow process, it has to be lots of wrestling and struggling and agonizing of soul, you've got to be as low as possible. It takes a long time to get it all together. Or on the other hand, you have something like the Philippian jailer, who seemed to have it all together. Draw dramatic. And the Philippian jailer could say, the moment I was converted was that day, that moment, that time. How wrong it is to standardize things. Because Mary, for example, is in the middle. Mary, from what I can tell, had three stages to her coming to Christ. The first stage was incredulity. The first time she heard the gospel message, she said, how can these things be? Now, you know what she's saying? She's saying, this is impossible. Now, you say, well, that takes guts to tell an angel. Though what he's saying makes no sense. But if you know your own heart, you'll know that's the way it is. In fact, I go this far. Unless you have heard the Christian message and found it incredible. You probably have never really understood it. People who today really relish the credibility and the coherence of the Christian faith originally or initially found it incredible. Now, I know there's a difference about children who are raised and they hear it early on and they move on into it. And John the Baptist, obviously, was filled with the Spirit from his mother's womb and certainly understood and believed the gospel early on in his life and so forth. But I'm saying the ordinary approach is that. If a person doesn't find the gospel ridiculously impossible at first, you probably never really have come to grips with it.

Suppose you discovered, you found out, or it was your job to break the news to a friend, that he had just inherited $2 billion through some distant relative he never even probably heard of. And it's your job to break the news. So you go in and you tell him. said, you know, it doesn't surprise me a bit, really, because I always knew something great like this would happen to me. And what would you say? You would say, well, you have been walking in a veil of illusion, mister. I mean, anybody who is not surprised by an inheritance of two billion dollars shows that all along you were out of touch with reality. And in the same way, Mary's first response is, incredible, impossible. If you've never gone through a stage like that, you've probably never really seen what the Bible actually promises. You've probably never seen what the size is of the promises that the gospel makes. But then secondly, Mary has a second stage, and the second stage I'm going to call confused submission. You know what she says? She says, behold, you know in the old King James Bible she says, behold the handmaiden of the Lord,

In the more modern translation that I read today, she says, I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me as you have said. Is she saying, oh, I get it? Is that what she says? Does she say, ah, it's all so clear. My heart is, no. Here's what she says. Many of us have gone through this stage. Do you remember it? It's a very important stage. At first, the gospel is impossible, but then, as you think about it, that you begin to realize that though you don't feel it, this is something you need, and all the alternatives are less credible than this. You get into a kind of middle stage. You no longer think this is ridiculous. You no longer dismiss it. In fact, you say, I realize I need this. And I also realize that the alternatives are even less credible. And yet I still don't get it. I still don't feel it. It still doesn't completely make sense to me. So what do you say? You say, God, I know I need this. I realize that this makes more sense than anything else I've ever heard. I still don't really know what I'm supposed to do. I still don't really know how it all hangs together, but I'm going to listen to you. I'm going to wait for you. I'm going to follow you. A very, very important stage. You know, there's many places in the Christian world where people are asked to make a decision for Christ. And I can't tell you how many times that I have found that when people made a decision, they were not at the Magnificat section of their Christian life. They were not yet ready to say, My spirit, my soul. But rather they were saying, I don't really get all this, but I know I need this. I don't really understand it all, and yet I see that it makes more sense than other things that I've ever done. I'm going to find it. I want in. I'm going to wait. I'm going to follow. I'm going to submit. And then finally, the third stage, is where Elizabeth says, says, why am I so favored as to have a visit from the mother of my Lord? Blessed is she who believes everything she's been told. And suddenly it all comes together for Mary. She says, wait a minute. Verse 49, the mighty one, verse 50, has been merciful to me. She begins to see how it all comes together. And suddenly she bursts into total comprehension. My spirit doth magnify the Lord, Lord, and my soul doth rejoice in God my Savior. Suddenly, it all comes together. And you say, well, that's kind of odd. I mean, why would it all come together for you here? A lot of you would say, if an angel appeared to me and told me the gospel, then, you know, I would say, finally, God's giving me a clear message. When the angel showed up to Mary, she still didn't get it. It wasn't until she had a talk with her cousin that she began to get it. Why? Because, listen, friends, God will give you, if you seek him, that comprehension. God will give you, if you seek him, that assurance. It will finally come. It will finally come home. But now here's the point. You see, there's many different ways in which it can happen to you. It can happen slow, like Bunyan. It can happen meal-sized, like Mary. It can happen immediately, like the Philippian jailer. It can happen in a lot of different ways. But my question to you is, has it happened to you? Has it happened to you? Have you been moved in your depths? My soul, my spirit, I'm beside myself. Nothing has ever gripped me like this. You sense that God is dealing with you. You sense that God himself has his finger on you. There's something inside you and you can't divest yourself of it. It's inside. We all may respond in different ways. John Bunyan, Mary, the Philippian jail, they all responded in different ways.

You may say, I wish I'd never heard of Christ. I wish I could go back to the way I used to be in which it didn't bother me. These religious questions didn't vex me. And I could just walk along in the world without much thought. I wish I could go back. In other words, there's all sorts of ways of dealing with it. But it's inside you. There's been an outside power that's come into your center and it's dealing with you. And you know it. What is it? It's the one who made you at the beginning. making you again. And you can't get rid of it. My friends, sometimes when I see a person wrestling and struggling in anger, when I have a person coming up to me and saying, I hate what you said, I can't stand what you say, I don't understand it, I'm struggling with it, I've got a lot more hope for that person, that person is going to be a real Christian, than a person who says, sure, I believe it, why make a federal case out of it? That's not the way Mary had. My soul, my spirit. Spirit, do you sense that an outside power has come in and moved you to the bottom? That's the mark of a Christian. Look, here's the second test. Wonder. When you read and listen to her song, My Soul, My Spirit, but you notice she's constantly saying, My soul glorifies the Lord, my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. from now on all generations will call me blessed for the mighty one has done great things for me? For me? She's looking at all of the history of salvation and all the history of the world and realizes it's all coming down on her. There's a note of joy and astonishment in her. You know why? The Bible says that one of the marks of a real Christian is that there's always a note of surprise.

And that will tell you if you really understand the essence of the Christian message. What is Christianity? What's the essence of Christianity? If you say Christianity is going to church, Christianity is believing a certain creed, Christianity is living a certain kind of life, there's no surprise in your life because you're centering Christianity in what you are doing.

But if on the other hand, you center Christianity in what's been done to you, There will be a note of surprise and wonder. See, John Newton wrote the hymn, Let us love and sing and wonder. Let us praise the Savior's name. He has hushed the law's loud thunder. He has quenched Mount Sinai's flame. He has washed us in his blood. He has brought us nigh to God. Why is John Newton so full of love and song and wonder? Because he has brought us. He has done it. There's two understandings of Christianity. One is, it's us finding God. The other understanding, the other conception is, it's God finding us. If it's you finding God, there's no surprise or wonder in your life. If it's God finding you, there's a lot of joy. It's a sense of revelation.

Christianity is a religion of revelation. It's a religion of grace. See, suppose you've lost something. too long ago, I lost my little travel clock that I keep with me. I always keep it by my bedside. And it's the only alarm that wakes me up. It doesn't wake my wife up. And I lost it. I couldn't find it. I had taken it, I remember, into a room. So I said, I know where it is. I remember where I had it last. So I walked in. And if I had found it there, there would have been no surprise. I would have said, I thought about it. I worked it through in my memory. I remembered where it was. And I got it. There would have been no, finding that alarm clock, there would have been no joy or wonder. But when I walked in there, I couldn't find it. I looked everywhere. I was very frustrated. So was my wife, for especially two mornings in which I had to use another alarm clock, and I woke her up with me. And then one day, I suddenly heard it. A far off in the distance. I ran into my son's room. There it is, but where's it coming from? I walked around until it got louder and louder and louder. and then I found it in, you know, it was coming out of this particular set of shelves. I looked in there, I came from this shelf, I looked in there, and there was this huge, huge tub of Lego blocks.

And it was coming out of there.

And I picked it up and I walked it into the living room where my wife was. It was still beeping. I sat it down on the coffee table and we just laughed. You know why? Why? Well, there it was at the very bottom of a whole big, huge barrel of Lego blocks. And we said, if it hadn't found us, never in a million years would we have ever found it. That's why we laughed. That's why there was wonder there. Never in a million years we never would have found it. The alarm clock found us. That is what the Bible says Christianity is about. That. Now let me just ask you a very simple question. do you look at yourself and are you amazed at yourself? Do you say, how? Do you sit right now and say, I remember when I didn't believe these things. How could I have lived without it? How could I have been so stupid? I was blind. I was lost. If you don't think of yourself that way now, if there's no sense of joy and wonder about your life, if you don't look at yourself and say, Say, for me, me a Christian of all people. If instead you live your life like this saying, Of course I'm a Christian. I was raised a Christian. Of course I'm a Christian. I believe and I follow those beliefs. Of course I'm a Christian. It's hard work, but I do it. If that's your attitude, you have no understanding yet of the gospel. Your religion is a religion of what you do, finding God, instead of a religion of never in a million years would I have ever found him if he hadn't found me. Never in a million years would I be a Christian if he hadn't come and opened my eyes. Do you understand that? Do you feel that way? If not, you're not a Christian. Thirdly, the third mark was fear. Mary says,

His mercy is extended from generation to generation to those who fear him. When you go back to Psalm 130, you'll see it's the same thing where the psalmist says,

I fear you because you've forgiven all my sins. Here and there, those who have his mercy are the ones who fear him. Now somebody says, what does that mean? Being afraid of mercy? Being afraid because of mercy? How does that work? Yes, it works this way. One of the biggest differences between a Christian and a religious person is the differences in how the fear of God works. There's a fear of law and there's a fear of love. The fear of law works like this. I'm scared of being hurt. My motivation is, I obey. I go to church. I'm religious because if I don't, I'll miss out. If I don't, I may be hurt. That's the fear of law. But there's a fear of love. The fear that arises out of love, I mean. And the fear that arises out of love goes like this. If you love somebody, and you know they love you, there's a fear. A fear of what? Not of being hurt, but of hurting. There's a fear of harming, a fear of wounding, a fear of disappointing.

See, if you're scared that somebody's going to hurt you, there's a kind of respect and awe and a fear and a trembling and a focus. But if you're also around somebody who you love so much and they love you so much, there's also a focus. You don't want to do anything to disappoint them. You don't want to do anything to hurt or wound them. many people who have belonged to churches all their lives and they've always been what you might call straight arrows moral type people when they're born again something happens and there's a tremendous revolution on the inside but on the outside they still seem to be nice people moral people but when you ask them what happened they'll say everything what the difference was they'll say everything you know what it was? when the gospel comes in and you see that you're not saved by what you do what Jesus has done. When you understand that Christianity is a religion that's prepared for you that you just received, what happens is you begin to think like this. A Christian says, look what he's done for me. Jesus Christ took all of my condemnation and all of my punishment and it all fell on me, on him. All of the punishment fell on him. There's no way I can be condemned. There's no way I can be punished because he was crushed under the weight of my sins. Look how he loves me. When he asks me to pray and I don't pray, how can I do that to him? When he asks me to refrain from this and this, how can I do that to him? Hasn't he been wounded enough? That's how a Christian thinks. Do you see that is radically different? It's the only kind of religion in which a person is driven by the fear that arises out of love. A fear of wounding love. A fear of disappointing love. If you have that in your life, do you see the incredible energy that you have finally to live the life you've always wanted to live, but not a zeal that crushes. There's only two ways that you could have any motivation to live a righteous life, an honest life, a pure life. One is out of a fear of being hurt, and one is out of a fear of hurting. The God who loves you. It's a tremendously, tremendously powerful motivation. It changes you when you get it. Do you have it? Here's the mark of a real Christian. A real Christian, when you find out that because of what happened to Jesus Christ, you no longer can be condemned and there's no punishment coming to you anymore, you are released for energetic, zealous, full-hearted, godly living. And if there's anybody who sits here and says, What? If I heard that I was so forgiven that I couldn't possibly be punished and there was no chance of condemnation for me, I would lose all my incentive for living a godly life. and the minute you say that, you know that you don't understand the gospel yet, and you've never grasped the Christian message yet, and the only motivation you have for godly living is the fear that arises out of law. Last, where did all these great things come from? This new integration at the center of her life, hmm? This wonder and amazed joy that now is the characteristic of her life. and this new zeal that doesn't crush, this new zeal for holy and godly living. You know where it comes from? She grasped the truth. In verse 49, she says, he's the mighty one, the holy one. But in verse 50, she says, he's the merciful one. She realizes that the old problem, how could God be a holy God, a righteous God who demands goodness and righteousness, and still be a compassionate, loving God? How could he be both? And she suddenly realizes it all comes together in the one who is growing in me. Jesus Christ comes to die and fulfill the law and to pay the debt so that God now can completely and freely love and accept me. She says, I get it. The love of God and the holiness and righteousness of God kiss, finally. They come together in him. They come together in me.

You see, she doesn't just have a mystical experience. All of these great things flow out of her grasp of the truth of the gospel. And that is that the great and righteous God has come out of love to pay the debt that we owed.

Friends, in the same way, in a different way, of course, just as Mary realized that the love and the righteousness of God was kissing inside her body, So by receiving Christ as Savior, you can find that the love and the holiness of God can kiss one another and be formed in you too. Mary says, my soul, my spirit, it all comes together. I'm coming together. Centrality, wonder, fear, and the love of the truth. Are they happening to you? come to him and they'll come together let's pray now Father we ask as we take up our offering we pray that you would enable us to consider whether these same things are happening to us we pray that you would give us a vitality we pray that you would give us a sense of the wonder of our salvation we pray that you would give us A renewed sense of the fear of God that arises out of love. Father, there are some of us here who realize that we don't really know you. That our religion is really not the religion of Mary and therefore it's not the religion of Christ. And I pray Lord that you would lead those people at least to say today, behold the servant of the Lord. I will seek you. I will listen. I want to find you. and Father, many Christians who are here today who realize that the loving fear that should be the power of their lives is not as passionate and is not as vibrant in our hearts as it should be and I pray, Lord, that you would stir it up now as we give ourselves to you in Jesus' name we pray Amen
