Tonight's scripture reading is from the book of John, chapter 17, verses 11 through 23. I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name, the name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction, so that scripture would be fulfilled. I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world, so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them. For they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world, even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them, I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly saved. Sanctified. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one. Father, just as you are in me, and I am in you, may they also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them. And you in me. So that they may be brought to complete unity. Then, the world will know that you sent me, and have loved them even as you have loved me. This is God's word. Now, all year we've been looking at John chapter 13 to 16, where Jesus is teaching his disciples and getting them ready, he's training them, the night before he dies, to go out in the world. And represent him. But, now in John 17, Jesus starts to begin to pray aloud, so his disciples hear him. And he starts to pray to his father. This is one of the most astonishing, really, passages in the Bible. At one level, it's astonishing because it's an extended conversation between the son and the father. Now, admittedly, it's like... Hearing one half of a conversation like you're listening to somebody on the telephone. And yet, there's no other place in the Bible where you actually get any insight into an actual conversation inside the Godhead. The father and the son inside the triune God. To actually hear this going on, there's nowhere else like it. It's also true that because Jesus is, as it were, on his deathbed. And I have, as a pastor, I've been, I've talked to a lot of people who are dying, a lot. And I can tell you one thing about people who are dying. They don't make small talk. There are no tangents. They go right to what they're all about or what's the most important thing to them. And when you look at Jesus, and you can even see part of the prayer here, what is the main thing he's got on his heart as he's dying? Us. Huh. His disciples, present and future, that includes us, if you're a Christian. And so, you know, there's nothing like John 17. John Knox, who was the man who brought the Protestant Reformation to Scotland. John Knox had his wife read him when he was dying. He had his wife read him John 17. And he said, it was my first anchor. Now, because of that, we're going to spend a fair amount of time on John 17. We're going to spend actually all of May and June on it. And this sermon, in some ways, is just an introduction. It's a weird sermon. I've been preaching it today. And it's kind of strange in that everything we say here tonight, we're going to get back to and say somewhere else in the next few weeks. So, I feel like I can be, I'm introducing ideas. I can be rather... They say top level. But this chapter bears sustained reflection. And so, even though, in a way, it's like when I say it's a strange sermon, it feels like, well, I'm going to tell you a little bit of this, a little bit of this. It's sort of top level. Everything we talk about, we're going to come back to. But we need it. We need to weigh it. It might become your first anchor. It might be the thing that you ask people to read to you as you're dying. So, anyway. John chapter 17. Here we have Jesus basically asking the Father for five things for us. And then we have to ask ourselves, how do we get those things? So, first of all, what are those five things? And then, how or why can we receive them? Now, the five things are, again, here's where I'm just being very top level because we're going to, every one of these we're going to be returning to. Here are the five things. He's praying for truth. Truth, unity, joy, mission, and holiness. Let's go through them again, kind of briefly, but give you an intro. Look at verse 17. He says, sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. So, he's praying for us to have truth. You know, we're said to be a post-truth society. And what's the truth? What that means is, we say, well, modern people today believe you create your own truth. You have your facts. I have my facts. You have your, you know, truth. I have my truth. In olden days, we believed the truth was out there. It was objective. It was something that we discovered and aligned with. But today, we believe that we create our own truth. Nobody can tell me what is right or wrong for me. I create. I construct my own truth. I make my own reality. That's what's called a post-truth society. Now, there was an article in the Wall Street Journal yesterday. And it was a little bit tongue-in-cheek. It was written by a philosophy professor. And the name of it was, and it's actually longer than this, but basically the name was, let's get metaphysical about our post-truth era. Now, what he does, he's a philosophy professor. So, he's a little tongue-in-cheek. He says, he describes what I just said, which is everyone says, well, nobody believes in truth anymore. Nobody believes there's an objective truth out there. Everybody believes we have our own truth. And then, like a good professor, he actually outlines some of the schools of thought about how that works, how we create truth. And some of you may have heard some of these. He mentions the coherence theory of truth creation. That is, that if your beliefs hang together, and are coherent, that is, they're consistent with one another, it's true for you. Then there's the semantic or social construction theory of truth, which is if your community all agrees that's true, then that's true for you. And then there's the pragmatic approach. If your beliefs solve your problems, if they work for you, then it's true for you. So, in all these cases, of course, truth isn't out there. It's not objective. It's something we create. But then, at the end of the article, he says something great. That's why I'm bringing it up to you. He says, here's the problem. If we really did believe we're post-truth, if we really did believe there really is no truth, that we create our own truth, why are we so angry at each other? He says, if you really believe that you create your own truth, you'd have to stop attacking your opponents, is what he says. So, for example, you couldn't talk about hate speech and say, that's hate speech, because everybody has the right to define hate for themselves, right? Because everybody has their own truth. And he says, here's the problem, though. We are angry. We are attacking our opponents. And that proves we actually do believe in truth. We say, oh, no, everybody creates their own truth. You can't tell me what's right or wrong. Well, then what are you mad for? Because those people, oh, those people, they're hateful. Okay, well, then why not? Don't they have the right to define hate the way they want to? No, I have the right to, which means you believe in truth. You do believe in truth. Well, what's our problem, then? Our problem is we... We can't agree on what the truth is. Jesus says, I am the truth. I have the truth. And I can get that for you from the Father. I'll ask the Father to give you the truth. Okay, secondly, unity. See, over and over, basically, you're going to see, we're going to get back to this again. I keep saying that, don't I? I'll stop saying that. Look, verse 11, he says, that they may be one as we are. Verse 21, that all of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. So over and over, he's asking for unity, loving unity. Look, you cannot make it alone. You won't be able to make it alone. But because we're modern people, we live in the modern culture, and our culture tells us you must never, ever, ever give up your freedom to be your own God. Individual self. You must never give up your freedom. And because of that, we're afraid of commitment. We are very afraid of commitment. Sherry Turkle of MIT has written some great books on this, and one of them is called Alone Together. And the book is basically about the fact that we are the loneliest society ever because we're so afraid of giving up our freedom that we actually don't commit to community. We really don't understand unity because we have to keep our options open all the time. Jesus says, I've got, the loving unity, the loving community that will not smother you but will liberate you. I can get that from the Father for you. So he prays for truth. He prays for unity. Thirdly, he prays for joy. I love this one. I'm coming to you now. I say these things while I'm still in the world. This is verse 13. That they may have the full measure of my joy within them. In 1820,

a little girl was born in Brewster, New York. 1820. And when she was only six months old, she had some kind of fever or some sort of sickness that damaged her optic nerves. And by the time she was five, in 1825, she was declared fully, totally blind. Now, three years later, she was eight years old, she wrote a poem about her blindness. I'm going to read it to you. She was a Christian, very, very strong Christian. And at eight years old, she wrote this poem. Now, this isn't great art, but don't forget, she's eight. I mean, actually, it's really pretty good for an eight-year-old, as you're going to see. But I want you to hear what she says. She's blind now. She's eight years old. And she writes this poem. Oh, what a happy soul I am, although I cannot see. I am resolved that in this world, contented I shall be. How many blessings I enjoy that other people don't. To weep and sigh because I'm blind? I cannot and I won't. And, you know, it's sweet. It's a little bit moving, but you say, yeah, she's eight years old. She doesn't know the suffering that's ahead of her. Well, she lived to be almost 95, with 90 years of blindness. She stayed very true to this philosophy. Her name was Fanny Crosby, one of the most famous hymn writers ever. She wrote hymns like To God Be the Glory, things like that. She wrote 9,000 hymns. And she said yes. She was often asked about, oh, aren't you sad that you're blind? And she says, yes, it's a tragedy. But on the other hand, she said, A, having my sight might have been a distraction. I got a lot of work done. She also said it might have been a distraction because I was blind. She said, because I found out where true joys are to be found. And most of all, she said, I discovered there's only one kind of blindness that can really destroy you, and the gospel's healed that. See, where would you get joy like that? And Jesus says, I got it for you. I can get you the same joy that I gave Fanny Crosby. The Father can get that for you. So, truth and unity. And joy. Mission. Where do you see mission? Well, in verse 18, Jesus says to his Father, as you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. And you know, the Latin word for, the Latin word sent is what? Missio, mission. And so Jesus is, well, put it this way. We're human beings. We need purpose. We need to feel like we're getting something big done. I got to tell you, I'm awfully tired of websites that say, come help us change the world. I know. But you know what? That's what we want. In fact, we're so mission oriented. Studies have shown that nursing home residents, if you put plants and animals or pets in the nursing home, and you tell the nursing home residents, you've got to feed the plants. You've got to feed the pets, that sort of thing. Do you know the life expectancy goes enormously longer? They become far healthier. The number of drugs that they have to use goes down. It's astounding. That's how mission oriented we are as a human race. Even to know I got to get up and water that plant every day and nurture that plant and maybe check on the plant. Even that was enough. That was enough to keep people alive. We're that mission oriented. And Jesus comes along and says, I can give you the ultimate mission. I literally am going to change the world. I'm going to renew the world. Guaranteed. And you can be part of that mission. Come with me, Jesus says, and we'll slay the ultimate dragons and we'll liberate people from the ultimate dungeons. Hmm. There's a mission to fill your life. So he asked for truth. He asked for unity. He asked for joy for us. He asked for mission holiness. I got to be quick here because actually we're going to talk so much about it, but it's here in verse 19 and it doesn't seem, it doesn't look, have the word holiness as the word sanctified, which is the same. And he says this, he says for them, I sanctify myself that they too may be truly sanctified. Now, let me just, this is real paraphrase real quick. And you say, explain that again. No, later on we'll get there in the future. But here's the point. When Jesus says, I sanctify myself that we might, that you and I might be truly sanctified. You know what he's talking about? To be sanctified means he's saying this. He says, I did not live for myself. I did not live for myself. I came to earth and I live for my father and I live for my friends. I live for my, I love God and my neighbor. I didn't live for myself. I live for other people. And father, I want you to reproduce, my holiness in my people. So they no longer live for themselves, but to live for you and for the people around them. So he's asking for truth and unity and joy and mission and holiness. Do you know why it's possible for us to get these things? These are amazing things, but here's why, because he says, you are the holy father. See, all these things that he's asking about, he starts, he's in verse 11 saying, holy father, give them this, give them that, give them this, give them that holy father. This is the only time Jesus ever calls him holy father. And it's actually a unique and strange term. And I believe he's doing this just as he's about to die. And let me, uh, I feel like it opens up really what's happening in chapter 17. So that's what I want to share with you. See, the reason we never see the word holy father in some ways is because it doesn't, intuitively, they don't go together. It's a, see, for example, you can understand, let's say a just and holy king. And if the just and holy king is ruling over his people, he says, you must obey the law. And if you don't obey the law, you will be prosecuted, you know, according to the full extent of the law. And so your relationship to a holy and just king is conditional. You have to obey. But now over here, here's a holy, just king, but here's the loving father. And those of you who have been fathers or are fathers and those of you who had loving fathers, you know this, that if your child disobeys you, of course you get angry. Of course you get stern. But in the end, he's your kid. And in the end, your relationship to him is unconditional. In the end, you're going to love him. And so here's a holy, just king and your relationship to him is conditioned on obedience. And here's the thing. Here's a loving heavenly father, have a loving father. And your relationship with this loving father is based, is unconditional. So how could God be both holy and loving? How could he be a holy father? And here's the answer. Now, you'll never understand John 17 without understanding John 18, 11. If you go to 17, 11, where he says, holy father, go to 18, 11. And it explains in some ways, 17, 11. What happens in 18, 11? In 18, 11 and 18, chapter 18, Jesus is in the garden of Gethsemane and he's wrestling in prayer. And he's in a great deal of distress and agony because he's sweating blood out of his pores. We'll get back to this. But then along come people to arrest him and Peter pulls out his sword. And this is what Jesus says in 18, 11. He says, Peter, put your sword away. Shall I not drink the cup the father has given me? The cup the father has given me. Now, what is a cup? When Socrates was sentenced to death, how was he executed? He had a drink. The hemlock, the poison from a cup. And that's the reason why in ancient times, the word cup came to be a metaphor for execution and for judicial wrath. So the Old Testament is constantly talking about the fact that God's God is angry at sin and he's going to punish sin and they will be made to drink his cup. So here's Jesus. And he's telling Peter that when I go to the cross, I'm drinking the cup of God's wrath. But what's weird is he doesn't say it's the cup of the judge. It's not the cup of the sovereign Lord. It's the cup of. No, he says the cup of the father. There it is together again. How can we have a life? A loving father and a wrathful, holy God at the same time? How is that possible? I mean, Jesus Christ, when he calls him the father, you know what? In Jesus mind, you know, you know, the perfect father, Luke 15, prodigal son. And the, you know, that, that young boy who takes his father's wealth and squanders it on prostitutes and shows him no respect. And he's just stabbing his father. Over and over again. The minute the boy comes back, he's not even done with his first sentence. And the father's running to him and jumping on him and loving him and kissing him and bringing him back in. That's unconditional love. There's a father. So how can Jesus Christ put these two things together? The cup, the holy judge, judgment of God and a loving father. How could the same God be both holy and father? Now, before we explain how, I want you, to realize that in our intuition, they don't go together. But let's think about this for a minute. If you've ever really been wronged, really wronged, a real bad injustice has come, has happened to you, you know, some permanent injury. If God would suddenly show up and you're there and the perpetrators there, what if, what if God said, Hey, let's just let bygones be bygones. Come on, group hug. You would say, no, right? You say, no, this isn't, that's not right. What happened to me should be paid for in a world of injustice. How could a God who's just an accepting, loving God who just accepts everyone, punishes nobody in a world of injustice. How could an accepting God who never punishes anybody be legitimate? It wouldn't be. We have to, we have to have a just God, but if that's true, okay, now you've got a just God. Now think about it. If you've got a God who created you and keeps you alive every second, what do you owe that God? What is that God's due? What is his just due from you and me? And the answer is, well, if he, if he created me and he keeps me alive every second, then I owe him everything. And then whatever else I do in life, if he should be first, his allegiance should be first. Pleasing him should be first. Does anybody live like that? No. And now you begin to see what my two year old grandchildren say, their favorite word. Uh oh. Ever heard a two year old say, uh oh, you know, before they could say anything else, like, uh oh, and here's the, uh oh, the, uh oh is if we have, if we don't have a just and holy God, what hope is there for the world? What, how will the world ever be put right again? So if we don't have a just and holy God, what hope is there for the world? But if we do have a just and holy God, what hope is there for us? And suddenly you go, uh oh, we've got to have a just, holy, and yet loving God. We've got to. Somehow we've got to have a God who is just and holy and punishes sin. And yet at the same time, somehow is merciful and loving. And somehow he's got to combine the two. Those things. We don't know how, but we have to have a God who's committed to truth and love. A God who's committed to strength and tenderness. A God who's committed to justice and mercy. We have to. Otherwise, no hope for the world, no hope for us. You see, it's got to be. But we still don't see how they can come together. Well, here's how they come together. They come together at the cross. Now, in this text, Jesus is mentioning the cross, but it's interesting. In John chapter 13 to 17, you usually, you usually miss it because when he says to his disciples, I'm going away from you, I'm leaving you, I'm leaving, I'm leaving you. And when here in verse 11, he says to the father, I'm coming to you. Verse 13, I'm coming to you. We sometimes forget he's talking about his death. Over and over. He's talking about his death. He's talking about going to the cross. Well, what's going to happen on the cross? He's going to drink the cup. And you say, well, how does that help? How does that make it possible for God to be absolutely holy? Absolutely. Absolutely loving at the same time. How's that? How's that work? Well, here's how it works. Jonathan Edwards, many years ago, probably the second sermon I ever preached here, the second one in probably April of 1989, I quoted at length what I'm about to quote to you. A sermon I read years ago was preached by, it was preached originally, of course, and then later written down by Jonathan Edwards. It was an 18th century New England congressman, congregational minister. And what he did was he wrote a sermon called Christ's agony. And he was, it was all about what did Jesus Christ actually experience in John 18 in, in the garden of Gethsemane? Why was he so obsessed with the cup? Remember he prayed over and over again, father, take this cup from me. Here he's saying to John, to Peter, should, shall I not drink the cup the father has given me? Why, why is he in such agony? Why is he sweating? Why are, why is blood coming out of his pores? Why is he under so much pressure? And many commentators have said the same thing, but Jonathan Edwards in, in his, using his imagination said it was because the father was letting the son see what was in the cup, smell what was in the cup before he actually went to the cross and drank from the cup. Listen, this is what Edward says. He says in his sermon, he says, he says, the agony of Christ was caused by a vivid, bright, full, an immediate view of the wrath of God. God, the father, as it were, set the cup down before him. It was vastly more terrible than Nebuchadnezzar's furnace. He now had a near view of that furnace into which he was about to be cast. He stood and viewed the rage, raging flames and the glowings of its heat that he might know where he was going and what he was going to suffer. He felt what Ezekiel said. You shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation and tear your breasts. He felt what Isaiah said. You will drink the cup of his fury and you will stagger. Christ was going to be cast into a dreadful furnace of wrath, and it was not proper that he should plunge himself into the furnace of wrath. He did not plunge himself into it blindfolded as not knowing how dreadful the furnace was. Therefore, God brought him and set him at the mouth of the furnace that he might look in and stand and view its fierce and raging flames and might see where he was going and might voluntarily enter into it and bear it for us sinners as knowing what it was. For if Christ had not fully known before he took it and drank it, he, it would not have properly been his own. Do you hear? He says, Jesus Christ, because God was giving a kind of taste of the cup or a smell of the cup, knew exactly what he was doing so that when he went to the cross, he was doing it so voluntarily. He wasn't shocked. He wasn't surprised. He didn't say, Oh, this is a lot worse than I thought. He knew exactly what was coming. And so here's the, here's the incredible line. I think it's the line that changed my life and my thinking. But when he took that cup of ruin, that cup, knowing what he did, so was his love to us infinitely, the more wonderful and his obedience to God, infinitely, the more perfect. Now, let me explain that. If you feel like I don't quite get that, that's okay. I'm going to help. In New York city over the years, I have so often to talk to people who had this kind of, you might say life trajectory religiously. They, so many people, Jewish, Catholic, Protestant. They started out being taught about a demanding, cranky God, a demanding God who says you must obey the moral law or else I'll get you. And if you try hard enough and you live, you know, well enough, you might get to heaven. So they had this cranky, demanding God. When they got older, especially like adolescence or maybe college or something like that, they changed and they said, no, I just believe in a loving God who just accepts everybody. I believe in, in a God of love. I don't believe in a God of wrath. So they moved from a cranky, demanding God to a kind of accepting God. And very often they kept on evolving. And eventually very often they became agnostics. I'm not sure what I believe. So from cranky, demanding God to, you know, all accepting God to agnosticism. But look,

the true God that John Edwards is showing us, the true God, the Bible showing us is infinitely more holy than the, the old cranky, demanding God and infinitely more loving than the all accepting God. How so? Well, first of all, remember what he said is he says the fact that Jesus Christ knew what he was going to drink and did it voluntarily. So was his love to us infinitely, the more wonderful and his obedience to God, infinitely, the more perfect. You said, well, how, what do you mean infinitely more perfect? I'll tell you why. When God came to Adam and Eve, he said, obey and you will live. When he comes to you and me, he says, obey and you will live. In fact, that's what he says to everybody, every, everybody else in the history of the world. God has always said, if you obey me, I'll be with you. If you obey me and you live for me, I'll be with you. Jesus was the only person in the history of the world that he said, if you obey, if you drink the cup, if you go to the cross, if you obey, I will forsake you. I will reject you. He comes to us and he says, oh, obey. And you will live. And we don't do it. He goes to Jesus and he says, obey and I will crush you to powder. And he did. Nobody has ever given God more perfect obedience than that. And so when Jesus Christ lived a perfect life and then went to the cross and got our punishment, that perfectly fulfilled the law of God. Amen. I mean, the true God of the Bible is infinitely more holy than the cranky demanding God. He doesn't just demand, oh, if you try hard enough, maybe we'll go to heaven. No, he demands perfection and Jesus gives it to him on our behalf as our substitute. But that's not all. As Edward says, because of what Jesus Christ did, not only was his obedience infinitely more perfect, but his love to us was infinitely the more wonderful. You see,

I've had many people in New York say to me, oh, I believe in a loving God. I don't believe in a God of wrath. I believe he just accepts everybody. And the right answer always to that is this. You always have to say, what does it cost your God to love you? And they'll almost always say, well, I guess nothing. Well, the God of the Bible, because he's infinitely holy, there was an infinite cost to him in order to love us. Our sin had to be paid for, and he went and made the payment himself. And here's what Edwards imagines. You want to see how infinitely more wonderful Jesus Christ's love is than the love of some kind of big accepting God who just accepts everybody? You want to hear? Edwards used a little bit of imagination, but he says, maybe in the garden, the father spoke to Jesus like this. Son, here is the cup. That you were to drink. This is the furnace into which you will be cast. If they are to be saved, there is no other way. Either they perish or you perish. See how terrible the heat is. See what pain and anguish you must endure. Is your love such that you will go? And Edwards says, and did Jesus Christ respond like this? Did Jesus Christ say, why should I, who am so great and glorious a person, why should I go plunge myself into such dreadful, amazing torments for people who cannot ever requite me for it? Yay. Why should I be crushed under the weight of divine wrath for those who will not even stay awake with me in the hour of my greatest need? But he didn't say any of that, did he? On the contrary, he took the cup. You see, the true God, because of the cup, because he's infinitely holy,

infinitely more holy than the cranky God that most people are raised with, because of that, he's infinitely more loving than the all-accepting God of the typical New Yorker. And you remember how I said in our intuition, we don't know how his love and his holiness could possibly be together? It's on the cross. As Jesus Christ dies, that satisfies his holiness perfectly, and it fulfills the law perfectly, but at the very same time, it satisfies his love, because it makes it possible for those who believe in him to be accepted. That's the reason why in Romans 3, 26, Paul says that because of the cross, God is just and justifier of those who believe in Jesus Christ. He's both just and justifier. He's both holy and he's loving. He's a holy, holy father. And so it's on the cross that his love and his law come together and they mutually fulfill each other. And that's the reason why John Newton has that great hymn poem where he says, to see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. And here, just last, last idea. The things that Jesus Christ is praying, for us, let's tie this up. The things that Jesus Christ is praying for us

are kind of contradictory. We should be good, you know, he wants us to be people of truth. So we have to be very committed to truth, right? But we're also supposed to be people of unity. And I don't know if you know anything about how to keep a relationship together, whether it's a marriage or a friendship or any kind of small group or anything like that. You know what the essence of unity is? The essence of unity is, is constantly forgiving people, constantly overlooking slights, constantly meeting people halfway. So you're supposed to be valiant for truth, committed to truth, and yet really able to overlook things and how do you get, how do you become both bold enough and humble enough? How do you become both truthful enough and loving enough? How do you combine those things? You see, they'll only be combined in you if you see them combined in Jesus on the cross. If you believe in a demanding God, cranky God, you're going to be, you know, it doesn't mean it won't make you moral, but you're probably going to be a bigot. You're probably going to be proud. You're probably going to look down your nose at other people. If you only believe in a loving, accepting God, well, in that case, you might be, you know, less bigoted. You'll probably be more accepting. But on the other hand, you know, will you be valiant for truth? See, the, how do I say it? The paradoxical, the paradoxical brilliance of Jesus Christ. The paradoxical brilliance of God, Holy Father. The paradoxical brilliance of Jesus Christ, Lion and Lamb, Servant and King, will only be reproduced in you if you see His holiness and His love coming together on the cross. Our pleasure and our duty, though opposite before, since we have seen His beauty, are joined apart. No more. To see the law by love fulfilled and hear Christ's pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. Let's pray. Father, we can get these things because you are a holy Father. And your paradoxical excellence and brilliance can be reproduced in us if we grasp the gospel and see that, on the cross, your love and your law came together and that's what makes us people of truth and love. And so we pray, Lord, that you would reproduce Christ's likeness in us. And especially right now, as we take the Lord's Supper, help us to remember that the only reason why we can lift up the cup of joy and blessing is because your Son took the cup of wrath and desolation for us. Make us like your Son, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
