The scripture reading this morning comes from the Gospel according to John, chapter 3, verses 1 through 16. Now there was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a member of the Jewish ruling council. He came to Jesus at night and said, Rabbi, we know you are a teacher who has come from God, for no one could perform the miraculous signs you are doing if God were not with him. In reply, Jesus declared, I tell you the truth, no one can see the kingdom of God unless he is born again. How can a man be born when he is old? Nicodemus asked. Surely he cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb to be born. Jesus answered, I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water and the Spirit. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the Spirit gives birth to Spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear it sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. How can this be? Nicodemus asked. You are Israel's teacher, said Jesus, and do you not understand these things? I tell you the truth, we speak of what we know and we testify to what we have seen, but still you people do not accept our testimony. I have spoken to you of earthly things and you do not believe. How then will you believe if I speak of heavenly things? No one has ever gone into heaven. Except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. This is the word of the Lord. Thank you, Lord. Over the next few weeks, especially, not only here in these services, but also in our groups, the next seven weeks we're going to be thinking about what the gospel's effect is when it's brought out of the church into the world. The essential message of the Bible, the essential message about Jesus, the gospel, what happens when you bring it out of the church and into the world? And one of the things it does, which we're going to look at this week and next week, is it converts. It converts individuals. It converts people. And this particular week, the passage that was just read to you, we see Jesus describing what the gospel does as the new birth, being born again. Very famous passage. And it's just packed with information. And therefore, I am bold to impose upon you five points today and to say that actually this is a complete guide to what is, what does it mean to be born again? And what we're learning here about the new birth is who it's for, where it's from, what it is, how it's received, and its effect, its impact on your life. Who it's for, where it's from, what it is, how it's received, and what its effect is. I just couldn't, I can't resist. There's too much there. Look, first, let's see what this teaches, first of all, about who this is for. Here we go. When you and I, in New York City, let's just say, when the average New Yorker hears the term born-again Christian, what does that person think of? Almost always they think of a type, a type of person. They think of a person who perhaps needs an emotional cathartic experience and therefore maybe has a particular emotional makeup. Or they may think of a person who needs a lot of moral structure. Born-again people seem to be part of, these authoritative, authoritarian communities. And so, what's often thought of as a born-again, in fact, sometimes you actually have the word type there. Sometimes people talk about the born-again type. So to be born-again is to be a type of person who either needs, you know, a more emotional person or a person who's had a life collapse and you need more moral structure. The trouble with this idea is Nicodemus. Who is Nicodemus? Well, first of all, Nicodemus is a Christian. First of all, we know that he was a member of the ruling council. He was an older male. He was a highly successful person. He was a completely pulled-together, respectable person. And from everything we know, from history and culture, he was by no means an emotional type. But not only that, he was a Pharisee. And Phariseeism was already a religion of the greatest moral structure possible. And on top of that, he was a Christian. Let's fill out the portrait of Nicodemus from what we see. Though he was a Pharisee, he was not an uptight bigot, contrary to the connotation of the word. He comes to Jesus, who has never gone to school, has no credentials, hasn't gone up through the ranks, calls him rabbi, which shows a tremendous generosity of spirit. Even though Jesus is very unpopular, he comes to him and says, now I want to, let's have a dialogue. He's an open-minded man. This is the most admirable kind of person we can imagine. A very moral person, a very successful person, a very pulled-together person, and yet open-minded, generous, as admirable a guy as you could possibly want. And it's to him that Jesus says, you must be born again. You must be born again. Nothing you've done counts. You've got to start over. You must be born again. And that means, the Jesus call to be born again cannot be a call to go into more traditional morality and religion. It's actually a challenge to traditional morality and religion, because that's what Nicodemus represents. Jesus is smashing the patronizing idea that the new birth is only for a certain type of person. What he's actually saying here is you, everybody, you all must be born again. No matter how good, and together your life is, you must be born again. No matter how messed up your life has been, you can be born again. You must be born again. That's who it's for, for everybody. Number two, where is it from? Now, twice here, John mentions the kingdom of God. In verse three, he says, you have to be born again to see the kingdom of God. And in verse five, it says, you have to be born again to enter the kingdom of God. Now, what's the difference between the two? It's the same thing. What's significant about that is that John, like almost never in any other place in his whole gospel, mentions the kingdom of God, just a fleeting reference at the end. This is it. Therefore, this is a pretty significant reference. What would the term kingdom of God have meant to Nicodemus? When Jesus uses this term, what would that have meant to a Pharisee? And what the scholars tell you is this. It would have meant the resurrection at the end of the world. The Pharisees believed that at the end of time, God would resurrect us and he would make a new heavens and new earth. And therefore, what Jesus seems to be saying is really amazing. He seems to be saying that right now you can be born again and enter the kingdom of God, but the kingdom of God is in the future. What's going on? Now, to attest to the idea that Jesus is saying that the future kingdom of God comes into your life now through the new birth, I have to do a little bit of background to tell you that the future kingdom of God comes into your life now through the new birth. I have to tell you about another place where Paul, the Apostle Paul in his writings, in the Epistle of Titus, says the same thing, and perhaps in a more vivid way. Let me give you a little bit of background. The Greek philosophers, many Greek philosophers, believed that history was endless and cyclical. But every so often, there were what they call, they believed there were great purges of the world, and the whole world burned over and was purged and then started afresh. And they had a technical term for it. It was called the great purge of the world. And they had a technical term for that. They called it the palingenesia, which of course means the regeneration or the rebirth of the world. They believed that happened every so often. It was purged. Jesus, in Matthew 19 then, takes a technical Greek philosophical term and uses it in the most startling way, because in Matthew 19, Jesus says this, at the renewal of all things, the palingenesia, the great purge of the world, is the palingenesia. At the renewal of all things, when the Son of Man sits on his glorious throne, everyone who's left houses or brothers or sisters or fathers or mothers or children or fields for my sake will receive a hundred times as much and inherit eternal life. Now, what's so startling about this was he takes this Greek philosophical term and uses it. And what he's saying here is, he's saying, first of all, the philosophers had it wrong. There's only one regeneration of the world. One time, one day. At which all disease and death, all evil and suffering will be gone. And it'll be on the day that I come back. There will be a palingenesia, a regeneration of the world. And it will happen on that future time, one day, when I come back. That's amazing as it is. But Paul, even more remarkably, in Titus chapter 3, verse 5, when he's talking about the rebirth, the new birth, he says this, he says in Titus 3, 5,

And one of those two words for rebirth or regeneration is the word palingenesia. And the Greek scholars, the scholars have always gone nuts over this because what Paul is saying, very definitely, is what Jesus is hinting at here. And that is, the new birth, is an implantation of God's future power into your life now. That the future power that God is going to exercise at the end of time to heal everything, Now that all might sound kind of, you know, in other words, where's the new birth from? It's from the future. I don't know whether you always like the fictional, you know, all the various fictional stories about time travel. I always liked time travel. That's what this is. Oh, it's not us going into the future. It's the future going into us. It's time travel. The time is traveling, not you. Now that all might sound very esoteric, but let me end this point on a very practical note, very practical. Never underestimate the power of the new birth. Peter was too soft and squishy. Paul was too hard and harsh and abrasive. And yet the new birth turned them into literally history-changing, world-changing figures. And they were not made of more promising material than you. There is no hurt. there is no fear. There is no guilt. There is nothing in your life that this cannot move, remove, and heal. So who's it for? Everyone. Where is it from? The future. What is it? Okay, what is it? And what it is, essentially, is the implantation of new life. I mean, it says this several places, but, for example, in verse 5, it says you have to be born of water and the Spirit. And by the way, those are not two different things. What Jesus is doing is he's referring to all those places in the Old Testament, especially go to Ezekiel 36 if you want to see the background of this. Because in an arid climate, in a desert climate, water was life-giving. And therefore, often in the Old Testament, water was life-giving. And therefore, the Spirit is called spiritual water. God's Spirit cleanses but also gives life. And therefore, what we're being told here is God's life, God's very life, his Holy Spirit, is implanted in you. And the reason we have to keep this in mind is because, again, for most of us, for so many people, being born again means turning over a new leaf, and we always think that means behavior. To be born again means I'm going to stop this and I'm going to start this, and that is a mistake. Even though, as I was saying, I'm not going to stop this, I'm not going to stop this, I'll show you at the very end, and I'm putting it at the end deliberately. The new birth, of course, produces change in your behavior. But that's not what it primarily is, and it's a great fatal mistake to think it is. It's the implantation of new life. Now, you say, what does that mean? Okay, I can break it down a little further. Two things. The implantation of new life means you get a whole new foundation and identity and new sight and sensibility. New foundation and identity, new sight and sensibility. What do I mean by foundation and identity? Look at the term birth. You have to be born again. See, I know that a guy like Nicodemus felt like, look, he probably said, even though he was a Pharisee, he probably said, hey, I'm not perfect. I could really use an extra infusion of divine help to sort of top me off. I need supplementation. Maybe I even need reformation. But Jesus said, I need supplementation. Jesus is saying, when he uses the term new birth, he says, no, you need transformation. Because the idea of being born again means you become a new person. You're not just an improved older person. You become a whole new person. I don't think anybody ever put this any better than a story. When I was a young minister, I talked to a woman who was trying to give me her testimony. And I was a young minister, and she was telling me how Christ had changed her life. But I remember it so well because it actually changed my way of understanding and even communicating the new birth. And she actually said, she went through, she can remember going through at least four different stages in her life than when she was a young girl. She said, I know I'm somebody. I know God loves me because I'm moral. She grew up in a church. And she grew up, she says, I'm a good person. I'm moral. But then she said, I kind of remember, at some point, you know the song from the 1940s, you're nobody until somebody loves you? She says, somehow that got into my heart and soul. And then I went through a period of time in which I kept thinking, well, you know, if somebody loves me, if I have this, if I find the right guy, then everything's going to be okay in my life. She says, that was a mess. Because not only was I up and down, depending on whether I was noticed, but she says, I stayed in relationships that I should have broken off, but I was afraid to. And then some friends came to me and said, oh, you're not somebody because somebody loves you. You shouldn't take your identity from men. You're somebody because you are a successful person in your own right. You got a career. You're making good money. You're doing this. You're accomplishing things in the world. So she says, I shifted my identity again, my foundation again. And she says, now I found that whenever I had a career bump, it just destroyed me the way the romantic bumps used to destroy me. Then somebody came along to her and said, oh, you don't need all that to know you're somebody. You need to know that you are a good, kind, decent person. She says, and I threw myself into helping. I threw myself into volunteer work. I threw myself into listening to anybody who had a problem. I threw myself into trying to help emotionally. Needy people get better. She says, until I was exhausted. And I hated myself because I was supposed to love these people, and I didn't even like them. And so she went in her identity shifts from I'm somebody because I'm moral. I'm somebody because I'm beautiful. I'm somebody because I'm successful. I'm somebody because I'm helpful. And so she realized finally that in every case she was trying to save herself, and she was exhausted. And she realized, she says, what I really need is to know that God loves me because he loves me, because of what Jesus has done. And she says, that really changed everything. Don't you see that? The new birth is not I've got an agenda and I need some help to get to my agenda. It's a whole new agenda. The new birth is not I've got a kind of weak and flagging sense of self-esteem. I need to build it up. You don't need a - the new birth doesn't fix your weak identity. It gives you a new identity. It doesn't fix your personality. It doesn't fix your problems of getting to your agenda. It gives you a whole new purpose in life, a whole new way of thinking about yourself. It's a whole new identity. You're born again. It means you're somebody else. But not only that, it says here that to be born again and get that spiritual life doesn't just mean a new identity. It means a new sight and sensibility. It says in verse 3, you have to be born again to see the kingdom. What does that mean? It does not mean that when you're born again, you're going to see the kingdom. When you're born again, you literally get visions or literally hear new voices. But what it does mean is you become spiritually alive, and therefore you have the ability to sense spiritual realities you couldn't sense at all. Because you now have appetites. You now have a spiritual sight. You have a spiritual hearing. You have a spiritual taste. You can see things that before you might have known about, but you didn't sense. What do I mean? Well, two examples. One of the most clear examples of a person who's crossed from just being a nice person or a moral person to being a converted Christian. I always found it, as a pastor, if you were raised in the church, you probably went to Sunday school, you read the Bible, and so you know a lot of Bible stories, and you know a lot of biblical texts. But when you're born again, suddenly you go back to things that you'd heard all your life. They were just words on a page. And you could even recite them. And yet they become alive to you. The text becomes food. They become things that thrill you and comfort you and convict you. And you say, why is it that all my life I'd heard that verse? All my life I heard that Bible study. And now I think about it all the time, and it builds me up. Why? Because you have an appetite. Because you have a sight. Because you have hearing. You didn't before. It was just cardboard. It was just an abstraction. It was just a kind of cognitive knowledge. It wasn't real to you. But see, what was more important, and for one minute I'll go back to that woman whose great testimony I just shared with you. What she said, I remember, basically one way, what she said was, I needed to know about God's love. And she had never been an atheist. In all of her going from building her identity on being moral, on being beautiful, on being successful, and on being helpful. She had always believed in God. In fact, she always believed in a love of God, a loving God. But the new birth brings you to the place where you see the king. And his love becomes more real to you than what your boss says. And when his love becomes more real to you than what your girlfriend or your boyfriend says, and when his love becomes more real to you than these things, now you're alive. And you can face life. And things don't buffet you the way they did. See, the new birth is not just turning over a new behavioral leaf. It's getting new life. planted in you, and that means a whole new identity, means a whole new sensibility. And please do not, therefore, ever underestimate. Here, as we end our third point,

let's not underestimate the newness of what it means to become a Christian. One of the things that I never know quite what to say when people say to me, I'd like to become a Christian, but I'm concerned about something. Or I'm thinking of Christianity, but I'm concerned about something. And usually it means well, if I have to become a Christian, will I have to do this, or will I have to do that, or I don't have to do that, do I? And sometimes, you know, I can give a good answer, and I can say, no, you don't. I mean, Christians don't have to do that. I mean, the thing that worries me whenever I hear anybody say that, and I'm going to say this to you now, is it's clear that you really don't understand how new this is. You're going to, it's very hard from the outside of the new birth to imagine how different the world looks when this is inside you. You know, C.S. Lewis at some point says, most of us go to God saying, if you come into my life, could you fix the roof on my cottage when he wants to actually turn you into a castle? He wants to do things that you can't even begin to imagine. It's almost like the only thing that you must anticipate as you consider becoming a real born-again Christian, the only thing you must anticipate is that you can't possibly anticipate what you're going to feel like on the other side of the room. The inside. And therefore, you must not lay down conditions. You must not say, well, I have to become a Christian, but not if I have to do that, not if I have to do that. What you need to say is, I give up my right to self-determination. I give up my right to self-determination. I need to be born again. That means something pretty radical. I'm going to see things. I'm going to know things. I'm going to want things very differently. Is that frightening? Yeah, maybe. But know what you're doing. And I'm going to say to you, I'm going to see things. I'm going to know things. I'm going to know what you're talking about here. Know what we're looking at. That's what the new birth is. Who is it for? Everybody. Where is it from? The future. What is it? It's the implantation of God's very life. And therefore, it's a new identity, a new sensibility. Fourth. Okay, how do you receive it? Now, I need to say something because I'm really, this is a teaching. This is a great teaching text. Up to now, I've been talking about conversion and the new birth as if they were the same thing. And I think that's all right, but you should know that theologians have traditionally and with warrant made a distinction between conversion and the new birth. And what they've said is that though these are two sides of the same coin, conversion is what you and I do to come to God, but the new birth is what God does. The new birth, the regeneration of the heart, the implantation of the Holy Spirit is not something you can do. It's something only he can do. But they go together. They're very linked in rather mysterious ways. And I think that's what I'm going to say. So the real question is, how do we then approach God? How do we convert? And there's two parts. And they're actually, there's two parts. And they're implied here. The first one is got to do with grace. The second one has to do with Christ himself. The first one has to do with grace. When Jesus says to Nicodemus in John 3, you must be born again. And then in John 4, we're given a great example of Jesus calling a woman to conversion who's the exact opposite of Nicodemus. We'll see this next week. Not just that he's a male and she's a female, but the point is her life has been a complete ruin and his life has been a complete success in world's terms. And yet Jesus calls them both. And this is significant. I, you know, when I got to New York 21 years ago, this is the 22nd year I've been here, those of you who've been around for a long time know that the city was a lot different. It was a lot more dangerous and kind of wild place. And I remember that once a month I used to go do a speak at a breakfast at the Harvard Club. And when I come up, you know, from the F train on 6th Avenue, there were prostitutes around and there were drug dealers, very obvious, all around. And then I would walk into the Harvard Club and in there would be the wood panels and, you know, the roaring fire and everybody looking real prosperous. And, you know, pulled together successful. I've done it. You know, I made it in the right schools and I, you know, I took the right risks and here I am. And you know what Jesus is saying here? When he says to Nicodemus, you must, not just the woman of Samaria, not just the streetwalker, but the guy, you know, you know, in the Harvard Club drawing room, what he's saying when he says you must be born again, what he's saying is you're all on the same level. The most pulled together, the most accomplished person and the person whose life is the biggest failure. You come to God as equals. You are in the same spot. You need to be born again. What does that mean? It means he's saying, and actually, haven't we seen it? Whether you try to save yourself by being moral, whether you try to save yourself by being helpful, whether you try to save yourself by being beautiful, whether you, no, it doesn't matter. You're trying to save yourself. You're putting yourself in the place of God. And therefore, everybody, the best and the worst, come equally and they need the grace of God. If they're going to be saved, if they're going to have a relationship with God, if they're going to be born again, it has to be God's grace, God's intervention, God's power. You can contribute nothing. That's what that term means. Babies do not contribute anything. They don't bring themselves about. They don't get born because they've planned on it. It's all got to do with what the parents have done. It has nothing to do with what they do. And therefore, you are saved by grace. And that's the first key. Because understanding that salvation by grace and experiencing God's grace always go together. As long as you think, I can save myself. I'm a really good enough person. You don't experience the grace of God. It's not until you realize that salvation has to be by grace. It has to be a gift that you begin to be saved. To experience it. We call this repentance. The first thing that you have to do to be converted is you have to repent before God's grace and say, I see I've been trying to save myself and I need your sheer grace. And, you know, the most famous example of this is Martin Luther himself. Here's what he said happened as he was getting converted. Here's what happens. He says, I labored diligently and anxiously as to how to understand Paul's word, in Romans 1.17. He was struggling over a verse. Romans 1.17. And he says, this is where Paul says that the righteousness of God is revealed in the gospel. He didn't understand. Then he says, I grasped that the righteousness of God is that righteousness which through grace and sheer mercy, God gives us by faith. Thereupon, I felt myself to be reborn and to have, gone through open doors into paradise. When I saw the difference that law is one thing and the gospel is another, I broke through. That's classic. He says, you know, as long as I was thinking, well, how do I get righteous so God's pleased with me? The minute I understood that salvation was a gift, I felt born again. The minute I saw the difference between what it meant to try to save myself and receive salvation as a gift, I broke through. It makes sense. If you want to experience the grace of God, you have to grasp with your mind the fact of the grace of God, that salvation is only by the grace of God. And that's the first thing you have to do. You have to repent of your self-salvation before the grace of God. The second thing, though, is very important. It's not enough just to believe in the grace of God in general. You have to have faith in what Jesus Christ has done in particular. I saw all three of my sons born. I'm a little afraid to tell you any more details than that for fear. You know, one of the things they always tell you, preach in classes, don't give an illustration that makes people more interested in going to that story than getting to the end of the sermon. You know, one of my three sons was almost literally born into my lap. So I saw them. And they weren't happy coming. I mean, none of them came out, you know. I mean, I've only seen three, but none of them looked like they were even close to smiling. And I'm sure it was not easy. It was traumatic. It was difficult. And that reminds me of my son. I mean, I've only seen three, but none of them looked like they were I guess, you know, Jesus is not saying that new birth necessarily is all, you know, hearts and flowers. But the point is they were not being born. They were not getting their new life. They were not being brought into the world by their pain and labor. They were being brought into the world through the pain and labor of someone else, their mother. And one of the problems we, I think, we have with understanding all that Jesus tried to get across with this idea, this metaphor that we live today in a world of epidurals and anesthetics. And if you're a young man, you know what an epidural is, just ask a woman, any woman, and she'll tell you. Giving birth is still, is now relatively safe. But we have to remember that when Jesus was talking about you must be born again, he was living at a time in which no one saw the light of life. No one was born into the world unless someone loved you. You couldn't be born unless someone loved you enough to not only experience tremendous pain and suffering for you, but to put her life on the line too. You couldn't be born unless your mother not only was willing to suffer for you, but to put her very life on the line. And of course, in those days, many people were born through the death of the mother. Many little boys and girls were born into this world and only had life because their mother died. Do you know what Jesus is saying? That you, you're not saved by your works. He said you must be born again. Why does he use this metaphor? Oh my goodness, think about it. He's saying if you get new life, it's only through the pain and suffering of someone else. Someone who didn't only risk his life, but gave his life. Someone who died on the cross for you and didn't just experience physical pain and suffering, but something far more eternal and cosmic. And that's the reason why Jesus actually later on, if you think I'm impressing this too far, the image too far, later on in John 16, and commentators know that this is what Jesus is saying. He says this, in a little while, you will see me no more. You know, I'm going to go, I'm going to die. And then he says, a woman giving birth to a child has pain because her hour has come. But when her baby is born, she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. Now, when he's talking about his death, why does he suddenly bring up a woman in labor? And those of you who know the gospel of John realize that whenever Jesus talks about his death in the gospel of John, whenever the cross is mentioned in the gospel of John, it's called his hour. You know, when he's talking to his mother, my hour has not yet come. Whenever he's talking, now is the hour for the son of man to be lifted up. He has the audacity to say, I'm like a woman in labor. And when my hour has come, in spite of the fact that I'm in incredible pain, the sight of the child fills her with joy. And I know that. I saw that too. With all the pain, the sight of the child fills her with joy. And Jesus has the audacity to say, that's just a dim hint of the joy I sense when I look at you and I look at all of you. And I look at all of you. I look at all my pain. I look at all my suffering. I look at all my death on the cross and know it was worth it. I am the one in labor. I'm the one who's given his life. And until you see that and believe in that, you cannot be born again. How do you get converted? How are you born again? You repent before the grace of God and you believe and rest in what Jesus Christ did on the cross. To save you. And that's it. And you might say, well, let me ask a question. How does it look? What really happens? You've been saying it's not just behavioral change. It's not just behavioral change. It's a new life and it's a new sensibility and new identity. But doesn't it have an effect on your life? Yes, it does. And even though the passage right here doesn't tell us, the book of John does. One of the most interesting case studies in the Bible. Of a spiritual conversion, I think, is Nicodemus. And even though there's no place that says, oh, he was converted. Here's what we know. In John 19, when Jesus Christ is still on the cross, Nicodemus and Joseph of Arimathea, two wealthy men, two older white men, two successful men of the ruling council, come and ask for the body of Jesus. They bring him down. We're told, they drown. They rest the body themselves. You know, they prepared it for burial. They put the spices on. They cleaned it. They wiped off all the blood and all that stuff. And they prepared it and buried it. Now, no, it doesn't say he was converted. But let me just, I just want you to see something. Number one, that was an incredibly bold move. Unbelievably courageous. Because at a time in which the leader of a movement had been slain and all the other followers were pretty much going into hiding, these two men were willing to get up and identify. Clearly as his disciples. What boldness, what courage. But on the other hand, you know, the only people in that culture who ever washed and prepared a body, a dead body for burial were women or slaves. Because it was considered just, it was foul and terrible and horrible. And, you know, a man or a man of a particular rank would never do such a thing. But Joseph and Nicodemus, did it. What does that mean? Something had changed in Nicodemus. That on the one hand, he was more courageous. In one sense, he was more manly than he'd ever been. On the other hand, he no, his male pride was gone. His cultural pride was gone. His class pride was gone. He was both more bold and more humble. More courageous and more culturally flexible than he'd ever been before. Why? Because his whole identity had been pulled up and replaced by a man. And he was more courageous and more culturally flexible than he'd ever been. He planted a new soil. It's scary. I've said all along, it is scary to do this. Especially when you realize that when you really say not, well, I'll become a Christian if I can do this and this and this. To say, no, no, I realize that if I give my life to Christ, if I repent and fall on the grace of God, if I believe and rest in the work of Jesus Christ on the cross for me, and God's spirit comes in, I know that in some ways I won't know what's going to happen. I can't know. And I'm afraid of it. I'm afraid of it. I'm afraid of that. But that's the only way it works. At the very end of the book, Mere Christianity, this is how C.S. Lewis ends it. He says, the principle runs through all life from top to bottom. Give up yourself and you will find your real self. Lose your life and you will save it. Submit to death, death of your ambitions and favorite wishes every day and death of your whole body in the end. Submit with every fiber of your being and you will find eternal life. Keep back nothing. Nothing that you have not given away will ever be really yours. Nothing in you that has not died will ever be raised from the dead. Look for yourself and you will find in the long run only hatred, loneliness, despair, rage, ruin, and decay. But look for Christ and you will find him and with him everything else thrown in. Let's pray. And to open up and to trust you as your son trusted you, Jesus Christ, who at the very end said, into thy hands I commit my spirit. I pray, Lord, that all of us here would do the same thing. We ask all this in the name of the one who did all that for us, Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.
