I'm talking about what the subject is, how can a loving God allow evil and suffering? And I'm going to take a lecture format. I mean, I've been a professor, I've been a minister. I'm going to put on my professor's hat. So I'm going to give us a lecture on the subject, and right off the bat let me just say that we've got to, if you're going to deal with the question of evil and suffering, we've got to see it both from a theoretical, theoretical, more intellectual, philosophical standpoint, and from a more personal standpoint. In other words, I've got to put on both a philosopher's hat and a counselor's hat. And the reason is this. Now, this is true for a number of levels. The fact of appalling evil and suffering in the world is one of the main reasons people just can't believe in the traditional God of the Bible. Because the traditional God of the Bible is a God that's both all-powerful and yet good. And what we have to recognize is the reason it's hard for people to believe in that is because evil and suffering works at two levels. It works really at a theoretical level, at a rational level. Evil and suffering creates what some people consider a rational defeater for Christianity or Judaism as well, or even Islam. long, the idea of an all-powerful but good God. Many people say, rationally, that just doesn't work, and we'll go through that. But there's also a kind of emotional way in which the fact of appalling evil and suffering kind of works at you emotionally. It's a non-argumentative defeater for faith. What I mean by that is it's not an argument, it's not so much rational, It's just that when you experience or see or just have any kind of real apprehension of appalling evil and wickedness and violence, the kind of thing there is out there in the world, it doesn't even go at your mind. It immediately goes down to your heart and it makes it very difficult to trust, very difficult to trust or to rely on a god. And so you really have to work at both levels. You really do. If you are a Christian believer and you're talking to a friend who says, I can't believe in your God because of the evil and suffering in the world, you've got to be careful not to treat it just as a theoretical problem, because that person may have experienced themselves or seen appalling evil and suffering, and it's a personal issue. On the other hand, you have to recognize that if you have a personal problem, that you also need to be willing to ask yourself, now, does this really, really constitute an argument against the existence of God? So you have to work on both levels. So what I'm going to do, those of you who've got any access to the handout at all, sorry that you don't all, let's start with the philosophical. Let's start with what I call the theoretical, the part that you've probably heard about or been exposed to if you've ever had a course in religion or philosophy or anything like that. And let's take a look at the objection that says, a loving God can't really allow evil and suffering. Now, the classic, there's two statements of the classic statement of the argument you've probably heard of. It's from David Hume in his famous Discourses Concerning Natural Religion. religion, and in it he says, this is his quote, Epicurus' old questions are yet unanswered. He said Epicurus brought this question up years ago. Is God, he means God here, is God willing to prevent evil but not able? Then he's impotent. Is he able but not willing? Then he's malevolent. Is he both able and willing? Well, where did evil come from then? And so basically the idea of an all good, you know, it's a simple matter of if he's not powerful. If he's powerful, he's not good. He couldn't be both powerful and good if there's evil. But if he's only one and not the other, then he's not the god of traditional Western theism. Now, a more recent statement about this, in the last few years, the person who has, in the last few decades, the person who's most clearly put this old objection to us has been a guy named John Mackey. Now, John Mackey originally, in his most famous work, he wrote an article called Evil and Omnipotence. And in that article, he argues that the existence of evil proves that the God of the Bible can't exist. It's harder to find that article nowadays. If you go into most bookstores, though, in the philosophy section, you're going to find this book that I mentioned down here, The Miracle of Theism, which was put out just after he died. And it's a very, very articulate book. And in it, he backs away a little bit and he says that evil and suffering doesn't so much disprove the existence of the Western theistic God, but it makes him improbable. It makes it unlikely. And this is his argument. And you see, the argument that says, I can't believe in a God who would allow evil and suffering. If you break that down, Mackey says this is the parts of that argument. Look at it. One, two, three, four. If God exists, there couldn't be evil unless he would have a reason that would justify his permitting it, right? See, when people say, I can't believe in a God who allows suffering in the world, what they mean is, I don't see any reason that God is doing that. If God exists, the God of the Bible, there could be no evil unless there was a good reason would, but powerful God would allow it to continue. Number one. Number two, there's lots of evil around. Number three, there's no reason that we can discern that would justify God in permitting evil. And therefore, number four, therefore God does not exist. And that's Mackey's argument. And actually, if you scratch in anybody who makes this argument, anybody who really says, you know, I just can't believe that there is a God who allows evil and suffering, you press them, what they mean is, I can't think of any good reason why he would permit it. The reason they say he couldn't be good, they say, if God was good, he'd stop it. What they mean is, God doesn't have a good reason to let it go on. There's no greater good on the other side of allowing evil to continue in the world and in history. That's what they mean. Now that means that over the years, people who've tried to defend the existence of God have come up with what are called theodicies. And a theodicy is a, literally, it's a God defense. And it means, how do we defend the idea that God allows for evil? And the answer is, if we could come up with a good reason why he allows evil, if we could imagine some greater good that God is getting us to by allowing evil, then we can justify the existence of evil with, or at least we can square it with the existence of all-powerful-yet-good God. Now I put down here the three most common theodicies over the years. And some of them are going to make sense and some are going to sound horrible to you, but that's because people at different times and places and cultures and people who watch different television programs have different views of things. And so some of these will make more sense than others. But these are the common ones. I'll just be real quick about it. The first one is called the punishment theodicy. How horrible, but listen carefully. The first one says this. The reason that God allows evil and suffering is because we rebelled. Humankind rebelled against God, ate the apple in the garden, etc. And therefore, the suffering of the world is just our punishment. Now, here's what's helpful about that, but I'm going to try to show you how none of these work. But here's what's helpful about that. When people have said to me, I just can't believe that God would allow such evil and suffering in the world if he was loving. One of the interesting comebacks to say is, well, okay, what do you think the human race deserves from God? And as soon as people say, well, a better life than this, you suddenly realize you have a premise there that you snuck into the argument that is pretty hard to defend. See, if you look at the handout, it says, you see, it's quite true that most objections to evil, most objections, most people would say, I can't believe in God would allow you supposing that we deserve a better life than we have, right? Anybody who just says, I can't believe in God, is assuming that God owes us a better life than we have. And that is actually a pretty difficult premise to support rationally. I mean, how can you be so sure what kind of life we deserve from God? How dare you, in a sense? How dare you be the person that says, well, I know what we deserve, and therefore there can't be a God. Oh, really? Maybe the problem of evil is really why God allow so much happiness? You know, that's pretty tough. Why would he allow so much happiness? You see, so it's a helpful theodicy, but doesn't go all the way, and here's the reason why. The big problem is, why does God allow the distribution of evil and suffering that he does? If evil and suffering is punishment for human rebellion against God, the question is, why is the punishment so random? good people getting such crappy lives and why are relatively bad people getting such nice lives? Basically, the punishment theodicy doesn't really justify it. It doesn't really answer it. Second one is the one most of you have heard. And the second one is called the free will theodicy. And the free will theodicy goes like this. If God wanted us to freely choose the good, we would have to have been free to choose evil. The greater good of having true children rather than robots entails the risk and abuse of freedom. Now, many of you have heard this, right? In fact, some of you may have been in conversations and someone says, why would God allow such evil and suffering in the world? It doesn't make sense. Very often the comeback is, well, God didn't make us robots, he gave us free will because he wanted us to choose him freely as human beings, you see, not as animals, not as robots, not as robots who are just programmed. And therefore, since he wants us to freely choose, we have the option of being able to freely choose the bad. And therefore, the greater good that God is allowing, trying to get us to, is free will. Free will is the greater good that we're getting to, and evil and suffering is just what we have to have in order to get that greater good. Now, what's helpful about that is, you know, human freedom is a very good. A very good. You know, Jean-Paul Sartre, notice I have a little footnote down there. Jean-Paul Sartre himself recognizes this, and he was, you know, no particular friend of theism in Christianity. He says, the man who wants to be loved does not want the enslavement of the beloved. If the beloved is transformed into an automaton, the lover finds himself alone. However, let me give you a quick problem with this whole thing. And you know, when I was a younger man and a younger Christian, I bought this. And I thought that this is the reason why God's allowed suffering and evil. He's got to give us free will. We can abuse it. First problem, of course, with it is the one we've already mentioned. And that is there's not a fair distribution out there. Is that not true? In other words, there's plenty of people who've chosen good things that are having crappy lives and plenty of people who've chosen bad things that are having pretty nice lives. But in addition, it's the whole thing, this idea that free will is so good that God has us to let us have evil and suffering in order for us to have free will, doesn't wash either. I have three sons. They're all fortunately and frighteningly about your age now. But anyway, I've got two in college. But when they were little, I would say to them, don't cross the street without daddy or mommy. Now, if I saw one of them disobey me, rebel, and he starts running out in the street and I see a car come along, what am I going to do? am I going to say, well, I can't violate his free will. I mean, you know, I gave him free will, and he's rebelled against me, and so, you know, what am I going to do? Of course I'm going to violate his free will and save his life. Why? Because free will isn't that important. I mean, as soon as you actually think about this, as soon as you actually at that point say, well, I let my child exercise his free will, or I'll let him get smashed to smithereens, I'm going to insult me for a second, Dad, the rest of my life. That's what they're going to say later on. They're 20 years old, say, gee, how dare you violate my free will like that? They're never going to be mad at me. And you have to ask yourself, I mean, is free will a good enough reason for what we've got here? And is it really an explanation? No, it's not. The third one, I'm going to jump because I don't want to spend too much time on the philosophical. I mean, this is interesting in a sense, but eventually you'll find it gets tedious very quickly. There's the natural law of theodicy, Like the free will theodicy, the natural law theodicy is a little different and basically says you've got to have order and regularity in nature. We couldn't predict the effect of our choices if we didn't have-our choices would be meaningless if there wasn't a consequence to them. And it's kind of a long story, but the fact is it's not the same as free will. It looks like it. Let's not get into it. It basically comes down to the same problem, and that is most suffering does not happen to bad choices. It's often random. It's often undeserved. It's often horrific. Now, why do we just look at those three things if they don't really work? Well, the answer is that they help a little bit. The reason they help a little bit is if you take a look at the fact that an awful lot of suffering really, we shouldn't be blaming on God, it's our own stupid, mean, cruel, inhuman choices in this world, right? A lot of evil comes from that. Somebody has once suggested, if you got, you know, even the landslides and the floods and the things that wipe out people, you say, ah, that's a natural disaster. You know why there's a lot of people living in unsafe places? Because of greed, because of classism, because of racism, because of oppression, because poor people are only allowed to build in places where they really shouldn't be building. We all know about that. I lived in, well, gotta be careful about it. I lived in, for several years, I lived in Johnstown, Pennsylvania, And some of you know it. Some people call it flood city Pennsylvania. There's been a lot of terrible floods there. In fact, the last one was in the 70s. My family lived there at the time. But the point of the matter is the people that get killed are the poor people because of where they live. They can only afford to live in certain places. The rich people never get flooded. They're at the top. They look down. They say, oh, they've had a flood. I mean, it's not that bad. But I mean, the fact of the matter is an awful lot of the evil and suffering in this world, we should not be pinning on God. We should be pinning to a great degree on our choices, but it's not enough. The theodicies help, but it's hard to insist that the theodicies allow us to see how God would be justified in permitting all the evil we see in the world. So now, turn on over if you're doing this. Now, here's what I'm going to suggest, and it's very important. I told you I'm still in the philosophy, I've still got my philosopher's hat on, not my for both philosophical reasons and personal reasons, both as a philosopher and a friend or as a counselor, it is absolutely, absolutely imperative that you not try to posit a reason for evil and suffering, not in particular and not in general. If you try to say, I can figure out the reason that God is allowing evil and suffering in the world, free will or whatever you're going to do. It's just going to weaken your situation. It's going to weaken your own faith, your own certainty about this, because the reasons don't hold water. So philosophically, it's a bad idea. But I want you to know something, too. I'll just add this quickly. Personally, it's the worst possible thing for you to try to comfort somebody who's just experienced a terrible tragedy by trying to give them a reason for it. Don't ever say, it'll be making you stronger. Now, that may be true, but that's not enough of a reason for it. I mean, some of you have been through some horrible things and you know it's made it stronger, right? But it's not a sufficient reason. Don't say, well, I'm sure that somehow it's all going to work out for the best. Thank you, Bildad, Zophar, and Eliphaz. You know, those are called Job's friends. And you know what's interesting? When Job was suffering terrible, Bildad, Zophar, and Eliphaz came and said, well, Job, you know, there must be a reason for your suffering, which is you're not living right. And by the way, at the very end of the book, God says to Job, and it's pretty intriguing, you know, you think of the Bible as kind of a traditional book, but you talk about, boy, what an existentialist kind of book the book of Job is, because you never figure out why Job suffered. But in the end, Job just sticks with God. And at the end, God says to Job, Job, you better pray for your friends to me because I'm really mad at them. Interesting. Why? Because they trivialized Job's suffering and they said, I'm sure there's a reason for it. So both philosophically and personally, the worst thing you can do is to try to come up with a reason for evil and suffering, a greater good, to try to identify it. This is a very important philosopher today, Alvin Plantinga, who teaches at Notre Dame. And in his latest book, he says this about the question of what is the reason for allowing evil and suffering. He says in here, I'm going to read this to you, but let me just tell you ahead of time what he does. It's really quite brilliant. What he says, it's a very, very bad idea to try to identify the reason that God would allow. But at the very, very same time, on the other hand, it is rationally invalid to insist there can't be a good reason because I can't think of it. In other words, defenders of God make a huge mistake to try to posit the reason. But on the other hand, in other words, the defenders of God tend to try to identify the reason, and that is a mistake. It's a mistake philosophically, as I'm going to show you, because it always weakens the case. However, people who are skeptical of God make a major logical fallacy when they say, because I can't think of a reason, therefore there must not be a reason. And you know what? This is one of the things over the last three or four years when I've used this, this is Alvin planting his argument, when I've used this with people who are struggling, to my Am I surprised a lot of times a little light bulb goes on when I say, do you realize what you're doing? You're saying because you can't think of a good reason why God would allow evil and suffering, therefore there can't be one. But that's a non sequitur. Look at how, look at how planning puts it. He says, I look inside my pup tent and I don't see a St. Bernard. It is very probable then that there is no St. Bernard in my tent. That's because if there were one, it's highly likely I would have seen it. It's not easy for a St. Bernard to avoid detection in a small tent. Again, though, I look in my tent and I don't see any no-see-ums. Now some of you don't live from parts of the world where the-you know what a no-see-um is? If you live around the Great Lakes and a place like that, a no-see-um is a very small midge with a bite all out of proportion to its size. It bites you and you can virtually not see them. That's why they call no-see-ums. This time I look into my tent. I don't see any no-see-ums. This time it is not particularly probable that there are no-see-ums in my tent. It's very likely I wouldn't see them. They're too small to see. Now here's the question. Is whether God's reasons, if any, for permitting evil and suffering in the world are more like St. Bernard's or more like Noseum's? Suppose the fact that God has a reason for such evils. Is it likely that we would be the first to know? Given that he's omniscient and given our very substantial epistemic limitations, isn't it at all possible, surprising, it isn't at all surprising that his reasons might escape us? Why does God permit all this evil? Christians must concede they don't know. That is, we don't know in any detail. But our grasp of the fundamental way of things is at best limited, and so there's no reason to think that if God did have a reason for permitting the evil in question, we would be the first to know. So we may know that God could permit evil because he can achieve a world he sees as better by permitting evil than by preventing it immediately. So that's the point. And what God sees as better is, of course, better. But we can't see why our world would be better or what in any detail is God's reason for permitting a specific evil. I would like to mention a point, however, that is of special significance. I don't want to go down and tell you what that is, but before, look up here. In short, God, we said, would have a good reason for allowing evil and suffering if he's still God. But if somebody says God would have to have a good reason for allowing evil and suffering, number one. Number two, I can't think or perceive of any. Number three, therefore there cannot be any. That's just simply a non-sequitur. That's just simply a logical fallacy. And everybody from David Hume down to John Mackie has been doing that. You cannot say that God could not allow evil, a good God would not allow evil and suffering unless you say there is no reason possible, no possible better good reason that God would have for allowing evil and suffering. How would you know that? And since you don't know that, the whole anti-God argument from the existence of evil falls apart. And in the last 10 to 15 years, there has been, in the philosophical world, there have been more and more people who are willing to admit this. That's what I put down here. down here at your handout. You see where it says, in short, the a-theological argument. The a-theological argument means the argument from evil against the existence of God falls apart at premise three. See? God would have to have a good reason for allowing evil and suffering. I can't think or perceive, therefore there cannot be any. If you look up the discussion by planting a footnote above, and especially if you look up the recent work of Christian philosophers he cites, it would be fair to conclude there is no longer any confident consensus among philosophers that evil and suffering disprove the Christian God. It's just not there like it used to be. I mean, it takes time for some of this stuff that happens, you know, amongst the sort of the top philosophers to start, you know, filtering down. It takes 15, 20 years sometimes, but that's the fact I think it's fair to say that. Not only that, and this is what Planting wants to go on, there is a boomerang effect of the argument against God from evil. It's not just that You can't disprove God with evil and suffering anymore. It's not just that is true, but the argument against God from evil and suffering boomerangs back, and this is what else Plantinga says. Read here. It's indeed true that suffering and evil can occasion spiritual perplexity and discouragement, and of all the anti-theistic arguments, only the argument from evil deserves to be taken really seriously. I believe that. Of all the arguments against Christianity I've ever heard, this is the one I think is the biggest one, the biggest problem, the most serious argument. But I also believe there is at least as strong an argument for the reality of God from the existence of evil. What? The most appalling kinds of evil involve human cruelty and wickedness, Stalin, Pol Pot, Hitler, and his henchmen. But could there be any such thing as horrifying glorifying wickedness if there were no God and we just evolved. I don't see how. An atheistic way of looking at the world has no place for genuine moral obligation of any sort and thus no way to say there's any such thing as genuine and appalling wickedness. There can be such a thing only if there's a way that rational creatures are supposed to live, obliged to live. Atheism can speak of foolishness, acting contrary to what you take to be your own interest, but cannot accommodate appalling wickedness. foolish to kill minorities inside your country, but can you say it's wicked? Say, yes, I can. Well, let me ask you a quick question. This is what planning is saying. Let's just say there is no God and nature is all there is. Look at evolution. Look at nature. What do you see? Strong, eat the weak. Strong species, eat weak species. Strong organisms, eat weak organisms. And that's just the way of nature. Now you get into human nature. What's wrong with strong countries eating strong weaker countries, strong races eating weaker races? What's wrong with that? You say it's just wrong. Why? It's natural. And if you know it's wrong, you must have a standard that's supernatural. How else could you know nature is wrong? Think about it. How could nature be abnormal? How can nature be abnormal unless you've got some standard? That's exactly what Planting is trying to say, which means when you see appalling wickedness and you don't believe in God, appalling wickedness actually creates a bigger problem for people who don't believe in God than it does for people who do. Because for the people who do believe in God, how can God allow that? And it's really hard. But the people who don't believe in God, you don't even have the right to be outraged. Therefore, what he's saying is, what Planting is saying is, the very fact of appalling evil and wickedness proves that you know down deep there is a God, or you wouldn't be appalled. So let's conclude the philosophical part of this and then just go to the personal. If there is a God, then evil creates a grave personal problem. We said that. Why is God doing this? Doesn't he understand? But if there's no God, you don't even have a good basis for being outraged. After all, nature is red in tooth and claw. Death and destruction is perfectly natural. How can you consider nature to be abnormal when the strong eat the weak anyway? You can only object to injustice if you already believe in some kind of supernatural moral standard, some standard that comes from outside of nature. So here's the first part, and here's the summary of how you answer the theoretical objection to God from evil. If you have a god-I'm going to say this real slowly, even though you're reading it, too-if you have a god great enough to be mad at for not preventing evil and suffering, you have to, at the same time, have a god great enough to have a reason for allowing evil and suffering you can't discern. Get that? If you're mad at god because he's so powerful you can stop it if you want to, if you have a god so great you can be mad at him for not stopping it, then you have to have a god so great that he might have a reason that you don't know. You can't have it both ways. Evil and suffering is a major problem for people who believe in God, but it's a bigger problem for people who don't, because evil and injustice are illusions, they're just natural, and that's the reason why I believe in God, because of evil and suffering. It's really true. Now the second issue is this, I believe that there's got to be people out there, I hope I hope there's people out there tonight who say, this is not comforting me. This is not helping me. I see that you just sort of tricked me rationally. I don't, you know, I'm in my 20s and you're at least 50 from what I can see. And you've been at this a long time and I can tell that. And so you just tricked me and I wouldn't wanna, you know, take you on and all this sort of thing. But this is not helping me. And I know why it's not helping you, because as I said, now take a look at the next part, the personal problem of suffering. I have been dealing with what you might call an argumentative defeater for Christianity. The argumentative defeater goes like Hume or like Mackey. If there is a God who's powerful and good and yet there's evil, then there can't be a God. That's a rational defeater. You know, as they say, because of suffering and evil, God can be good or he can be powerful, but he can't be both, therefore he doesn't exist. But there is a non-argumentative defeater that happens in your heart in the face of evil and suffering. It's just horrifying, evil is just overwhelming. And I'm afraid all the arguments in the world don't help. They do help, because they clear away some of the rational ground. If you've If you've had a personal experience of injustice that has made you doubt God, then when you hear the rational defeater for, you know, the David Hume kind of argument, you just pick it right up and you use it. But your real problem isn't rational, it's not theoretical, it's personal. What are we going to do about that? And by the way, if you're a Christian and you try to talk with people who are struggling with the idea of God, I can't believe in God because of evil and suffering. You've got to be very careful. You must not fantasize ever talking to somebody filled with doubts like I'm talking to you now. You must not fantasize just going on and on and, you know, going logically from step to step to step and knocking this down. Never do that to anybody, you know. Obviously, even I don't do it hardly to anybody except occasionally because people ask me to come and speak to a pile of people at once. And that's the only way I can do it. But if I was sitting down with somebody, I wouldn't do it. And you shouldn't either. Now, the point is, what do we do about that? And the answer is, Christianity, if anything, has got more resources than I would have to say any other form of theism, any other form of faith, more resources to help people deal with the emotional aspects of suffering, the non-argumentative aspects of suffering. Why? Why? Because we're the only, listen, and this is, I know this may sound like bragging, it's not bragging, it's just a fact. Christianity is the only religion with a suffering God. Only religion with a God that suffers. Now, why is that important? Well, again, here's planting again. As the Christian sees things, God does not stand idly by, coolly observing the suffering of his creatures, which almost every other faith basically has a God like that. He enters into and shares our suffering. Some claim that God cannot suffer. I believe they are wrong. God's capacity for suffering, I believe, is proportional to his greatness. It exceeds our capacity for suffering in the same measure as his capacity for knowledge exceeds ours. That's pretty interesting. Christ was sent to endure the agonies of hell itself, so we don't know why God permits evil. We do know, however, that he was prepared to accept suffering of which we can form no conception. The chief difference between Christianity and other religions lies right there. This doesn't answer the question, why exactly does God permit evil? But it helps the Christian trust God as his loving father, which is the real issue. His aims and goals may be beyond our ken, but he himself is prepared to share a much greater suffering than we in the pursuit of those ends. Christianity in this regard contains a resource for dealing with this existential problem of evil, a resource denied in other theistic religions. You see what he's saying? Now, by the way, planning is not the only person. Look at Albert Camus. Not a Christian. He says he's not a Christian, yet he senses this. This is an amazing place, by the way. I'm really glad I found this. Christ's solution, and he's talking about evil and suffering. Christ's solution consisted first in experiencing them, meaning experience of evil and suffering. The God-man suffers too with patience. Evil and death, now this is really intriguing. He says, in fact, I don't even know why Camus wrote this, but he's right. He just felt the logic of it. He says, evil and death can no longer be entirely imputed to the Lord, the Christian God, because he suffers and dies. The night on Golgotha is so important in the history of man only because in its shadows the divinity ostensibly abandoned its traditional privilege, lived through to the end. Despair included the agony of death. This is explaining the lama sabachthani, which means, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me, and the frightful doubt of Christ in agony. Here's what Camus says. You can't blame a God for evil and suffering who actually is willing to come down and get involved with it. Another way to put it is this. This is where the personal and the philosophical converge. We said you can't get rid of the idea of God suffering because just because you can't think of a good reason why he'd allow you on suffering doesn't mean there isn't one but how can you be sure there is one even if we don't know it even if we don't know what it is how can we be sure there is one the answer is only christianity tells us god is not up there just saying oh i love you i love you someday i'm going to overcome evil and suffering i love you there's christianity you have a god who takes evil and suffering so seriously he comes down The problem of evil and suffering is the strongest objection to the Christian faith because it's an irreducible problem. You can never remove it by argument. However, it's no real reason to abandon the Christian faith because we saw that suffering creates at least as great a problem for all alternatives. Are you an atheist? We've talked about that. You have no rational basis to be outraged. Are you believing in Eastern religions or Islam or some other faith? Then you have a God who doesn't suffer with you. The cross, though, is an incredible way to deal with suffering. Without a suffering God, now I'm going to try to defend this for a second, it's harder to treat suffering as real. All Eastern religions see suffering as an illusion. And they say, if you're suffering it's because you haven't been enlightened. And that's got to essentially trivialise your misery to some degree. It's got to say your misery isn't real. Well it feels real but it's not. The cross doesn't do that. It doesn't say your suffering is unreal. On the other hand, I have to admit there's many Christian thinkers sometimes speak about suffering as something that somehow will work out for the best, which I've already talked about, in a sentimental way. That trivializes misery too. The story of the cross takes evil and loss so seriously, showing, and I'm saying this, that it's a problem even for God somehow. God cannot wave his hand and get rid of evil and suffering. I have no idea why. I have no idea why he can't snap his fingers. I have no idea why he is allowing it. But all we know is this. Even he can't remove it with the wave of the divine hand. It can't be overcome mind over matter in the Eastern way. Yet the cross shows that God will not be defeated by evil and pain because in the Christian story God does not, Jesus does not save us despite evil and pain but through it. He doesn't save us in spite of it. He saves us through it. The saving grace of God takes up the cross, suffering and pain into the joy of the resurrection and deliverance. And therefore, there's only one, I think, faith that at least gives you an assurance that there must be, there must be a good reason that God's allowing evil and suffering. He loves us so much he would suffer like that, then he is not allowing evil and suffering one second longer than necessary. He couldn't be. So summary part 2. Though we can't discern the reason that God might have for We have a remarkable assurance that he does have one. He has suffered infinitely for us on the cross. Surely this proves that he's not indifferent to our suffering since he became involved, but he must have some good reason that he will not simply end it with a snap of his fingers. St. Teresa of Avila, however, put it all in perspective. St. Teresa of Avila said, as a little startling, she says, when you get to heaven, the first will make a hundred lives of utter misery look like one night in a bad hotel. You know why that's startling? Teresa of Avila had a prayer life in which she was able to talk about the love of Jesus Christ, the suffering love of Jesus Christ. It had become existentially real to her heart. And it just brought her, made her able to face suffering. Because she says, if this is what I get here, She says, I can imagine that, you might say, down here, you know, I'm weak, I'm flawed, I'm in the flesh, you know, I'm imperfect, and yet still through the filter, all these incredible filters, I still experience the suffering love of Jesus Christ. I see Jesus on the cross and I know he must have loved me, he would never have done that for me. I don't know what the reasons are that he's letting life go on and history go on like this, but he has to. It's proof. She experienced so much of that she says, but to get it unmediated, to get it perfectly, to get it right on the lips, essentially. I mean, she did not shrink from that kind of imagery and I'm not either. It would make a hundred lies, a thousand lies of utter misery look like one night in a bad hotel. And that's the reason why, that's the reason why, you know, Teresa of Avila was able, through her existential experience of Jesus Christ, her prayer life, able to handle suffering and evil. And that's the final, final solution for it. When I say solution, it doesn't mean you don't ever struggle at all. But that's really what Christianity holds out to you as the ultimate solution for the problem of evil and suffering, philosophical, personal, and existential.
