Our teaching this morning, our sermon this morning, is based on the words of the gospel writer Matthew, and I'm going to read verses in chapter 1, verses 1 to 17. They're not printed in your bulletin, and you'll see why, in a way. I'm going to read from the Old King James Bible, the authorized version, and the one in which, if you've ever heard this passage read, this is the form in which you've heard it read. It's affectionately known as the begats. The begats. See, whenever you ordinarily hear a passage read out of St. Matthew that describes the birth of Christ, it almost always starts at verse 18. Because in verse 18 it says, now the birth of Jesus Christ was this way, happened this way. But we miss the first 17 verses. Let me read them to you. They're filled with wonderful teaching. teaching. Now, these are the book of the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren, and Judah begat Phares and Zerah of Tamar, and Phares begat Esram, and Esram begat Aram, and Aram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Nason, and Nason begat Salmon, and Salmon begat of Rahab, and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth, and Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon from her that had been the wife of Uriah, and Solomon begat Rehoboam, and Rehoboam begat Abiah, and Abiah begat Asa, and Asa begat Jehoshaphat, and Jehoshaphat begat Joram, and Joram begat Uzziah, and Uzziah begat Jotham, and Jotham begat Achaz, and Achaz begat Ezekiah, and Ezekiah begat Manassas, and Manassas begat Ammon, and Ammon begat josiah, and josiah begat Jeconiah and his brethren about the time they were carried away to Babylon, and after they were brought to Babylon, Jeconiah begat Shalathiel, and Shalathiel begat Zerubbabel, and Zerubbabel begat Abiad, and Abiad begat Eliakim, and Eliakim begat Azor, and Azor begat Shadok, and Shadok begat Achim, and Achim begat Eliad, and Eliad begat Eleazar, and Eleazar begat Matthew, and Matthew begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are 14 generations, it until the carrying away into Babylon are 14 generations. And from the carrying away into Babylon, unto Christ, are 14 generations. This is God's Word. Now, why study the begats? We study the begats because, as Paul said, all Scripture is inspired and profitable. That means every part of the Word of God is God-inspired and therefore filled with spiritual dynamite. And there's four things that just a reading of the book of the genealogies of Christ tells us. Four things. I admit that you probably don't notice them the first time through, but after about the 500th time through, some things begin to emerge, and there's advantages to reading over and over. The four things that this passage teaches us about Jesus and about Christmas is, number one, it teaches us these four things, and I'll put them in a sense in one sentence. God took his time, but secondly, he broke through into history. Thirdly, to give us his Sabbath spiritual rest. And fourthly, thereby destroying all the categories and distinctions of the world. God took his time, but God broke into history to give us a spiritual rest and to destroy all the distinctions and categories that the world holds so dear. They're all there. This passage teaches us these things in very vivid and memorable ways. Let me show you. First of all, this passage teaches us about Christmas in this way, that God takes his time. You know, in the very beginning it says, these are the generations of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Now, right away that reminds us of something. Jesus Christ was promised for hundreds of years, centuries. God came to David and said, I'm going to put one of your descendants on the throne, and he will reign forever. God said to Abraham, Abraham, come out of your tent. tent. We spent a lot of time on Abraham this fall. He said, Abraham, come out of your tent. Look at the stars. Can you number them? So shall thy seed be. And of thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. And it wasn't, however, it wasn't for 2,000 more years before Mary sang her song, the Magnificat, after Gabriel had come to her, the angel had come to her and told her is going to, of Christ that was going to come through her. And she sings a song and she says, he remembered his promise to our father Abraham, even as he said. 2,000 years at least. God had made these promises. In fact, for the 400 years before Christ was born, there weren't even any prophets. You know, for hundreds of years, the prophets have been coming and saying, saying, things look bad, God's sending the Messiah. Things look bad, God is sending the king. Things look bad, but God will do all these things for you. But for 400 years, there hadn't even been a prophet. It looked like God had forgotten everything, all of his promises. The first thing that the genealogies teach us is that you cannot, the first thing in a sense that Christmas teaches us, You cannot judge God by your calendars, by your measurements of time. The first thing we're taught here is that God may appear to be very slow, but he never forgets his promises. He may seem to be working very slowly or even seem to be forgetting his promises, but when his promises come true, and they will come true, they always burst, you might say, the banks of even what you imagined. God seems to forget, but he never forgets his promises, and he comes through in ways that we can't even imagine, beyond what we can imagine. That's the meaning. Now, the reason we say that is because a lot of us, on a day like Christmas, see, Christmas can be very bittersweet for a lot of people, and in some ways it just kind of holds back the despair that shows up around, you know, early January. And a lot of times, a lot of us are fighting with the fact that an awful lot of the promises that God seems to have made have not come true. He promises to bless us. He promises to give us the desires of our hearts. He promises to give us what we need. What does this teach us? Today on Christmas Day, I'm saying to you, this passage is saying to you, that the mills of God grind slow, but they grind exceedingly fine. God may always seem to have forgotten his promises, but he is in the process now of bringing to bear upon you all that which will fulfill the greatest promises. You read the Bible and you see the promises to those of us who believe. He is able to give us more than we dare ask or think. A lot of you are saying, boy, that'll be pretty incredible. I can imagine an awful lot. but God has said, I will make my promises be fulfilled. I will do it for you. That's the first thing. In fact, you have to be, you have to, if there's anybody out there saying, well, you know, I'm a Christian. I'm a believer. It doesn't seem to me like God has come through for me, and maybe he shouldn't because I have made a mess of my life. I have done things. I am eating the bitter fruit of foolish mistakes and stupid moves. Maybe I'll never have all these great things that God has promised. Well, you know, you look at the genealogy. In verse 2, it says, Isaac begat Jacob. And then in verse 3, it says, Jacob begat Judah. Well, you know how Jacob begat Judah? You know, Jacob lied. lied, he disguised himself as his brother Esau to get the birthright from his father Isaac. Because of that deception, because of that lie, Jacob fractured his family. Esau came after Jacob. Jacob had to be a fugitive. He had to run for his life. His family was broken up. He experienced terrible consequences in his life, and yet, because he had to be a fugitive, he met Rachel, Rachel, the love of his life, and from that union comes the Messiah. Which means that even though Jacob blew his life apart with his sin, and there were real consequences, and what he did was absolutely wrong, God does not put your life on plan B. Rachel wasn't plan B. The Messiah is not plan B, you see. The first point of the genealogies is that God is working out his purposes. He will fulfill his promises. As the hymn goes, for his mercies, they endure, ever faithful, ever sure. First thing, may look like he's taking a lot of time, but he is working. Secondly, though, this passage teaches us something so foundational, so fundamental, that God broke into history. history. Christmas teaches us that God has done something in history. That's the reason why Matthew does not begin his story about the birth of Christ in verse 18. In other words, God, Matthew does not begin the story of Jesus' birth once upon a time. He doesn't say once upon a time because he wants you to make sure. He wants to make sure that you and I know that this is not story. This is not a fable. This is not a fairy tale. This is reality. He puts Jesus in history. He says this was a historical event. Christmas is about historical events.

Christianity does not declare, now there are something that consenting adults can do in the privacy of their own lives that bring them peace and comfort. No, Christianity declares God has He has broken in. Certain historical events have happened, and how you respond to them will be the basis on which you rise or fall. Christianity says God has broken into history. He has done something in history that changes everything, and how you respond to them will, you'll be judged on the basis of that. See, this is the part about Christmas that nobody likes to talk about. Several months ago, I did an evening service in which I was trying to make the case that the historical documents, the New Testament, the gospels, the historical documents were historically accurate, that there really was someone who was born, who was the son of God, and who was raised physically from the dead. These really happened, people really saw him, and there was a man who was at that service who wrote me a letter afterwards, and in the letter it wouldn't have been so offensive if you had just said that you personally believe in Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord. He says, that wouldn't be offensive, but you kept trying to say that these were historical facts. You kept trying to say that he was historically and literally and physically raised from the dead. You kept trying to say he really was God born in a manger, and he says, what's so offensive about that is if these things are historical facts, then that's insisting believed them, not just you. There it is, but you know, and he's right, I was so glad for that letter, he wasn't really mean, you know, he wasn't even being disrespectful anyway, he was really saying, you know, if you just say you believe, that's one thing, but when you insist that this is a historical event, these Christian things, you know, the birth of Christ, that this is historical, well, that's offensive, it's public, it's historical, it's objective, it's irritating, because everybody has to believe if it's historical. That's right, but it's not my idea. That's Christmas. You see, Matthew does not start once upon a time. In fact, let me go a little further.

Christmas says that Jesus Christ became part of history. He happened. Do you know what that means? Something that I continually allude to, especially when I preach and I go by so fast, complains that I don't very often explain this, and so I'm going to take a moment to explain it, because I was rereading this great essay by C.S. Lewis, not very well known, and the way he describes Christmas is he says, myth became fact, but that very phrase could be misunderstood. Let me tell you what it means. He starts off saying, what you get in the old myths is not truth,

Truth is always about something but reality is that about which truth is Now let me first of all explain how he's using these words He says, you know, when you read the old myths Hercules, Oedipus, Helen of Troy Beauty and the Beast, you know, Sleeping Beauty These old myths He says they're not factually true They're not true in that way They're not factually true, but they're about reality They're about the real structure of the universe. They're about the way things really are. They're about moral absolutes. They're about reality. See, he goes on and then he says this, quote, Myth is the mountain whence all the different streams arise which become truths down here in the valley of history where we live. But the heart of Christianity is that myth became a historical fact. Reality comes down from the heaven of legend and imagination into the earth of history it happened at a particular place at a particular date. Now, you know what he's saying? Listen. He says, let's look at the old one. What is Beauty and the Beast about? That there is a love that no matter how ugly we've made ourselves, no matter how bound we are in our own sins, in our own self-made prisons, there is a love that can make us our true selves again, that can cut through the ugliness, and unmerited, and that can transform us and free us. What is Peter Pan about? That we really aren't meant to grow old. We're not meant to decay and die. We're meant to fly. We're not meant to be earthbound. We're meant to fly. What is Sleeping Beauty about? That death isn't really death. It's a sleep, and there is a great prince who can wake us from it. are these old myths true? Well, they're not historically accurate. They never happened in history, but they're about reality. What reality? See, these myths, even though they're not even particularly Christian, they get at the reality. There is sin. We are bewitched. We're under a spell. It's called sin. And we were not built to be earthbound and to decay, but to fly and never to age. And there is an evil sorcerer who has the power of death, the Bible calls him the devil. And there isn't just matter, but there's a supernatural reality. There's all sorts of realities that we can't really see.

And you know, the trouble is that people, modern people, who don't believe any of this, intellectually, our constructs say, there's no such thing as absolute values, there's no such thing as heaven and hell, there's no such thing as God, But when we watch on the screen or when we read in a book these old stories, they get us, don't they? They stir us up. There is a sorcerer. There is an evil spell. We are supposed to fly. There is eternity. There is more than just what we taste, touch, hear, see, and smell. Something in us resonates to it, doesn't it? Even though intellectually we don't believe it. Huh? We don't believe it. These stories, they didn't happen factually.

But Christmas, what C.S. Lewis says, what Matthew says with these genealogies, when you get to the Christmas story, you don't have one more myth pointing to these awesome realities. You have the reality to which all the myths pointed coming into history. Jesus Christ is the myth that became a fact. It's a myth not in that it never happened. this is the reality to which all other myths have pointed. This is the handsome prince. This is the one whose love can turn you from a beast.

You were meant to fly. Don't you see when Christians stand and listen to little kids watching movies or reading books and they say, I wish there was a Hercules. I wish there was a Superman. I wish I could fly. I wish there really were white knights, you know, who slew the dragon. it was possible to fly. A Christian, your heart wells up because you know it is quite possible.

When they say, I wish there was this, I wish there was this, and you say, there is. Of course, they look at you crazy. In Christ, all the stories are true, and they will become literally true. You know, when gnarled old Maggie Smith, you know, playing Wendy in the Steven Spielberg movie, when she looks at Robin Williams, who's Peter Pan with amnesia, and says, Peter, the stories are true. A Christian gets chills. You know why? You know what a Christian is? We're Peter Pan and our amnesia has fallen off. We know we are going to fly. We know we are never going to age. We know we are going to run and not be weary. We know that we're going to break the bands of death. We know that we're going to live forever. We know we're going to rule and reign with the great prince. The stories are true. They're true. Why? Because Jesus Christ is the myth that became a fact, the awesome reality to which all the myths point has broken into history. Jesus Christ happened. This is the one that happened, a particular place, a particular date. Christ the Savior is born. Not a fable, not an abstract principle. And anybody who says, how offensive that you really believe these things actually happened in history. These are just wonderful stories, principles on which we can live, you see. You look at Hercules, you look at Oedipus, you look at these wonderful stories, and they teach you that love will overcome evil. And they teach you that character is more important than wealth and so on. And that's all that it teaches you. Don't you dare completely destroy Christianity of its heart. And don't you dare rip the heart out of what Christmas means.

Christ the Savior is born.

Jesus actually happened. happened. So God took his time, but he broke into history to give us Sabbath rest. What's Sabbath rest? What does that mean? And where is that in here? I'll tell you why. Anybody who read Matthew, when Matthew was first written, and it was probably written to Jewish Christians because it assumes an awful lot of understanding of the Old Testament, they knew that there were not But 14 generations from Abraham to David, 14 generations from David to the exile, and 14 generations from the exile to Jesus. They knew it. Why? All you have to do is go back into the Old Testament. Because Matthew telescoped these genealogies. That means when, you know, in the, the reason I read the Old King James where it says, says Abraham begat Isaac, you know, Rahab begat Boaz. That is a very accurate translation. If in your modern translations, what's it say? It says, so-and-so was the father of, right? So-and-so was the father of. That's not true, because the Greek word that's used over and over again, the Greek word geneo, from which we get our word generation, is a word that means was the ancestor of. Because you see, there's places in Matthew where he takes, and we know this from the Old Testament, and any reader of the Old Testament would know, where he telescopes these things. And he'll say this guy begat this guy, but actually this guy was the great, great, great grandfather of this guy. Matthew telescopes it down to say Jesus Christ is the seventh seven. Seven. Fourteen, fourteen, and fourteen is what? Seven, seven, seven, seven, seven, seven. This is the seventh seven generation. Jesus Christ, the number meant a whole lot. And of course, the Jewish readers who were reading it knew what Matthew was saying. And do you? Do I? Here's what it meant. In the Old Testament, seven was a very important phrase. One day in seven was the Sabbath day. And on the Sabbath day, you rested from your work. Why? Because somehow that day was pointing to a Sabbath rest that God promised to give us. And one year out of seven in the Old Testament was a Sabbath year. And on the Sabbath year, the seventh year after seven years, debts were forgiven and slaves were set free. Why? It was pointing to a Sabbath rest that God spoke about. He says, I will give you a special spiritual Sabbath rest someday. And this is a pointer to it. But not only that, in the Old Testament, in Leviticus 25, you can read about it, not only was there a Sabbath day and a Sabbath year, but there was a Sabbath generation. generation, that every seven Sabbath years, which would mean the 49th or the 50th year, was called the Jubilee year. And in the Jubilee year, not only did you rest from your labor, and not only were the debts forgiven, and not only were the slaves freed, but any capital you lost, if your family got back all the land you may have lost over the last 50 years, you got it back. now it was such a radical idea that most people think that the Jews never really actually practiced it can you imagine after 50 years people some people got wealthier some people got poor sometimes through bad management sometimes through poor investments sometimes because of the weather and the crops didn't come up some people have gotten bigger some people gotten smaller every 50 years the Bible said you go back everybody gets back the land that they lost all the debts are freed, all the slaves go free, all the debts are paid. But this was only a way of pointing to some greater rest. And what Matthew is saying is that Jesus Christ is the Jubilee. He will bring you the Sabbath rest to which all of these Old Testament rituals and practices and customs pointed. And in the book of Hebrews, chapter 4, we're told there now is a rest for the people of gospel of Jesus Christ brings you a deep spiritual rest. You know what the scientists will tell you? It's not how long you sleep, right, at night that makes you rested. What is it? It's whether you have REM sleep, rapid eye movement sleep, right? You have to have a couple of hours, don't you? An hour or two of rapid eye movement sleep. Jesus gives you that deep sleep, that deep rest that your soul needs. And you say, how? Well, I can only mention it very briefly here, but look at gospel. The gospel says you're more wicked than you ever dared believe, and you're more loved and accepted through Jesus Christ than you ever dared hope. That's the gospel. You're more evil than you ever dared, you are a wicked, evil sinner. That's the gospel, the first half. You can't save yourself by being good. You are a condemned sinner, but then the second half is, because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross, simply receiving what he did and resting in what he has done, You can be completely accepted and completely loved and completely cherished by God the Father. That's the gospel. Don't you see that both of those things bring rest? Both of them. See, on the one hand, when you accept the fact you're a condemned sinner, you finally get the rest from hiding. Until I really understood the gospel, I'll tell you, I spent the first 20 years of my life hiding from the fact that I really knew that I didn't want to see it, I didn't want anybody else to see it. I'm a moral failure. the Bible says, until you are willing to admit that you're a moral failure, that you're not good, you'll never earn your way into God's heart, until you're willing to admit that you're a sinner, and you're a condemned sinner, and you deserve to be a condemned sinner, you're a fugitive, you know, you're Harrison Ford out there, I'm really innocent, everybody thinks I'm guilty, but I'm really innocent, that makes you tired, watch the movie, you'll see, and the Bible says that until you accept the gospel, you are a mighty tired person, always having to keep up the facade, always being bitter toward people who have shown you where you're wrong and shown you what's wrong with you, always running, always pursued. Stop your you're hiding, says the gospel. Rest. You really are a sinner. Relax. You really are. It's true. But then the other side of the gospel, of course, you got to have both. The other side says, it is not your works, but God's works through Christ. It's not what you have done, but what he has done for you. If you rest in what he has done, you rest indeed. That's the reason why Paul says in Romans chapter 4, verse 5, he says, he says, now to him who works not, but believes in the one who justifies the ungodly, your faith is credited to you as righteousness. To him who works not, it doesn't mean, Paul's not saying, now you stop trying to be good. It says, now you rest from thinking that your goodness is what gets you right with God.

Rest from hiding. You are a sinner. Rest from trying to prove yourself. show the world and God that you can do it, that you're all right. If you rest in your own works, you're a fugitive. If you rest in him, you rest in deed. That's the purpose of the genealogies. That's the reason why Matthew goes through all this stuff and says, see, it's 14, 14, 14. Jesus is the jubilee. Jesus is the Sabbath rest. Jesus is the rest for the people of God. Are you resting? Are you relaxing? Are you anxious?

Are you guilty? Are you feeling like a failure? Are you dealing with inferiority feelings? You don't have the rest that Jesus came to bring you at Christmas. Lastly, God, isn't it incredible? All this stuff's in the genealogy. God took his time, but God broke into history to give us a Sabbath rest and therefore to destroy the world's pet distinctions and categories. Look who's in the genealogy. Let's end with this. You know what the purpose of genealogies was? If you wanted to be a great official, if you wanted to be a leader, you had to have a genealogy and your genealogy had to have good stuff in it, good people in your genealogy, because your genealogy was a way of getting credentials. It was a way of saying, I'm somebody. You ought to look to me. And the genealogies was who you were proud of in your family. We know that Herod the Great was very upset because a big part of his genealogy showed that he was half an Edomite. Now, that doesn't mean much to us nowadays, but evidently being an Edomite was being from the wrong side of the tracks. I guess the wrong side of the Jordan in that case. And he was half an Edomite, so he destroyed that part of his genealogy. He destroyed it. He didn't want anybody to see it. Your genealogy was your family, the people who bring you honor, the people who you're proud of.

Look, therefore, with amazement at who God puts in to the family of Jesus Christ, into the genealogy of the king of the universe. He does a number of things that are amazing. just show you three of them and then I'll draw the conclusions. First of all, there's women in the genealogy. Five women. There's Tamar, there's Rahab, there's Ruth, there's Bathsheba, even though she's not named, she who was Uriah's wife, and there's Mary. First of all, there's women in the genealogy of the king of the universe. Do you realize what a departure that was? Women were ignored in the genealogies back then. Women didn't count. All that mattered was the father and that son. You know, that was the thing. God brings in women. As to say, the Messiah is proud of the women in his family. As to say, the status of women will be forever changed by the coming of this Messiah. That's not all, though. Number two, it's not just that he was proud of the women in

crowd of the Gentiles in his family. Now, you all know that the Jews, especially the Orthodox Jews of that time, wanted nothing to do with the Gentile dogs. In fact, the really Orthodox Jews were very careful not to walk places where the Gentiles had been walking, lest they might touch something that a Gentile touched, making them ritually unclean and unfit for the presence of God. And yet, here in the midst of the genealogy of the king of the Jews and the king of the universe is Rahab, who in Jericho. She helped the spies. And Ruth, a Moabitess, which was on the other side of the, you know, the wrong side of the Jordan. Gentiles. Why? Because, you see, Jesus is proud of the people with the wrong pedigree, people from the wrong nationality, people from the wrong race. But that's not all. It's not just that there's women in this genealogy, and not just that there's Gentiles in this genealogy. There's sinners in this genealogy. And this is one of the things that really, really makes scholars amazed. First of all, Tamar. You know who Tamar is? Judah and Tamar had children, and the Messiah comes through that union. It was an incestuous relationship. relationship. Tamar was Judah's sister. Not only is Tamar in there, but God chose to bring the Messiah through that union, and Matthew lays it up, brings it out, highlights it, names both the husband and the wife. That's not all. Rahab was a prostitute. Rahab wasn't just a Canaanite. She was a prostitute in Jericho. And God puts her in the genealogy, brings the Messiah through her. That's not all. She who was Uriah's wife. Remember that? You know, that's a slam at David. That is a slam at... Matthew is slamming his great ancestor David. Because David, as you know, took this woman Bathsheba because he was in love with her. and he took her to himself and through her comes Solomon in the messianic line but she was Uriah's wife. He had Uriah killed so he could have her. Every one of these women, according to the Old Testament, according to Deuteronomy 23, verse 2, go take a look at Deuteronomy 23, they were ritually unclean. They were unfit for the presence of God. They were unfit for worship.

Jesus is proud of them

they had faith they gave themselves and now they're in the genealogy of the king of the universe what does this mean? I'll tell you what it means it means that I don't care who you are and I don't care what you've done I don't care if you've been a hit man for the mob I don't care if you've been living for the last ten years hell, it doesn't matter what you've done, it doesn't matter where you are, the love and the grace of God goes to everyone and anyone, everybody needs it on the one hand, and everybody can receive it, anybody, no matter what you are, no matter what you've done, it's astonishing, the genealogy, listen, the love and the grace of God so permeates the Bible that it's even dripping out of the Gatson. There it is. Incest, adultery, paganism, prostitution. Doesn't matter. Come to me, says Jesus, and I'll be proud of you. I'll be proud of you. You have an honored place in my family. It doesn't matter what you've done. This is Christmas. God in the manger, God in the manure. Who cares? cares. It's God. Shepherds, marginal people, who cares? They're in the presence of God.

Incest, adultery, prostitution, paganism, who cares? Come to me. That's all wiped out. You have an honored place in my family. I love you, he says. I'm proud of you. It says in Hebrews 2, he is not ashamed to call us brethren. He's not ashamed of us.

if you understand what this means go home and think about it we have an offering here in one second think about it do you know what this means if you are weighted down with inferiority feelings do you know the honor of being a Christian do you know that he is proud of you that he puts you no matter who you are if you believe in him right in your family right in the place of honor he sings over you he boasts of you do you understand that let it change the way you look at yourself and let it change the way we look at each other church. What does that mean? If Christmas means anything, it means that status and race and pedigree and position, those things mean nothing in here. You don't build your relationships and your friendships and your brother and sister friendships inside the church on those things. They stay out there. You come in here, you're a Christian first, and you're whatever else you are our second. It changes everything. So therefore, we see all Scripture is inspired and profitable. Isn't it? The begats are like the manger. Doesn't look like much on the outside, but inside, such treasure. Such a treasure chest. Draw it out. Savor it. Enjoy it. Christmas is for you. Let's pray. Father, now as we offer up our gifts to you, we offer up our hearts to you because you gave us the great gift, your son Jesus Christ. Help us to see that though you seem to take your time, you always come through for us. You give us the rest in the gospel and destroy and pulverize all the world's silly distinctions and categories. We pray that we might be so transformed by the doctrine of Christmas that we might live as your people in this world. In Jesus' name that we pray, amen.
