Our scripture reading is Psalm 15 and 16. We're going to read it together as a unit. Six verses of Psalm 15, 11 verses of Psalm 16, and I hope you will see as we study it that it is a unit. Psalm 15. Lord, who may dwell in your sanctuary? Who may live on your holy hill? He whose walk is blameless and who does what is righteous, who speaks the truth from his heart, has no slander on his tongue, who does his neighbor no wrong, casts no slur on his fellow man, who despises a vile man and honors those who fear the Lord, who keeps his oath even when it hurts, who lends his money without usury and does not accept a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things will never be shaken. Keep me safe, O God, for in you I take refuge. I said to the Lord, You are my Lord, apart from you I have no good thing. As for the saints who are in the land, they are the glorious ones in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those will increase who run after other gods. I will not pour out their libations of blood or take up their names on my lips. Lord, you have assigned me my portion and my cup. You have made my lot secure. Sondrelines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Surely I have a delightful inheritance. I will praise the Lord who counsels me. Even at night my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Therefore, my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices. My body also will rest secure, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your Holy One see decay. You have made known to me the path of life. You will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. This is God's Word. We're in a series on the Ten Commandments. Today we come to the Ninth Commandment, Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. you shall not lie or to put it positively be honest live a life of total integrity honesty such a lovely word

and as Billy Joel said it's mostly what I need from you but it's pretty hard to find honesty I read this in Mark Twain Mark Twain said when I was a boy I was walking along a street when I happened to spy a cart watermelons. I was fond of watermelons, so I sneaked up quietly and snitched one. I ran to a nearby alley and sank my teeth into it, but no sooner had I done so, however, when a strange feeling came over me, and without a moment's hesitation, I walked back to the cart, replaced the melon, and stole a ripe one. And, you know, that sort of thing is not nearly, that goes down much better, doesn't it? Stolen watermelons go down a lot better than stolen sex or even stolen money. You know, the last three commandments we've looked at have been sex, money, and honesty now. Sex, money, and honesty. And I think we're going to find, if we think about this, that the sex part and the money part bother us considerably more than the honesty part. And that we allow sins in this area to go right through, and they go down easy. They're not that hard to swallow. So, it's really possible, I believe, to see that honesty is a difficult, commodity. My theory about a big city is that big cities do not make people bad, but big cities make clear what's in the human heart. And so New York doesn't create dishonesty. What New York does is it makes clear the inveterate duplicity and dishonesty in the human heart. A lot of you live in professional arenas where half-truths and misrepresentations and out-and-out lies are just

It's just there. You see it at the highest levels. The thing that irks me a little bit is that people seem to think if we can just, if we can ferret out all of these high-ranking officials who are dishonest, things will be all right. And we forget it's more deeply embedded. The dishonesty is more deeply embedded in the high places than in individuals. I mean, whenever you hear a news release, two countries have had a fight, and the one country officially says, we lost three fighter planes and they lost 20. And the other country says, oh no, we lost three fighter planes and they lost 20. And you begin to realize we're not just talking about getting rid of a bad egg here or there, but we're talking about duplicity and dishonesty as actually the chronic lying as the accepted discourse for international diplomacy. And you can see it, the dishonesty in the high places. You can see it in the professional places. but you can see it way down at the grassroots level, like the time you go out with this person on the very first date, and when you come back, if you're honest, you'll realize that you've virtually been lying about who you are the whole date. Because you give all kinds of, it's so important for you to make sure you don't let that person, at least not the first date, find out what you're really like. And so you do an awful lot of things that are very, very, very close to misrepresentation. But it goes even deeper than that. We're not honest with ourselves. Dishonesty starts because we're all so good at denial. The dishonesty not only permeates the high places and the professional places, it permeates the inner places. And you know around you people that through blame shifting and through rationalization, when everybody else can see their fault are absolutely blind to a particular fault, right? You can see it and everybody around them can see it and they don't see it. Well, what about you? If you can see other people being totally blind to it, what about you? I talked to a counselor who said he was scared. He said, when I see how blind people are to their own faults, faults that are as clear as the nose on the face for everybody else to see, he says, I begin to wonder about me. how do I know who I really am? No wonder Alexander Pope said, an honest man is the noblest work of God. And let me say this, that is right on the money. The Bible says that honesty is a supernatural work of God. And the best answer to the counselor is this. Honesty starts when you become honest about your dishonesty and you recognize that you're incapable of it. It can only be a supernatural work of God. your dishonesty, if you cannot raise your hands and say, the only way I'll ever have any integrity is if God creates it in me, it's that bad, you're not honest at all. Honesty starts when you see the dishonesty and when you say, I'm incapable of it. And until then, you haven't even begun to have any integrity. Now, the passage we're looking at here, Psalm 15 and 16, will show you yourself. Are you ready? This passage shows us three things. Number one, it shows us the opposite of integrity. Number two, it shows us the counterfeit of integrity. And number three, it shows us how to cultivate integrity. The opposite of integrity is dishonesty. The counterfeit of integrity is hypocrisy. And the way to cultivate integrity, we'll see. First, the opposite of integrity is dishonesty. If you look at Psalm 15, you'll see that the person is being described as someone who speaks the truth, who does what is righteous, who doesn't take a bribe, who keeps his word even when it hurts. Let's try to break this down. An honest man, an honest person, is somebody who, number one, represents reality, doesn't misrepresent reality, and number two, keeps his word. he doesn't lie and he doesn't break his promises he doesn't lie the Bible says that lying is misrepresentation of reality there's no levels of truthfulness there's an interesting place in the Sermon on the Mount where Jesus says I say unto you swear not at all, do not swear by your head do not swear by the city because your head was created by God and the city is the city of the great king yes, and let your no be no. What in the world does that mean? And a lot of people admit, you know, I think a lot of people have abused that over the years, and some Christians, because of that text, won't take an oath in court and all that kind of stuff, and I think they're missing the point. What Jesus is saying, some people believe when they're under oath, when they've sworn by something, then they have to tell the truth. Otherwise, you know, they're not under oath, so, I mean, In other words, they believe in levels of truthfulness. If I'm under oath, it's one thing. If I'm not under oath, it's another thing. He says, listen, when you swear by your head God made that, when you swear by the great city of Jerusalem, God, that's the city of the great king, don't you realize, Jesus says, that you're always under oath if you're a believer? Don't you realize that there's no levels of truthfulness? That every time you say yes, when somebody says, will you do this? Every time you say yes or no, that is an oath. God regards this as an oath. You ought to regard it as enough. There's no levels of truthfulness. Matthew 12 says, You will be judged for every idle word. What if I told you that tomorrow we were going to have a videotape camera on you and everything you said was going to be recorded and that on Tuesday it was going to be beamed around the world by a satellite and two billion people would watch it? Now, here's a very, very serious question. Would that have any impact on how you spoke tomorrow? Would it make a difference or not? Of course it would make a difference. But let me tell you something. Jesus Christ is saying your actual case, your actual condition is even more serious than that. Because God is watching. God wants truthfulness and integrity because he's a God of truth and integrity. And his verdict and his opinion is far more important and has far more dire consequences than even that of two billion people. You are on videotape. That's what he's saying. That's all. Shouldn't that have an impact? For a Christian, there are no levels of truthfulness. Here's Mr. A, Mr. B, and Mr. C, and they know Mr. X did not rob the bank. And somebody comes to them and says, Did Mr. X rob the bank? and Mr. A says, Mr. X, yes, he robbed the bank. And Mr. B says, Mr. X, I saw him at the scene of the crime that night. And Mr. C says nothing. What have they done? They've all lied. Why? God is not concerned about technical accuracy. The whole idea of integrity is you do right by your neighbor. Who does his neighbor no wrong? right in the middle of all this stuff about don't lie and don't cheat and don't take a bribe and hold on to your promise and follow your contracts is this he does is no neighbor no wrong remember how jesus says you can boil all the commandments down to two love god and love your neighbor

ultimately deception is really what lying is all about whether you've told even the technical accurate thing but you did it in such a way as to deceive somebody that is a breach of integrity Because lying makes people dependent. It makes your neighbor dependent. When you lie, you are enslaving them. They're not free. When you tell them the truth, they're free. When you lie, they are dependent, and you have enslaved them to your goals. And ultimately, it's just plainly a lack of love. And as a result, God will brook no levels of truthfulness. He will brook no deception at all. Now, by the way, footnote. Talk him down to a foot. Footnote. What about harmless lies and benevolent lies? Huh? Do you know what the harmless lies and the benevolent lies? A harmless lies, there's several categories. I was working out all these different categories of lies. It's incredible. One is, under harmless, you know, Roman numeral one, harmless, you have A, polite lies. Why, Phyllis, you haven't aged a day. All right? I got polite lies. Or, look, I would love to go, but I'm going to be out of town that day. Polite lies. Then you have, I'll put three of them together, euphemisms, exaggerations, and glosses. Now, for example, this year the business experienced some seasonal reversals when actually you experienced disastrous losses. Or, okay, you're an editor and you give this back and you say, I think your writing is too sophisticated for our readers, when actually it's just bad. Or the person who is constantly giving you word inflation. That means everything is great. It was a blessing. It was a triumph. It was inspirational. What's wrong with harmless lies? They're harmless. They're not harmless. They can't be harmless or they wouldn't be forbidden. What happens with harmless lies is they create cynicism. don't they? They create cynicism. You can't identify any one of those things as really being all that bad. In fact, you can't always even nail a person for that being a lie because you're usually the sort of things, it's very difficult, even though you know you're not going to be out of town, it's very difficult to prove that your person's a liar when they say, I can't come. I'd love to come. You know, you can't nail them. But what happens is harmless lies breed cynicism. It's word inflation. It gets to the place where people don't believe what they hear, they don't believe what they read, they don't believe what you're saying. Harmless lies are not harmless. But then there's benevolent lies and benevolent lies are lies like this. When you've got a friend who's got a drinking problem who's fallen into some kind of moral lapse who's mismanaged his funds or something and you lie to protect. Or when you've got a loved person who's going to die and you can't tell her. or him. Or in a situation where the Watergate kind of lies, where you say with the little people, they just wouldn't understand. So we have to lie. Now, in some cases, those things are a little harder to write off, and some of those conditions are a little bit more difficult, and yet they are not benevolent lies either. The whole biblical principle is that lying is an assault and a affront to your neighbor. When you lie, even to people out of love, you demean them. You put them in that dependent condition. You treat them like children. And the worst thing about it is you isolate that person from yourself, and you isolate. Lies always isolate. It breaks community. It makes you utterly alone. There's no such thing as a harmless lie, and I'm not even sure there's such a thing as a benevolent lie, except in some extreme cases. And even then, you come away knowing you've been

because it says here, the man who does these things, see verse 5, will never be shaken. Lies create anxiety. Lies create fear. Lies create isolation. Lies create hiding. And as a result, you are shakable. Don't lie. Oh, another part of honesty is keep your word. See what it says here in verse 4? keeps his word, he keeps his oath even when it hurts. You know what a promise is? G.K. Chesterton says a promise is an appointment you make with yourself. An appointment you make with yourself for the future. In other words, a promise says regardless of what happens, I'm going to be there. When you make a promise, you free yourself from your future. You see, forgiveness is the only way

is the only way you can keep from being controlled by your unpredictable future. When you promise I'm going to love you, what you're saying is I refuse to be pushed around by my genes or my brain chemistry or society or history. I promise to be there for you five years from now. When you make the big promises, the promises to your spouse, when you make the big promises to your employer, you make the big promises even to a church. When people come to me and say, what is this membership stuff? What do you mean by being a member of a church? I say it's very simple. Membership just means you make a promise. And the Bible says life should be built on promises, a promise to be there, regardless of how I feel, regardless of my genes, my brain chemistry. When you make a promise, you bear witness to the fact that you're not a lump of human dough, pushed about by your glands, pushed about by the environment. And in this modern environment, Our modern society says so strongly you must not break, you must not keep promises if they don't fulfill you. Your needs, your personal fulfillment must be more important than any promise. You live in a society like that beware because the Bible tells you that in the name of freedom when you break promises what you've actually done, in the name of freedom you do it, in the name of your own personal freedom, you've become a slave to your glands. You've become a slave to your past, to your brain chemistry, to your feelings, to what other people are saying about you. That's no way to do it. Promises bring freedom, and broken promises bring enslavement. In fact, you know, Sir Thomas More was going to be burned at the stake because of a couple of things that he wrote. Some promises he made, and he had a beautiful daughter named Meg who just pleaded with him to recant. Go back on your promise and save yourself. And at one point he said this to her. He said, when a man takes an oath, Meg, he is holding his own self in his hand like water. As if he opens his fingers, then he need not hope to find himself again. By the way, the Bible does tell us that there are such things as foolish promises, sinful promises that would be more of a sin to keep than to break. he asks, for example, remember Herod made a promise to his stepdaughter when he was drunk or kind of sexually aroused or one or the other, and he says, I'll give you anything, even up to half my kingdom, and she says I want the head of John the Baptist and he says, oh no you know what he should have done? at that point he should have admitted the sinfulness of what he did because it was a greater sin to keep that promise than to break it Well, what he should have said is, I'm sorry, his head is in the other half of my kingdom, or something like that. But am I suggesting casuistry? No. Right here in this very passage, we see, though, the situation in which a promise might be broken when it hurts somebody else, when it was so foolish and was so rash that to keep it would hurt somebody else. But when it only hurts you to keep it, keep it, because you may think you're buying freedom now, later. Now, that's the opposite of integrity is dishonesty. The counterfeit of integrity is hypocrisy. Because it doesn't just say that this man speaks truth. Look in verse 2. It says, this man speaks truth from the heart. The word integrity is the same word as our English word We're an integer. What's an integer? A whole number, not a fraction. When we say here, this man speaks truth from his heart, what we're saying is, what he says is what he is. There is a wholeness about this man. There's a simplicity. The word hypocrisy actually comes from the Greek word for actor. No offense, those of you in the theater. Because a hypocrite is the word for actor in Greek. and it simply means you're one way on the outside and you're another way in reality. Inconsistency comes from what? Inconsistency comes when you find yourself being one way with one crowd and another way with another. I remember down south, I lived in a little mill town. I used to walk into one room and people would be going and saying, you know what's made this country great? Labor unions. That's what's made this country great. Don't you think, pastor? okay, yeah, I'm sure. You know, we'd all be in the rice paddies if it wasn't for labor unions. Then you walk into the next room, everybody would be sitting around saying, you know what's ruining this country? You know what's driving this country into the ground? Labor unions. That's what's ruining this country. It's the reason why we can't get decent quality. We can't compete with anybody else. Don't you think, pastor? Well, you know, there's a lot to that. You know, you say, boy, you really got a good point there. You see, I'm not having, I'm not a man of integrity. It means you're not saying one thing and thinking another. You're not saying one thing and doing another. You're not one way with one crowd and another way with another crowd. It means you're the same from crowd to crowd. I'll never forget a story by Alan Emery, who is a now retired man, a fabulously wealthy businessman. He remembers when he was just a clerk coming up in some kind of textile firm back in Camden, New Jersey back in the 1920s that. And he remembers in front of the great big boss of his company, he was standing there and the boss said, Emery, let me tell you a joke and told him the most filthy, awfulest joke he'd ever heard in his life. And Emery stood there and refused to laugh. And the guy said, don't you think that's funny, Emery? He says, no, I think it's dirty. Now there's a happy ending to that story. That's where I told it probably. And that is the guy said, you got guts, Emery, and gave him a quick promotion. Doesn't always work like that, but you see. That's integrity. Integrity. Do you have integrity? Are you one way in private, another way in public? Do you have a good public persona, but on the other hand, in private, your family knows what you're really like? Or do you have a good private morality? In the area of sex and things like that, you're a straight arrow. But on the job, everybody knows that. You know, you go through all the secretaries because they can't live with you because you're so awful. You pad your expense account. Are you a person of integrity? What amazes me, I was just reading in the last week a book by Tom Peters called Thriving on Chaos. It's a management manual. I read it to, I don't know why the heck I was reading it. But at the end of it, all the way through here, he points out that management has to change in this country because things are constantly in flux. the only way to be a good manager of a business in an area where everything is in flux is to constantly push for innovation, constant innovation and constantly get your people to take risks. Then he asked this question. If you're going to be a manager in a time like this, how will you ever get anybody to trust you? If you're constantly saying, innovation, innovation, change, risk, big goals, vision. He says that's how you have to lead today. How are you ever going to get anybody to trust you And the answer is, the only way you'll get stability, stability,

is if you are a person of total integrity. The last chapter in his book says, demand total integrity. And I was amazed, and I don't know enough about business, but he started to tick off the little ways in which you have to really have total integrity or you'll have no stability, just what Proverbs 15 says. I mean, Psalm 15 says. He who does these things will never be shaken. Tom Peters says this. He says, for example, there should be total dependability. Never make a promise you can't keep. Never make claims that you can't produce on. Always over-deliver. Don't lie or virtually lie in order to get a contract. Don't do that. And then he says, treat everybody even-handedly. Everybody. He says, for example, be the same in public as private. Sounds just like the Bible in this case. He says, don't say Publicly, we're for quality, but then privately, have unreasonable, unreasonable deadlines so that everybody knows that though you're telling everybody else publicly, I want quality, yet your employees know you can't want quality. He says, treat people in an even-handed way. Don't have lavish perks for management and none for anybody else. He says, don't take friends to the company box seats when everybody knows you're only supposed to be taking clients there. there is no such thing as a small lapse in integrity? Don't you realize when you tell the sales people, put in a lot of orders right before the end of the quarter, because even though you know they're all going to be canceled, they'll look really good for the accountant. They'll be canceled a week after the period's over. He said, don't you realize that there's no such thing as a small lapse in integrity? You'll never get people to trust you. You'll never be able to get people to feel they're respected. Now, when I read that, I said, the book, it says, time for a management revolution, a new approach to management. Are you kidding? Proverbs, pardon me, Psalm 15 says, he who does these things, absolute dependability, absolute honesty, absolute consistency will never be shaken. But poor Tom Peters, I don't know how in the world. I read that last chapter and I realized the things he was telling people to change were things, the lack of even-handedness, the duplicity. He says, for example, don't be saying, everything's fine, everything's fine, when all your employees know things aren't fine. I just don't know how anyway it's going to change without conversion. And I think he's being totally unrealistic. The only way to change is conversion. How? At the end of chapter 15, Psalm 15, it says, He who does these things, lives a life of total integrity, will never be shaken. But at the end, in the middle of Psalm 16, it says, Since I set the Lord ever before me, I will never be shaken. that? To live a life of total integrity means to have God ever before you. It's your only hope. Let's just close like this. You will never have a life of personal integrity unless, number one, you see that you need God. The reason that lies began, the lies began back in the Garden of Eden, the moment that Adam and Eve decided to live for themselves. If you decide you're going to be your own master, and many of you in this room are, you're making your own decisions, you're organizing your own life, you're not putting everything under the word of God, you're not living totally for Him. Don't you realize He built you? He created you? He keeps you alive every second? And therefore for you to live as your own master means you're out of touch with reality and you have to hide from reality. And that's the beginning of our dishonesty. It's the root of everything else. Why do you find it so hard to admit you're wrong? Why do I so hard? Why do we feel so hard? Why do we have this ceaseless self-doubt that's always gnawing at us? Why do we always have to be convincing ourselves we're somebody? Why do we have so much trouble

hearing criticism? Why do we always have to rationalize and blame other people for our problems? All the dishonesty comes from that. The unwillingness to admit we need God. The unwillingness to admit we're totally dependent on God. You will never people of integrity. You can't possibly be managers in Tom Peter's revolution unless you first start that way. I need God. Honesty is the beginning. Jesus told a parable about a man, two men that were told to go out into the field and work. The one man said, I'll go, and he didn't go. The other man said, I won't go, but at the 11th hour changed his mind and went out. And Jesus says, which one was obedient? And the Pharisees who were listening to the parable says, Says why? It's the second man. The one, even though he originally said no, he went. And the one who said he would go and didn't go, he wasn't obedient. And then Jesus says, that's right. And that's why the harlots and the whoremongers will go into the kingdom of God before you. Says you Pharisees, you won't admit your weakness. You won't admit your sin. And it's the only, only sin that blocks my grace. The only way you'll ever be honest is if you admit your dishonesty, that you need God, that you're utterly dependent on him. you have to find him in Jesus. Jesus Christ said to Pilate, he says, I am of the truth and everyone who is of the truth hears my voice. It's one thing to know the truth and to have the truth and to be trying to do the truth, but friends, how can you be of the truth? How can you have the truth in your veins? Only if you love Jesus Christ and he has entered your life, his life has entered and penetrated you. Only if you live as if God's always before you. Remember when I told you that illustration about the videotape? You're on videotape. That's what it means to put God ever before you and you will live a life of integrity. If you open your heart to Him, He'll open His heart to you and then and only then will you be able to open your heart to other people. Only then will you be able to live a life of total integrity. You know what that means? It's to be so genuine. It's to be so simple. It's to be like your heart's like a clear lake you can see all the way to the bottom of it. It's to be almost a stern person and yet very approachable. People will almost be afraid if you're that honest, and yet they'll want you to deal with them because they know you talk straight, because they know you're basically loving and fair, because they'll want to deal with you because you'll be a person of integrity. Are you? Go to him. Open your heart to him. Set him ever before you. And you will never be shaken. Let's pray.
