Would you please take a look at the passage on which our teaching is based tonight? It's in the book of James. It's chapter 2, verses 5 to 17. And I'm going to read it to you. It's printed in your bulletin, if you can find it. James chapter 2, verses 5 to 17. Listen, my dear brothers. Has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom he promised those who love him? But you have insulted the poor. Is it not the rich who are exploiting you? Are they not the ones who are dragging you into court? Are they not the ones who are slandering the noble name of him to whom you belong? If you really keep the royal law found in scripture, love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing right. If you show favoritism, you sin and are convicted by the law as lawbreakers. For whoever keeps the whole law and yet stumbles at just one point is guilty of breaking all of it. For he who said, do not commit adultery, also said, do not murder. If you do not commit adultery but do commit murder, you've become a lawbreaker. Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Because judgment without mercy will be shown to anyone who has not been merciful. Mercy triumphs over judgment. What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to him, go, I wish you well, keep warm and well-fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it's not accompanied by action, is dead. This is God's word. Now, we've been going through the book of James every week, and the principle we saw, we especially pulled it out last week, but we've been talking about it for a couple of weeks. The principle is this, the way a Christian grows. The way you actually get the power to change is to use the Word of God as a mirror. James says, use the Word of God as a mirror. And we said, what that actually means is, the Word of God is not simply a set of rules, but primarily it tells you who you are in relation to God, who you are. And if you want to change, make sure that you take that new self-understanding and keep it in front of you and live out of that. In other words, we said,

before the Bible tells you what to do, it first shows you who you are. And the first example of that we saw last week in verses 1 to 4, which are not printed there. It began the subject that we're into more tonight, but there was a different division of the subject. Last week we said, I mean, pardon me, James said, I want you to have a lifestyle of justice and equity. He says, I want you as Christians to treat people the same, be as welcoming, be as friendly to people who are in a high worldly position as a low one. Regardless of race, regardless of class, regardless of power and clout, you should treat people all alike. And he didn't just say, now do it. He said, here's why. And the reason he said, here's why, if you remember, is he said, because you have been a recipient of the glory of Jesus Christ. James is alluding to this. Jesus Christ had glory, but he gave it up to come and move in with the poor. Jesus Christ lived on the right side of the tracks, but he came down to the wrong side of the tracks, our side, and he sat with us. Now, James says, if that grips you, if you understand what has happened, you will never, ever be a prejudiced person yourself. See, James doesn't simply say, don't be prejudiced. He doesn't just say, just do it. He tells you why. A radical transformation only if you let your self-understanding be changed by the Bible, and then let that self-understanding be that which drives your behavior. Just rather quickly, I thought about, it's hard sometimes not to think about your evening message in connection with the passage that you were looking at in the morning, and you don't have to have been there this morning at all. In fact, if everybody who came in the evening came in the morning, we'd be in a lot of trouble. So I'm not encouraging that actually at all, but I'll tell you,

when the secular worldview shows you who you are. In other words, the secular worldview also is a mirror. Every worldview tells you who you are. In the secular worldview, there is no connection between who you are and what you do. Because if you ask the secular worldview what are you, what is a human being, the secular worldview will say just an animal, just a product of evolutionary biology. My wife gave me a piece out of the paper last week. This is the New York Times. Here was an evolutionary biologist, and he said this. He says, the biological organisms that are produced by evolution are simply complex mechanisms, but nothing more. When we die, we're no different than the things which were never alive at all. And this, let me continue. It says, we've been produced by a process, that's the evolutionary process, that doesn't give a damn about us. It plops us here as humans, the same as gorillas or an AIDS virus or anything else. What's he saying? He is saying, if the secular worldview is true, if there is no God and everything is an accident, then there's no real difference between life, human life and animal life. There's no real difference between life and non-life. He says, there's no way to tell the difference. He says, there's no intrinsic difference between you and a virus. There's no difference at all. You're just animals. You're just, he says, you are just complex mechanisms, nothing more. But then the secularist will turn around and say, but you mustn't be prejudiced. You must treat people with dignity and with respect. In other words, there is no connection between what you are and what you're supposed to do. No connection at all. You don't know who you are. And then it says, but you have to be kind and you have to be compassionate and you have to be unprejudiced. Why? Because we tell you to. Now, the reason that the secular world is becoming less and less kind and less and less unprejudiced and meaner and more brutal all the time is because people are coming to realize there's no connection between what the secular worldview says you are and what we're supposed to do. But listen, Christians, if secular people are more unprejudiced and more kind, if they treat people with more dignity, if they help the poor more than you and I, when their mirror tells them they're nothing but animals and your mirror and our mirror tells us that we are sinners saved by grace, we're made in the image of God, every human life is precious, Jesus Christ emptied himself of his glory and moved in with the poor, if we aren't any better than they are, they have every right to say to us about our religion, stuff it. Every right. Absolutely. Therefore, James never, like the seculars say, just do this because we say so. James always says, why? There is an organic connection between who you are and what you do. Now, that's what we saw last week, and that is one of the main themes of the book of James, and that's why I'm pressing it. Now, he moves on, not so much to a different subject exactly, but to a different division. And what he does now is he says not just simply that you ought to have an attitude of equity and even-handedness and fairness when you're dealing with the rich and the poor and all classes and races. But then he moves on and he says here, he says, listen, he moves on and he actually tells us that Christians are supposed to have a special concern for the poor. He's moving beyond attitude to action. That's the last word almost. It says, in the same way, faith accompanied by action, is dead. But there's a particular action that he's talking about. In these verses, James is telling us that Christians have got to be involved in a particular kind of ministry. Now, let me quickly outline what he says we have to do. I told you that he always tells you what you do flowing from who you are. But let's first of all talk about what he says to do, and then we'll go back and say why and where it comes from and what's motivation. Let's first of all look at what he says we have to do. And what he says we have to do is really astonishing. I realized as I was looking through this passage that though I've skirted around this, I have probably not ever, very seldom have I actually taken you into a passage that gets right to the guts of this. What he says here is astonishing. So hold your breath, hold on to your hats. First of all, this is what he tells us. Number one, Christians are supposed to be respectful. They're supposed to honor the poor. Look at verse 5. My dear brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith, but you have insulted the poor? Now let's look at the grammar for a second. God chooses the poor, but you have insulted the poor. See, to insult the poor is the opposite of choosing the poor. So when he tells us we're not supposed to insult the poor, he's telling us we, like God, ought to choose the poor. Right away somebody's going to say, what do you mean God chooses the poor? But let's, I'll get to that in a minute. That's the mirror. But for a minute, let's just see. You know what the word choose means? It simply means to deliberately, to deliberately go toward someone. To deliberately go toward someone. And the word insult shows it means to respect. Christians are to deliberately choose to move toward the poor. They're not to wait for the poor to come up to you and to say, could I have some money? That's the poor choosing you. You're not supposed to wait until the poor social problems spill over in your neighborhood, and then everybody says, gee, we have to do something about this. That's not the idea. What this is saying is, Christians are supposed to deliberately make a priority. They're supposed to move toward, they're supposed to be concerned for the poor. And secondly, the second thing is, it has to be an uninsulting ministry. Now, I wish I had time to go into this, but there's a friend of mine interesting theory that says the big problem with all of the social programs that we've had, there's liberal social programs and conservative. The liberal programs go tax people, set up big bureaucracy, put those big housing projects up, have lots and lots of social workers. Then there's the conservative approach, which says, let them deal with market forces, pull back, survival of the fittest. And my friend says, you know what? Both of them don't respect the poor. They basically treat the poor as sort of like little specimens. They don't partner with the poor. They don't ask the poor anything. They don't live anywhere near the poor. They come commuting on in from wherever. And they spend a terrific amount of money, but they don't include the poor. They just don't respect the poor. They insult them. And of course, conservatives also who just simply pull back and say, survival of the fittest. One of the problems with all of the programs is that we tend to treat the poor as if they're not even there. They're not people to ask a question to. They're not people to partner with. Christians are to deliberately move toward the poor, but in non-demeaning, non-paternalistic, non-patronizing, non-insulting ways, respectfully. But then lastly, we're told, look down here in verse 14, 15, 16. Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food. If one of you says to him, go, I wish you well, keep warm and well fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? Faith by itself, if not accompanied by action, is dead. And this is the third part of what we're told to do. Holistic ministry. I'm just coming up with that word. Why? Because James is saying, if you minister in word without action, you're not doing what the Bible says you're supposed to do. If you're concerned about the soul and not the body, word without action. If you are only concerned about so-called spiritual needs but not the material needs, you haven't understood what the Bible is all about. So what he's saying is, number one, Christians are supposed to deliberately choose, deliberately go after, make a priority for yourself and for your church to respectfully seek to meet the holistic needs of the poor. And let me go a little further. I have to because what James says here is really astounding. This is not an optional ministry. This ministry is not an option. It's about compassion, he says, first of all, look in verse 8, he says two things that I've just got to lay out here before we turn to the mirror. First of all, he says, to fail to help the poor is as severe a breach of the law of God as committing adultery. That's what he's saying. Look, verse 8, if you really keep the royal law found in scripture, love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing right. But if you don't keep the golden rule, but rather you show favoritism, what does it mean to show favoritism? It means not to go after the poor. Now somebody says, wait a minute, wait a minute, I thought we were supposed to treat everybody alike. James is saying something that I didn't really understand until I read an article, a treatise by Jonathan Edwards on charity to the poor. And Jonathan Edwards says it's really very simple. Do unto others as you would do unto yourself. When you get into a situation where you have nothing to eat, the alarm bells go off. If you would get in a situation where you didn't have a place to sleep, the alarm bells get off. He says, when you get into the condition, if you personally would get into the condition that the poor are in, you would make it a matter of absolute urgency to get yourself out of that condition as fast as you possibly could. He says to fail to treat the poor with all the urgency and with all the alarm and with all the alacrity and with all the energy with which you would deal with your own needs, your own material and economic needs, is a sheer lack of obedience to the golden rule. And then James goes so far as to say the golden rule is right there with every other law. Here's the law that says don't commit adultery. Now, conservative Christians think that's a bad sin. That's a very bad sin. James is saying you cannot pick and choose. You cannot create a hierarchy of the laws of God. Here's a law that says golden rule. Do unto others as those you would have them do unto you. Racism, materialism, indifference to the poor breaks that rule. And here's a rule that says don't commit adultery. That's terrible too. But you mustn't do. Conservative churches tend to say, oh yes, adultery and drunkenness, those are terrible. But racism, materialism, well, you know, whoops, nobody's perfect. To err is human. James says, you can't do that. Indifference of the poor is just as much an act of selfishness, an act that it's breaking the golden rule, and that's just as serious as breaking any other rule. He says, this is not an option. But then he goes a little beyond that, and he says something that I avoid this, though the first time through I didn't catch it either. He goes on down and says, what good is it, my brethren, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? What's that? Claims to have faith but has no deeds. Now, though tonight is not the night in which we get to this, because we have to move a little further in this chapter, many of you know that James is saying here that you are saved by faith. You're not saved by helping the poor, but the way you can tell, the way God can tell, the way anybody can tell that you have faith is that you do good works. Now, many of you have heard that before. You're not saved by your good works. You're saved by your faith, but the faith will always issue in good works. Many of you have heard that for years and behaviors and you say, okay, I think I've got that down. But when James says it, do you realize what kind of good works he's talking about? Look at the good works he's talking about. He's saying, if you are a Christian, if you say you're a sinner saved by grace, you'll know that by your good deeds. But the good deeds, he's not saying, well, what does that mean? It means I stop smoking. It means I don't use cuss words. That's not what he says. He says, the way you will know that you have faith is that you will pour out your heart toward the poor. That's the reason why he can actually say up here in verse 12, speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the law that gives freedom. Because judgment will be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. Now let me tell you what's going on. In Matthew 25, we're told that Jesus on the last day will judge the sheep from the goats. You know what the sheep and the goats are? This is not the pagans and the Christians. These are true Christians from false Christians. People who really believe in Jesus and are saved, and people who simply thought they were Christians but weren't, or claim to be Christians but weren't. And how, in Matthew 25, how does Jesus judge between the sheep and the goats? If you go to Matthew 25, he says, Hey, you say you're Christians, but I was hungry and you didn't feed me. I was thirsty and you didn't give me to drink. I was homeless, you didn't take me in. I was sick and you didn't visit me. I was in prison, you didn't come to me. And then the goats, the people who end up not being sheep, they say, when did we see you in that condition, Lord? And he said, because you didn't treat these like that, as you did to them, you did to me. You know what he's saying? He's saying on judgment day, there will be no mercy for those who have shown no mercy. And somebody says, wait a minute somebody says are you saying only the social workers will get into heaven? No. When Jesus, you know the place where Jesus says you can judge a tree by its fruit? Think of that. What does the fruit have? What's the relationship of the fruit to the tree? The fruit does not impart life. Jesus isn't judging by imposing life. Jesus is discerning life through the fruit. Jesus is judging whether the tree is alive through the fruit. He says you can judge the tree by its fruit. The fruit doesn't give the tree life. The fruit tells us that the tree has life. And when Jesus says on judgment day I'm going to be able to tell the sheep from the goats by whether or not they care about the poor, he's not saying care about the poor is what gives you salvation. He's saying care about the poor is what shows you have salvation. Judgment will be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. And think of this. It's not just that God is going to tell us the sheep from the goats by this. One of the things that surely a lot of you have noticed, a very small slice, and I have to say a small slice, of the conservative evangelical Christian world has gotten politically involved lately. It's a pretty small slice. It's probably 20 to 40 million people in this country that could be called evangelical Christians, and 1.7 million are in the Christian coalition. And here's one thing I've noticed only, and this is really not to up or down the Christian coalition, but I will say this. In general, the conservative church has been guilty of the very thing that James is saying here. We think indifference to the poor is really, not nearly as bad as adultery. In other words, conservative Christians have, in general, felt that keeping your personal sexual life just straight is important. And it is, by the way. It's extremely important. But it doesn't matter whether or not we love the poor, whether we've poured ourselves out, whether we respect the poor, whether we're involved in holistic ministry. It doesn't really matter that much. That's absolutely wrong, James says. Absolutely wrong. You cannot choose between these two things. Now that a lot of these Christians, a lot of Christians are getting involved. The world is looking at them and they are noticing what? They are noticing this very thing. These people don't have an agenda for the poor. They don't care about the poor. They are not moved in with the poor. They are not doing these things. And as a result, judgment will be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. Many Christians who are involved in politics now have no credibility for this very reason because the people can see that. The world can see that. Judgment will be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. Now, we get to the final point here, and that is, somebody's going to say, why in the world would our attitude toward the poor be so important? Why in the world would James say that on Judgment Day, we're going to be judged, the reality of our faith in Christ will be judged by our concern? Some of you are getting very quiet, and you have a right to be quiet. You're starting to say, how could this be? It tells you that in Isaiah 1. It tells you that in Isaiah 56. It tells you that in Matthew 25. It tells you that here. It's all through the Bible. And somebody says, well, how could that be? And the answer is, James says, if you've looked in the mirror, God chose those who are poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith. Now, you might say, what does it mean that God chose the poor? That means two things. And I'll tell you both of them. The first thing is, it does mean that in general, and I could prove this to you, and I think anybody who studied history could prove it to you. Preponderantly, it is the humbler classes that accept Christianity. Awakenings happen there. Look around New York City. Most of the people who understand that you're sinners saved by grace, most people who understand that they're sinners, but God has saved them through grace, most people who understand classic Christianity are not the elites. And Christianity has never been big in the elites. Never. It's really ironic that so many people amongst the cultural elites think they're really for the poor, but the poor want nothing to do with the kind of religion that the elites think is cool. The poor want reality, and the poor are willing to listen to what the gospel says. When I used to do a lot of funerals, which I don't do now because I have a fairly young congregation. But when I had a normal congregation, I did a lot of funerals. And very often at the funeral, everybody was so upset. And what would happen is when somebody you love died, just for a second, just for a day, he felt so disoriented. And it took several days before things would get back to normal. And what I used to say at those funerals is, listen, you may think right now you're kind of depressed, you're kind of down. You'll get over it in a few days. I said, I'm sorry, I hate to tell you this, but you're thinking clearly now. Right now you feel like life is fragile. Right now you feel like that life is so fleeting. Right now you feel like life could be over just like that. That's the truth. Most of the time you want to live as if it's not the truth, but you're thinking clearly now. The poor, in many ways, think more clearly about life than the rest of us. See, if you're doing okay, you tend to say, I'm a character. I've worked very hard. If you were born to abusive parents on a mountain in Tibet in the 13th century, I don't think you'd have that MBA. You can say, oh, yes, I've pulled myself up by my bootstraps. The poor know better. In fact, many of you, if you had never gotten unsuccessful, if you'd never lost that job, if you'd never lost that spouse, if you'd never lost your career, and now you're coming back, but if you hadn't gone through that, you never would have found on Christ. You know why? It's not until you're losing that you realize that this is a game. It's not until you suddenly realize, you know what? Life is capricious. Life is hard. We don't keep ourselves up by, hold up ourselves by our bootstraps. We're all weak. We're all failures. We all are sinners. They know the truth. And a lot of the rest of us like to say, oh no, if you work hard and you keep your nose clean and if you really go to the right schools and all that, we can make the world a better place. The poor are more in touch with reality, just like the people at funerals. And as a result, when the gospel comes and says, the world is a terrible place, is a dark place, but there is hope. People are sinners. People will stab you in the back. People are wicked. But there's hope. The poor will say, yeah. It's the people on white picket fences that say, oh no, that can't be. The reason that they're where they are is because they're good people and the reason the poor are where they are is because they're bad people. The poor know better. The poor know everybody's a sinner. And a lot of you didn't know you were sinners until you got poor. And now you're on your way back, but you say, boy, if I hadn't fallen. That's what it means when it says God chooses the poor. But even beyond that, finally, the Bible says God chooses the poor and what it means is you must be poor in spirit in order to come to the kingdom of God. Remember the beatitude? Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God, and only theirs. And what does it mean to be poor in spirit? It means to say, I am spiritually bankrupt. To be spiritually poor is to come to God and say, you know what, God, I am in debt to you, and a debt repayment schedule won't help. I am utterly bankrupt. I need your mercy, and your mercy alone. Spiritually, I am in rags. Spiritually, I'm homeless. Spiritually, I'm toothless. Spiritually, to you, I stink, like the people on the street who are toothless and who've got no home and have got no resources and no friends, and they've got nothing. And when a Christian, anybody who's a Christian has gotten spiritually poor and has realized that Jesus Christ, through his poverty, has made us rich. And therefore, any Christian who really has come to grips with the mirror, really seen what the Bible says you are. I'm not saying it happens every day. I know it doesn't happen every day to me. But you can't help but look at the poor and say, that's me to the Lord. And whenever you hear any kind of story, as fanciful as it might be, any short story, any movie in which you see somebody take a poor person and pour an incredible amount of love into them and patience into them and money into them and get them off of drugs and teach them how to read and write and get them a job and help their selves. If you ever see a movie like that, you can't help but feel like you're looking into a mirror, no matter what, no matter whether you've always been very well-to-do, always together. But if you are a Christian, you know that's the story of your life. And if you know that's the story of your life, if you know that Jesus Christ is the Good Samaritan and he came along and he found you, like the man in the parable, but he got down off of his horse and he embraced us. And he gave us his money and he gave us his steed, put us in his place. And he clothed us in his righteousness. You see, though we were helpless, though we were destitute, though we were laying in the ditch. Someplace, somewhere, it's going to make you say, I either need to help the poor or I need to stand by the people who are helping the poor. It doesn't mean that every Christian is called to move into the poor, but it means that moving with the poor. But the church has to say, some of us are called to do that, and the rest of us are called to stand with the ones who are doing that and do whatever we can. And if that's never gotten to you, if you've never seen that, you're just not looking in the mirror. Look. Recognize what the Bible says. Don't you see? God has not God chosen those who are poor, in the eyes of the world, to be rich in faith and to inherit the kingdom promised to those who love him. That's the reason why when that great hymn goes, Hear him, ye deaf, his praise ye dumb, your loosened tongues employ. Ye blind, behold, your Savior come, and leap ye lame for joy. Every Christian, your hearts leap because you're saying, I'm the leper, I'm the crippled, I'm the poor, I'm the one. That's the reason why it says judgment will be without mercy for those who have shown no mercy. But mercy triumphs over judgment. Let's pray. Our Father we thank you that it's possible for us to know what you have done for us in such a way that it affects the way we live in the world. And we simply pray that you would help us to see in the mirror who we are, that it can utterly transform us and make us people of such justice and mercy in all our dealings that the world is amazed. And we ask for that through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
