The scripture tonight is from Luke, chapter 9, verses 28 through 36.

About eight days after Jesus said this, he took Peter, John, and James with him and went up onto a mountain to pray. As he was praying, the appearance of his face changed, and his clothes became as bright as a flash of lightning. Two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in glorious splendor, talking with Jesus. They spoke about his departure, which he was about to bring to fulfillment at Jerusalem. Peter and his companions were very sleepy, but when they became fully awake, they saw his glory and the two men standing with him. As the men were leaving Jesus, Peter said to him, Master, it is good for us to be here. Let us put up three shelters, one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah. He did not know what he was saying. While he was speaking, a cloud appeared and enveloped them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. A voice came from the cloud saying, This is my son whom I have chosen. Listen to him. When the voice had spoken, they found that Jesus was alone.

kept this to themselves and told no one at that time what they had seen. This is God's Word.

We're looking at the Transfiguration tonight, and the Transfiguration has never become, at least in the Western church, it's never become the big feast that Christmas, you know, the Incarnation turns into Christmas and the Resurrection turned into Easter. Transfiguration, which is, by the way, a holy day in the Eastern Orthodox church, Church never got there. Nevertheless, it's extremely important because if you read Matthew, Mark, and Luke, you'll always find that at the climactic pivotal place in the narrative of each of those Gospels, the transfiguration is the final answer to a question that keeps on being posed

is who is this? Who is this that the wind and seas obey him? Who is this that forgives sins? The question who is this comes up and up and up. And eventually, there's a climactic place in Matthew, Mark, and Luke where that answer is given. And then at that point Jesus turns to go toward Jerusalem, to go to the Cross, and so on. But that point is the transfiguration. This is the climactic answer in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Luke. This is, in a sense, the climax of the first part of the narrative. Who is this? So, to look at the transfiguration is one of the key ways you're going to know who Jesus is, what he came to do, and how to connect to him. Who he is, what he came to do, and how to connect to him. So, first, what does the transfiguration tell us about who he is? The first thing we learn is we see, we have to look at the imagery, and the imagery is lightning, clouds, voice of God, glory. Now, does that sound familiar to you? It should if you were here in the fall when we were going through the book of Exodus, because this is a recapitulation of Mount Sinai. This is a recapitulation of the Exodus. If you remember, the Exodus was where God liberated the children of Israel from Egypt, but he did so mainly through a glory cloud. The glory cloud, in the daytime, it looked like a pillar or column of white smoke or cloud, but at night, it shone with its own fiery glory from inside. The glory cloud kept Pharaoh's army from coming after Israel. The glory cloud led the children of Israel to Mount Sinai, and then when they got to Mount Sinai, the glory cloud came down on the top of Mount Sinai, and you have all the same stuff, all the same things. Lightning and cloud and the voice of God and glory. So now, what was the glory cloud? The glory cloud was a sign, a representation of the transcendence and the majesty and the greatness of God. The glory and the cloud and the brightness was a way of expressing the transcendence So, what is this doing here? What is the meaning of this text? And the answer is really quite astounding because when Moses came down from Mount Sinai, survived, in Exodus 33 we're told, his face shone. But it shone with… it was shining with reflected light. It was partial, partial, it was fading, it was… because it was reflected. It was reflected glory. And in some ways you might say Moses was like the moon because the moon shines with reflected light. But this passage is telling us that Jesus is the sun because what's amazing here is the glory does not come down, it comes out. It doesn't flash down from the sky, emanates from Jesus. Jesus is the source of it. You know, you don't have these lightning flashes. You know, a lightning flash is brilliant light and then it's over. But it says that Jesus' actual body, his clothes, and his face in a sustained way emanated the super brilliant glory light. Jesus is the source of it. Now, what that means is this. The glory cloud in the Old Testament was a partial, provisional, remarkable, helpful representation of the glory of God, but Jesus is the glory of God. That's why it says in Hebrews chapter 1, this amazing place in the New Testament, Jesus is the radiance, the writer says, of His glory and the exact representation of His being, the exact. In other words, like if you're walking by a tree and you see a tree, tree, how do you know its location? How do you know its shape? How do you know its height? Because the light from the tree is hitting your retina, and it's giving an exact representation of the shape and the height and the location of the tree. What the Bible is saying, what this passage is saying is there's the burning bush and there's the glory cloud. There's all these interesting representation. But Jesus Christ is the exact representation of who God is. He is the glory of God. He is the perfect, unsurpassable, unique, final revelation of the being of God. He tells us who he is in a way that nothing else does. I mean, Psalm 19 says the heavens tell of the glory of God. The stars tell us something of the glory of God. They're all signs of the glory of God. God. The ocean tells us something of the glory of God. Nothing like this. Jesus, according to the Bible, is the exact representation of his glory. He does not have reflected glory. He is the source of the glory of God. He is God hitting your retina, the retina of your soul. He is God come out and hitting the retina of the heart. He is the ultimate way to understand who God is. Nothing surpasses. He's the perfect representation of who God is. Now, one of the advantages that I get to hear this sermon over and over and over again all day on a Sunday. And, I mean, it's hard too. But it's also, it's amazing. I mean, you have to think and think and think over this stuff. And as the day has gone on, it's amazed me. It amazes me more and more as the day goes on what this claim is. And let me give you just two implications of what the transfiguration means when it tells us that Jesus Christ is the glory of God, God, that He is the exact, perfect, unsurpassable, final representation of who God is. It's incredible. Not partial, not a little bit, not sort of perfect, exact. Here's two implications. First implication, Jesus Christ is not one more prophet like Moses and Elijah. Jesus Christ is not one more prophet trying to get near God. He is the God that all prophets are trying to get near. near. He is not a prophet trying to get near God. He's the God that all the other prophets are trying to get near. And the thing that we're told here is Jesus is not one more prophet, one more teacher, one more sage in a row. See, Peter at one point says, Master, let us put up three shelters, one for you, one for Moses, one for Elijah. Now, the word shelter means tabernacle. He says, let's create three tabernacles. Why? Here's what is, we have the hall of fame here. Moses, Elijah, Jesus, I don't know how, but look at them. And so he says, let's just put up this, you know, a row of booths, you know, let's have three tabernacles. And all commentators say that what immediately happens after this is a response to Peter's suggestion. The cloud comes out. The voice says, this is my son. Listen to him. they see Jesus alone. And here's what the transfiguration is telling us. Jesus is not one more prophet or teacher or sage in a row. He does not fit into a booth. You cannot fit him into a hall of fame. You cannot fit him into a pantheon. He is not one among many. He is utterly unique. For example, I mean, the claim that the glory comes from him, that his face does not radiate like Moses did with a reflected glory, but he is the glory of God. He is the glory cloud. loud. He is the exact representation. But let me just give you another example of what I mean. Next chapter, in the next week, in Luke 10, Jesus makes a little statement that's pretty amazing. He says, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning.

Jesus says, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning. And you know what he's saying? What kind of person would say something like this? Here's what he's saying. He says, you know, existed, I was around. And I knew Lucifer before he was Satan. I saw him go bad, and I remember the day he fell from heaven. It was like fire. It was like a blaze. What kind of person would talk like that? Listen, if what Jesus said right there is true, then he is infinitely beyond any other prophet that ever lived in ability to reveal God. But if what he says is not true, he is infinitely behind every other prophet that ever lived. He is wicked or insane or something. If these claims… See, if these claims, like that He is the glory of God or even saying, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning… If these things are true, then He's infinitely beyond them. And if they're not true, He's infinitely behind them. But the one thing you can't say is He's one among many. He's another great founder, great teacher, great sage, age, great prophet. You can't say that. It makes absolutely no sense. N.T. Wright, the Anglican New Testament scholar, puts it like this. He says, how can you live with a terrifying thought that the hurricane has become human, that the fire has become flesh, that the life, capital L, itself has walked into our midst? Christianity either means that or it means nothing. It is the most devastating disclosure of the deepest reality in the world, or it is a sham and a nonsense. sense. Most people, unable to cope with saying either of those things, are condemned to live in the shallow world in between. And that's exactly right. Most people, he says, the average New Yorker, certainly, you look at the things that Jesus has said, just read them in the Bible, and you say, he can't say he's wicked and insane, but the only other rational alternative is that he is the unique. He is the ultimate. He is the perfect, and he is the final revelation of the being of God. Either you have to utterly reject him as wicked or insane, or you have to completely build your life around him. Not only that, you have to build your life around the thought of who he is every minute of the day, if you could do it. It's all or nothing. Nothing should be in the middle, but that's where almost everybody in the world is. And N.T. Wright says, you are living in the shallows. If these things are true, he's infinitely beyond. If they're not true, he's more in a row. He is not in the Hall of Fame. He is not in a pantheon of great teachers. He can't be. Here's another implication. The other implication is that the only real Jesus is a supernatural Jesus, a transfigured Jesus, a glorious Jesus. The one thing that this is telling us, and Peter, James, and John, in unmistakable ways, is that this is not just a human being. Oh, he is a human being, but he's not just a human being. He's a supernatural being that was born miraculously into the world. He lived miraculously every single day of his life, and he was raised from the dead miraculously. He's supernatural from front to back. Now, why do I bring that up? Because one of the great ironies of the 20th century is that in the early part of the 20th century, all the great thinkers, or not all, but many of the great thinkers of the church in North America and in Europe, usually in the biggest cities like New York, they got together and they said, you know, we're in trouble. Christianity's in trouble because modern people are unable to accept the supernatural. They're unable to accept miracle. The only hope we have for the future of Christianity is we're going to have to take the supernatural element out. We're going to have to desupernaturalize Christianity if it's going to continue to have any influence on the world. And so they did. And so if you take the supernatural elements out of Christianity, one of the first things that happens – well, here's what you have. Instead of having an infallible Bible, you have a compendium of ancient human writings, but you're bad. Instead of a Jesus Christ who is the incarnate deity born of the Virgin, you have a great teacher with a lot of God consciousness. Instead of a resurrection that is a miracle and it happened in history and time and space, you have a beautiful symbol. And instead of becoming a Christian through being born again and through an infusion of the Holy Spirit, you have Christianity that means being a good person good life. In other words, if you take the supernatural elements out of Christianity, you don't just tweak it a little bit. You have a different religion. You have a semi-Christianity, a de-supernaturalized semi-Christianity. And I must tell you, with all due respect to the people who created this thing, it's like an Islam without any awe. It's like a Buddhism without any mysticism, it is really weak tea. And the great irony is all the places in the world where this de-supernaturalized semi-Christianity was influential, the churches are in terrible decline. And any place in the world where traditional, classical, historic, supernatural Christianity is held, the church is just growing by leaps and bounds. And this is the reason I've used a couple of these statistics in the past. Do you know that there's more Presbyterians in Korea going to church than there are in all of the United States and Scotland put together? Do you know that there's more Episcopalians and Anglicans in Nigeria than there are going to church in all of the United States and England put together? Do you know that only 5% of the Catholics in the world now live in the United States?

Why? Because real Christianity is supernatural Christianity, and people realize the real article. An example. You know, a year ago, I was diagnosed with cancer, and my wife this morning told me I should add, in case you don't know me or anything about this, it was thyroid cancer, and they took it out, and I'm fine. On the way home, Kathy on the way home said, you know, you didn't finish the story very well.

But when they told me about it, you know, I sat down, and before they told me all the good news, told me, well, it's cancer. And I sat down, I spent about an hour thinking to myself, will I be able to handle this? Am I ready to die? Will I be able to face death?

Okay. Or will I be too afraid to die? And I started thinking about the resurrection. And I went to the evidence, the stuff that I like to get out every Easter. If you've been around on Easter, you know I get it out. I thought about the fact that every gospel says that women were the first witnesses of the resurrected Jesus. And of course, as you've heard me perhaps say before, there is no way if you're making up stories about the resurrection in the first century, you ever would have put women in as the first witnesses because they had such low status, you would never have put them in. So if they're in the stories, the only explanation for why women were the first resurrection witnesses was because women were. And that's the only possible explanation. There must have been all these women who saw Jesus. And then I was thinking of 1 Corinthians 15. 1 Corinthians 15, written only 20 years after the fact, Paul says 500 people saw the resurrected Jesus at once. And he says most of them are still alive. If you want to, you can go talk to them. Now, 500 people don't… listen, people do not have group hallucinations. And not only that, that's too big for a conspiracy. You know, seven or eight people can say we saw Jesus Christ risen from the dead. Five hundred? And I looked at this, and I thought about this, and I said, this happened. This is a real thing that happened. This is as well attested as any historical fact. Therefore, I don't have to be afraid. And I wasn't.

Desupernaturalized Christianity would have taken that away from me. It's just a wonderful symbol. It wouldn't have helped me die. People recognize that. that. A transfigured Jesus, a supernatural Jesus, is the only real Jesus. The transfiguration tells us who he is in a unique, amazing way. But not only that, the transfiguration also tells us something about what he did, not just who he was, but what he came to do. Because look at verse 34, while he was speaking, a cloud appeared and enveloped them, and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. I guess they were. They were afraid. Out comes the glory cloud and begins to surround them. And you know why they were afraid? Because every place in the Hebrew Scriptures where the Shekinah glory cloud appears, contact with it is lethal. You know, when it comes down on Mount Sinai and there's all the lightnings and the smoke and the thundering and everything like that, all the people were told, even your cattle can't touch the mountain when the glory's on it or it will die. So here comes the glory cloud around them, and it says they were afraid. I guess so. And you know what? It reminds me, this passage reminds us of how unique and weird modern Western people are about the presence of God. You see, in virtually every, well, in every other culture, every other time, people have sensed that there's some gap or chasm between us and deity. There's some gap, there's some chasm, there's some barrier between us and the deity. So every culture has produced temples or tabernacles, places where there are mediation apparatus. There's mediation apparatus. What do I mean? I mean rituals or priests or sacrifices or transformation of consciousness or something. I mean, Buddhism says to reach the divine, you have to have these, you have to have transformation of consciousness, and it takes all your life, and it takes an enormous discipline, and so on. There's something between us. There's something keeping us from the deity. There's a gap or a chasm. Only modern Western people think it ought to be simple. They think getting close to God should be easy. Modern Western people are always complaining to me that one time they were in trouble, and they sat down, and they prayed to God, and they just asked him for something, and it didn't happen, so what's the matter with him? You know, if there is a God, you should just be able to talk to him. You should be able to just go in, and you make your request known, and he doesn't even tell it, doesn't do it. It should be simple. But you know, actually, even modern people who don't ask God for things, but just really seek to get near him, modern people who even just try to start to, in a sustained way, draw close and experience the presence of deity, they begin to experience what everybody else has always known, that there's a problem. There's a barrier. There's a barrier that has to be bridged, that has to be mediated. If you really try, just try to touch God, you'll start to become aware of your faults and your flaws and your inadequacies and your cowardice and your dishonesty and your selfishness. You'll start to realize there's a gap that has to be bridged. So everybody knows there's a problem, except us. And so here comes the glory cloud and they're scared. What happens? An amazing thing happens. They don't die. They live. This is an amazing passage. The glory cloud comes around them, and they live. When Moses was up in Mount Sinai, and he said, show me your glory, Lord, what did the Lord say? No one can see my face and live. but here they are. It actually says they saw his glory, and they saw his face, and they lived. What does this mean? The Transfiguration is teaching us that Jesus is not only the God on the other side of the chasm. He is somehow the bridge over the chasm. This is telling us that Christianity is different than any other religion on the face of the earth, because everything that religions say you must do to bridge the gap. This tells us Jesus has done for us. The disciples didn't bring a sacrifice, but they lived. Why? Because Jesus is the sacrifice. The disciples weren't perfect. Why? But they lived because Jesus was perfect. They didn't have transformation of consciousness, but because Jesus lived life on the highest plane. Christianity and the Transfiguration tells us this, that Jesus Christ, Christ, unlike any other religion, that the founder of our religion does for us all the things that every other religion says you have to do to bridge the gap. So the Holy Spirit, when you believe in God through Jesus, when you approach God through Jesus, when you just take hold and rest and trust in not your record, not your transformation of consciousness, not your sacrifices, but His, the Holy Spirit, the glory of God can come into your life. Now, why? How is that possible? Because of this little place that in English doesn't make much sense, but in Greek, it's the pivot of the whole passage. It's the place here in verse 30 and 31 where it says, two men, Moses and Elijah, appeared in glorious splendor talking with Jesus. They spoke about His departure, which He was about to bring to fulfillment. Now, that word departure is amazing because in Greek it's the word exodus. Exodus. If you're reading it in Greek, even if you don't know any other word, you'll recognize that. It says they were talking about his exodus, and that's ironic. Here's Moses talking to Jesus about his exodus. What exodus? And the answer is the death and resurrection of Jesus is the ultimate exodus. Moses only liberated the people from economic and social oppression, but Jesus through his death and resurrection to liberate us from sin and death itself. So he's not just the God on the other side of the gap. He is the bridge over the gap. So that's who he is. The Transfiguration tells us who he is, and the Transfiguration tells us something about what he came to do. And lastly, this passage also tells us how we can connect to him, how we can personally connect to him. And it tells us four ways or four things. It says, pray to reality, come in community, rest in family, and submit to authority. Let's go through them. First, first we're told, pray into reality. What do I mean by that? Well, the very beginning of the passage, verse 28, Luke says, eight days after Jesus said this, he took them to the top of the mountain. Now this is significant because Luke almost never connects his incidents. You know, you have, in every gospel you have these accounts. You have the account of this story about Jesus, then you have the next account, then you have the next account. Matthew, Mark, and John tend to connect them. They say, after he did this, then he went and did this. Luke almost never does. So the fact that Luke connects this passage to what happened just before means Luke is understand the two together. Well, what just happened? Well, what just happened was Jesus had said to Peter, who do you say that I am? And Peter says, well, you know who everybody else says you are. Everybody else says you're like Elijah. You're just a great prophet. Yes, says Jesus, but who do you say that I am? And Peter said, you are the Christ. You're not just another prophet. You're not just like Elijah. You are the one. You are the Messiah, and Jesus says, right. Well, then what's the transfiguration about? Here's what's interesting, very interesting. Peter knows something intellectually, but he doesn't know it yet existentially. He gave the right answer on the quiz. He got an A on the doctrine of Christ quiz, but that's not enough. Something has to happen so that what he knows intellectually He comes to know existentially. I have a brother-in-law. One of my favorite illustrations of this, my brother-in-law Jim. And I remember years ago, I used to get on him because we'd get in the car together, and if he was driving, he never had his seatbelt on. And I used to always say, come on, put on your seatbelt. Yeah, yeah, I know I should, but it's kind of uncomfortable and so on. One time I visited him, and I got in the car, and he put his seatbelt right on, and I said, so, you know, what has turned you into a poster boy for, you know, auto safety? all that. And he says, well, because a month ago I visited a friend of mine who was in an accident and he went through the windshield and he had 120 stitches in his face. He wasn't wearing a seatbelt. Sort of changed the way I drive. And you know what was interesting? We chatted about it. Did he get any new information? What changed him? What changed his behavior? Did he get new information?

No. What he knew with his head became existentially real to him. And it wasn't until it got existentially real to him that it really changed his life. Now, class, true or false, the Lord of the universe thought it worth his while to come down into this world and experience infinite agony and loss just to have a relationship with you. false? Well, true, you say. Because of what Jesus Christ has done, God himself finds you in absolute delight. True or false? Well, true, you say. Why does criticism bug you? Why are you anxious? Why do you have secret addictive habits? Why do you always feel like you need to prove things to people? Why do you get irritable? Why do you get harsh? You see, things that you know intellectually, you don't know existentially, or none of those things would be true of you. This is what you need. And what do you need? You don't just need to believe that Jesus is the unique Son of God. You need to see His glory. What do you say? What do you mean? You mean have a vision? Well, if you have a vision that'll probably be very helpful, but that's not probably what's going to happen. The word glory means weight significant. The glory means that what He What he has done becomes more affecting, more existentially affecting than what anyone else says. His love for you becomes more glorious. It means it's more real to you than the criticisms of other people. So you don't get down. You don't get upset. You're not moved about. You guys know so much intellectually that you don't know existentially. You know you need this. You need to have Jesus shine to the eyes of your heart. You need to have Jesus radiant. Well, you say, how does that happen? Well, there's a hint here in verse 29 where it says, as he was praying, the glory came. As you worship, as you pray, as you don't just think about things in general, but you seek him and you seek to have him shine to the eyes of your heart, the Holy Spirit will help you do it. That's the reason why you've got hymns like the line that goes,

Do you know what I'm talking about? Do you know what I'm talking about when something intellectually that you've always known, but it's not really affecting your life, it's not comforting you, it's not changing you, it's not strengthening you. You don't have the poise. You don't have the joy that you could have if the intellectual became existential. You need this. Go get it. It's there. It's available. Pray into reality. Worship into reality. thing. Pray into reality. Secondly, come in community. Now, notice something very interesting. The average New Yorker, I know New Yorkers, and the average New Yorker would say to Jesus, I see you want to give me an experience of your glory. That's great. Could you just give me a private experience of your glory? I mean, I don't, there's these other people around, and I don't know. James, John, you know, I might cry or something. I don't want them to see that. I don't want them to know about my dirty laundry. I might confess my sins or something. Would it be all right if we just went up to the top of the mountain and we left the other two guys behind and you just gave me a private experience of your glory? And Jesus Christ says you're going to have to get over that if you want to go deep because you notice Jesus brought a small group fellowship to the top of the mountain.

It was the great small group meeting.

And listen, the fact of the matter is, if you want Jesus to shine, if you want to see his glory, if you want him to become existentially real to you so it really transforms your life, it goes better in community. It's better to listen to him in a group.

Or, let me be as practical as I can. You need somebody who's ahead of you. You need somebody who knows more about this than you and has seen more of Jesus than you. Secondly, you need somebody behind you. One of the great things is you think you understand until somebody who doesn't get it asks you to explain it and then you realize you don't really get it either. As you grope, it comes to you. You need somebody ahead of you. You need somebody behind you. You need somebody pretty different than you. You need somebody of a different race or a different culture or maybe a different political party. Somebody really other than you who loves Jesus and is after Jesus as a group, come in community, and you're much more likely to see his glory. So pray into reality, come into community. Thirdly, experience, rest in your family status. Notice when it comes down, when the glory cloud comes down, there's a voice, and what does the voice say? This is my son. Son. Now, you know what? This has happened before. The last time the Holy Spirit came down on Jesus, which is the same thing, back at His baptism, what did it say? Something very similar. This is my beloved child. This is my beloved Son. Let me tell you what it means to have the glory of God come down upon you. It's not just an abstract kind of sense of power. It's this assurance. You say, well, maybe that's just what happened to Jesus. No, because Paul says in Romans 8, he says, the Spirit bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. That's what the Holy Spirit does. You may know intellectually, I'm a child of God, I'm a son or daughter, but here's what you need more than anything else in your life. You need to hear existentially in the center of your being the voice of God saying, in spite of everything you've done, I love you. You are my son. You are my daughter.

Jesus was enveloped by deep darkness so that you could be enveloped by my love and my light and my parental love. I want to assure you of my radical, permanent, unconditional,

intimate parent love that comes to you through Jesus Christ. Christ, though your father and mother forsake you, I will lift you up. Can a mother, can a woman nursing a baby at her breast forget the child at her breast? Nay, but even if she would forget, I will not forget you. There's all these promises in the Bible, and you need to hear them existentially. And if you do hear them existentially, finally there'll be something solid in the center of your life. Instead of always feeling empty, of always feeling you need to prove something, always feeling like unsure of yourself. It'll be something solid. What you need more than anything else is the glory of God, and this is how the glory of God works. It assures you that you are a son or daughter. It comes down on you and says, you are my child in whom I'm well pleased. And if you have those three, if you pray into reality and come in community so that you begin to start to rest in your family status, your adoption into the family of God, then finally, don't forget this. Submit to his authority. If you want to connect to him, you must submit to his authority. Submit to his authority? Yeah, because it says, this is my son. Listen to him. Which, of course, means pay attention. It means explore. It means study. But it certainly also means obey. And you know, there's a lot of people that say, no, wait a minute. Your point four, this last point, seems to contradict the point before. Because the point before, you were talking about how God, because of Jesus Christ, because He's fulfilled all the requirements for us, He loves us unconditionally, and He loves us, you know, no matter what. And now there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And I can't tell you how many people have said, if I believed what you say, that we're saved by sheer grace and we can't lose God's love and we're unconditionally belong to Him, and I could never lose that, I would lose all my incentive to obey. If I thought I was just loved unconditionally, I would lose all my incentive to obey. Why even lead an obedient, holy life? The only answer to that is, when you lose all fear of condemnation and rejection, if when that happens you lose all your incentive to live a holy life, then the only incentive you had to live a holy life was fear of rejection. Here's a better motivation. This is my son, and because of what he did, you can be my son or my daughter.

He sacrificed himself just to delight you. Now, put yourself into that role. Now, why obey? Not to save yourself, to delight him who did this, to resemble him who did this. to know Him who did this. Submit to His authority out of the complete certainty you have of His love because of it. And that's the reason why we have that old hymn that goes, our pleasure and our duty, though opposite before, since we have seen His beauty, are joined apart no more. To see the law by love fulfilled and hear His pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. Listen to him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that your Holy Spirit can come into our lives, show us the reality of Jesus. We pray that tonight those of us who have a kind of human Jesus, just a great prophet, would come to see that the only real Jesus is the supernatural Jesus that must be completely submitted to as Savior and Lord. We pray that those people here tonight who have an intellectual Lord and Savior would see that through community, through the means of grace, through obedience, through commitment to these means of grace, we need to get an existential Jesus, Jesus, a Jesus who shines in the inner being of our hearts with glory so that he becomes our love, our life, our way, our end. So, Father, we pray that you would answer our requests because we made them through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
