A reading from the book of John, chapter 17, verses 23, verses 20 through 23. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them may be one. Father, just as you are in me and I am in you, may they also be in us so that the world believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me, so that they may be brought to complete unity. Then the world will know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. The word of the Lord.

So we've been looking at this prayer of Jesus Christ, John chapter 17, the last thing he says before he goes to his death. And each week we've been saying, or fairly often we've been saying, that when you're dying, you don't talk about, you don't make small talk, you talk about the things that are most important to you. So notice in verse 20, at this point, Jesus very directly starts to pray for you and me, at least anyone in this room who professes to be a Christian. Because in verse 20, he says, I no longer just pray for my disciples, mainly the people there in the room with him, you know, his 12 disciples. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. So from chapter 17, verse 20 to 26, Jesus is very directly saying what he most wants for us. And there are two things, one of which is this week. We're going to look at one of which is next week. But here's what this is. I mean, don't you want to know what Jesus most wants for you? As he's about to die, that's what he's going to talk to you about. This is what he most wants. These are the things he most wants. And the thing we're going to talk about here tonight is this one. It's right there at the very beginning of verse 21. one. Father, I want, this is my prayer, that all of them may be one. Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. I want them to be one. I want them, later on verse 23, it says, in complete unity.

Now here's the question, or here are the questions. What is that? Secondly, why is that so important? And thirdly, how do we get it? How can it come to us? So what is it? Why is it so important? How do we get it? So number one, what is it? Well, okay, that all of them may be one Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. When Jesus is talking, saying the main thing I want is that one in love and unity. Some people, by the way, traditionally have read that and said, that means we should all be in the same church. I mean, in the 20th century, there was a, for many years, there was a major movement on the part of the larger mainline Protestant churches to all merge, because they believed that when they looked at this verse, that they thought that's what Jesus was looking for, merging. We wouldn't have all these different denominations and churches. And even though, by the way, certainly there's nothing wrong with is getting together and mergers might even be a great thing, but it can't be what Jesus is talking about. And the reason it can't be is because as we're going to see under point two, he says, when the world sees it, they'll be so struck by it, this unity, that it'll make them open to the claims of the gospel. Now, when the world sees things merging, does that make them say, say, oh my goodness. I mean, it can't be that. Amazon just bought Whole Foods. Is anybody looking at them and saying, behold how they love one another? No, they just say they merged. They got together. So structural organizational unity, as good as that is, can't be what Jesus is talking about here. Well, then what is he talking about here? Well, he says that all of them may be one. all of them may be one. Not just, by the way, the white Christians and the black Christians are one, but all of them might be one. Not just the rich Christians and the poor Christians, not just the Asian Christians and the Hispanic Christians. All of them may be one. Let's take a look at this. Let's break this down. When Jesus is talking about that they all may be one, first of all, let's put the emphasis on all. The early church got off the ground to a great degree because of the quality of its unity and loving community. The world looked at it and was amazed. And one of the things they were amazed by, it was amazed by, was the fact that Christianity was actually the first multi-ethnic religion. I can't spend time going into that right now. Historians will tell us that generally speaking, religions fit people's ethnicity, that this ethnic group had their religion, this ethnic group had their religion. But because Christians believe that Jesus was the savior of the whole world. It meant that everyone should choose to believe in Jesus. And that meant that brought people together in the Christian faith across racial and class barriers in a way the world had never seen. But that's still a big part of what should be so striking when the world looks at the Christian church. There should still be that, that all of them would be one. Two stories. In reading, David Martin Lloyd-Jones was a British preacher who preached a series of sermons on John 17. I have four books of his sermons on John 17, and I've been rereading them as I've been preaching through this year. And as a result, I have a bunch of Lloyd-Jones stories and anecdotes. But here's the most interesting thing. thing. Lloyd-Jones himself was converted, was a young man, but in the 1920s, he was a physician

at St. Bart's in London. And he not only had been the top of his medical school class, but he was widely believed to be the smartest and most brilliant med student who had come through in anyone's memory. And as soon as he graduated and got through residency, immediately he was up. He was given all these fellowships and he became the assistant to Lord Horder, who was the physician to the royal family. He was like the top physician in the country. And in a class stratified society, and it's hard for us Americans to really have a good understanding of this, but in Britain at that time, it was a class stratified site. The only way to get a good idea of it is watch Downton Abbey. And in that class stratified society, side, he was at the top, and he was on his way, and then he got converted. Lloyd-Jones got converted.

And when he got converted, it started bringing some changes. But in the early days of his Christian walk, he began to wonder, am I really a Christian? Did it really happen to me? But then he found something that happened to him. Lloyd-Jones, as you might know, left the medical field and became a preacher and went to a small town on the coast of Wales, which was a very poor town. And he took a small mission church there. And when he started visiting people, he found to his shock that the Christians he met there who were very poor, they were fishermen and their wives, they were very poor people, illiterate people. He found a bond there. there. He found a joy there. He found a closeness there and a love there, but he also found that he was learning from them. And this went against all of his training. Everything in his training had equipped him to feel these people are below me. In fact, it's one of the ways I feel good about myself is to know that these people are below me and they didn't feel below him anymore.

and he realized at that point actually he at one of his sermons he actually says that's where he started to realize i really have changed something has completely rearranged the furniture of my identity and now i feel a oneness with people of different classes and different people that i that if i wasn't a christian i never would have been able to give the time of day too. I never would have any sense of unity with him at all. More recently, I knew a young man who was from the deep South, American, and he was also a very conservative. He was very, very conservative politically. And it was a very important part of who he was. But he was also a staunch Presbyterian. And American Presbyterians have this, always think, wouldn't it be great to go to Scotland where Presbyterianism came from? And what he actually did was he spent a summer in the highlands of Scotland in a small town in a really, really staunch conservative Presbyterian church. And he was gonna do service there. And they were very conservative Presbyterian. Very. They only sang psalms. They didn't sing hymns. I don't know if any of you knew that originally Presbyterians only sang psalms. And they were very strict. He said that if they caught you watching television on the Sabbath, might have your head handed to you on a platter. They were very strict. But to his shock, they were very strict. They were very staunch. They were very conservative. And they were all politically socialists. They were all socialists. And after he picked his jaw off the ground, and he says, how could that be? You're staunch, conservative Christians. How could that be? And he started listening to them in a way he never would have listened to socialists. In any other situation. And he came back. I remember he said, I came back and I didn't affiliation, but he says, I'm a completely different person now because he said, I realized as I was talking to them that there was a bond we had between us that was really more important than the politics. And what that did was it helped me to understand and listen to them in a way I never would have listened in the past. If I wasn't a Christian and they weren't Christians, it never would have happened. I met some years ago a Bosnian who lived here in New York City. He'd This is a long time ago. But I remember, and he wasn't, by the way, a Christian believer, so it's not in another one of these stories. But what he did tell me was, he says, you know, he says, it was an election year. And he says, you know, the Democrats really hate the Republicans here in America. But he says, you know, and I'm a Democrat. I've decided I'm a Democrat. But I'll tell you this, if I meet a Bosnian who's a Republican, politics doesn't matter. We're one. And I say, why? He says, because we have both been through life and death together.

experiences. And Ephesians chapter two says, you were dead in your trespasses and sin, you've been made alive in Jesus Christ. And every single person who's a real Christian, I don't mean just a nominal thing, but a real Christian who has been deeply convicted of sin and lostness, way beyond what the ordinary person believes about themselves. And then infinitely affirmed by the unconditional love and grace God through Jesus Christ and his death on the cross which takes us higher than anybody else goes. In other words, if you've been through life and death like that, then it doesn't matter about the race. It doesn't matter about the class. And it doesn't matter about the politics. And what's interesting, by the way, you know, in America, the race and class is actually not as important as the politics right now. But the gospel cuts through all of that because as Lloyd-Jones realized, it changes your identity. It changes the very furniture of your heart. and things that looked really important to you in the past were a very big part of your self-worth no longer are as important and therefore not only are you able to relate to Christians of different races and classes and politics but because you are, just like this guy who came back from the highlands of Scotland, it wasn't just that he actually had a better ability to relate to Christians who were different politically. He could relate to everybody better who was different politically. So you see, the first part of what makes what Jesus is talking about here, which is so astounding and so unique and so, how do I say, in a way, gee, it's something that really is not reproducible, is this thing that is at the heart of the gospel that brings people together who otherwise could never, ever, ever be brought together. So all of them are one. But then secondly, all of them are one. What does few things on this. What does loving community really look like? There's so much we could say about this, but here's a few things that the Bible says about what the Christian community ought to be like. We should be one in sharing possessions. Acts chapter 4 says the early church, no one treated their possessions as if they were their own. Now, this doesn't mean that there wasn't private property in the early church. But it means that there was this drastic open-handedness. The gospel changed everyone's hearts toward their possessions. So they shared their homes and they shared their money and they shared their space and they shared everything. So the Christian church should be one in sharing possessions. Secondly, a Christian church should be one in sharing your problems. problems. Galatians 6, we should bear one another's burdens. Back in the 1980s, I visited some churches in our denomination who were in Iowa during the farm crisis. And one of the things that was interesting about the farm crisis was there was a lot of farmers there who were committing suicide. Rather than ask for help, when they saw they were going to lose their farms, they committed suicide. But I visited some of the churches, and the churches were filled with farmers, of course. That's who lived there. And they said, though, the gospel had changed them. They said, look, the culture out here in Iowa and Nebraska and these places is a stoic culture. It's a culture where you don't ask anybody for help. You are absolutely self-reliant. And they could absolutely understand why they would kill themselves rather than ask for help. But he says the gospel's changed that in us so we can ask for help. The gospel not only changes your attitude toward what you have, your assets so you can share them, it also changes your attitude toward what you don't have, your problems, the things you're lacking so you can admit you have a need, so you can admit, I'm in trouble. I need help. And so a Christian community should be a place where not only do we share possessions, we share our problems, we share our burdens. Most human communities, people are kind of proud about those things. But in the Christian community, we can be one in sharing possessions, one in sharing burdens. Thirdly, one in sharing truth.

Ephesians 4, 15 says, speaking the truth in love. Speaking the truth in love. That's the essence of what, that's the operating principle of real Christian community. The things in your life that are distorting your life the most The flaws and the sins in your life That are hurting you the most Are by definition the ones you can't see as well And the only way you're ever going to grow You desperately need somebody to tell you about them But it's very hard It takes a tremendous amount of courage to tell somebody about Their sins Other people can see your sins But they're afraid Unless something happens in their life takes courage because, well, you're going to be upset. Maybe you're going to be too crushed. They're afraid. You have to be, though, surrounded by people who are empowered to do two things. One is to be courageous enough to tell you what's wrong with you. But secondly, to love you as they're doing it. See, when somebody tells you about your flaws, even if they're right, if they tell you about your flaws when they're angry and they're grumpy at you and they're just trying to let you have it, well, then it's easier to write them off and say, oh, who clearly loves you, when somebody who it's obvious that it's hurting them to tell you, and yet is still telling you, here's what's wrong with you, that's transformative dialogue. That's, and that's what a Christian community could be and should be. One in sharing possessions, one in sharing burdens and problems, one in sharing truth, transformative truth. And one last thing, one in sharing, how do I say, failure. failure. In New York City, when someone fails, we just get rid of them. And then we all sign confidentiality agreements. And I swear, that's not only true in businesses. It's also true in social circles. Somebody fails, you're out. You know, this is a competitive society and, you know, you don't have what it takes. But take a look at the Christian church. Look at the two greatest leading figures in the Christian church, Paul and Peter. Do you know who they are? You know, Paul killed Christians until he was converted. And people who looked to him as a leader in the church were people who probably lost friends to his rampage. But they brought him in. Peter, of course, and we talked about this a couple of months ago, Peter was egregious in his denial of Christ and his cowardice and all that. And yet Jesus has the audacity to say, Peter, of all my disciples, if you plunge yourself into my grace, you'll be the best leader. You'll be the humblest. You'll be the wisest. Boy, that is unique. Christian community can actually incorporate failure and turn it into wisdom. We don't expel failure. We reconcile, we heal, and we incorporate. And in all these ways, Jesus, these are all the ways in which Jesus says, of them must be one, one in possessions, one across racial barriers, one in our burdens and problems, one in transformative truth-telling, one even in incorporating people and healing people and reconciling with people who have failed. In all these ways, that's what the church should be. And that's what Jesus means when he says that they may all be one. Okay, so that's what it is. and that's the longest point. Just don't worry. Number two. Number two, and it's short because we've already been talking about it, but we need to think about this. Why is it so important? Jesus says that the world may know you have sent me. Now, this is the shortest of the three points, but I want you to know, I want this short point to come to you right between your eyes, right between your eyes. something really, really important. He says, unless the world sees an inexplicably compelling loving community, in other words, a community that's so loving and so compelling that it's inexplicable by the world's categories. Unless the Christian community is that strong, Jesus says the world will not actually believe the truth claims. See, Christianity is filled with these crazy claims. Jesus is the Son of God. And he came to earth and he died on the cross for our sins and he's been raised from the dead. They're crazy and we need to make those claims but Jesus is saying they're not going to believe your claims. They're not going to believe any of them unless they see behind it a community of astounding love. They're not going to believe. It doesn't mean we shouldn't. We do need to be eloquent. We do need to be articulate. We do need to argue. We do need to open our mouths but nobody's going to hear us. This is backed up by a community. community. And so let me give you the negative and the positive here. Here's the negative.

Jesus Christ, the honor of Jesus Christ's name is bound up in the quality of this community. Somebody put, here's a commentator, somebody, one of the commentaries on John 17 says this. The commentator says, do you know any churches like this? Do you know any churches that have gossip, insensitivity, negative criticism, jealousy, backbiting, and unforgiving spirit, failure to fully welcome people of other races and classes, cliquishness, coldness, greed, and selfishness? Do you know any churches like that? Of course you know churches like that. Well, you know what you're doing? You're making Jesus Christ look ugly to the world. You're not just engaging in gossip, insensitivity, negative criticism, jealousy, backbiting. Yes, that's wrong. in itself. But see, Jesus is actually giving the world, as it were, the right to reject the gospel if it's not backed up with a loving community that's different than the way human communities work. So that when we engage in all those things, which we do, we're making Jesus look ugly to the world. That's the negative. Here's the positive. It must be possible to have this kind of community or Jesus wouldn't be saying this. It must be possible in the gospel and in Christ to have the community I was describing the first 15 minutes. And didn't it make your mouth water? There's not, I don't know of any human being who doesn't want to be part of a human community like that. And if Jesus Christ is calling us to it, then it must be possible. Okay, lastly, how do we get it? I mean, in other words, obviously it's not easy. Human beings don't naturally operate like this. Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones was shocked that his class prejudice seemed to just go away after he became a Christian, and he knew something really radical had happened. In other words, Dietrich Bonhoeffer in his great little book, Life Together, and you should all read it, it's about this subject, says that it's natural for human beings when they meet each other to immediately size each other up. We compare ourselves to each other. Why? Because we're trying to make sure that this other person is not a threat to our self-worth. We like, we compare each other on looks. We compare each other, ourselves, on sophistication, how much money they make, all that kind of stuff. Because deep in our hearts, we're trying to justify ourselves. And that's the reason why all, in a sense, all of our relationships with our human beings are kind of political and they're negotiating. We're always negotiating our relationships and why, in a sense, our relationships are sick. But Jesus says, and here's the solution, this is the thing that transforms you so that you can have these kinds of loving relationships. It says, then the world will know that you sent me and have loved them even as you loved me. We cannot possibly this week alone unpack all that's in there, but that's an astounding statement. And to understand it takes you into the heart of the gospel. If you believe that maybe God will take you to heaven if you live a good life, life, you'll always be anxious. But if you believe the gospel, this is what you believe. That the father this minute, are you a Christian? The father this minute loves you as much as he loves his son. Do you believe that? Do you think that's just rhetorical flourish? To the degree you believe that, you will become capable

of a whole new way of relating to other people. people. You might be poor, but if you marry somebody who's rich, the moment you are legally united, the moment you are legally and relationally united, you share that wealth together. You didn't earn it, but you get the wealth of the person you have united with. And the Bible says, no, you're not saved by trying to live a good life. You're saved by the minute you say, Father, Father, accept me because of what Jesus Christ has done. The minute you believe in Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ lived a perfect life. He lived a heroic life. He lived a loving life. The minute you unite with him by faith, all that wealth, as it were, that righteousness becomes yours. The Father looks at you and loves you as if you've done everything Jesus Christ has done. That's what it says. I know you say, well, I can't even take that in. No, but you better try. Because you see, to the degree you can take that in, tell you, I've been working on this for 40 years now. The more it goes in, the more it frees you to love other people without negotiating, without, you know, it takes to forgive, to tell the truth, to hear the truth, to share your possessions, to share your problems because you get a new kind of security. Some years ago, I had a, uh, my dentist was doing his x-rays and discovered what it looked like something wrong under one of my teeth here, sent me to a dental surgeon. They went in there and there'd been an abscess. There was infection and stuff like that was happening. Wonderful bedside manner, you know, he pulled it out and showed it to me. It was awful. That was in me? And he pointed out that's the reason why over the last couple of years I've been getting sick a lot. So you didn't realize there was this deep infection that was making you sick. In fact, Eventually, it would have given you heart problems.

Now, what is it in the human heart that is making a relationship sick? It's self-righteousness. It's the need to justify ourselves. It's the need when you meet somebody to say, I'm as good as this person. Or maybe I'm not as good as this person. I don't like the fact I'm not as good as this person. Something has to come in. It's the everlasting love that just displaces all that self-righteousness. to say what race is this person, what class is this person, what politics is this person, in order to decide whether or not I like this person or not. That's what my friend in the Highlands of Scotland experienced. That's what Lloyd-Jones experienced. But I want you to know that getting that self-righteousness out is kind of like a tooth being yanked. It's not that easy. In other words, God doesn't just come and say, oh, I love you. Generally, show you that you're a sinner that needs to be saved by grace. And then that's what actually gets the self-righteousness out and opens you to his love and makes it possible for you to look at other people as equals instead of these people are above me, these people are below me. It's not that easy. The grace of God comes in. It can often come in through a bad experience. It can come in through something that's kind of hard. My favorite example of this, by the way, that gets the self-righteousness out is the Flannery O'Connor short story, Revelation. It's a great short story. And it's about Ruby Turpin. And Ruby Turpin is a Pharisee, my favorite Pharisee in literary fiction. And she's a white Southern woman. And she looks down at everybody. She looks down at black people, of course, but she also looks down at white people who are poor. She calls them trash. So she looks down at black people. She looks down at white trash. And she looks down, by the way, also at people who are wealthier than she is because they don't work as hard as she does. And she certainly looks down at anybody who doesn't go to church. And so she spends all of her time with her friends just rolling their eyes and talking about this person and that person, this person. She's a Pharisee. But one day she's in this story. She's in a doctor's office in a waiting room and she's talking to her friend talking like they usually do. And there's a young woman there who looks kind of, she's got a skin problem. She's got a lot of acne and she's young. Her name is Mary Grace. And she's reading a book, but she's listening to Ruby Turpin. And the longer she listens, the more angry she gets at all her self-righteousness. And then finally, suddenly, Mary Grace gets up and takes the book she's reading and throws it at Ruby and it hits her right in the face and actually cuts her. By the way, the name of the book is Human Development. And then Mary Grace jumps on Ruby and starts to choke her. Well, her parents pull her off and of course it comes out that she's a little bit not quite right and they give her a sedative. But as she's being taken away, she looks at Ruby Turpin and she says, go back to hell where you came from, you old warthog.

and even though everybody kind of apologizes to Ruby, perhaps, I mean, Flannery O'Connor is such a skillful storyteller, because this girl named Grace suddenly jumped on her and told her she was from hell as she was sitting around clucking her tongue and self-righteously looking at everybody else, suddenly, instead of just picking herself up and saying, boy, what an idiot she was, she has a revelation, God is saying something to her and she doesn't like it. And that night she goes out into the, you know, she's outside as the sun is going down and she starts to have an argument with God. And she says, you try to tell me something. It doesn't make sense. She says, how can I be saved and from hell too? Which by the way, is the essence of the gospel that you're saved and you're from hell. You, you, you, you know, you are saved even though no, you deserve hell. In fact, even as you're saved, you still deserve hell, but you're only saved by the grace of God. She couldn't understand the gospel. See, that's why she was self-righteous. And so she yells up, she yells, she says, how can I be saved and from hell too? And then she goes on and she says, this isn't fair. Why me? I'm not trash. I break my back every day working. I do for the church. I could quit working, she growled. I could lounge about on the sidewalks all day, day drinking root beer, dipping snuff, spitting in every puddle, and having it all over my face.

And then finally she gets furious and she shakes her hands at God and she says, who do you think you are talking to me like this? And then suddenly she gets a vision. And I'll just read you the end of it here. A visionary light settled in her eyes. She saw a vast swinging bridge extending upward from the earth through a field of living fire. And on the bridge, there was a vast horde, a parade of souls, and they were rumbling toward heaven. But to her shock, there were whole companies of trash and battalions of freaks and lunatics shouting and clapping and leaping on their way to heaven. And then she saw, to her real surprise, coming at the end of the parade, a tribe of people she recognized at once as those who like herself had always had just a little of everything and the God-given wit to use it. But they were marching behind all the others. They were coming only at the end of the parade to heaven. And she saw that they, she says, they were walking with great dignity, yet she could see by their shocked and altered faces that even their virtues were being burned away.

and then the vision faded, and in the woods around her, the cricket choruses had struck up, but what she heard was the voices of the souls climbing upwards into the starry field and shouting hallelujah. What does it mean their virtues were being burned away? You see what Flannery O'Connor's doing? Ruby Turpin is being given a vision of the gospel. Yes, you know what? There's even hope for Pharisees getting to heaven. Even Pharisees are allowed, as long as their virtues are burned away. What? Go to Philippians 3 where Paul says, I was a Pharisee of a Pharisees. I obeyed the law. I was incredibly moral and I counted all as trash. I counted all as dung, as garbage for the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus Christ. What does he mean? He says, all of my good deeds were terrible for me. They were keeping me from people. They were making me look down on people. They were leading me to kill certain people. and they were keeping me from the grace of God. They were keeping me from God.

But sometimes what it'll take to get the self-righteousness out of your heart is a book in the face or somebody choking you or maybe just a vision of Jesus Christ losing his love with the Father, saying, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me so you could have it? You've got to be humbled by the grace of God and that pulls the tooth of self-righteousness out the way, it did hurt, but afterwards I wasn't sick. Let the gospel change your life and then you can be part of that parade of lunatics and trash, you know, and freaks that are all going to heaven together, united by the love of God in Jesus Christ, our Lord. Let's pray. pray. Our Father, we thank you for your willingness to accept us by grace and then the brilliance of the way in which your gospel changes us and makes us a foretaste of the future, a foretaste of the renewed humanity, when the things that are dividing the human race right now no longer divide us. So we pray, Father, that you would help the downtown church more and more be one, all of them one, that the world might know that you sent your son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.
