of good and bad, of male and female. So you get rid of all of those kinds of distinctions because you're only going to be saved, if you can talk about salvation, by seeing all those distinctions are illusions. So anything that talks about that comes out of this particular worldview. It doesn't come out of the classical monotheistic worldview. Any talk about reprogramming the unconscious through subliminal tapes or other means generally comes from this. There's a lot of talk about unleashing psychic potential. But look, the most important thing is that there's a lot of emphasis on creating your own reality. Whenever you hear that term, create your own reality. Why? See, you are God. You are ultimate reality. And this is something very Eastern, again. Since you are God and you are ultimate reality, monotheism says, no, God's ultimate reality, and you're derivative reality. And therefore, you have to get in touch with ultimate reality. But Eastern philosophy says you are ultimate reality. What you think goes. What you believe is true. By definition.

Because, you see, there is no other truth.

There's no standard of reality outside of yourself. And so any emphasis on creating your own reality is very important. There was a fascinating article in the New York Times book section last week. It was published last fall. Yeah, because I was watching my kids play soccer when I was reading it. That's how I tell what time of the year it was. I wasn't watching them play baseball. I was watching them play soccer. And it talked about the fact that Werner Erhard's Est, which he no longer calls Est, but it's called now Transformational Technologies Incorporated, unless it's changed its name since then, that it's really based on the philosophy of Martin Heidegger. Very interesting article. Because what Martin Heidegger talked about, the fact that Martin Heidegger talked about the idea of spontaneity and strength as being the way to ultimate reality. He talked about the hammer. He says, when you're hammering a nail, you don't think the hammer is something different than the rest of your body. You just hammer. And therefore, Heidegger put a lot of emphasis on spontaneity. He also talked about creating your own reality. As you know, Heidegger was one of the existentialists. And if you, if you, existentialism is a first cousin to Eastern monism. The word, the word existentialism comes from the word existence. And it means, as Sartre put it, existence precedes essence. Now you see, monotheism, classical monotheism has always said, your essence precedes your existence. God has created you to be something. And the only way you'll be happy is to find out what you're created to be and to be it. See, that, that's the reason, for example, you know, we, remember when we did the sex seminar here some time ago? That's the reason why, if it's true that God created sex for marriage, that would mean that you, in your essence, God created you to only have sex inside marriage. If that's true, then you, you have to obey that in order to get in touch with ultimate reality. To find out who you really are, you gotta find out what God made you to be. Your essence precedes what you are, you see, precedes that you are. What God made you to be is more important than what you are. It's more important than how you're living or how you feel. You have to get in touch with what God made you to be. Existentialism actually says, existence precedes essence. See, that you are precedes what you are. You create your own reality. There is no essence to you. You make yourself what you want to be because there is no absolute truth from the outside. That's what I mean by saying it's a, it's a first cousin to Eastern monism. It's a rejection of monotheism. A rejection of the idea of a transcendent God. Heidegger was an existentialist. And, uh, Warner Earhart, according to this book review, has really ripped him off. Because Heidegger talked a great deal about saying, the way to become an authentic person, hm, is to be spontaneous and to be strong. Not to think, but to do. Hm? If any of you had to read Being and Time when you were in college, I don't care what you tell me, you didn't understand it. I don't care what, I don't care what you got in philosophy class, you didn't understand it. You were throwing the ball, and so was your philosophy professor. Nobody really gets it except, basically, he's trying to say, you, you, the way to be authentic is to decide what you want to do, whatever it is, and do it. Because there really is no other, there, there really is no essence outside of yourself that you have to get in touch with in order to be, become a, a real person. You create your own reality. That's why existentialism is a first cousin. That's the reason why Heidegger can actually be the basis for a new age movement kind of thing like transformational technologies incorporated. Amazing. Any emphasis on energy fields?

There's a lot of different kinds of books, groups, techniques that talk about energy fields everywhere, and that's because Eastern monism basically believes that nature is divine, therefore there's an energy field around everything. And that divine energy field is the thing that you want to capture and, and come to grips with. You really want to, to have power over reality. Also, any unusual focus on deep self, high self, true self, on praising oneself as perfect and powerful and, and God. You know, new age movement has taken the, the old humanistic emphasis, the secularistic emphasis on self-esteem, and has just raised it to cosmic heights. You know, it doesn't just say feel good about yourself. Don't just say, hey, pat yourself on the back. It says worship yourself. I mean, that's, that's, that's a new stage. No doubt about it. Lots and lots and lots of emphasis on imaging and on visualization. Now, where does that come from? That idea where it's, I mean, I, listen, when I was in college, I was already, when I would go to counseling, I was already being told about this. So, well, now here's how you can become a happier person. Visualize yourself doing this thing. Just sit back and really, really think about it. I'm not sure that necessarily means that I was being incorporated into this. I was being incorporated into a new religion. But you can see why in Eastern religions and in New Age movement, the idea of visualizing would be important because that has actually a creation of reality for you to do that. You're getting in touch with, with your own divinity.

Now, let me go back. Having said that, some of those things have read, have rung bells to you. What I'm trying to point out is that underneath it all, there are these same basic, basic ideas. Let me tell you what those ideas are again. And then let me give you a critique and then we have time for some questions and answers. First of all, first of all, the idea is that God is you and you are God because God is everything. And that the human soul is actually part of the all soul and therefore part of divine reality. You know, what's kind of interesting is there are, there's only a few different views of God. There is, there's polytheism that says there's many gods everywhere. You know, there's the river god and there's the, and there's the, the creek god and there's the, the bridge god and there's the tree god and there's the grass god and it's everywhere. Then comes the idea that there's, God is in everything. There's one God but he's not personal. Polytheism says there's many gods and many persons. Pantheism or monism says, there's one God and, but he's not personal. He's not a he. Then you have Unitarianism that says there's one God and one per, in, in, who's a person. Then there's Trinitarianism, which is, I don't want, we're not getting into that tonight. And that's the Christian understanding which says that there's one God and three persons. One God and three persons. One God and one person. One God and no person. And many gods and many persons. Polytheism. Pantheism. Unitarianism and Trinitarianism. That's the, that's all the options. What's interesting is pantheism and polytheism almost merge together. That's the reason why Hinduism, those of you who have any background with it, Hinduism is very polytheistic. They've, they've got tons and tons of gods. They've got pantheons of gods because they believe underneath everything is God. So in it, there's almost a sense in which Hinduism, the fact that it has gods everywhere, it comes from the idea that there's an energy field. Everything is divine. There's an energy field about, around everything. Therefore, you can worship the tree. You can worship the sky. You can worship the grass. You can worship the sun and so on. Unlike Eastern religions that say God is infinite, but he's not transcendent. He's infinite in everything, but he's not personal. Or the older Western religions like the Greek, you know, the Greek gods and the Roman gods that believe that gods were personal, but they weren't infinite. They weren't perfect. Christianity. Judaism and Islam, who are all, they're all kind of kissing cousins when it comes to this. They actually all grew out of each other. Has always said that the God is both infinite and personal. And therefore he's in everything, yes, but he's a he. You can speak to him. He's personal and he's transcendent above all of nature. That's the first thing. Eastern religion and New Ageism says everything is God. Christianity says, God is in things, but God is above things and before things. And he's a he. You can talk to him. Secondly, we said the problems are illusion. Now let me read you a little bit more about that. See, in Eastern religion, all suffering, all war, all racism, all crime comes from desire. That in the Upanishads is called tanha, desire. And desire all comes from desire. And desire all comes from the illusion that we're individuals. The reason we've got problems is we try to find satisfaction in our accomplishments. We try to find satisfaction in pleasure or power. And this is illusion. It's maya. All pain and regret come from not seeing that you are part of the one. And therefore, well, I'm getting into salvation at this point. Therefore the goal, therefore you experience alienation and you experience dislocation. The goal then, that's the third thing. The goal is you are God. Secondly, all your problems come from illusion. Not seeing the greatness of who you are. Not seeing the oneness of everything. Then thirdly, your salvation therefore comes through some sort of enlightenment. Getting back in touch with seeing how things really are. Now, this is where everybody's different. Some of you know in some Eastern religions they do mantra meditation. Or they'll give you a koan. What is the sound of one hand clapping? You're supposed to meditate on that and try to figure that out. Until the logical part of your brain goes crazy. And you begin to see that all words are true. And that there is no rational reason to reality. And that you can't divide reality. But everything is. Everything is. Everything is. All things are true. When you get there, you've got into enlightenment. There's mantra meditation. There's maybe many, many paths to enlightenment. The New Age version usually talks about God consciousness. Getting in touch with the greatness of who you are. Now, let me just, just to give you an example. I'd never heard until just a few weeks ago something that Jeff referred to. The Course of Miracles. And yet somebody gave me a couple of sheets from the book, The Course of Miracles. Here's some lessons. You know, what amazes me is even though there's lots and lots of Christian, because it's packaged for the West, lots and lots of Christian concepts and words. If you listen, it's unbelievably like something that's written in the Bible. It's like something you could have pulled out of a Buddhist text or a Hindu text. For example, this is Lesson 41. God goes with me wherever I go. This is like a daily reading. Okay? Today's idea will eventually overcome completely the sense of loneliness and abandonment all the separated people experience. See, sin is considered, you're called separated ones. Depression is an inevitable consequence of separation. So is anxiety, worry, a deep sense of helplessness, misery, suffering, and intense fear of loss. The separated ones have invented many cures for what they believe to be the ills of the world. But the one thing they do not do is to question the very reality of the problem. Yet its effects cannot be cured because the problem is not real. The idea for today has the power to end all of this foolishness forever. Deep within you is everything that is perfect, ready to radiate through you and out into the world. It will cure all sorrow and pain and fear and loss because it will heal the mind that thought these things were real. This depression, this separation. And you suffered out of your allegiance to this illusion. You can never be deprived of your perfect holiness because its source goes with you wherever you go. You can never suffer because the source of all joy goes with you wherever you go. You can never be alone because the source of all life goes with you wherever you go. We understand that you do not believe this. How could you when the truth is hidden deep within? There will be only one long practice period today. In the morning, as soon as you get up if possible. Sit quietly for some three to five minutes with your eyes closed. At the beginning of the practice period, repeat today's idea very slowly. And then make no effort to think of anything. Try instead to get a sense of turning inward past all the idle thoughts of the world. Try to enter very deeply into your own mind, keeping it clear of any thoughts that might divert your attention. And from time to time, repeat the idea if you find it helpful. But most of all, sink down and inward, away from the world and all the foolish thoughts. You're trying to reach past all these things. To leave appearances and approach reality. It's quite possible to reach God. It's very easy. It's the most natural thing in the world. Here's one more on how to deal with forgiveness. Forgiveness recognizes what you thought your brother did to you has not occurred. It does not pardon sins. Real forgiveness does not pardon sins and make them real. Real forgiveness sees that there never was any sin. And in that view, all your sins are forgiven. What is sin except a false idea about God? Forgiveness merely sees its falsity and therefore lets it go. Okay, so the point is, up to now, all I'm trying to do is say this isn't new. It's been around a long time. And it's really, no matter what form it's in, it's in a fairly undiluted and fairly obvious way, a rewrite of Buddhism or of Hinduism. In spite of all the difference between Hinduism and Buddhism, in spite of all the differences in Christianity, Islam, and Judaism, do you see the big divide? I haven't, well, okay, lastly, because we do have one more week on this. I'm putting a lot of the stuff I just went through on a piece of paper, and I will bring back in two weeks a three-sheet or maybe even a four-sheet handout that will try to summarize all these things. This is my way to get some of you to come back. But let me just point out what I would consider the problems. Up to now, all I've been trying to say is, this is not new. This is not crazy. It's not really a revelation. It's something that's been around an awful long time. Let me just tell you why I think it's a problem. Why I think it can't deliver. It does do something about the problem of meaning. It really does. Basically, secularism, naturalism has always had a problem of meaning. Once we realize that we're just slime, that we have evolved out of the ooze, that we've been here for a number of million years, but eventually, eventually the sun will go out, and everything will go out forever, and nobody will ever even be around to remember it, and that everything you feel and everything you have is just, is really just a matter of, you are the result of the accidental collision of molecules, and all of your feelings are just the accidental collision of molecules inside. It's not a problem. There's only three things you can do when you come to understand that. First of all, you have to ask yourself, why in the world do I feel like I'm significant when here I'm really nothing more than a tree, I'm nothing more than a piece of ooze on the ground? There's no scientific basis for saying that you are any higher quality a being than a mud ball. What do you do about that? Number one, you can commit suicide and say, well, I can kill myself. Secondly, you can say, well, have a good time while I'm here. How can you have a good time? How can you love a girl when you know that the feeling you have for her is nothing more than a kind of psychic phosphorescence of your genes? Or how can you enjoy a piece of music when you realize this is just the way my nervous system is programmed to feel that somehow this is, I like this more than I like the sound of noise. But there is no difference between noise and music ultimately. If nature is all there is, that matter is all there is. You see, the problem that shows up, what the problem of meaning. Somebody says, well, I'm really here to make the world a better place to live. For how long? Eventually, the sun will go out. Eventually, everything will go away. Nobody will be around to even remember it. And Albert Camus, good existentialist, who hated actually the secular world view in a sense, he gives this illustration which is marvelous. He says, imagine that you were somebody who came up to you and put a gun to your head and said, I'm going to kill you in one minute. And you knew he was going to do it, and there was no doubt in your mind that he was going to do it. How would you feel? Well, you'd feel terrible. But then, what if the man said, well, what do you usually do at 10 after 9 at night? And you say, well, usually I watch a particular show. I watch a particular show on TV. And he says, well, does it make you feel good? Do you enjoy it? Yes, I do. I look forward to it. Great. Well, I'll tell you what, I'll kill you at 10. You can watch, I would hate to, you know, I'd hate to destroy this joy that you get when you watch this movie. I'll kill you at 10. And you say, well, you might as well kill me now if you're going to kill me at 10, because frankly I won't really probably enjoy the show that much.

And what, you know, what Camus is trying to say is, well, I'll go one step further. You say, well, I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, I'll follow you around tomorrow. You do the things that usually bring you joy in life and meaning in life, and I'll kill you tomorrow night at 10 o'clock. And you'd have to say, but you don't understand, the fact that I'm about to be killed, one minute, one hour, 24 hours, robs me of all meaning. All the things that used to bring me joy and meaning, they're gone. They're no good anymore. And what Albert Camus is trying to say is, the only reason that human beings, who believe that when they die they go to nothing, and that civilization eventually is going to die itself and go to nothing, the only way that anybody who believes that can have any sense of meaning is if they actually destroy, or in their heart, the reality of what they believe about the universe. That's the reason why Bertrand Russell says something, it can't be done. The only way a person can live an authentic existence is to build your life on a foundation of unyielding despair. To get up every day and say, everything I do today is meaningless. It's just the, just the, the accidental collision of molecules that I enjoy this piece of music. I'm going to die very soon. It could be today. When I'm dead, I'll just go back to being slime, which is where I came from originally. Nobody can live like that. Now, secularism has always had a problem with meaning. Both, both the two other world views, monotheism and the New Age movement, they deal with that. They say that's not true. The monotheism, New Age movement has a lot of different ways. A lot of the New Age people talk about, talk about reincarnation. A lot of the New Age people talk about certainly going, going back and becoming part of the all soul. Life is divine. There's joy out there. You're God. So both of these world views are really, are really growing. If you look around, you'll see that there's a polarization happening. That our country is getting more religious.

Any kind of religion. All kinds of crazy religions. All kinds of strange religions. All kinds of loony religions. But people are growing. People are leaving secularism. Because if they stop and think about it, they can't. A couple of years ago, I had to speak to 70, I was a pastor, and I had to speak to 70 people from the People's Republic of China. They were PRC scholars. And they were, it was Chinese New Year. And there was a, at 10th Presbyterian Church, they were putting on a banquet for them. And I was asked to go speak to them. And I said, boy, you know, they're not Christians, and I'm going to talk to them about Christianity. But I said, boy, where are they coming from? So I called my friend up, Sam Ling, who's a Chinese minister up here in Flushing. And I said, Sam, you know, where will these people be coming from? Will they be Confucianists? And he says, no, no, you don't understand. In the People's Republic of China, they're back where Europe was 100 years ago. 100 years ago, everybody in Europe thought, science and technology are going to solve all our problems. They're going to deal with the real problems in life. And I said, everything is going to be fine if we can just get educated and get rid of religion and really become scientific. He says, now the Chinese over there, they still believe that a lot, and at least they're being taught that. They don't realize that in the technologically advanced societies, people are finding that science can't really answer the questions that really mean things, really mean anything. They can't answer the question, what's the meaning in life? What's right and wrong? What am I living for? So I said, Sam, thank you. That's what I'll say something about. Before I got up to speak, after I talked to Sam, I talked to Kathy, and I said, well, what should I say? She says, well, get up and say, look, here's the most technologically advanced society in the world, and it's the most religious one practically. Why is that? Because science can't really answer the real questions. The secularistic worldview can't answer the big questions. So I said, great, I know what to say. Before I got up there, there was a young man who was a People's Republican, and he was a member of the People's Republic of China. He was a Chinese scholar who had recently come to Christ through the West Philadelphia Chinese Bible study. And he got up to give a testimony. This was before I spoke. You know what he did? He got up and he says, you know, I came here two years ago, and I thought, finally, the most technologically advanced society in the world. But then I began to look around and I said, isn't this odd? Religion hasn't died out here. As a matter of fact, it's the most religious society I've ever seen. Then I began to ask people questions. Why are you so religious here when you have all this scientific technology? And people began to say, science can't tell you what your meaning in life is. So he gave me the whole sermon before I ever got up there.

There is no answer for the problem of meaning. But then when you go to the New Age movement, you've got some other problems. And I'll just mention three of them now. I'm done. Number one, because the New Age movement gives you no real answer to the problem of morality. If you are God, there's nobody to obey.

How do you really know what's right and wrong? How do you really know? Are you going to know it intuitively? Hitler thought he knew it.

I'll never forget when I was in 1970, during the strike, the Cambodia strike, and I was a brand new Christian. A man came to campus who was a Christian rock group came to campus. I hardly even knew there was such a thing at the time. And they set up on the quadrangle at Buckingham Palace at Buckingham University. They just set up their, they set up to play and they played music. And then they would get up to the microphone, the musicians, and start talking about Christianity. And all of us would gather around, and most of us were steeped in Herman Hesse, and steeped in existentialism, and Zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance. And at one point, I remember the speaker, his name was John, John Guest, if any of you have ever heard of him. He said, he says, I would say to you that you shouldn't be sleeping with your girlfriends. That's a sin. And you know, this was back when there was a lot of spontaneity on a college campus. And everybody yelled back and they said, I'd say this, that may be right for you, but this isn't right for me. This is right for me. And it went back and forth. I'd say, do, you do your thing, I'll do my thing. And then he turned around and said, okay, why are you, why are you striking against the war? Somebody said, because it's immoral. He says, you do your thing, I'll do my thing. I like killing people. I like napalming babies. Maybe you don't like it, but how could you tell me it's wrong? You know, I sat there, I was a new Christian and I said, oh, this guy's going to get eaten alive. There's a lot of smart people around here. There's a lot of scholars around here. Nobody had anything to say. He was right. Nobody had anything to say. And you see, if it's really true that you're God, if it's really true that all words are true, if it's really true that there really is no outside standard, everything is one, then evil and good are equally real. And you're God and there's no one to obey. And there's no essence for you to get in touch with. And frankly, it means that we're all at each other's throats. You might say, well, the more God conscious we get, the more somehow everybody will be working together. It doesn't work. Eastern religion has been doing this for four or five thousand years. And I don't think that they're any better off than we are when it comes to racism, when it comes to war, when it comes to violence, when it comes to violence, when it comes to man's inhumanity to man. One thing, there's no solution to the problem of how do you know what's right and wrong? It gives you no solution to that at all. Secondly, it gives you no solution to the problem of what I'll call quietism. Now by quietism I mean, what's the use of fighting against suffering? What's the use of fighting against evil? The New Age movement is not very social-activistic, generally. It's big on the environment. Oh no, doubt about that. It's socially-activistic when it comes to the environment. But ultimately, what is the reason for you to get involved in fighting against suffering? What's the reason? How do you know what's right and wrong anyway? One of the silliest things I thought about a pretty good article in Time Magazine last week, where it talks about the problem of evil. I like Lance Morrow. I really like his writing, normally. But there's one strange place where he said, maybe, maybe it would be easier to talk about the problem of evil, if we weren't, if we left God out of it. Well see, if you leave God out of it, you don't have a problem of evil. Because how do you know what evil is? How do you know what good is? What makes a difference? You know, here's a cyclone that comes up and kills 500,000 people. Why is that any different than a forest fire? Who's to say, and of course in New Age movement, there really is, who's to say that a human being is more valuable than a tree? So, what is suffering? And what is evil? And how in the world could you fight against it? You can't. Thirdly, there's really no, let me tell you something, in New Age religion, in spite of all of how it's packaged for Western thought, there is no real solution to the problem of love. What is love? Love is personal. And if ultimate reality is ultimately impersonal, then going to heaven is going to be a bummer. Because you see, you know, at the end, Elizabeth Kubler-Ross talks about how wonderful it is going, you know, like, have you heard this from Eastern thought? That dying is just like a single drop of water going back into the ocean. So you just lose your individuality. You're not going to think of yourself as a person when you go into the all soul. Is that attractive to you? See, what that means is, love is an illusion. Love is derivative. And ultimate reality is impersonal. But Christianity says, and all monotheism says, no, love is ultimate. Because God is a person. Ultimate reality is personal. You know, let me just close with this. I didn't leave that much time. We can take a question or two. There was a Japanese man named Isa. Lived from 1762 to 1826. Pretty well known poet. All of his family died in a terrible tragedy. And of course, being a Buddhist, he knew that means that they're just dewdrops, and they're going back into the ocean. And they're going back into the great all soul, which means he'll never see them again. Which means that there's no possibility of love after this. Because he knows that love is personal. And ultimate reality is not personal. And he wrote this tremendously poignant and heart-wrenching poem after his family was killed. The dewdrop world, the dewdrop world, it is. And still, although it is, or more simply, the world is dew, the world is dew, and yet, and yet. Listen. The dewdrop world, a dewdrop world it is, and still, although it is, or more simply, the world is dew, the world is dew, and yet, and yet. I hope I'm more than a dewdrop, he says. In the philosophy I was raised in, I'm really no more real than a dewdrop. I'm no more significant than a dewdrop. We're all one. I'll never see them again. I don't have a God I can talk to. I don't have a God who loves me. Because ultimate reality, you see, is not personal and not transcendent. I definitely think the New Age movement is definitely a kind of improvement, you might say, on secularism, if you want to say that. But there's a little phrase that I hear a lot in the law courts of this country. Do you promise to tell the truth? The whole truth and nothing but the truth? Because a half-truth ultimately is a lie. Now listen. What I'd really like is to take some questions, but I didn't leave that much time and didn't prepare carefully enough. So what I'd like to do is we could take some questions and if they're brief, you know, I might be able to answer, I've only got about seven or eight minutes. I could answer them quickly, Jeff could answer them quickly, but it's more likely that when you ask the question, I have to write it down and I'll get back to you next time. Let's take a few, and I'm not going to answer any of them at great length because I want to take about five questions right now. Okay, John? There was a survey in the New York Times about... John is saying perhaps the New Age movement is overblown, over glamorized, that there's not that many devotees in the country.

Well, there are some movements that always have a much bigger effect, though, on the culture than they actually have adherence. Maybe you're right, maybe we're glamorizing it, but the fact is that, you know, if it really was a brand new idea, if it was a brand new idea, and I only had 200,000 people who belonged to it, then you could almost write it off. But because it's a Western incarnation of something that's very old and very powerful, and it would really change our society quite a bit, then I think we have to at least take it seriously. But I think that's a very good point. But aren't they all known for the process of ensuring that they've done something like that? Oh, so nice and easy for me to say. I think they're all in it for profit. But there's so many people saying about my evangelical religion that they're all in it for profit that I guess I don't want to fight fire with fire. That's all. The question goes back to is it true or not? And also, to what degree do we even find ourselves as Christians or in the Christian culture affected and infected by the teaching to a degree that it lessens our strength and our understanding of who we are? That's a great answer. Does the idea that everybody is God contradict, that God is in all of us, does that contradict the Christian idea that everyone has an immortal soul? Yeah, because the immortality of the soul is derivative. You see, ultimate reality and derivative reality are two very important concepts because if I'm ultimate reality, then existentialism is true. I create my reality. If I'm derivative, then I have to actually find out why, what God made the soul to be and what it made to do. And I have to submit and obey God. And I would really think almost all Orthodox Christians would say that to say that we have a divine soul that will live forever is not the same thing as to say God is in all of us. And that's where you see the subtlety again where you say, what exactly do you mean when you say God is in you? A Christian might say that, and a New Age person might say that, but the ramifications that arise from that when you say that are two very different things. Okay. Over here. Repeat it. I was a physical therapist before I went to the ministry. Can I repeat that? Yes, please do. Then you answer, please. Do you all hear it out there? Yeah, okay. She's just saying aren't there certain techniques, for example visualization, to deal with pain, for example?

Or aren't there certain kinds of techniques that are used a lot by New Age practitioners that might be valid in a different framework? Sorry. Okay. As a physical therapist, of course, it was a discipline that was just chock full of people with sort of New Age ideas and acupuncture and sort of energy fields and that kind of thing. There you're dealing with the issue of impartial, in part with psychology and just how the spiritual world is, the power of the human mind over pain. I think there's, yeah, I think you can use certain things in a legitimate way and you can explain them. When I talked about scientism, I wasn't trying to put down science. Science is a great thing and there are ways to explain things scientifically in which you can say those are of real benefit. The thing is to make sure that you don't get sucked into the Eastern worldview while you are using some kind of power. Some of the very similar things but in very different ways. I'd even go so far, I've spoken to Christians who are chiropractors now. A lot of people who are chiropractors will say, the reason when I poke you here and here and here is there is an energy field in everybody. What's interesting is if you're a Christian, I think what you might say is all I know is that people get better when I poke them here, here, and here, and here. I think therefore there must be a physiologically based reason for that. God created us, see, on the basis of the Christian doctrine of creation. I'm assuming that what I do helps people because of some reason that science hasn't figured out yet. Christianity is not that antithetical to science as the New Age movement can be. A Christian chiropractor could say, I don't do this because I believe in a monistic understanding of the New Age. I do it because I believe in a Christian understanding of reality. I just don't know why it works. Yet they might do the same techniques that they learned from people who did it out of a New Age framework. It's dangerous. You have to be careful. We would not invalidate it just on the basis of that. In the red, my answer, what it's worth. I think the scriptures don't really tell us what exactly goes on in situations like that. There's a lot of areas where the scripture is silent. And that is one of those areas where God asks us to trust Him and not to go looking after things that He does not legitimize Himself and His Word. I don't know the explanations, is what I would say. And Richard Mell, who's written a book called Distorted Truth, deals with that whole issue from this sort of perspective of saying, there is a lot more out there than we know about, but it appears to be from the scriptures a dangerous thing. And while we can't explain it completely, the scriptures don't give us the complete answers to those things, that's an area where you seek to trust God and do things according to...

You mean... Your question. There's four options, I think. One is, if you're talking to somebody, you're hearing a voice, or you... It's a physiological possibility, that means that... There's a physiological possibility, a psychological possibility, a spiritual and a demonic. And who knows? By physiological, it means there might be... It really might be a matter of your brain chemistry misfiring. Honest. There's plenty of people that have heard voices after depriving themselves of sleep, or eating certain things. Secondly, there's a psychological possibility. People have heard voices, and it's not an actual reality, but it's a psychological problem that they have. The spiritual possibilities, they actually have gotten in touch with somebody from heaven. The demonic possibilities, they actually got in touch with somebody from the other place, or a devil. And all those things are possible. You know, in a place in Shakespeare, which says, there's more things in heaven and earth that are dreamed of in my philosophy, Christianity is such a rich worldview that you can't reduce to any one particular answer why some people actually communicate with other beings. There's all kinds of possibilities. But the Bible is really, really clear about not trying to do that. Because all of them are bad. All I know is, the one time that somebody did a saying, in the book of Leviticus, where Saul went to the witch of Endor to get Samuel back from the dead, see, from what we can tell, Samuel actually came back from the dead. I mean, you know, it wasn't a physiological, it wasn't a psychological, it wasn't demonic, he actually got Samuel. And Samuel was ticked.

So, all, every possibility is a dangerous one. I can only, listen, over there, one more question, yeah, in the white, please. Derivation. See, there's, remember, there's so many different, there's so many different versions of it. I said that monism, this is what's ironic, the idea that God is everything and everything is God tends to lead to polytheism, tends to lead to believing in many gods. And the point is, the point of reincarnation is almost always that you, you've got to become perfect, you've got to be perfected, get higher and higher God consciousness, more awareness of your greatness and so forth, more oneness with Brahman, before you're ready to go back. It's sort of like, it's almost like the little dewdrop has got to be continually going through a water purifier again and again and again before it can get back into the ocean. And that idea is therefore that if you do well in a life, you may come back, you know, at a higher, in some sort of higher form, where you are one step closer to finally going back into the art. That's the idea behind reincarnation. Plenty of people don't believe that who are into the New Age though. Do you see that? So it's an idea of being purified to get yourself ready to go back in. Let me just close this up by sort of summing up what we were trying to say. If you're involved in the New Age movement, one of the things we're trying to say is, from one point of view, we recognize what hopes and fears the New Age movement is seeking to address that attract you, and yet, we're not trying to say, And yet, we want you to see the ramifications that those beliefs lead to. What are the consequences that they lead to? Again, we aren't touching on everything or answering every question that has to do with the New Age movement in the vast expanse of ways that it shows itself forth in our culture. But what we're trying to do is give you an underlying view of what's at heart there, and what are the ramifications if you buy in to New Age movement philosophy. The other thing is to recognize that if you have friends in the movement who are influenced by these kinds of things, that to equip you in the way that we're trying to equip you enables you to begin to probe with them and ask them the questions to find out if they know what are the consequences that their beliefs are leading them to, as well as helping you to distinguish between the two. And so, we want you to distinguish truth and falsehood from one another to prevent your own faith and life from being affected by something that's not true. That's in essence what we're trying to do and what we'll continue to do the next time that we get together. And the next time we'd like to do that equipping, a little bit more detail, stuff we can put in your hands and reproduce to give you the equipping of how do you actually, how can you actually go and engage somebody from this point of view in such a way that really can perhaps show them the pressure points and the weaknesses and the structural defects in the world view. We're going to talk more about that next time. And one, listen, keep this in mind. The real, this is dangerous. Having been as fair and as ironic and as nice as we possibly can, we've also got to be true to our convictions that it's a dangerous world view, at least in this. There's no real solution for guilt by denying guilt. Didn't you hear all the way through the way the New Age Movement deals with your sense of inadequacy and your sense of sin is to say it's an illusion. And any psychologist, for any psychologist, no matter what direction they've come from will tell you that it's not, the best way to deal with your guilt is not to repress it, not to deny it. Not to say it doesn't exist. But to get it out and deal with it. And I'm afraid that's really what can happen. So there's plenty of things about this that I would consider dangerous. Come back next time and we'll talk more about how to dismantle, I think, a little bit in a more aggressive way, how to dismantle this other world view. So let me, if you don't mind, I'm going to close in prayer because I feel I need it. And then you're dismissed and I hope you can get back in two weeks. Our Father, we simply ask that you would be guiding us into truth. You have said your Son is truth. You have said that your Word is truth. You have said that we can be made pure in the truth. We pray, Lord, that instead of being led away from truth or even into a view that denies truth, and yet in a sense must actually insist it is truth even as it denies it, we pray that you will show us that your Son is the way and the truth and the life. Help us to revel in that. Help us to rejoice and exult in that. And help us to clothe ourselves with his truth so that we can deal with any kind of falsehood that comes from outside of us that would come into the center of our lives to distort it. So now, Lord, be with us till we're able to meet again and talk about these things, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.