At Redeemer, we talk about our ministry to the world, our gospel, how the gospel has an impact on the world, is through evangelism, through justice and mercy, and through culture making, faith work, integration. And so tonight, we're going to talk about evangelism. And you have a handout that I hope you will read. I'm certainly, instead of me speaking for half an hour, I'm going to speak rather high level to give you an orientation to the basic ideas of evangelism. And then we're going to have our lead pastors up here. We're going to have a panel discussion led by Catherine Leary to talk about evangelism. But here's what I'd like to...here's a couple of top-level points I'd like to share with you.

Recently, I read a chapter in a book by Alan Crider, was the name of the author of the chapter.

In which he pointed out that the early church, we guess, we think, historians and sociologists of history who try to do sociology of historic movements, believe that for...from what we can tell, the Christian church grew 40% a decade for about three centuries. Think about that. They grew about 40% per decade for 30... 40 decades. And one of the things that's most important to keep in mind, as he points out, some of this is in your handout, but you don't have to turn to any one place, is that from about the middle of the first century, in other words, within about 30 or 40 years after Christ, from the persecution of Nero on, it was dangerous to be a Christian, and Christian services were generally closed. You could not have seekers and inquirers come to Christian services. Only the baptized were allowed in. In fact, you know, deacons were originally...well, they did other things, but deacons were bouncers. That they would...literally, they would stay because if people came on in and then reported back to the authorities, everybody could die or have their houses taken away and that sort of thing. And so for...up until the time of Constantine, and a little bit after Constantine, there was a lot of After that, in fact, even later than that, we know that you couldn't come to church services unless you were already baptized.

So the question is, how did the church grow? And he points out in his article, he says, the early Christians did not engage in public preaching. It was too dangerous. There was no evangelists or missionaries whose names we know. The early Christians had no mission boards. They did not write treatises on evangelism. The worship service of the early... The early Christians, after Nero's persecution, were closed, and yet the church grew. Officially, it was considered a superstition. Prominent people scorned it. Neighbors discriminated against Christians in countless petty ways. It was hard to be a Christian, and still the church grew. How did that happen? Where did people hear the gospel? You know what the answer has to be. Individual Christians, individual church members shared with their... Friends, their relatives, and their colleagues, they shared Christianity individually, one-on-one. It wasn't through professionals. It was through lay people. It was through ordinary Christians. The Christians couldn't bring their non-Christian friends to hear the great preacher. It couldn't be done. Evangelism was done, and it was done extremely well. 40% a decade growth over 30 decades is incredible. And it was done not through the professionals, not through the preachers, and not through that. It was done through the lay people. It was done through the ordinary members of the church. Now, that's the first point. Second point. Evangelism, therefore, is more relational than it is informational.

See, one of the problems that... One of the problems with coming to a church with good teaching and preaching is... You know, you have to be very eloquent in how you present it. But let's go back to the early church. That couldn't have been the case. The average people... Average person, certainly, they were, you know, well-taught, I'm sure. But they weren't professionals, and they... No, no. Evangelism is relational. And at a certain point, you'll wish you were more articulate. And you'll wish. You'll wish you knew more. And maybe you'll need to get them a book, or you'll need to take them to some place where they can get better information than you can give them. But basically, evangelism is relational much more than it is informational. And so, for example, let me give you nine things that are part of what I'm calling lay gospel ministry, where individual Christians are sharing the faith. Let me give you nine activities. And I want to show you. I want to show you that only the last three of these nine really require you to know anything much. There's three levels of testimony. The first level of testimony is, by the way, I go to church. I was in church on Sunday. Just letting people know you go to church. Just letting people know you're a Christian. You're a believer. That's level one. Do you do that? Do you just drop that information? Testimony level two is when you ask, do you believe? Do you actually talk about, with non-Christian friends, colleagues, relatives, that you talk about how your Christian faith helped you with an issue, how it helped you forgive, how it helped you relax or get some peace? And you just very casually mention that my Christianity helped me a lot there, or my Christian faith helped me a lot, or something in the Bible helped me. Okay, that's level two. Level three is when you're willing to actually talk about, which takes more guts, but it doesn't take a lot of knowledge. Just to talk about how Christ has changed. It doesn't take a lot of knowledge to change your life.

Now, here's a couple others. Just asking people questions about what they believe themselves, and not giving any answers, not coming in, not refuting, not debating, nothing. Just saying, well, what do you live for? What gives your life meaning? And just giving them just questions that get the conversation on a more serious level about what you're living for. Then there's giving people things. Things to read. Giving people things to think about. Things to listen to. Then there is, and it does take some courage, asking somebody to come with you to an event of some sort. A lecture, a concert, a talk, even a church service. But now there's six things, and none of them require that you give a gospel presentation, or that you answer questions about objections to Christianity, or that you study the Bible with somebody. And all of those things, if you're starting to do those, with the people around you, you will see the Lord working. It's relational before it's informational. It's relational more than it's informational. One more thing.

What kind of relationships bear this sort of fruit? And I'll just suggest two things. There's a place in the handout I talk about what I call relational integrity. And unless both kinds of relational integrity are happening, you are not... You are not... You are not part of this ministry, this ministry of individual Christians sharing their faith in their relationship networks. You're not going to be able to be part of this unless these two aspects of relational integrity are true of you. On the one hand, A,

if you move to the city, you need to really have a lot of non-superficial relationships with non-Christians.

You have to have non-superficial relationships. That is... You have to have friendships and relationships in which you get beyond just the niceties. Twenty years ago, it was extremely hard to be a Christian in Manhattan and not have a lot of good relationships with non-Christians. There weren't enough Christians around for you to hang out with. Today, there are so many more Christians that it is actually very possible to have all of your non-superficial relationships amongst Christians and all the relationships with non-Christians, whether you're neighbors, your colleagues at work, that sort of thing. Your relationships are very superficial, in which case you're not actually integrated into the city. You have no relational integrity in the city. You're not really here.

The other part of relational integrity is you've got to be willing to at least talk about how your faith integrates with your life because if you're down in non-superficial relationships with people, your faith almost has to come up. It just has to come up. You know, why you do this and why you... You know, why you do that and why you don't do this and why you don't do that and how you were helped through a problem. You just have to mention it. It should be very natural. But it's possible to have a lot of strong non-superficial relationships with non-Christians and be completely quiet about your Christianity. It's possible to also be very open to talk to people about Christianity and yet you have all your relationships are superficial and therefore nothing happens. You have to have a lot of non-superficial relationships with non-Christians and you also have to have a willingness to more naturally talk about your faith. Talk about how your faith affects the way in which you think and live. And then it happens naturally. One more thing, and I'll just say quickly. Alan Crider, in his article, said the reason why Christians were so effective in evangelism was not so much that they shared their testimony or they talked about it. It was because they were both like and unlike.

They were both like and unlike. Here's the last... One of the reasons why my sons... I don't know if any of them are Christians. I don't know if you're here tonight. But one of the reasons my sons growing up

found Christianity credible was because they looked out at the young singles that filled Redeemer and they said, this is who I want to be. These are the people who I want to be like. And they saw them as passionate Christians. They could identify with them. They said, well, look, this is the kind of person I could be. This is the kind of person... When they were adolescents, they were saying, I could be like this, I could be like this. And look, they're Christians. So Christianity had credibility. So on the one hand, when New Yorkers, come to Redeemer or look at Christians in Redeemer, if we are utterly different than the other people of Manhattan, utterly different in our sensibility and our cultural ways and our interests and everything, then they're going to say, Christianity is not for me. But also, we have to be unlike other Manhattanites. We have to have such high integrity. This is in the handout. We have to have such high integrity. We have to have a compassion for the poor that goes beyond just talking about it. We have to have poise in suffering. We have to be clearly, deeply involved with the lives of other Christians. Non-Christians in Manhattan do not see strong community. They do not see people handling suffering well. They do not see people... They see people saying we need to help the poor but not actually doing it. They see a lot of people who are, in order to get ahead in New York, do all sorts of shady practices without much integrity. We have to be like and unlike New Yorkers. We have to have a relationship with people with emotional integrity. We have to have the courage to open our mouths. You do not need lots and lots of information. You need courage and an ability to have really great relationships. As you saw in there, Redeemer in its earlier days had a very strong evangelistic dynamic and the four Redeemers are about many things but one of them is to make sure that's put on the front burner again. That we capture that evangelistic dynamic again. Thank you. To talk more about that, I'm asking the panel to come on up here. And that's the four lead pastors and Catherine, right? And we're going to talk some more about it. So I'll speak while they're coming up. I'm Catherine Leary Alsdorf, actually.

You're right. And what we're going to do tonight is we're going to hear a little bit more from the lead pastors. Those of you who are there, last Wednesday night, a great night of vision renewal and commissioning of these pastors got a little bit of their story in the video. And actually, if you didn't see it, I encourage you to go online and watch that video. Get a little bit of their testimony. But what I'm excited to do with you tonight is to talk about their heart for evangelism. Personally, I'm thrilled that was a priority in the selection process and that we get a chance to hear how that's going to shape Redeemer as a whole and Redeemer in its individual congregations going forward. And just from my perspective, as someone who became a Christian at Redeemer, this is near and dear to my heart. So it's a pleasure to be able to moderate and draw out interesting things from these guys tonight. So we're going to start with question number one. Basically, what has shaped your heart for evangelism? And so, I'm going to start with that. And so, I think, David, you're up first. Thank you, Catherine. Sorry. It's all right.

When I was thinking about this question, for me, I wouldn't have thought about myself as an evangelist. But because of the fact that I was fortunate enough to be around Redeemer as a church community from the beginning, I think,

is liberating for both Christians and people who aren't Christians. And so for me, it was at the beginning of an exploration in which I could dig deeper into the things that I had been exposed to. And then because there were hardly any people on staff, I was teaching the credibility of Christianity every Sunday, twice a Sunday, if you remember, for years, and engaged me in conversations with non-Christians who were coming to Redeemer. And over time, I just began to love these individuals who were part of the church and part of the city to the point where, at least personally, I feel like if I've given a talk or a teaching or a sermon, if someone comes up afterwards and said, oh, you know, I wish my non-Christian roommate or so-and-so was here because I would love for them to hear that, then I know that I've done something, I feel like, that is successful. I just, the city is full of people who genuinely are searching. And to be in a community that genuinely loves them and wants to give them the space to search will increase everybody's heart for evangelism, frankly. So that was, at least for me, the beginning of it. Thanks, David. And we're going to mix up the order here, so sorry about that. I'm going to not let everyone, the same person, go first every time. That's the only reason. So, John, why don't you go? Sure. So, one of the things that I think formed my heart for evangelism was my conversion experience. I became a Christian when I was in college, and I became Christian at a college that was very, very hostile to faith. It was very difficult, actually, to be a person of religious conviction, actually, where I went to school. And so I think that issues of sort of like doubt and skepticism were actually very important things to me very early on. One of the things, actually, I did was, while I was in seminary, I actually worked at... I would basically go to school all week long, and then on the weekends, I would spend the weekends down at my old university, actually, and I worked as a part-time campus minister there. So I had a lot of opportunity, actually, to talk to people about faith, and particularly to talk to very, very hostile, very skeptical, very secular people about the gospel. The other thing I think that really helped form my heart for evangelism, I think, was my early experience here at Redeemer. It actually continues to be my experience here at Redeemer, is that one of the things I've always been impressed about at Redeemer is that, there has been such a strong emphasis on presenting the gospel in a way that is intellectually credible, but also in a way that uses sort of plain, intelligible language. And I think that's one of the things that has sort of shaped and conditioned my... In some respects, actually, it's a real challenge to be able to present the gospel in a way that, in sort of like, you know, language that actually is not necessarily sort of like inherent to the Christian church. And so, I mean, I think that's one of the things that has also sort of helped me. I think the other thing, actually, to build on something that David had said, is that, I mean, when I came to Redeemer, one of the realizations I had was that the problems that Christians and non-Christians have are not necessarily categorically different. They're actually more... It's more of a continuum, actually, in terms of the... Basically, like, the primary problem that both believers and non-believers have is lack of faith. It's doubt. And I think to be in a place where you could talk about those things openly and to think that... I mean, there is, of course, like, a transition point. There is a transition point at some point. But I think to sort of think about it that way was a radical sort of shift in my thinking about what evangelism was. That, I mean, in some respects, we talk a lot about, you know, preaching the gospel to ourselves. And I actually sort of found that one of the most effective ways of preaching the gospel to myself is actually to preach it to other people. Because at the end of the day, it actually is very much like the same... It's a very similar kind of concern that believers and non-believers have, namely, lack of faith. And whether you're more believing than disbelieving, or you're preaching it more disbelieving than believing, it really is along a continuum. And I think that... I mean, my experience here at Redeemer has really shaped, actually, my sort of love and enjoyment for evangelism. Scott?

Poor Leo must be feeling really left out already. He's a new guy. He gets the benefit of listening to all your answers and is giving the best. Oh, he's got his own thunder he'll be able to share with us. Yeah, I'm going to have to... I'm going to have to say the same thing that John started out with. I think that... Well, I know that the primary motivator for me and what gets me excited and energized about evangelism is the way that the Lord saved me. And that was, you know, a good while ago. But I think the existential part of that has stuck... That experience has stuck with me since that time. And really just try to be as brief as possible. But what led to my conversion was two forms of emptiness. There was the emptiness of success and then there was the emptiness of failure. You know, Tim gave this illustration in his sermon yesterday about a woman who, you know, came to him and shared her testimony and talked about how for a while she sought her identity and, I don't know what it was, you know, career. And that didn't work. And so then she moved on to men and then she moved on to something else. And nothing seemed to work for her. Even though she may have enjoyed relative success in those things. And for me, you know, I plugged my umbilical cord into all sorts of things. I was a pretty empty kid. And so athletics for a time and then academics. Things like, you know, reputation, getting on student council, romance. And in all of these areas at different times I enjoyed relative success, I suppose. But none of those things that I was... seeking to fill me filled me. Ecclesiastes, I think, really rang true, that everything is meaningless in a chasing after the wind if Christ isn't that which undergirds every aspect of the human experience. So there was the emptiness of relative success, but then also the emptiness of failure. And I don't have enough time to go into the story. Probably, quite honestly, I'm a little bit afraid of the exposure, but suffice it to say, in my mid-twenties, I went through a season of pretty severe depression. Lasted probably for about a year to a year and a half. And so the Lord brought me out of both of those things slowly. And I guess, you know, some 15, 20 years later, He's still bringing me out of those things. But those are the things, you know, the emptiness of success and the emptiness of failure that have given me this real energy. To, as Steve Brown likes to say, pastor in Florida, being one beggar telling other beggars where the bread is. And that experience was, I think, solidified in the planting and pastoring of a couple of churches before coming to Redeemer. And at any given time, our congregation was about 40 percent non-Christian and seekers, and people were bringing them. And the best evangelists were actually the people who didn't know Christ yet. And so there was this great dynamic that I hear explained about Redeemer all the time, where almost a majority, a super minority of people were non-Christians. And that just creates a great energy. And it really gets you excited about getting up in the morning to hopefully have a chance to meet another beggar and tell them where the bread is. So that's it. Thanks, Scott. Leo, we're eager to hear from you. Thank you, Catherine. Hello. I just have to say, this is so cool for me. I'm sitting in New York City on a panel with these guys. We all have budding bromances with one another. This is the greatest group of guys. And come on, come on. Way too much information. And it's a Redeemer church. And Tim Keller is sitting right there. This is just very strange and wonderful. I think that I like being, I like thinking about, talking about breeding a culture in a church about evangelism for a couple of reasons. One of which is that I am an unbeliever a lot of the time. These guys have said the same thing, but the hardest thing about being a believer is being a believer, right? And so I don't see myself as categorically different from the average person. I love actually being around unbelievers. I love being around people who are not believers. And I grew up, you know, people think, okay, Leo's from Texas, so he was in the Bible Belt, and he probably didn't know any unbelievers. But I actually grew up in El Paso, which is, anybody been to El Paso? 800 miles from Houston, for instance. And it's much more southwest New Mexico than Texas. I did not know one evangelical Christian growing up, for instance. It was in this church that I was in. And I was in a church that my family went to, where in preaching my first sermon, I think God opened my eyes. And so evangelism has always been part of my ministry and ministry part of evangelism, because I became a Christian in that context. But I think that the lifeblood of the church is evangelism. And relationship upon relationship, where Christ comes to bear, and there's nothing that excites me more than that. Thank you. So you can hold that for a second, Leo. We'll let you go next year. So the second question is, can you just share with us a little bit about a dialogue or a conversation or a relationship you've had where you have evangelized in some way? Yeah. Well, okay. So right after I became a Christian, literally the next week, I go off to college at the University of Texas, which is a hostile place for unbelievers. And yet it was in that context where evangelism first was introduced to me through the Ministry of Campus Crusade for Christ, other like Cliff Kinectly. Anybody know about the Ministry of Cliff Kinectly? I thought so, on college campuses. And so it's in the context there really of my fraternity at the University of Texas of leading evangelistic Bible studies. And then my first ministry position professionally was campus ministry at SMU. We started that ministry, and it was just a matter of, you know, working relationships and Christ coming to bear on those relationships and just getting to see the beauty of Christ. And so I started that ministry, and I

started engaging with people. Before I left a few years later, my wife and I actually look at them, there are parts of their New Yorkness that we could only aspire to at some point have. I mean, they're just really fabulous people. And I don't know why is that funny, but... It's not an idol. Oh, yeah. Okay. But, you know, I mean, one of the things I think that's been great about this sort of like ongoing conversation I've been having with them is that, you know, it's really reminding me that a lot of evangelism actually has to happen through long-term relationships. It has to happen not simply through some kind of doctrinal, you know, some kind of like indoctrination or something like that. It really happens through relationships. It happens through a certain kind of humility where you really want to get into the lives of other people and understand who they are and where they're coming from and what is sort of why they are the way they are. And I think that's been one of the most sort of rewarding sort of ongoing conversations I've been having. I mean, it's not... I haven't talked to them about evangelism per se, but they have been sort of... They've been a couple actually I've been praying for and actually been just sort of spending time with and talking to them about, you know, about what I do. It's actually really interesting to actually tell them what I do for a living. I mean, it's just really fun sort of like exercise. It's sort of like, what do you do like on non-Sundays? You know, I'm like, well, I spend time with people and so on. And the other thing that's sort of interesting is as it turns out, they parked their car in the... In the... In the parking lot or what used to be the parking lot, which is now becoming our building. And they actually live right down the street from the building. And so they're always like, yep, we're watching, you know, your church is going up. You know, they put the girders up. It's looking great. I'm like, thanks. Thanks for telling me, you know. But yeah, I mean, I think it's a lot of my sort of like ongoing interest in evangelism that has actually been through my relationship with them. Ironically enough, even though they're not, you know, they don't share my same religious beliefs. Great. Scott?

You know, I think that for me, it's probably the case with a lot of pastors. You have maybe 10 to a dozen stories that you hang on to for the duration of your ministry because those are the stories that keep you in ministry when you're tempted to get out of it. And I guess one of the most memorable ones for me was the story of a couple that I'll call Sam and Greta. Because that's their name. And Sam and Greta were two non-Christian people who were literally brought to me by another non-Christian who was affiliated with our church and said, here, you know, deal with them. And basically, what had happened was that, well, first of all, a little background. He, you know, he was into Eastern mysticism, doing all sorts of, you know, religious reading and, you know, very clearly searching. And she was just ashamed because she had gotten pregnant and they weren't married. And the particular town that they were from, you know, public exposure was just a horrible thing. And they were very exposed. And so, basically, she said, you know, my friend, I lost a bet. I'm going to be honest with you. I lost a bet, Greta said to my friend. And because I've lost the bet, we have to do premarital counseling with you. And she said, but I need to set the record straight first. I don't want to hear the name Jesus.

Because people, Jesus' people, I don't know what it is about them, but they've all been just trying to save me for so many years. And I'm tired of it. And I just want you to know ahead of time, if you mention Jesus one time, I'm gone. I'm done. And I said, okay. You know, it's a lot to ask a pastor never to mention Jesus. But I said, okay. And, you know, we did the premarital. We did the premarital counseling thing. And the main thing I was focusing on was just not to judge her, you know, and not to give her any reason to feel like, you know, she'd been shamed again. And long and the short of it is, we finished the counseling. I actually performed their wedding before they became believers. And I had no idea what kind of impact the counseling or anything it had on them. And so, one day after the wedding, they decided to show up at one of the worship services of the church. And she was mortified. Because she showed up in flip-flops. And then she realized everybody, like half the other people that were there were wearing flip-flops as well. And so, it was okay. But she basically came to me after the service and said, you know, I just want you to know I came to church as a favor to you for the counseling that you did. And we just want to thank you by coming to your church once. And so, after that, actually one of the fellowship groups in the church who, you know, some of whom had a prior relationship with this couple just went after her. And said, you know what, we'd like to throw you a baby shower. And basically what they did was they just bought them diapers. Because that's, if you've ever had a kid, that's what's going to eat your bank account up is diapers. And so, they just loaded them up with two years worth of diapers. And they just left weeping. And long and short of it is, later on, you know, a couple months later, a few months later after they were converted, she gave her testimony. And she said, I had to fall in love. This is what I'll take with me from that. I had to fall in love with Christianity before. I could fall in love with Christ. Because the glimpse I got of Christianity up to that point was just something terribly negative. And, you know, we live in a culture right now where actually a lot of people are attracted to Jesus. And because they're attracted to Jesus, they kind of put up with the church. Because, you know, they've got this sort of jaded impression of the church. What I long to see in any ministry that I have part of is for that negative verdict to be reversed. You know, one story at a time. So, the people are starting to consider Jesus. Because they fall in love with the church. And the kind of people that we are. And the kind of neighbors that we are. So, that's my story. David. And I'm going to actually, because we're going long, I'm going to have this be the last comment. And then we'll have Tim give us some comments. It's very unusual for preachers to go long when they're asked to. Yeah. Bruce told me it would happen. Yes, Bruce. Yeah. Well, I think we're always... That means, David, you can go on as long as you want right now. Exactly. And then we'll take the offering.

I think what all these guys are saying is that there's no one conversation. It's, first of all, to engage somebody who doesn't believe what you believe is a relationship. And they have to know that you care about them beyond whether or not they're going to end up believing what you believe. Because that's just an op-ed war. You know, trying to decide whether or not you're going to believe what you believe. Who's got the best argument. And that's not what the Bible discusses. It's just, Jesus says, love your neighbor. And I think for... That came... Brought to bear on my wife, Alice, and me last year. Because we hosted one of these... We were test driving these seeker groups that are out there. And so, we had for nine months, every Thursday night, about six or seven... And we had a lot of people show up who didn't believe what we believed into our home. And what we discovered, first of all, was... First of all, I'm just going to say, if you've never done it, you need to do it. At least once, everybody who says they're a Christian, it's the most terrifying and fun experience. And your prayer life will go through the roof. Because what happened was, as soon as they left the first night, Alice and I looked at each other and said, we need to pray. Because we realized right then that we had no capacity on our own to help these people understand who Jesus was. So there were two individuals whose... I'll just close with this. Who kind of gave us an insight into kind of the heart of evangelism, which exposes you to both the joy and the despair of what it means to talk to people who don't believe what you believe. And it leads you to worship. Because there was one person in our group who came to us, and he was primed and ready. So he was so friendly. And he had other friendships before he got there. And by the end of our year together, he admitted that he believed what he believed, that he was a Christian and is doing more things than most of us do at Redeemer right now. He's engaged in all kinds of ministries. And that was an incredible joy, because my wife and I had nothing to do with it. We just got to watch him slowly agree with Jesus and fall in love with Jesus. And that was just a privilege. And it inspires words. It's a privilege to worship. But the despair was, I remember one night in particular, I'll never forget this. There's this amazing person who was part of this group who is still very good friends with ours. And she has been wrestling with Jesus for years. Went to Yale. Just brilliant person. And at one point, we were having this conversation, and she just looks at me and says, I feel like I'm missing a faculty. In other words, I want to believe this. I understand what you're saying. I just can't see it. And my heart just broke. Because it didn't matter what I said, what Alice said, what anybody said. It just, it was the Holy Spirit that has to come into this person's life and open up their eyes. And there was despair. So I think that there is a sense in which it's a reminder that it's all about God. It's just introducing them to Jesus and praying like crazy that the Spirit of Jesus will make himself real. And it is the greatest journey you could be on. It will deepen your faith like nothing else. So those are two experiences that we've had in the last nine months as a couple that have helped our marriage and made us more sure of who Jesus is. So there you go. Thank you. So Tim, I'm hoping you'll sort of provide a little wrap up here. And maybe you can share a little bit about what shaped your heart for evangelism and also what... you know, how did you get into this? And I'm listening to these guys that you've brought on your team. How do you hope to move forward? I'm going to try to get Leo to calm down.

He's so excited to be here. And I'm going to say, Leo, get some emotional self-control. That's the first step.

You're in your own heart. Yeah. So, I'm going to try to get Leo to calm down. And actually, if you... very briefly about what affected me, I remember being examined by my presbytery years ago coming into my denomination. And the guys who were in charge of that old presbytery in 1975 were very evangelistic. And they pressed me as a candidate for the ministry as to how many people I led to Christ. And I didn't know of anybody. And for a fairly long time. And I would say I was not very evangelistically motivated or fruitful. Strangely enough, and this... I don't think I've ever shared this. It's not all that important to know. I read a two-volume biography of George Whitefield, who was a great 18th century preacher during the Great Awakening. And I read 70 of his sermons, mostly sermons that have been cobbled together by people who took notes. This is a man who preached in the 1700s. And it was extremely convicting to me. I didn't know what to do. I had never seen anybody preach evangelistically that forcefully. And it had an impact on me. It was when I was at Westminster as a professor. And I started to get a hankering to try this. I said, I'd love to go someplace where I could actually preach to non-Christians. And so that was like a fire in my bones. And it was one of the reasons why I wanted to come here. Kind of a... Not something I ever talked to too much about it because it's a... I'm not saying everybody who would pick up the book and read it would become an evangelist. I think the thing I'm thinking also about as I'm listening to these guys is evangelism, this is very dangerous to say this because I don't want to pick one ministry over other ministries we do at Redeemer. But truly evangelism is the tide that raises all the boats.

You really... I know it's a ministry front. We talk about evangelism, which is outreach and community formation, which is in reach and small groups and so on. And we talk about faith work. We talk about mercy, justice. And organizationally, that's a fine way to lay it out. But honestly, evangelism needs to permeate everything else, frankly. It needs to just be... It just needs to pervade all the other things we do. And if we have that... And therefore, the evangelistic dynamic is ultimately not a program, though we have some great programs in evangelism. It's got to be a consciousness of the entire community. And when we're constantly seeing people come to faith, there's an... I'm sorry. There's an excitement in the... And there's a dynamic that develops because new believers have more relationships with non-Christians than old, long-time believers. So once you get new believers there, they reach out to their friends more readily than long-time believers do. And it just creates a dynamic and it infuses... It's what brings justice, it's volunteers. It's what salts everything and seasons everything that faith work does. And so it's really the tide. That as it rises, it just raises all the other boats. But let me remind you what David just said. Evangelism is talking about Christianity in the context of prayer. It's not just talking about Christianity. That's debate, that's academic. But talking about Christianity to other people in the context of prayer, that's evangelism. And that's what we have to do at Redeemer. That's it.

I hope that was a helpful way to get to the end of our conversation. I hope that we get to know these guys a little bit more and let's give them a big round of applause.