Basically, we looked at the first part of John a couple of weeks ago, first part of John 7. Last week we looked at the famous promise of the Spirit at the end of John chapter 7. And really what I would like to do today is show you that in the middle of John 7, it's a long section, basically there's one theme that we can discuss and treat today. I'm going to read John chapter 7. I'm going to read first from verses 10 to 20, and then from verses 40 to 46. However, after his brothers had left for the feast, he went also not publicly but in secret. Now at the feast, the Jews are watching for him and saying, where is that man? Among the crowds, there was widespread whispering about him. and some said, He is a good man. Others replied, No, he deceives the people. But no one would say anything publicly about him for fear of the Jews. Not until halfway through the feast did Jesus go up to the temple courts and begin to teach. The Jews were amazed and asked, How did this man get such learning without having studied? And Jesus answered,

Why are you trying to kill me? You are demon-possessed, the crowd answered. Who is trying to kill you? Move with me to verse 40, if you were reading. And on hearing this, some of the people said, surely this man is the prophet. Others said, he's the Christ. Still others said, how can this Christ come from Galilee? Does not the Scripture say that the Christ will come from David's family and from Bethlehem, the town where David lived? Thus the people were divided because seize him, but no one laid a hand on him. And finally, some of the temple guards went back to the chief priests and the Pharisees who asked them, why didn't you bring him in? No one ever spoke the way this man does, the guards declared. Here ends the reading of God's Word. In the very beginning of the passage we just read, we see that the people who were trying were searching for him at the feast. Where is that man? But the passage tells us that there was a more fundamental kind of search going on for Jesus. Everybody had a theory about who he was. Some said he's a good man. Others said he's a prophet. Others said he's a deceiver of the people. You see all those in there? And others said he's demon-possessed, he's insane. Now, what I'd like to show you this morning is the problem of Christ. A lot of times you see on banners, you see it in neon signs, you see it on placards, you see it on bumper stickers, Christ is the answer. It's critical for you to first see Christ is a problem. The problem of Christ, have you ever sensed it, have you felt it? These people have to do all this theorizing. They have to do all this searching. Because they see he's a problem. If any educated person was to make a list. Of the three people. In the history of the world. Who have influenced the most people. In the world. Or a list of five. Or a list of ten. Or a list of twenty. It's almost inevitable. That Jesus Christ. Would have to be on that list. And I can tell you this. No matter who you put on the list. with him. He will be unique. He'll be the only one who's achieved that kind of influence. He's the only one who's reached that elite list who claimed to be God. Now, an objection immediately arises at this point. Somebody here might be saying, certainly somebody, some thoughtful people would say, how do you know he claimed to be God? All we've got are legends that grew up around him. A lot of people would say, we're not even sure he ever existed. And we certainly don't know what he So how can you say that he'd be the only person on the list to claim to be God? How do you know what he claimed? And that's not fair or right to say. Recently, I was watching or I've been noticing that there's a certain number of revisionists, historical revisionists, who are saying that the Holocaust never happened. Have you read any of that? That the Holocaust, that the Nazi determination to exterminate European Jewry, that it never happened. Now, the Holocaust that they are talking about happened 45 years ago. Forty-five. And the trouble with this kind of false theory is that there's still thousands of people around who were there, who were in there. And so they're standing up all over the place, and they're going on talk shows, and they're writing books, and they're saying, this isn't true. We were there. We saw it. And therefore, this kind of revision of history can't get off the ground. It's going to have to wait at least 100 years. ears before this kind of theory can get off the ground. Jesus Christ lived and died. 20 years later, within 20 years, the first Christian documents were circulating. Paul was already writing his letters. The first Christian documents were circulating, and the documents all said that Jesus Christ claimed to be God, and He did great miracles. Now, if those claims were made so close to the time of the event. If they were false, Christianity could never have gotten off the ground. There was not enough time lapse. And therefore, we know this. There was no question on anybody's part that Jesus claimed to be God or that he did miracles. That was not in dispute. His enemies agreed to that. His friends agreed to that. That was the problem. The problem is, sure, he claimed to be God. Sure, he did these great deeds. But who was he to say such things? this guy. That's the problem. There wouldn't even be a problem if the claims hadn't been there. No, here's the problem. Let me put it this way. How do you account for a man who on the one hand claims to be God and therefore puts himself on the level of a person who claims to be a poached egg looking for a piece of toast, and yet on the other hand produces teaching of such overwhelming wisdom and character of such attractive beauty and deeds of such awesome power. How do you count for somebody like that? That's a problem. That was the problem. And because of that problem, everybody has to come up with a theory. As a matter of fact, the fact that he's on this elite list coupled with these incredible claims creates a problem not just for these people, but for you

because of the magnitude of the claims. If you got a letter in the mail tomorrow, a registered letter that said, the IRS summons you for a hearing because you owe $100,000 in back taxes. Or if you got a registered letter saying, this is to inform you to report to so-and-so lawyer you have inherited $100 million. What would your reaction be? You'd say, this is a gag. Or you'd say, this is a mistake. This couldn't be. But you're not going to say, a claim is so ridiculous. I just throw this away. I just throw it in a waste can. I'm not going to call that lawyer. I'm not going to check this out. This is preposterous. You can't do that, can you? As preposterous as it is, the magnitude of the claim will make it impossible for you to even get to the day without figuring it out. And the magnitude of this claim is here's a man who is able to get into the elite list. The centerpiece of the greatest religion in history. Maybe the person who's influenced more people in the history of the world than any other person makes these claims to complete allegiance to deity, and therefore no thoughtful person, no one who's conscious, no one who has a well-thought-out view of life can afford not to take a really, really solid look at his claims. Anybody that just dismisses them is a fool because of the problem of Christ. Now, the problem here that these people are wrestling with, they come up with four theories. He's a good man. He's a deceiver. He's demon-possessed. He's a lunatic. He's the Christ. There's four of them. One impossible, two improbable, and one, I think, inescapable. Let's just take a look at all the four theories because they're the only ones that anybody ever comes up with. Now, first of all, let me... Some of you may have heard this before. There was an old Scottish Presbyterian minister. It was called Rabbi Duncan. It was a nickname. And one of his most famous quotes goes like this. He lived many years ago. He said, Christ either deceived humankind by a conscious fraud or was himself deluded or he was divine. And there is no getting out of that trilemma. and I love the word trilemma. Did you hear that? The problem of Christ puts us into a trilemma, not a dilemma, three possibilities. He was either deceiving or he was deluded himself insane or he was exactly who he said he was. Well, now somebody says, well, I thought you just said there were four theories put forward by these people and it's true, but I think Rabbi Duncan is right. right. One of the theories is not a possibility. One of them is an impossibility. So let's look at that one first. The impossible option for explaining the problem of Christ is that he's a good man. You see how at one place where it says in verse 12, he's a good man, and over down in verse 40, it says he's a prophet, which is essentially the same thing, a great moral teacher, a great prophet. Why do we say that's an impossibility? can leave it out of his trilemma. For this reason, because of Jesus Christ's megalomaniacal claims, because of what he said about himself, they were preposterous, they were outlandish. No one else in the history of the world who ever said the things he said about himself has ever been accepted as anything other than a fool, anything other than a wicked idiot. it. He claimed to be God. First of all, he claimed it in the most stark ways. Next chapter, when we get to chapter 8, we'll see there's a place where the people wanted to stone him because Jesus says, before Abraham was, I am. He doesn't say before Abraham was, I was. I am is Yahweh. It's the divine name. It means I am that I am. The word Yahweh means I am beginningless, uncreated life. took that name. He took the name of God, and everybody was absolutely appalled. They wanted to kill him. They knew what he was claiming. There's a place during his trial where the high priest says, are you the Christ? And he says, you said it. And at the end of history, I will appear, and I will judge all of mankind. I mean, he was constantly making ridiculous statements like that, but not only did he make these dramatic statements, but if you read the Gospels, you will see that Jesus was constantly, in an unassuming way, in a routine way, in a subtle way, continually and constantly assuming this most incredible and radical position. For example, there's a place, you know, when they're looking over Jerusalem, Jerusalem, and Jesus just sits there and says, you know, I keep sending you prophets and wise men, and you keep killing them. And nobody raises an eyebrow. Nobody says anything. But you see what he just said? He says, I am the power in the universe that has been sending great leaders and wise people into the world throughout all of the ages of history. You know, he just makes an offhanded comment. Everybody says, oh. You know, for example, Jesus is continually forgiving sins. People are astonished at that. Do you know why they're astonished? You see, if somebody, suppose I give one of my sons, one of my little boys, a kite, and somebody breaks it. Well, if that child who breaks it or that person that breaks it apologizes to me, that's right, because even though my son might be upset, he says, it's my kite, the fact of the matter is, you know, it's going to cost me. That sin is going to cost me. I'm the one who bought the kite, and now I'm the one who's going to replace the kite. So the point is that if that person who breaks my son's kite apologizes to me, that's right, because I'm the one whose sin, I'm the one who's been hurt by the sin. His sin has cost me. When Jesus Christ walks over to somebody who's committed adultery against her husband or against his wife. Not against Jesus, but Jesus comes over and says, I forgive you for that adultery. What is he assuming? What is he saying about himself? He is assuming that he's the creator. He's assuming that he's the proprietor of every human being. He's assuming that every sin is against him primarily. And Jesus is constantly and routinely making the most incredible demands for allegiance. He says, Through me and me alone, you will find ultimate reality. I'm the way, the truth, and the life to ultimate reality. In fact, I am ultimate reality. If you want to follow me, he says, you must hate your father, mother, and your brother and sister and your friends. Any devotion to me has got to be so great that all other devotions you have to anyone else have to look like hatred by comparison. He says, He says, if you lose me, you lose everything. If you try to retain your life instead of giving your life to me, you will inevitably lose it. Listen to this. He comes and he says, I am worth so much. If there's anything standing between you and me, get rid of it. If it's your hand, cut it off. If it's your eye, pluck it out. Nothing is worth you losing me. And then he has the audacity to comfort us. way. He says, but don't be afraid. I have overcome the universe. Everything will bow down to me in the end, and everything will bow down to you if you come to me. Now, friends, let's be reasonable. No one in the history of the world has ever said such things who has not been dismissed as a crackpot, or a wicked fool. No one else has ever said things like that. And that's the reason why you've got Rabbi Duncan saying what he says. That's not one of the options. You see, you know, you have a Winston Churchill. You have great leaders who are always saying, give me your life, but always for some cause. Winston Churchill says, you've got to make the ultimate sacrifice, blood, toil, and tears. Follow me. But he's saying, for the sake of your country sake of justice and the sake of your families. But Jesus is always saying, lose yourself for my sake. The kind of thing that he's asking for can never be given to anyone who's merely human. And anytime anyone has demanded this kind of allegiance and has gotten it, it has inevitably led to wickedness, to cruelty, and to tragedy. Anyone else in the history of the world who's ever demanded such. Anyone who's ever gotten it. The Jim Joneses of the world. You see. Anyone else who has ever demanded that kind of thing. The Hitlers of the world. You see. Anyone who's ever demanded that kind of allegiance. It has inevitably led to tragedy. It has inevitably led to cruelty. But not in Jesus' case. Listen. Because of his claims. You cannot say he was a good guy. You cannot say he was a wonderful moral teacher. He didn't leave you that option. It's gone. It's gone forever. Now, secondly, there's two improbable options. One of them is in verse 12, the second half of verse 12, where the people say, he deceives the people. The other one is down in verse 20, where they say, you have a demon. And, of course, that's another way of saying, you're insane, you're deranged, you're a lunatic. Now, as much as those two seem to differ, they're basically the same theory. Because what they're both saying is he fooled people. In one case, he fooled himself, too. See, if he's deranged, then he was self-deluded. In the other case, he was very wicked because he knew what was going on, and he deceived them on purpose. But in either case, the theory is that he wasn't a good man, but rather he was someone who deceived people, wittingly or unwittingly, thinking that he was divine God, Son of Man. What are the problems with that theory? The problems with that theory is does the theory square with what we know about his life? Does the theory square with what we know about his life? See, the guards come back and they say, you know, the leader said, why didn't you arrest him? And the guard, you know he's a fool. You know he's a deceiver. You know he's a lunatic or a demon possessed. know that, don't you? And what do the guards say? I'm sorry, the guards say to the leaders, that theory doesn't hold water. Never man spake as this man spake. And what he's saying, what they're saying is the man's life and his teachings are sublime. This is not the work of a lunatic. This is not the work of a deceiver. Look at his teaching for a minute. The great English writer G.K. Chesterton put it this way. Chesterton said, if you found a key laying around your yard. You picked it up. And you tried it out on a number of locks. And on one of the locks, it opened it perfectly. What would you assume? You would assume that though it could be a huge coincidence. You assume the most rational explanation is that key was made by the locksmith who made the lock. The key was designed for the lock. Now here you get the teachings of Christ. The Sermon on the Mount. His teachings. And here you have teachings that were originally given in a pre-modern oriental society thousands of years ago, and yet are found to have such universal validity, that in every century, some of the greatest and ablest minds, human brains, have found it fulfilling and satisfying, that in every century, in virtually every culture, Christianity has taken root. in every area Christianity has inspired incredible works of art. Today, Christianity is rapidly growing in cultures and in nations, which a century ago, where the name of Christ wasn't even heard. If it's really possible that teachings given in a pre-modern Oriental situation have that kind of universal validity, if his teachings so match the lock of the human heart, Does it make sense, as in the teaching, of a deceiver or a fool? And doesn't it make more sense that they are actually devised by the lockmaker? That's how G.K. Chesterton puts it. Or you can look at this. Look at his life. Look at these guards. Look at his life. His life was of such attractive beauty and perfection that he fooled the people in close to him. Does that make sense? Now, some of you out there may say, hey, wait a minute. do you know he was so wonderful? How do you know he was such a perfect person? How do you know his life was so incredibly beautiful? They didn't have reporters back then. They didn't have Kitty Kelly. They didn't have anybody writing the unauthorized biography of Jesus. Then it would have been different. Now, you see, there's a lot of validity to that question because there's a lot of people that look great to their fans, and yet there's always someone who lives close inside. See, the Pete Roses that everybody loves from the outside. Somebody on the inside. Somebody who lives with the person. Will write a biography. Somebody who lives with them can see the seamy side. And yet Jesus Christ gets away with something. No one else has ever gotten away. Lots of people have claimed to be God. Lots of people have claimed to be perfect. Lots of people have claimed to be divine. Not one of them has gotten away with it. Not one of them has made the elite list. Every one of them has been dismissed as a fool or an evil person. Because, and Jesus was different. Why? Because the people who lived closest to him were utterly and completely convinced that he was who he claimed to be. That's why they lived and died for him. Nobody was around to blow the whistle on Jesus. Why? Because they saw what we can see. If you just read the Bible. If you read the New Testament, you'll see the same thing. complete absolute personal and moral beauty. He combines and I've got some quotes on the front you don't look at him now but I got some quotes in the front of the bulletin about it. He combined when you read about him he combined virtues that nobody else ever combined. There's tenderness there without any weakness. There's strength without any harshness. There's humility without any lack of confidence. There's holiness and unbending conviction without any lack of approachability. There's unhesitating authority. Unhesitating authority and yet with no self-assertion. There's tremendous courage and yet with the utmost sensitivity and tenderness of spirit. He abrades the self-importance. the self-important ones. He just knocks them down, and yet he is so winsome and solicitous toward the broken. And that's why P.T. Forsyth, at one place, says, listen,

this is God, and if this isn't God, there's a place where P.T. Forsyth says, if I can find it, if God be not thus, he is less than the God we pray for. If you read about Jesus in the Bible, that's not God, what is Forsyth saying? He's saying, if that's not God, then the God that you know of is less than the God that I crave and that the world needs. What was it that Jesus had that nobody else who ever claimed to be God had? What was it that convinced the people who lived with him that he was God? Just like when you put a filter over your eyes in order to look at the sun, the apostles came to realize that they were looking at, through the filter of a human nature, right into the essence of God. And that's why they're always going around in the Bible saying, Who is this? Who is this that the wind and the sea obeys Him? Who is this guy? And the answer is, as insane as it seems, it is less insane than the alternatives. This is the Christ. This is the Son of the living God. So there we come to the inescapable option. Now, the inescapable option is, as insane as it may be, the other options are more insane. That has always been the argument. The evidence is very telling, but here's where it brings us, and here's where we have to look at our hearts. You know and I know that a lack of evidence can destroy faith, but strong evidence cannot make faith. Can I say that again? can destroy faith. But strong evidence does not make faith. And I'll just tell you why. There's a lot of things that you're doing out there and you have seen the scientific evidence and it's bad for you. There's things that you're doing. There's things that you're eating. There's things that you are. There's practices that you have that you know are bad for you. You've seen the proof. You've seen the evidence. It's overwhelming. And yet you won't trust yourself to it. It takes more than reason. Doesn't it? It takes more than evidence. The way the human heart works is it's not enough to say, well, just show me the evidence and I'll do it. That's not true in any area of life. Show me the evidence that eating this will lead to a heart attack at an early age. I show you the evidence and what do you do? Well, one of these years I'll get to a diet. Show me the evidence that condoms break one out of every 20 times. Show me the evidence. And people say, sure, and I'll do it. No, you don't. No, I don't. Poor evidence can destroy faith, but strong evidence does not make it. You've got to let the truth address you. You've got to let the truth argue with you. You've got to let the truth deal with you personally. Now, if this is true, that the problem of Christ cannot be answered by any other theory than the theory that he really was who he said he is. There's no other way to account for his life and his claims. What difference should that make to you? Would you listen to me as I tell you I can at least extract four very important applications to your heart and life that should come out of this? Here they are. Number one. If all this is true. That means you have to have all of Jesus. Or none of Him. Jesus is an all or nothing proposition. And that's not where many of us are. But I want you to see. The precariousness. And the illogic. Of our condition. Jesus is an all. Or nothing. Proposition. I remember. Years ago. Right after. I became a. As a matter of fact. Probably. The place. I became a Christian. I was on a. Retreat. And I heard a woman. speak. Her name was Barbara Boyd. She lives in New Jersey, somewhere over there. And she spoke on what it meant to know that Jesus is king. And she said, if somebody says to me, when I knock on their door, if somebody says, come in, Barbara, but stay out, Boyd. She says, I'd be very confused. She said, I'm sorry. I mean, I have to either stay out or come in. It's an all or nothing proposition. You can't have Barbara and not have Boyd. I am Barbara Boyd, she's saying. You can't have one, one, not the other. I mean, it's all of me. And then she says, but some of you say, come in teacher, stay out king. Come in helper, stay out God. Come in Jesus, stay out Christ. He can't do that. In verse 43, that got me. Does it get you? In verse 43, it says that they were divided over Jesus. That is inevitable because Jesus is an all or nothing proposition. I read recently an old interview by a European diplomat who had known Hitler personally. He wasn't German. He was from one of the Western countries, but he had seen and known Hitler. And he said, you know, the weird thing about Hitler was that if I was blindfolded and taken into a room, I could tell you whether he was there, whether he was speaking or not. He says it was an electricity that just sparked from him. And he said, all great leaders are like There's an inevitability about Him. There's a domination about Him. And this is amazing. In the interview, he said, if you were German, if you were in politics and Hitler came on the scene, there's only three things you could do. You could retire or flee from the country. You could sell yourself to a body and soul or you can assassinate Him. He says that's the only three things you could do. You don't compromise. You can't deal with Him. You can't partner with Him. You're either all for Him or you're all against Him or you're all away from Him. Now it amazed me when I read that interview. Because if that's Hitler. Who just had these leadership gifts. Evil leadership gifts. But he had leadership gifts. If that's true of Hitler. That whenever you come into. The presence of somebody. With that kind of power. That you have only those. Three things that you can do. How much more true. Must it be of Jesus Christ. That's the reason. It divides people. See. When you come into. The presence. Of a great leader. It's all. Or nothing. You come. Into. The presence. Of Christ. It's all. Or nothing. And that's the reason why the Bible talks the way it does. That's the reason why Jesus can make the incredible statements that He does. You have to hate your father and mother. You have to hate your brother and sister. We say, how could that be? He is just saying this is the way I am. That's the reason why the Bible says in Luke, Jesus said, I did not come to bring peace on earth but a sword. I came to bring fire on the earth. When He was born, went like this. This child is set for the fall and rising of many in Israel. You see, fall or rising, it's all or nothing. He's a block of stone, the Bible says. You either build your whole house on him or you stub your foot on him painfully. There's no way around it because he demands total reorientation of your life, absolute obedience. He demands complete and unconditional and unremitting and undiluted allegiance and loyalty. There's nothing else you can do. Now, here's the test. The test is this. When I ask the average person who sits in church or comes to church or claims to be a Christian, and I say, you know, tell me about your life and how you relate to Jesus Christ, and most everybody is moderate. They're not scouring the Bible every day to find out what his will is for them. They're not examining their lives and the things that they think are going to harm Christ and displease Him and adding the things that He wants. They're not making every single one, taking all of their resources and all their time and all their money and all their talents and putting them utterly at His disposal. They're not wrestling to push His values into every part of their life publicly and privately. They're not wrestling in prayer every day till they just see His face because that's what they want more than anything else? No. Most people have a Christ that says, just try your best, that's all I ask. And I'll be there for you when you fall down. There is nobody like that. Anybody who is moderate in their reaction to Jesus Christ is reacting to a fiction. There's only three things you can do, remember? You can flee. You can assassinate. and sell body and soul and serve him. Some of you are playing with him like he's a kitten when he's the lion of the tribe of Judah. It's all or nothing. Second application. If Jesus Christ is God and not a prophet, God and not a great moral teacher, then morality and goodness is not enough. There's a lot of people that want to say, hey, there's a lot of different religions and every one of them take you to God. Look more carefully. Every other religion says that morality and goodness are enough because every other religion starts with a founder like Muhammad or like Buddha or like Confucius. And a prophet, a great moral teacher says, there's the way, go get it. That's the way to God. But Jesus comes and says, I am God. I am the way. The prophets say, there's God. Jesus says, I'm God. The prophets say, that's how to reach Him. Jesus says, I've already done everything you need to reach Him. The prophets say, there's the way. And Jesus says, I am the way. that means that Christianity teaches that morality and goodness are not enough. If God had sent a prophet, you couldn't have gotten there. God is going to arrange for everything. He sent his son to take your punishment. He sent his son to do everything you need. All you have to do is receive him. You can't get the God up the ladder. God had to come down the ladder to you. And if there's anyone here who says, well, I believe that any one of these faiths is the way to get to God, what you're saying is morality and goodness is enough. And what you've done is you've ripped the heart out of Christianity because the heart of Christianity is to say it's not enough that salvation is not by your deeds but by grace alone. In the name of tolerance, you've ripped the guts out of Christianity. In the name of tolerance, you've changed it. You can't change it. The good news of Christ is what makes Christ, Christianity have that irritating exclusivity. morality and goodness is not enough. It doesn't have to be. Because the founder is not a prophet, he's God. The Christ. Third application. Some of you here, well, the first application is he's all or nothing. You go all the way or you don't, you know, he's all or nothing. He can't just change your life a little bit. He will transform your life or he'll leave you alone until the end. And if he's who he says he is, you'll have to face him at the end and give him a reason why you thought that you were more competent to run your life than he. And there is no answer to that question. Application number one, all or nothing. Application number two, morality and goodness is not enough. Application number three, beware of bias in your investigation. There's probably people here who don't know what they think about Christ, and that's great. I'm glad you're here. That's why I'm here for you. but would you please be careful about a bias, about a begging the question in your investigation. I once heard a, recently I read, I read, I didn't hear a, but I read a panel discussion in which a bunch of people sat around and the question was, what are we to make of Christ in light of our modern lifestyles and values? What are we to make of Christ in light of our modern lifestyles and values? And there was a Marxist there who says, I like to think of Christ missionary who brings liberation. Another person says, I like to think of Christ as, he was an artist, by the way, I like to think of Christ as a prophet against the cultural establishment. Do you see how comical this is? Imagine two flies in a stall living with a cow, and they say, let's have a discussion. What do we want to do with this cow? What are we to make of this cow? What do you like to think of this cow as? Now, you see, is a cow. It doesn't matter what they think of the cow. The cow is so much greater than the fly it's the job of the fly is to adapt to the reality of the cow. For example, stay away from the tail and things like that. Is it ridiculous for two flies to sit there and say, what do you think of the cow? How do you like to think of the cow? If there is a cow, that's a ridiculous discussion. And friends, I know some of you are out there saying, I already know what I believe about sex. men and women and gender. I already know what I, I already believe about my needs. I already know what I believe about my desires. And if Jesus Christ does not fit into those things, I'm out of here. You know what you've done? If Jesus is who he says he is, who cares about your needs and who cares about your opinions? Don't you see how silly it is? What are we to make of Christ. What does Christ make of you? And therefore, if you go at it with this attitude, you have already assumed that he's wrong before you start your investigation. You've assumed he can't be God. Because if you say, look, I don't want to hear that I have to stop this, or I don't want to hear that I have to change this. I don't want to hear that. And if he doesn't fit in, then I'm out of here. Then you've assumed that he couldn't be who he says he is. Because if he's who he says he is, who cares what you think? There's an ultimate reality there that you have to adapt to. It doesn't matter what you think of him. It matters what he thinks of you. And if you want to do this investigation right,

the instrument is right here. By the way, I can't get to the fourth application. I've got to stop. I'll do it some other time. In verse 17, Jesus says, if anyone, in the old King James, it says, if anyone is willing to do God's will, he shall know. When the astronomer goes and does his investigation. When the biologist goes and does her investigation, they have different instruments, don't they? The astronomer has the telescope. The biologist has the microscope. Jesus Christ gives you your instrument. If you want to find him, here it is. You have to be willing to do his will. That's all. You have to say, I, like any fair-minded scientist, you have to say, whatever the conclusion of my investigation, I will submit to it. You can't say, well, I'm I'm going to look and see what I believe, what Jesus is, but if it messes up with my beliefs, I'm out of here. No scientist can say that. No fair-minded observer can say that. Jesus says, if you want to find him, here's the instrument. It's an infallible instrument. If you go to him and say, Lord, if you're real, show me yourself and I will obey you. I am willing to do your will if you really are who you say you are, read about him. Talk about him. Talk directly to him, even though you say, Lord, I don't even know if you can hear me. Do you have the courage to do that? Do you have the objectivity to do that? If you do, then you'll find never man spake as he spake. Let the truth deal with you. It's all or nothing. Morality and goodness is not enough. but you're not stuck between a rock and a hard place in this problem. You're stuck between a rock, your unbelief, and a great place, the bosom of Jesus Christ. Go to him. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you have brought us to the place where we can see the evidence. It pushes us, but we also realize that faith is more than just looking at the evidence. and its faith is stepping out. It's trusting ourselves to it. Father, there are many of us here today. We belong to you. We've given ourselves to you, but we forget the all or nothingness of Christ. We forget. We like to dabble in him. We like to have a little bit of him, but we don't want to give ourselves to him completely. Help us to see the illogic of that situation. Father, there are some of us here who simply are still resisting your lordship in our lives. We pray that you would help us to come to see, to see that it's only by submitting to you and being willing to do your will that we will know. Show us the truth and him who is the way, the truth, and the life. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.