The scripture this morning is from 1 Samuel chapter 18 verses 1 to 14. As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul. And Saul took him that day and would not let him return to his father's house. Then Jonathan made a covenant with David because he loved him as his own soul. And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David and his armor and even his sword and his bow and his belt. And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him so that Saul sent him over the men of war. And this was good in the sight of all the and also in the sight of Saul's servants. As they were coming home when David returned from striking down the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul with tambourines, with songs of joy, and with musical instruments. And the women sang to one another as they celebrated, Saul has struck down his thousands, and David his ten thousands. And Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him. He said, They have ascribed to David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed thousands. What more can he have but the kingdom? And Saul eyed David from that day on. The next day, a harmful spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he raved within his house while David was playing the lyre. As he did day by day, Saul had his spear in his hand, and Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, I will pin David to the wall. But David evaded him twice. twice. Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him, but had departed from Saul. So Saul removed him from his presence and made him a commander of a thousand. And he went out and came in before the people. And David had success in all his undertakings, for the Lord was with him. This is God's word. it. Looking at the life of David, and like I said before, it's the longest narrative presentation of a single human life in all of ancient literature. It's the most comprehensive and greatest account in all antiquity about what makes or breaks an individual human life. And even if you didn't think it was scripture, even if you don't feel it's scripture, you still on that count alone, pay very close attention to it. Now, the teaching of the passage this week is on the absolute destructiveness of envy. Now, I've been preaching and teaching for 28 and a half years or something like that. That's an awful lot of sermons and talks and things, hundreds, thousands actually. And it occurs to me as I was preparing this that I think I may have only spoken two or three times my whole life on envy. And I was wondering why. And I realized, to some degree, a minister tends to talk about things that people are asking him about, which is only natural. And people are always saying, I've got a problem with anger. I've got a problem with guilt. I've got a problem with despondency. You know, there's lots of things. But I don't think in my whole life I've ever heard someone say, I've got a problem with envy. I don't think anybody ever said, said, why don't we hear more sermons on envy? But you know what? My job as a Bible teacher is to tell you what the text says, not what my opinion is or even what you want to hear. But I do that with confidence today because even, not just the Bible, Aristotle, for centuries, wise people have known that envy is one of the seven deadly sins, which are the root of all human misery. Now, let's take a look at this subject under three things. Envy, it's slavery, and the way to liberty. Now, first of all, let's just see the depiction here of Saul's envy. The classic depiction is in 7, 8, and 9. And the women sang to one another as they celebrated, Saul has struck down his thousands, thousands, but David is ten thousands. And Saul was very angry, and this saying displeased him. And he says, they have ascribed to David ten thousand, but to me, they've only ascribed thousands. What more can he have but the kingdom? And Saul eyed David from that day on. In other words, Saul's envy, his murderous envy on that day, took him over. Now, we're going to learn, right, the text teaches us three things about envy right off the bat. It's seriousness, it's signs, and it's power. First of all, it's seriousness. The meaning of the text is that envy, which as I'm going to show you in a minute, we don't take very seriously in our world, in our culture, can ruin a whole life. It's a life breaker, and it was for Saul. Now, I don't think we do take it very seriously. If you do a Google search on envy, You'll find the first 90% of all the references you get actually have nothing to do with the sin. Well, anyway, they do. They're all retail outlets. They're either companies or stores or online companies that are trying to sell you something. So, for example, here's some company names. You have Body Envy, which is actually trying to sell you diet products and skin care products. You have Clothes Envy, trying to sell you fashion. House Envy, trying to sell you furnishings. envy, and so on. And what you can see is the idea that we have that envy is kind of just a foible that's actually good for the economy to encourage. And even Joseph Epstein recently, who's a well-known scholar at Northwestern University, just wrote an Oxford University press volume on envy. And yet in the book, he actually says not only that he doesn't feel like he has much of a problem with envy, he doesn't know anybody who does. And there's a sense in which envy is not taken very seriously. And yet, even in the Google search, there are indications that Aristotle's right, that these attitudes taking envy lightly, not understanding its lethal nature, are wrong. One of the websites was actually a website for young women called Envy. And it encouraged young women to log on and write in and name the women, the beautiful women, the models, the actresses, the starlets, and so on, that they most envied. And so you just have page after page of people saying, I envy Natalie Portman, I envy Charlize Theron, I envy this and that. What's interesting, is that innocent? Well, on the front of the webpage, the woman who runs the webpage had a disclaimer. She says, one thing that's bothering me is I have gotten reports that a number of pro-anorexia websites link to this page. And I want you to know that I don't support that at all. But Aristotle could have told her that you can't encourage envy at all. Envy starts as a headache, but so do brain tumors. For her not to see the link between envy and anorexia, for her not to see the link between envy and all sorts of other lethal things is because she's not understanding the seriousness of envy. It's a life breaker. It can start very small, like a headache, but so does a brain tumor. Now, the second thing we learn in the passage is signs. We're given two signs of envy. How do you know it's there? Two signs that you see in Saul. I'll just tell you the two of them together, because they go so close together. It's unable to be happy. It's unable to enjoy someone else has because of comparing them to you. So it's unable to be able to enjoy what somebody else has because of comparison. And it's unable to enjoy what you have because of resentment. First, it's the inability to enjoy what someone else has because of comparison. You want to see the essence of it? You have to kind of, you know, take a look at a sentence in verse eight. And it says, he said, and Saul says, he has 10,000, but me, I only have thousands. You see it? There it is. He, but me. He can't just say he. Look at his accomplishments. Look at his victory. Look at the acclaim. Look at how much he's loved. He can't. He says, he, but me. And the first sign of envy is you can never appreciate what someone else has. You can't appreciate her beauty. You can't You can't appreciate his attractiveness. You can't appreciate his happiness. You can't appreciate their success. Without immediately. Connecting it to you. Without immediately. Comparing yourself. Envy. not. You can't appreciate that someone has made this and this marker in success without saying, but I haven't. On the other hand, you notice that the motivating drive, you might say the heart of envy, is verse 8, and Saul was very angry. See, now it's possible to want something that someone has that you don't have and it not be envy. Just to give you a completely pure example is if you ever read the Gospels and you see Jesus so much more loving, so much more wise, you know, so much more gentle, and you say, I want to be that loving. I want to be that wise. I want to be that gentle. That's not envy. Not really. Because it's joy. It's a longing, but it's a joy that motivates you. But envy, resentment, it's begrudging someone what they have by comparing yourself to them and resenting it. And what that resentment does is it destroys your ability to enjoy what you've got because of that comparison. See, they go together. So for example, you compare what you've got to someone who has more and therefore what you have, you can't enjoy. Or you compare what you have to someone who has what they don't deserve. You see, they don't deserve what they have and that destroys your ability to enjoy what you have. even envy yourself. You can say, I used to be this. I used to have this. And so you look at yourself now and you can't enjoy it anymore. Envy. Joseph Epstein in that book, the Oxford University Press book, said something actually very wise and right. He says, look at the other seven deadly sins. Look at greed. Look at lust. Look at gluttony. He says, you know, every other seven deadly sin, eventually it destroys you, but for a while it feels pretty good. Every other deadly sin gives you pleasure, some pleasure. I mean, gluttony feels good for a while. Lust feels good for a while. Greed feels good for a while, you know. He says the other sins, but envy sucks all joy out of your life immediately because that's what envy is. Envy destroys your ability to ever sit down and enjoy the moment, to sit down and enjoy what's in front of you. You're comparing. You're begrudging. And you can't enjoy that second. You never are satisfied. It sucks all joy. And you can make a pretty good case, I believe, that New York City possibly is one of the worst places to avoid, one of the hardest places to avoid envy, there is. There's a classic article about this that I still see quoted, even though it was in the New York Times Magazine many years ago, by John Tierney. And he makes an astute observation about New Yorkers. And then he gives the reason. And as we're going to see, it's actually quite onto what the Bible says here. He gives an astute

observation about New Yorkers. And then he gives the reason. And the astute observation is that New Yorkers, nothing's ever good enough for New Yorkers. He says they have a flaw-o-matic. And the restaurants aren't good and the food isn't good. But especially, he says, when you're dating people, your flaw-o-matic goes on. And nobody's good enough. And he gives an example. He says, overheard in a singles bar, he says, he ordered Thousand Island dressing, enough said. he's my age and he's still single I mean come on

if she would just lose 7 pounds maybe sure he's a partner but it's not a big firm and he wears those short little black socks that show your leg

she seemed really intelligent but then she mispronounced Goethe and I knew it was all a fake

here's my favorite He heard somebody say, well, it started out great. Chuck, she opened the door, and she looked fantastic. Great body, nice smile, everything looked great, until she turned around, and Chuck, he said, shaking his head sadly, she had those dirty elbows. And that was that. And first I thought, you know, there may be some way to work it out. Therapy, or maybe just soap and water. But then I realized, he'd probably find something else. It's New York. Now, why? Why this? Nothing's ever good enough. There's always something wrong. Why? He says, maybe New York drives inhabitants mad because of so many close encounters with wealth and glamour that distort our vision. Exactly right. You see, unlike a lot of other places, you're up close. Because it's a walking city, the beauty is up close. The wealth is up close. You can look into the windows of the billionaires. You know where they live. You can walk by. You look and you see their chandeliers. because of the close encounters, and John Tierney is absolutely right, because of the close encounters, because of the comparison, because of the resentment, it doesn't take much before all the joy is sucked out. Your flaw-matic is going. And if you find it very difficult to enjoy anything because of these things, it's begun. See, John Tierney, it's funny. The article is funny because that's headache level envy. But what happens is it doesn't stay there, as we're going to see. Jonathan Edwards has an article, an article, he has a sermon. He wrote it 200 years ago. They didn't write articles, I don't think. A sermon on envy that's a fascinating thing. And at one point he says, never underestimate the power of envy. Don't see it as a little foible that's kind of cute to, you know, to have in your life. Never underestimate the power. He says, let me think about a couple. There was Lucifer, Lucifer, the angel Lucifer. And he was in heaven, heaven. Think of heaven. And then he had a thought. I'm number two. And envy made it impossible for him to enjoy heaven. I mean, if envy can make it impossible for him to suck the joy out of being in heaven, what do you think it's going to do to you, your life? Or, he says, Garden of Eden. Garden of Eden, paradise. No death, no sickness, Garden of Eden. And then Adam and Eve had a thought. I'll bet you that's the best tree, the only one that we can't eat. And he says, envy made even the Garden of Eden not enough. Envy made heaven not enough. Envy is what made the devil demonic. Envy is what ruined the universe. Don't underestimate what it can do in your life, he said. Okay, so there's envy. It's seriousness, it's science, it's power. Secondly, though, we see the spiral, which is it's slavery. Now, you see this in verses 10 and 11. soon as, from that day on, murderous envy takes over Saul, and it says, the next day, I know some of you raised an eyebrow at this, the next day, a harmful spirit from God rushed upon Saul, and he raved within his house while David was playing the liar as he did day by day. Saul had his spear in his hand, and Saul hurled the spear, for he thought, I will pin David to the wall, but David evaded him twice. What is going on here? Now, there's two things I want you to see. envy brings slavery, but slavery brings envy. It's complex. Envy brings slavery, but slavery brings envy. Let me show you. First of all, what's this harmful spirit thing? Well, the word harmful, it's not too bad a translation. It's a Hebrew word that really means terrifying. And you have to ask yourself the question, we know that Saul was already scared of David. David. So why, what would be the need for a spirit of fear? There's another place where this same phrase, it's kind of a puzzling phrase, I know, when you read it first. In Judges chapter 9, verse 23. In Judges chapter 9, we're hearing the story of Abimelech and the men of Shechem. And they're starting to hate one another, doing hateful things to each other. And then it says in Judges 9, 23, and God sent a harmful spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem. So you have the same thing. You start to say, okay, now wait. There was already a spirit of hate between Abimelech and the men of Shechem. So what's a spirit of hate coming for? There's already a spirit of terror in Saul because of his envy. What's the spirit coming for? And what's interesting is almost all the commentators agree on this. That is, on the one hand, what this is saying is that in the beginning, you take the seven deadly sins. In the beginning, you do anger. But after a while, anger does you. In the beginning, you do envy. But then eventually, envy does you. You start with a spirit of envy. But eventually, it turns into a spirit of envy. That is to say, you lose your ability to do anything else. You lose the ability to be a free, willing, choosing self. You lose control. And if somebody says, oh, so what you're saying is just a metaphor for psychological habituation. not. Because the Hebrew writer, that's not honoring that person's worldview. But here's what most ancient people believe. Most ancient people believe you can't account for all the evil in the world just by natural evil inside. Virtually every culture, except ours, has believed that there's natural evil in us. And then there's supernatural forces of evil out there. And what this text is saying is that the more you give in to anger, the more you give in to envy, The more you give in to greed, the more you give in to any one of the seven deadly sins, you put yourself in touch with the supernatural forces of evil outside until you get locked in. And because God honors free will, it's with his permission. And what that means then is envy leads to slavery. The most vivid example of that I know is the place in Great Divorce, which I've been referring to recently. It's that sort of a parable, a fictional piece in which C.S. Lewis writes this book about a man who goes to the outskirts of heaven, and he sees people from hell, that people from heaven are trying to get to go to heaven, and they won't go. And at one point he sees a grumbling lady, just a grumbling lady who won't go to heaven, and says, I'm sure it's bad up there, and it won't be the way I want it. and at one point the narrator in the book says, that doesn't make much sense. Why is she going to hell? I mean, she's just a lady who's grumbling. And his guide says, yes, but you misunderstand me. The question is whether she's a grumbler or now only a grumble. If there's a real woman, even the least trace of one, still there inside the grumbling, it can be brought to life again. under all those ashes, we'll blow it until the whole pile is red and clear. But if there's nothing but ashes, we'll not go on blowing them in our own eyes forever. But how can there be a grumble without a grumbler, I asked. Well, the whole difficulty of understanding hell, said my guide, is that the thing to be understood is so nearly nothing. But you've had this experience. It begins with a grumbling mood and yourself still distinct from it, maybe criticizing it. and yourself in a dark hour may will that mood, may embrace that mood. You can repent and come out of it again, but there may come a day when you can't do that any longer. And then there will be no you left to criticize the mood, not even to enjoy it, but just the grumble itself going on forever and ever like a machine. So envy leads to slavery. But it's not as simple as that. We see in this text that slavery brings envy. Well, here's what it means. Envy is never generic. Envy is not general. No one envies everybody everything, right? Nobody envies everyone everything. I remember many years ago, I counseled a couple, and what came out was that the husband envied other men's wives. But the wife did not envy other women's husbands. The wife envied other women's children because her children were such a wreck. And she felt like, I've worked so hard, and other people have got much happier families They don't deserve it as much as I do. They envy different things. Why? Last week I said that one of the ways for you to understand the anatomy of your own soul, one of the ways for you to understand what you really worship, what you really look to, regardless of what you say, you believe, what your heart really makes, it's meaning. It's where your heart really rests its deepest hope and joy. And I said one of the ways to find out what that is greatest nightmares, remember? But this week I'll say, if that didn't work, if that didn't help you, I've got another test. Look at the things you most begrudge other people having if you don't feel they deserve it as much as you. Look at your envies. Because envy doesn't just lead to slavery. Envy reveals that something's already driving you. In Saul's case, it was the kingship. But I want you to keep this in mind. If you read all of chapter 18 to 20, Saul tries to kill David six times. The first three times are covert. Saul, starting in chapter 16, has been having these fits, these rages. He throws spears at people. He throws spears at Jonathan, his son. So when he throws a spear at David here, nobody thinks he's actually trying to kill David. It's covert, you to later. In fact, the first two or three times he tries to kill David, he's really very covert. He sends them out hoping that he'll do battle and get killed. But near the end, he starts to just come out and say, I don't care who knows that I'm going to go after him. I'm going to kill him. Why? Why was it covert? The main thing in Saul's life is his kingship. That's what he wants no matter what. That's the hope of his life. That's what makes him feel who he is. And of course, since

his hold on the kingship because of David's popularity. For him to kill the popular David would actually take away the very thing he most wanted. So there's no reason to go try to hold onto the thing you most want in a way that will destroy the thing you most want. At least that's how he started. But by the end, he's just, he's furious with David. He's going after David. He's trying to kill David in a way that destroys the very thing that originally was the reason he was so mad at David. You say, that makes no sense. That's addiction. Anything that is more important to your heart than God, anything that's more important to your life than God is a drug that gives you a high, but in the end will drive you until you actually destroy the thing on which you have built your whole life, on which you built your whole self, and that will deconstruct the a self. There'll be no you left. There'll be no there. There. There'll just be ashes. I cannot tell you how many times I've seen this happen. Can't tell you how many ways there is for this to happen. If you build your life. This sounds. Let me give you two perfectly. What we would consider virtuous examples. If the most important thing in your life is your spouse. The most. More than God. The most important thing in your life is your spouse. You become emotionally. So emotionally dependent on that person. You could drive that person away. And then, of course, the thing on which you've built your identity is gone. There's no you there, just ashes. If you build your entire life, more than anything else, on your children, you'll live your life out through your children. You'll try to control them. Eventually, you'll push them away, and you'll be without a self. It happens. Envy is not just the way to slavery. Envy reveals that at our root, if you have envy at all, and I don't know anybody who doesn't, in your life which is more important than God and is the root of your misery, it's the root of your problem, it's the root of all of our problems. So you see, here's envy and here's its slavery. Now, question, how do we get free of it? What do we do about that? Envy is that sucks all joy out of your life and it derives from something that's a drug spiritually to your soul. Everybody has envy, and therefore everybody's got that addiction. It might be small. It might be like a brain, like a headache, but ultimately it's like a cancer that will eat out your ability and may already be doing it to enjoy anybody else's good or your own. So what do we do? How do we get out of it? Jonathan shows us the way. The way to liberty is found in the very beginning of the passage. As soon as he had finished speaking to Saul, the soul of Jonathan was knit to the soul

Now, the narrator is deliberately putting in front of you two people who both see the same thing. They both see that God has anointed David, Saul and Jonathan. Jonathan. They both see that God is making David the future leader of Israel. And they both have a lot to lose. In fact, if anything, Jonathan's got more to lose because he's never been king. He's the heir to the throne. But Saul opposes what God is doing, and Jonathan embraces it. And what Jonathan does is radical. When he takes off his robe, he's actually giving David his crown rights, because your robe represented, if you were the prince, your robe represented your position. If you abdicated in those days, you left your robe on the throne. So the robe was his crown rights, and he's giving it to David. But even more than that, notice the text even says how amazing it is, even his sword. You know, in all the old stories, when you give someone your sword. When you offer it to someone hilt first, you are making yourself radically vulnerable. They could kill you. They could do anything they want to you. To offer someone your sword is your way of saying, command me. It's your way of saying, I want to serve you. Now, why would Jonathan do this in those days? In the Near East, we know something. You don't put your sword in the hand of the rival for your throne. You put your sword in the belly of the rival for your throne. That's how it was done. What's going on here? Well, it says that Jonathan loved David. Well, David loved Jonathan. In other words, their friendship, that's not enough of an explanation. We're going to talk about their friendship next week. Their friendship is not enough to explain it because David doesn't say, no, you be the king. And Jonathan, no, no, no. You be the king. Oh, no, no. You be the king. That's not what's going on here. So it's not the friendship thing. Secondly, it's not that Jonathan is a weakling or he doesn't want the pressure of it. Go back to chapter 14 if you ever want to see a really neat story of how Jonathan in a heroic and noble way wins a battle pretty much single-handedly. He's a strong man. He's a valiant man. Why did he do it? This is faith. This is gospel faith. He's looking at David and saying, saying, I perceive that God's salvation is coming to the people through you. And the only way I can participate in it is to get off the throne. And therefore, I do. God's salvation is coming. And the only way I can participate in it is to get off the throne. So I do. And when he does that, if you look carefully, you will see the solution to our problem about envy. envy, the solution to our problem of nothing ever being good enough, the solution to envy which sucks the joy out of life, causes us to resent and compare ourselves. Here it is. Look at Jonathan three ways. First of all, see in Jonathan the attitude you should have to one another, the attitude we should have to one another. Do you know what he does? He puts his happiness into David's happiness. Jonathan Edwards defines love like that. Love isn't just a warm feeling. He says, when you truly love someone, you put your happiness into their happiness. You so passionately want their prosperity. You want their joy. You so passionately want it that nothing else will make you happy. Then you know you love them. Because then you put your joy into their joy. Their joy is your joy. And you say, that's really wild. nothing but the logical conclusion, the not logical expression of the golden rule. What's the golden rule? Love others as you love yourself. That's what Jonathan does. Literally twice it says he loved David as his own soul. He loved David as himself. And you know what that means? It must mean this. If you love someone as yourself, it means that you are not one wit, one bit less happy when they strike it rich than if you had. Boy, now everybody wants to be loved do it. You say, well, I'd love to be loved like that, but I'm incapable of that. How can we be capable of that? Okay, let's keep on going. Secondly, don't just see in Jonathan our attitude toward one another. Secondly, see in Jonathan Jesus' attitude toward you. Look at Jonathan taking off his robe, taking off his sword, making himself radically vulnerable so that the one that he loves can sit on the throne. There's another Jonathan. There's an ultimate Jonathan. He also had crown rights, but the only way that he could give the ones he loved the throne was for him to lose it. Philippians 2 says Jesus Christ was equal with God. That is, he shared the throne of the universe with the Father, as it were, but he emptied himself. invulnerable. In fact, he became killable. He gave the human race his sword, and he was killed. He didn't just give his sword. He experienced the sword. And why? Jonathan Edwards, in his Sermon on Envy, which obviously I have read in preparation for this sermon, says the most wonderful words he knows are in John chapter 17, when Jesus, on the night before he dies, He explains to the world and to his father and to his disciples why he's doing it. He says, Father, I have stripped myself of the glory I deserve so they can have the glory they don't deserve. And Jonathan Edwards says, here is the exact opposite of envy. Jesus Christ loves to see people get more than they deserve. He loves it so much that he's willing to suffer so that we can get more than we deserve. You and I look at people and say, look at that person. That person does deserve that. And Jesus Christ says, look at that person. He doesn't deserve that. Isn't that wonderful? he's willing to die so we get what we don't deserve. It's the exact opposite of envy. And if you want to be changed, here's how to do it. You have to look at your ultimate friend, the greatest friend your soul ever had, who from heaven, his soul went out to us, he bound up his heart with ours so that we became his treasure, and then he stripped off his robe, and he stripped off his sword, And I want you to hear Him saying, Father, I don't want to be the only Son of God in the universe. The only way to pay their debt, the only way for them to sit on the throne, the only way for them to be raised up is for me to be pushed down. The only way for them to sit on the throne of the universe is if I lose it. So I will. And when you do that, if that melts your heart, if that changes your heart, do you realize how that changes everything? everything, if the gospel is in your mind and you look at somebody who's getting something they don't deserve, do you begrudge it? You look at them and for maybe a second you start to resent, boy, that's not fair. And then you suddenly say, wait a minute, Christ has saved me by his grace, which means on the one hand, I've got infinitely more coming to me eventually than anything I might envy in them. And it's not what I deserve. So what in the world is wrong with me? it'll change you. And you say, well, I'd love to have that kind of freedom. I'd love to have that kind of freedom. The third thing. If you want it, look at the third thing. Jonathan. In Jonathan, we see the attitude we should have to each other. In Jonathan, we see the attitude of Jesus to us. But last of all, in Jonathan, we see the attitude we ought to have. To Jesus. Because see, Jonathan says to David, I see God's salvation coming through you. And the only way for it to get into my life me to get off the throne. And do you know that's what you have to do. You have to do exactly what Jonathan did. You have to look at God's anointed. And you have to say, I see God's salvation coming. But if it's going to get in my life, I've got to get off the throne of my life. I can't just believe in you. I can't just, you know, try to emulate you. I've got to give you my life. I've got to take off my robe. I've got to take off my sword. I've got to say, You're first. You're absolute Lord of my life. Saul, the more he held on to the power over himself. The more he held on. Tried to be king. The less kingly he got. In fact, in the end, he's not even human. But Jonathan. The less he tried to be king. The more kingly he got. The less he tried to hold on to his royalty. The more royal he got. Do you want that kingliness? Do you want that love? Do you want that freedom from envy that sucks joy out of everything? Do. With Jesus. Jesus, what Jonathan did with the anointed that he had before him. Make yourselves a living sacrifice, Paul says in Romans 12, which is your reasonable service. You know why he says reasonable? How can you come to grips with someone who's given himself utterly for you without you giving yourself utterly, without reservation, without condition to him. But if you do, it's joy. Let us pray. Father, the Lord's Supper is a time for us to take things we know in our mind and make them real to our hearts. We pray that you would help us to overcome the envy that might be very, very small, looking like a foible in our lives, but it's already taking out the joy. We pray that you would help us by the gospel, by remembering our true

who was the lover of our souls, who lost the throne so we could have it, became killable and vulnerable. We think of him, and that will give us what we need to be free, to love one another. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.