The book of Exodus, which is an account of an incident in the life of Moses that we looked at last week and we're looking at this week as well. I'm only reading to you, or we only have printed a passage out of the heart of it. And so let me read you that and then remind you of the whole incident and outline that. Then Moses said to God, to him, if your presence does not go with us, don't send us up from here. does anyone know that you are pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us? What else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? And the Lord said to Moses, I will do the very thing you have asked, because I am pleased with you and I know you by name. Then Moses said, now show me your glory. And the Lord said, I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you. And I will proclaim my name, the Lord, in your presence. I will have mercy on whom I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion. But, he said, you cannot see my face, for no one may see me and live. And then the Lord said, there's a place near me where you may stand on a rock. When my glory passes by, I'll put you in a cleft in the rock and cover you with my hand until I've passed by. Then I will remove my hand, and you will see my back. But my face must not be seen. Let me recap the whole incident. incident. Chapter 32, we're told about a fairly famous incident. Even though the children of God, even though the people of Israel had been delivered out of Egypt by God, the people of Israel began to worship an idol, a golden calf. As soon as that happens, Moses and God have a fascinating and remarkable conversation that has four parts to it. Number one, God says, Moses, I'm going to destroy this group of people, and I'll raise up a new people for myself out of your descendants. And Moses says, no, not good enough. That won't glorify you. Make these people your people, and if necessary, he says, blot my name out of the book of life. Shades of Paul. You know the place in Romans where Paul says, and if I know being damned would save my people, I would do it. And Moses says, if necessary, blot mine him out of the book of life, but don't destroy them. Number two, God responds by saying, all right. And then he says, I will not destroy Israel. In fact, I will give them success. I'll give them a land. I'll give them power, military success, but my presence won't go with them. They, he says, are a stiff-necked people. And therefore, my presence will not go with them. My fellowship won't go with them. I will give them a good life, but not me. And Moses then again says, no, not good enough. If your presence doesn't go with us, don't send us up. Stage three, God says, all right, I will. read that. He says, all right. He says, I will do the very thing you've asked because I am pleased with you. I will go up and I will lead. Stage four. One more time, Moses says, no, not good enough. I want to see your very glory. And God finally says, okay, but you know, you can't see it frontally, it'll kill you. But I'll put you in a rock and I'll let my glory pass by so you'll see my back parts, as it were. And I will cause my glory to pass before you. Now, what does this remarkable, remarkable conversation tell us? It tells us so much. And it tells us mainly about the subject of revival. And revival is spiritual renewal. And what the passage teaches us is that revival is possible. It tells us about the possibility of revival. It tells us about the dynamics or how revival works. First, it is possible. Secondly, how it works. And thirdly, it tells us how you and I can very personally and very specifically prepare and seek revival. Revival. We get dry. We need God. It's possible. How it's possible, how it works, and how to prepare for it. Number one. Now, this is where we actually ended, but let's point out. This passage teaches us that revival is a possibility. And what is it? What is this great possibility? It teaches us that it's possible to know the presence of God. Revival is an experience of, I'll put it this way, the appreciable, the tangible presence of God. See, our God is both, the Bible says, and Christian theologians have said, he's both transcendent and imminent. See, Eastern religions talk about God as being a kind of life force. And so their understanding of the presence of God is, well, you can sort of feel God in everything. And people have said to me, you know, I sense the presence of God more out on looking at a beautiful lake or the Grand Canyon than I do in church. And by the way, that's not that hard considering what churches are like, but what they're talking about is not the personal presence of God, not the face of God. They're talking about the general sense you have of the greatness of whoever made all this. The Bible says that God is not just transcendent, he's imminent. He's not just imminent, he's transcendent, which means though he's illimitable, though he is exalted, he is a person, and therefore, he has a personal presence. And just like if you want to talk to somebody and really get to know them, not writing letters, you go right up to them and you look them face to face and they sense that your presence is bearing down on them, God can do the same thing. God does do the same thing. And Moses asked for that. Now, what is this great experience of the presence of God? What is it? We're told here, when Moses asked for the glory of God, God says, notice in verse 19, he says, okay, I will cause my goodness to pass before you. And I will proclaim my name to you. See, now Moses wasn't even sure what he was asking for. But when Moses says, I just want an experience of your presence, God says, okay. But you see, an experience of the presence of God is not an electrical shock. It is always a communication About the character of God. There's a content to it. Let me put it to you. The way. I think. I pretty much. Put it. This morning. Christians. At least. Have to understand. This. If. You're a Christian. You know. Something. Of this. Not. Nearly. Enough. That's. Whole. Idea. About. Revival. But. You. Know. Something. Of. This. If. You're. A. Christian. You. Know. Something. About. This. You're. Reading. The. Bible. You're. Praying. You're. You're going along, you may be walking down the street, but if you start to think about some aspect of Christian teaching, about how God is holy or he's loving or he's wise or something like that, or about who Jesus is, usually you're going over something that you've heard before or you know about, and suddenly, sometimes, you sense you're not alone. Suddenly, sometimes, you sense a presence there speaking to you, with an audible voice. But the reason I say speaking to you is there's a declaration being made. There is a message. The truth, some truth about God, about Jesus, some truth begins to shine out. Something about God passes by when you experience the presence of God. It might be his wisdom passing by. It might be his goodness passing by. It might be his holiness passing by. But when it happens, you say, oh my gosh, he is holy. He is wise. He is good. And when that passes by, it affects you to the roots. Whenever God shows up, whenever there's the presence of God, there's an earthquake. You know how often that happens? It says in Acts chapter 4, at the end of Acts chapter 4, the disciples have been threatened with their lives and they sit down and they pray and they ask God for his blessing and power. You know what it says? were in was shaken. And they were filled with the Holy Ghost. What does that mean? God always shakes you. When God comes down, he shakes you. You know, God comes down a Mount Sinai. A mountain. You know, mountains look so incredible. God comes down a Mount Sinai and the thing just about falls apart. When God comes down, things fall off. Things melt down. If his wisdom passes by, your worry melts down. It melts off. It falls off. If his holiness passes by, your spiritual lethargy, your indifference falls away. If his mercy passes by, your guilt's gone, gone, gone. But the point is, here's how you know you're in the presence of God. He declares his name before you. He's got a personal presence. He can do it. Now, you know, the Bible is full of examples of people who have met God face to face and experienced this palpable, appreciable, tangible presence of God. Abraham, you see, Jacob, Moses, Job, Isaiah, Peter, John the Apostle at the end of the whole Bible. But I really enjoy reading the journals of the more articulate men and women who over the years have experienced this, and they write about it. Jonathan Edwards, 1740s, this is a new quote, believe it or not. You say, oh, a new quote by Jonathan Edwards, a pastor who was very articulate, And he was going through a season in his life, this is in the 1740s in Connecticut, when he was having a lot of experience of revival in his life, a lot of the presence of God. Now listen to what he says. Tell me this doesn't sound like Exodus 33. He says,

bear it and I cannot bring myself to take my eye from this glorious pleasant object to turn it to myself or my interests. You know what he's saying? That's, you know, old English, but you know what he's saying? He says, you know, sometimes just the word or I might just see a word holy or love or something and suddenly God gets so ravishingly beautiful to my imagination and to my mind and in my heart that I can't stop looking at him. That's the presence of God. That's God's glory passing by. He says, Moses, I'll put you in the cleft of the rock and I'll protect you from the full frontal force of my presence, but I will declare my name to you. And if you know nothing about that, you're not a Christian. But if you know anything about that, you want more of it. you're consumed with desire for it if you know it you can take the memory of that and sometimes bury it deep but it's still there and it can't go out if you're a Christian and that's what Moses is doing and that's what he's asking for you know boy

one of the things if you've ever experienced this and I'm here to say seek this, seek this you suddenly realize

how silly it is when people look at Christianity or they come to church and the question that's really on your hearts when you first approach Christianity is will this make me happy? Will this make me happy? Look, if a little kid comes up to you and says if a nuclear bomb drops right by you and goes off does it make you hot? And you say you could put it that way, but the result is so much beyond being hot. I mean, I don't think you really want to talk that way. Or what if, here's an athlete, and this athlete has spent years in training and seeking for the gold medal. And now comes the Olympics, and now comes the event, and let's imagine that athlete makes it, wins the gold medal, and now up on the podium, the medal around the neck the anthem starts and that athlete loses it and just breaks down and sobs if a little kid comes up and says are you having fun what does the athlete say well I guess you might say that it's certainly not less than fun but it's so much more than fun that you don't even think about it's fun I mean fun is in there yes but it's What I'm experiencing is so much greater than that fun is sort of swallowed up. I don't even think about it anymore. And let me tell you, if you say, well, I would enjoy the presence of God. This whole thing is interesting. Will it make me happy? This is so far beyond that. It's not less than being happy. But let me tell you something. The presence of God is so great that it utterly transforms the question. You don't ask that question anymore. more. Because you see, the secret of happiness a Christian comes to understand, the secret of happiness is to want this more than you want to be happy. And there's nothing in the middle. You can either want to be happy as your main goal in life and never be. Or you can want to know God and know his presence as your main goal in life and have everything. And, you know, it's so far beyond being happy. It's in there. But I wouldn't put it that way. As soon as you ask the question, that really shows you don't know what this is. Now, do you see the possibility? But this passage doesn't just teach us about the possibility. It also teaches us about the individual possibility. I mean, it teaches us about the corporate possibility because the whole reason that Moses wants to see the glory of God and the whole reason he's praying for the glory of God, he says, is so that the whole people, happen in the midst. Moses does not just want the glory of God for himself. He wants the people to experience this. And this passage teaches us what history has taught us. And that is a real revival is not when you or me or a couple of individuals experience this. But when the church experiences this. When a whole group of people. When a whole community. When a whole city experience this. So this doesn't just happen when you're praying to God. But it happens in the corporate meetings. It happens in the prayer times. It happens in the times of worship. When the presence of God rests heavy on the whole body,

when God is declaring his name to a whole group of people, that's revival. And that's what we're after. Now, that's happened many, many times in many places. Just to give you one example, even though a lot of you are saying, what, what, where? Like, for example, one that you may have heard of or at least you would be interested in one I'm going to mention. In the late 1800s, 1850s, I mean, in 1857, there was still a church on the corner of Fulton and Williams, downtown Manhattan. It was called the Old North Dutch Reformed Church. And there was, it fronted on Williams between Fulton and Ann Street. And the door was closer to the Fulton-Williams Street corner, but then there next to it was a kind of building, and you entered it closer to the Ann Williams Street corner. And that church hired a young man named J.C. Lanphier to visit in the neighborhood and try to bring people to Christ. And he became extremely discouraged trying to do that, and he very often felt very frustrated. But what he would do is he would try to console himself by praying. Because he was so frustrated, he turned to prayer, and he found that he was having some wonderful times of experience of he came to the elders and he said, I've got an idea. I'm going to put a sign out front and every day, since it's a business district, it was a business district then. He says, every day, every Wednesday at noon, I invite people to come on in and pray. No preaching, no sermon, no proselyting, no minister, just me and whoever wants to pray. And the elders said, oh, that'll never work, but go ahead. And so the first Wednesday, this was September 23rd night, 1857, seven, six people showed up. Not until 1230, though. The second Wednesday, 20 people showed up. The third Wednesday, 40 people showed up and said, you know what? Let's do it every day. Two months later, the whole Christian Ed wing was filled with hundreds of people every day at noon. They started other services, prayer meetings at noon. Pretty soon, the entire downtown area, every theater, every church was filled with men and women praying from 12 to 1. The papers picked up on it. They went around. The reporters ran around trying to see how many people there were. And they went from place to place to place. And they tried to estimate. And they estimated up to 10,000 people were praying every day in lower Manhattan. Churches began to have evening services. And tons of people got converted. And back then, they didn't have little prayer cards and say, we have so many decisions. No, the way he knew somebody was converted was they joined. He didn't know they were converted until they joined. They got baptized. In a nine-month period, 50,000 people got converted and joined the churches of New York City when the population of New York City was 800,000. That's one out of every 16 people converted in about a nine- to ten-month period. That's a revival. What is that? The glory of God passing by. That has happened in greater numbers and with greater power other places. By the way, the word of that spread to Europe, but in particular there was a man named James McQuilken who outside of Kells in Northern Ireland started a little prayer meeting thinking, well, let's see if we can't have the glory of God come down in our midst. And in the next three years, 300,000 people, that was the population of Northern Ireland at the time, 100,000 people got converted and joined the churches. a third of the population. What is that? God's glory passing by. Now let me apply this for a second. Listen, one of the great problems we've got today, and I'm going to apply this directly to Redeemer, is I generally see two kinds of churches in the world right now, and I don't want Redeemer to be either kind. It's a problem. Why? Well, I think there's two kinds of churches is essentially, and this is very roughly speaking. Nobody gets offended, but I feel like I need to say. On the one hand, the thing we really have got to be grateful for from the charismatic churches is the charismatic churches know this is a possibility. They know it. They expect it and they want it. And by and large, the non-charismatic churches just don't. There is nothing worse than going to the non-charismatic churches, even the ones that are supposedly thriving. And they're very happy with all the stuff that God promised Israel. his presence. They're not crying out for the presence of God. They're not saying why hasn't God come down among us. They're not even thinking about it. It's church as usual. They're just very happy if the attendance is up a little bit. They're not expecting. The charismatics expect it. They want it. They yearn for it. They realize how inappropriate the church as usual is. But the problem I very often see in charismatic churches is where on the one hand you've got churches that don't expect it. In the charismatic churches you've got churches by and large who force it. A lot of people who feel like We keep saying we're having a revival. If we make our meetings long enough. If we work ourselves up. Emotionally enough. God has to come down. No. He doesn't. Listen. When God comes down. You don't have to encourage people. To get emotional. They do. You don't have to encourage people. To get worked up. They do. You don't have to make the meetings. Go on long. They just do. You don't do it. To bring him down. You do it. Because he's come down. You know. What I want. Is not. Redeemer. To be. Either. I want. Redeemer. Folks. To come. every week and say, maybe this is it. Maybe he'll show up. Maybe this is the day. And not say, of course it has to be the day. We're planning on it. It's in the calendar. Revival. September 10th, we're having a revival. You see? I don't want Redeemer to be either. Do you understand the possibility? See, the thing that this text shows us is revival is an incredible possibility, but on the other hand, it also shows us that revival is always partial. There's a concealing. You never get it frontally. It's always partial. It's always temporary. God says, you can only ever get the back parts of me. And so we have to understand that. We can't always be talking triumphantly like, we can do it. We can pull it off. We know how to do it. We're having one. Or on the other hand, act as if everything is fine as long as we're growing and the money's coming a little better and the people are coming in and a few more baptisms. Everything's fine. We should be saying, show me your glory. All right. Now, lastly, I'm just have to go to the end. What do you do personally? How do we personally

bring this about? How do we prepare for it? And if you look carefully, you'll see actually everything laid out. And I'm going to say there's something by preliminary and then there's three Here's the preliminary thing. If you look carefully, and I didn't read you the whole passage, when God tells Moses, I am not going to come with you, before Moses has this conversation that we read right here, Moses sets up a tabernacle anyway. There's some interesting places in the Bible. There's a place in Judges where the Israelites realize that God has withdrawn from them. And in Judges chapter 10, it says, we are really sorry that we have been so stupid spiritually. Oh, Lord, please come and rescue us from our enemies. And God says, you're worshiping idols, I notice. Cry out to them. See how they do getting you out of the Amalekites and the Hittites and the Jebusites and all that. Go. He speaks cynically to them. And then they look at him in a sense. I don't know how. In prayer, and they say, Lord God, you're right. You don't ever have to come down and help us again. This is what we're going to do. We're going to smash our idols. And we're going to serve you. And we don't care if you never help us again. We're going to do this simply because. We owe it to you. And it says. They smashed their idols. And they waited. And then the last line is. And the Lord could not bear. He could not bear their misery. Which is a very interesting passage. In other words. God comes and says. yourself together. Maybe I'll come, maybe I won't. You know, that sounds arbitrary. No, what he's trying to say is, I want you to want me not for the experience, not for the success, not for the glory bumps on your back. I want you for me. And in the same way, God says to Moses, I'm not coming with you. So he sets up a tabernacle and that tabernacle is a little tent and he goes out to it all the time. And you know what he says? He says, anybody else who wants to come find God, come find here's the general principle before I give you the specific. The general principle is do not wait for the leaders to organize a revival. It never works that way. Never. Leaders can't organize revivals. It always comes because individuals become contagious mini-models of revival. God comes down to them. They experience God. They recognize and understand it. And then what happens is they become little mini-models. them a joy that you didn't have before a humility that you didn't have before a boldness you didn't have before and you become a i might say a revival virus

Moses doesn't say we're going to get together we're going to pray till God shows up what he does is he says i'm putting a tabernacle over there anyone who wants to seek God go ahead and seek God the fact is that you've got to get on the case yourself you can't say well they're going to organize some kind of week-long meeting they're going to organize a meeting and that's where it's it's going to happen. It never happens that way. Leaders, God never does it that way. In 1988, when I was in Northern Ireland, I said, show me where the revival started and the pastor drove us to a little, it's still in existence, a little farmhouse where the revival started outside of a place called Kells. I said, this is a shack. He says, it was then too. It never starts in the center. It never starts in the center of the camp. It always starts outside the camp. So get with it. for the great leaders to show you exactly what to do. Now, what are the three things? I've organized my whole prayer life around Exodus 33, and these are the three things I see. First of all, we already talked about this a little last week. It says in verse 4, when they realized that God was not in their midst, it says they took off their ornaments. Now, that can mean a number of things. I mentioned to you last week, taking off your ornaments meaning you get serious. You know? I mean, you know, it's... Generally speaking, you don't see the women, you know, the hundred yard dash in the olympics wearing chains and earrings and things like that I mean if you're serious about something you get rid of your ornaments but you know to concentrate but you see probably what this means is they took off their ornaments because they put on their ornaments for idol worship they put on their ornaments for the golden calf and by taking off their ornaments they realized we've been worshipping idols now the first thing you've got to do if you want a personal revival is you've got to do an absolutely scathing and absolutely ruthless your life. For idols, you say, well, what's an idol? Now, you know, I've talked about it, but think in other ways and other venues, but here's how to think about it. God here says, I cannot dwell with these people. Do you remember why? It's earlier in the chapter, because they are stiff-necked. God's presence doesn't come down to stiff-necked people. To be stiff-necked and to have an idol is the same thing. Why? Okay. This is what an idol is. An idol is anything you require in addition to God to be happy. Anything you say, I've got God, but I've got to have that or else. That's what makes you a stiff neck or else. That's a stiff neck. That's what makes you demanding. That's what makes you worried. That's what makes you always grumpy. That's the reason a lot of you are not experiencing the presence of God. God. And here's what my challenge is to you. You ruthlessly examine yourself and make a list and you say, what are the main reasons I get upset or kind of cold-hearted or grumpy or worried or anxious? Look at your life. In fact, if you don't know how to do this, take an inventory. Every day sit down and say, remember in the afternoon how grumpy I was? Remember how anxious I was? How worried, how bad a day. Why was it bad? I'll tell you what you're going to find. You're going to find something that you insist upon in addition to God as a requirement for being happy. And you're going to find your idols and you're going to find things that you've got to have. Then what you need to do is you need to sit down and with a great deal of prayer, maybe Bible study. This may take a long time. You have to say, what should I be doing to smash that idol? What should I be thinking of instead? dead. And I won't tell you, I got four right now that I'm working on. And one of the ways in which I'm trying to work on revival in my life is I've got four of them. And I'm finding out that almost on any given day, at any time I feel myself grumpy or upset or getting angry or impatient or unhappy in any way, I go through my inventory and sure enough, there's always one of them. Almost always, almost always. And then at the moment, I have to say, what does it mean for me longer be stiff-necked here? What am I insisting on that I've got to have, got to have, to see, don't be stiff-necked, relax. Without being, without, you know, showing my slip here anyway, I'll just mention one of the things that I have lately been very helped with, God has been giving it to me. He's given me a radioactive thought that works on a particular idol. And whenever you feel like, you know, I'm not getting credit, which is one of my, I'm not getting credit here, I emptied the dishwasher. Did she notice? That can ruin at least an hour of my day. And I'm being honest. And I hope you are honest with yourself about that. Now look,

whenever I'm, in Psalms, every day I've been getting stuff to use on this idol. And here's a thought that works on me right now extremely well. You idiot. God will always, always. He always has. And he always will give you. Much more honor. Than you deserve. If he doesn't give it to you. Here. He's going to give it. To somewhere else. All the honor. You get. You don't deserve. He's going. He always has. And he always will give you. Far more honor. You deserve. Why in the world. Can't you relax. And then. My stiff neck. Relaxes. You have got. To get rid. Of the stiff. Neckness. You've got. To mourn. And take off. Your ornaments. You've got. To repent. after those idols in your life. Secondly, you got to build a tabernacle. Now, what does that mean? This is pretty simple. Remember, God's, Moses says, please come down into the midst of the camp. God says, I'm not going to dwell in the midst of the camp. Moses sets up a tabernacle outside the camp. What's that mean? If you say, well, you know, right now I feel so hard and cold that when I pray, I get nothing out of it. Or I get a little, but not much. If you only get a little, go get a little. If God won't meet you inside the camp. He'll only meet you outside the camp. Go outside the camp. What Moses is doing. Is he's saying. I am going to pray. I'm going to seek God. If I get nothing. There's a great little place. Where John Newton. A letter to a friend. Says. If you get nothing. Out of. Going to the throne of grace. That's prayer. He says. You're surely going to get nothing. By not going to the throne of grace. And what Moses says. Is. And what you're supposed to do. Is you say. I've got a section. Of time. I'm going to give. to 60 minutes every day, virtually every day. I'm going to go to a tabernacle. I'm going to set it up. If I'm not getting much out of it, I don't care. God deserves this much of my time. God deserves this much of my attention. I don't care. I'm going to seek Him. I'm going to say, Lord, if it takes 60 days, if it takes 60 weeks, if it takes 60 months, if it takes 60 years, I'm ready. Let Thy face shine upon Thy servant. and I'm going to be here. You know, Thomas didn't come to a meeting and Jesus showed up. He's like a lot of us. He figures every meeting's going to be the same. You know, don't be like Thomas. Be diligent. You never know. One Sunday, God might actually show up in the worship service. And you should be the same way about that time of prayer that you set aside. You just go there and you sit there and you say, I've built a tabernacle. I'm going to seek him. I don't care. I'm getting nothing out of it. I'm going to get at that. I'm going to do it. Okay, so first, smash the idols. Work on them relentlessly. You've got to. Secondly, set up the tabernacle. Well, here's the third thing. There's a particular revival prayer. And everybody has to work their own thing out. But Moses prays three things. He prays for his own assurance. He says, if I know favor with you, teach me thy way. power for the people. He's praying for an experience of his own glory of God. And then he's praying for the church's experience of the glory of God. But eventually he says, how else will the world know that we are your people? And so what he's praying for is three things. He says, I want to see your glory. I want my church to see your glory. But most of all, I want there to be such a transforming experience of your glory in my church that we become distinguishable. You see that word? So that New York City cannot avoid the fact that you are real. I want there to be something happen in our church and in my life and then in our church so astonishing that so transfigures the way in which people live and their character and their relationships that New York City cannot deny that you're there and that you're real. I want a manifestation of the glory of God for me. Then secondly for my church. and then for the world. And you have to move through that. And you can make little lists of sort of sub-petitions, but you should go after that every single day. You should cry that out morning. You should cry that out evening. Last thing. The only other thing you've got to remember is the reason the Israelites did get the presence of God was because somebody stood before them when they were sinning and said, if necessary, blot my name out of the book of life. And that's the reason why God said, okay, I'll dwell in their midst. But you see, Moses was just a symbol for someone who really did stand

before God, between God and us, and say, Lord, I want them to have your glory. You see this in John 17. In John 17, Jesus actually says about his disciples, Father, give them the glory I had with you before the world began. for their sake I sanctify myself, which means Jesus Christ died so that you would see the glory of God. Jesus Christ was the one that stood there and said, if necessary, blot my name out, that theirs might not be. And if you hide in him, I'll tell you to the degree you know that, to the degree you rejoice in that, to that degree you've seen the goodness of God for real. If somebody says to me, well, I believe that you can save yourself by being a good person, Somebody else says, well, I believe God loves everyone. And he accepts everyone. You haven't seen all the goodness of God. The goodness of God has not passed by you. Until you've seen that on the cross. God was so good. That he had to sacrifice his son. But he was also so good. That he did sacrifice his son. He was so good. He had to sacrifice his son. To satisfy justice. But he was so good. He willingly sacrificed his son for us. And until you've seen. Jesus Christ saying. Blot my name out of the book of life. The glory of God. The goodness of God. All the goodness of God. is a holy God and his goodness is a loving God has not passed before you. And when it does, and when the gospel transforms the way in which you think about yourself and everything, you're ready. Moses was ready. I want you to be ready too. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us what is available and how to seek it. And we pray that now as we sing and think about this, we will be in a position to start to actually sense your presence. Father, give us as individuals a manifestation of your glory. Give us as a church a manifestation of your glory. And let New York City recognize that you have descended to the earth. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.