I'll offer you some observations about them, and those two verses are 1 John chapter 4, verses 2 and 3. Here's what he says. This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. That's all I'm going to read, but I will say it again. This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. Now, what does this teach us? There's an awful lot of talk about the Spirit of Christmas. And what John is saying is, is that Christmas is a doctrine before it's a spirit. Now, if you understand the doctrine, it gives you a spirit. But the way you can tell whether the spirit you have is the Christmas spirit is by looking to see whether or not you believe in the doctrine of Christmas. So, the point is, Christmas is a doctrine first, and then only because it's a doctrine is it a spirit. It's a doctrine first, and if you hold the doctrine, you get it. It's a spirit of Christmas. Well, what is the, let's take a look at those two things. What, first of all, what does it mean when we say Christmas is a doctrine first, and then it becomes a Christmas spirit? See, when John says, here's how you can recognize spiritual validity. Here's how you can recognize whether or not somebody who seems to be very spiritually vital actually has the Spirit of God. And he says there's a test, and the test is a doctrinal test. And, you know, right away, we're confronted with something. The Bible's giving us an idea about doctrine that is tremendously unpopular today. I actually, trying to be a little bit in your face, frankly, I don't know if you've noticed, but I like to use the word doctrine. When I first got to New York, I wondered whether or not that was a good idea. You know, you want to use language that relates, language that people, that's not anachronistic, language that people understand. And so there's plenty of, excuse me, Christian jargon, plenty of, oh, I might say archaic technical terms that I do stay away from when I'm trying to talk to you about the gospel and the Christian message. But I actually go after the word doctrine, because there is no replacement for it. The Bible says doctrine counts. Doctrine is important. Let me go further. Dogma. God says you've got to have the right dogma. Dogma. You're going to have the spirit of Christmas. You first of all have to have the dogma of Christmas. Well, right away we say, wait a minute. Dogma. Doctrine. And it's very normal for people to say, doctrine isn't important. It's how you live. Doctrine's not important. It's whether or not you're a good person. Yes, in the old days, people used to argue about how many angels can dance on the head of a pin. But we're practical people. And I come to church not because I want doctrine. I don't believe that doctrine's important. I don't think anybody should be doctrinaire, dogmatic. Rather, I just want something to help us live life in the world today. When you say that, you show a tremendous naivete. You show a lack of self-awareness. The Bible says that dogma and doctrine is necessary. It never says you need to get doctrine. It says you need to get the right doctrine. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? It assumes that everything you do is based on doctrine. That you can't avoid doctrine. You are filled with doctrine. Everybody bases his or her life on doctrine about God, about heaven, about hell, about eternity. Now, somebody out there is saying, I don't believe that. I don't think that's true. I don't believe there are answers to these questions. The other night I was watching a rerun of Law and Order. And it's one of those shows that we really like to watch. One of the few series that we enjoy. We especially like to see people we know. you know, walking along particular streets that we know because it's all filmed in New York. There's one place where the lady psychiatrist who works for the police department is interviewing a defendant. And the defendant's a religious cult leader. And he says, don't you want to know answers to the big questions? He says, the big questions. Where did we come from? Where are we going? Why are we here? What are we designed to do? And she looks at him and she says the thing that all intelligent, sophisticated New Yorkers are supposed to say. She says, I have come to accept that there are no answers to such questions. So I've come to accept, and I've learned to live. In other words, she's a psychiatrist and she's, I'm an emotionally healthy person. I have come to recognize that there are no answers to such questions. Nobody can know those things. And I've accepted that there are no answers to such questions. I've accepted that. Well, the Bible says, as the New York Times once said, that's flap doodle. I saw that, never mind. That was in a recent editorial on the editorial page. Flap doodle. Because when somebody says there are no answers to those questions, that is an answer. When someone says there are no doctrines, we shouldn't be doctrinaire, that's doctrine. And when people, when I say that the first time to New Yorkers generally, in fact, Jeff White was telling me that in his, covering Christianity class, which he teaches regularly here after the services, one of the sessions is on this whole subject. We try to push people to see that though you think you're skeptical and though you think you don't believe in doctrine and you think you don't believe in answers to the big questions, you actually have answers to big questions. You can't operate without them. Everybody's got faith. If you say there are no answers, that is an answer. There are no pat answers. They say, that is a pat answer. That's the pattest answer possible. There's no single religion in the whole world that makes as pat an answer as that. To say there are no answers means I don't have to think anymore. I don't have to study. I don't have to wrestle. I have to read. There are no answers. People say, ah, you're just, you're just trying to pay it, play a semantic trick on me. No. When you say there are no answers, you have made a decision full of conviction. You know, people, when they say there are no answers, hmm, why are you making a fist? There's conviction behind that. Conviction, faith. Yours telling me something about the nature of religious reality, you're sure of. And you're betting your whole life and your whole eternal destiny on the fact that you're betting everything on you being true, being right. But you have no empirical evidence for it. This is not a scientific statement. See? You have done moral reasoning and you have come to a conclusion and that is an answer and that is a doctrine and that is a dogma. And you have come to a conclusion and that is a doctrine and that is a dogma. And, you know, the difference between you and me, I very often say to people in an argument like this, is that I'm admitting what I'm doing and you aren't. And you see, the Bible says there's always doctrine. Doctrine's at the basis of everything. The way you judge the spirits is by the doctrine. Now, let me go one more step. When people say, let me just show you how you can't avoid this. You just can't. People say, well, I don't believe in doctrine. All that matters is how you live. I don't believe in these statements about justification and sanctification and the

hypostatic union, the dual natures of Christ, the Trinity, all this doctrine. Years ago, people were concerned about that. Not anymore. All that matters to me is, does a person live a good life? That's what's important. I don't believe in doctrine. But don't you know what you've just said is filled with doctrine? What you're saying when you say that, you are teaching the doctrine of justification. Justification by works. Oh, no, you say, I don't believe in justification. But you're doing it. When you say, doctrine doesn't matter. All that matters is if you're a good person. You are teaching that being a good person's enough. Being a good person is all that God really wants. Being a good person is all that's important. Fine. That's a doctrine. But you just admit it. You can't avoid doctrine. Let me show you what you're doing. The doctrine of Christmas is, that regardless of how bad you've been, regardless of what you've done, if you're willing to humble yourself, and if you're willing to repent, and if you're willing to say, Lord, save me, ah, because God has sent his son into the world to be born, and to live, and to die, and to be raised for us, it's possible. So the doctrine of Christmas is that the proud, the people who think they're good enough, are lost. And the humble, the people who are willing to come and ask for help, are saved. But you are saying, right, that the people who are good, they're saved, and the people who are bad, they're lost. Don't you see? You have a doctrine. I've got a doctrine. Christians have doctrine, and you have another one. But you've got a doctrine. And you're talking, and you're making divisions. You've got a doctrine of Christmas. I've got a doctrine of Christmas, the Bible says. But we've all got doctrine. See? That's the way you test the spirits. Now, the doctrine of Christmas is a wonderful doctrine. God became a human being. The great God was born in a manger. He became a little child. He was born into this world, Jesus Christ, to live, and to die, and to be raised for us. That's the doctrine. And that's the way you can tell whether, the Bible says here, John says here, that's how you can tell whether you've got spiritual reality, whether you've got spiritual reality. But now, I said, if you understand that, if you believe the great God became a human being and was born in a stable, something like 2,000 years ago. Did you notice, by the way, there is a piece in the New York Times mentioning this fact, and I think this is interesting, but not hardly spiritually significant, since a lot of people think that Jesus was actually born in 6 BC. That would make 1994 the 2,000th Christmas. Interesting. That's about it. But around 2,000 years ago, I mean, yeah. But around 2,000 years ago, the great God was born in a stable. Do you believe that? That's the doctrine of Christmas. But if you understand the doctrine of Christmas, if you take it into your heart, that gives you the spirit. That changes the way you live. The spirit of Christmas comes from the doctrine of Christmas. Now, if you take it seriously, what kind of person will you be? That's the question. If you take this doctrine into your life, what kind of spirit will you have? Now, there is an awful lot of things I could say tonight, and I don't have that much time, so I won't say much. There's many things to say about the doctrine of the Incarnation. If you believe in it, and if you take it seriously, and if you grab it with both hands, how does that change you? What kind of spirit does that give you? But I'm only going to just mention one tonight. Just one. And that's this. If you believe in the doctrine of Christmas, it'll completely change your understanding of the doctrine of Christmas. It'll completely change your understanding of greatness. Completely. If you have the spirit of Christmas, it'll completely change your understanding of greatness, so that it's diametrically opposed to the world standard. You see, in 1 Corinthians, there's a great place where Paul says this. Yeah. Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? You know where he made it foolish? The wisdom of the world? Christmas. And then he goes on in that same passage, and he says, think of what you were when you were called. Not many of you were wise by human standards. Not many were mighty. Not many of noble birth. But God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. God chose the weak things to shame the strong. God chose the lowly things, the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are. Now, I submit to you, what Paul is talking about here is he's given us three ways in which people in the world, three ways in which worldly people judge greatness. And then he says, God has completely and utterly turned that on its head, and has shown how facile and how superficial and how misguided and wrong those standards are that the world uses to judge greatness. And nowhere did he do it more radically and obviously and vividly than on Christmas. Look at the three things that Paul says is the way the world judges greatness. First of all, it says, think of what, think of you, of what you were when you were called. Not many were noble, not many were wise, and not many were mighty. Now, noble means not many of you were famous, not many of you had a name. You know, in the old days in the world, the way you got a name was by being with the right family. Today, the way you get a name is through the media, through celebrity, but it doesn't matter. The important thing is the world judged greatness by fame, by your name. Do you have a name? This is a very old, invincible, you know, back, go back to the Tower of Babel. Why did they build up the Tower of Babel? We're told this in Genesis 11. It says, they got together and they said, let us make a name for ourselves. And nowadays, if a person doesn't have a name, you know, it's very typical in the media for people to say, ah, somebody's running for president. Somebody is contending for this, and they say, who is this person? You know, they'll write, you know, Johnny who, Susan who, you know, that might be the, that might be the, if there's going to be an article written about they might say, Johnny who. We've never heard of this person. This person doesn't have a name. Who could they be? We've never heard of them. They couldn't be that great. And so that's the first thing, fame. The second thing, wisdom. Are you brilliant? Are people making, you know, are people citing you? Are your papers read by influential people? Do the people, can you charge a lot of money as a consultant? Are you brilliant? Are you articulate? See, wise, wisdom. And then lastly, power. And particularly money. Can you get people to do what you want? Now the world has always understood greatness this way. Fame, wisdom, money, power. And so the world always assumed that if that's the way in which someone is known to be great, when God, if he were to come to earth, if the world were to come to earth, that in every category, the Messiah would be just that much more great. But God, God didn't just simply, when he sent his son, go around those standards. He went around those standards on purpose to show that they are utterly superficial and that anybody who's truly wise will recognize how misguided they are. First of all, Jesus Christ came to people who weren't famous. He came to the shepherds. He came to the poor. One of the reasons why, the famous never heard of him. One of the reasons why, you know, nowadays critics say there's not a lot of people who are famous. There's not a lot of citations by extra-biblical writers about Jesus. There's not a lot of historians that wrote much about Jesus outside of the Bible. That's true. But you know why? He didn't go to the famous. He didn't go to the right schools. He didn't have a name. He went to the poor. And then secondly, so the famous never heard of him. The mighty, when they did hear about him, squashed him like a bug. And the wise, the philosophers, when they finally heard about his message, you know, on Mars Hill, the Areopagus, they laughed. Miracles, resurrection. And even today, people wonder, if Christianity is true, why aren't there more famous people? Why aren't there more intellectual people? Why aren't there more money, powerful people who are Christians as well? Remember when Herod got Jesus up before he crucified him? He put him in his court and he said, do me a miracle. I've been hearing about the miracles, but you've been doing miracles with all these hoi polloi, you know. Now the press are here. See? Do a miracle right here. The power here, you're on center stage. The important people are here. Now do a miracle. And he wouldn't do it. Why? Because Christmas, the doctrine of Christmas confounds the wisdom of the world. It shows the foolishness of the wisdom of the world. It says that is not greatness. It isn't. Jesus would not do a miracle on center stage when the press corps was all there ready. He wouldn't do it. And there's still people today that say, well, you know, if Christianity, you know, you come into church here, and you look around, you say, where are the people that run this town? Where are the famous? Where are the brilliant? Where are the intellectuals? Where are the people with the money and the power? They're not Christians. So why should I listen to the gospel? Well, thank you, King Herod. I appreciate that point of view. Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? Well, If you understand that's the doctrine of Christmas, that's going to mean that the way in which you conduct your relationships and even the way in which you conduct your very life should be utterly changed. How? Number one,

Christians have got to see that your relationships must not be based, they must not be sifted. You know, we sift our relationships. Who do you spend time with? Who do you go out of your way to talk to? We sift and we set our priorities for our time and our relationships. Christians, if you believe in the doctrine of Christmas and if you want to get the spirit of Christmas by getting the doctrine of Christmas into your heart, you should not make your relationships on the basis of these things. You do not look at the superficial. Fame, fortune, brilliance. When Martin Luther King said, I have a dream of a society in which people are judged not on the basis of the content of their character, not on the color of their skin. He was talking about a society. He wanted a national society to be like that and that is quite a dream. Christians are not supposed to have dreams about times like that. It's okay to dream for your society and wish for that and to work for that. That's great. That's incredible. That's what a hope. What a dream. That's a great dream. But in the church, the time for that is now. You don't dream about that. That's supposed to be the way you make your relationships. That's the way in which you're supposed to build your friendships. You are not supposed to base those friendships and sift those friendships on the basis of the wisdom of this world. On Christmas, in the manger, God did not come into a palace. He came into a stable. He didn't come with a display of pomp and glory, but he sat down in the manure piles and he invited only the shepherds. Everybody else, nobody else knew. Nobody else knew. The brilliant weren't there. Look at the substantial things. Look at character. Look at the inside. We shouldn't be dreaming about a day like that. The doctrine of Christmas says we should have community based on the substantial now. But here's one more thing. This is the last thing. You should also have a vision for your own life along the lines of Christmas. In other words, you yourself need to get off the hang-ups and get out of the hang-ups. Of fame,

of brilliance, of wisdom, of influence, of money and power. You've got to get off your hang-up. You look at your life, don't you? A lot of you. Listen, there's no place that is based on the wisdom of the world. There's no place in which these principles are pressed on you more than like New York City. A lot of you feel like failures because you don't have these things. Because you say, hey, I'm such and such years old now, I should be further along. And you know, one of the reasons why you're depressed is you're forgetting the doctrine of Christmas. What is really important? What is the vision for your life? C.S. Lewis wrote a book called The Great Divorce. It's one of the most funny and fanciful books. I really tell you, it's a good book to read. It's a fiction. I can't even call it a novel. But it's about a busload of people from hell who come up to the outskirts of heaven. I guess it was one of those bus tours that you can, take. And the people from heaven come down out of heaven to try to talk to people from hell into dropping their sins and coming to God. And there's a, you know, the person who's writing the book is a man who's actually having a dream. But anyway, he comes in and he doesn't know what's going on and he has a guide. And the guide is explaining these things. And he sees the spirits coming down from heaven. And at one point, the author sees this big, beautiful spirit of a woman. Gorgeous. Beautiful beyond bearing. She's attended on all sides by boys and girls and men and women who are dancing around her and singing her praises. And her love is flowing out into them and their love is flowing back into her. It says her beauty was unbearable. And the author looks at her and then turns to his guide and he says, is it, is it, not at all, said my guide. It's someone you'll never have to see. It's someone you'll never have heard of. I thought it was somebody very famous. Oh, no, no. Her name on earth was Sarah Smith. And she lived in a little tiny town in north of Britain called Golders Green. Hmm. But she seems to be, well, a person of particular importance. Aye, says my guide. She is one of the great ones. But haven't you heard that fame in this country and fame on earth are two very different things? Well, who are all these people? Who are all these people dancing and throwing flowers before her? And who are these people all around her? Ah, said my guide, they're her sons and daughters. Every young man or boy that met her became her son. Every girl or woman that met her was her daughter. Well, I said, wasn't that hard on her parents? Or wasn't that hard on their own parents, their parents? Oh, no, said my guide. There are those that steal people's children. But her motherhood was of a different kind. Those on whom it fell went back to their natural parents loving them more. Everyone that came near her had her place in her love. In her, they became themselves. And now the abundance of life she has in Christ from the Father flows out into them. There is joy enough in the little finger of a great saint such as yonder lady to awaken all the dead things of the universe into life. Do you have a, do you understand what's going on here? This woman was a nobody. This woman had no career. This woman was Sarah Smith of Golders Grand. This woman was a nobody. When she got to heaven, she was one of the greatest women who ever lived. Everybody basks in her love. She'd become the greatest, one of the greatest hearts of heaven. Why? She had a vision of life in which she very quietly eschewed the wisdom of the world and said, I'm going to give to others the love that I got from the Lord. And as a result, she was one of the great ones. Haven't you heard? This is the doctrine of Christmas. Haven't you heard that fame is not a thing? Fame in this country is very different than fame on earth. Have you got a vision for your life? Can you say, I want to be famous to the eye and mind of heaven

because I want to quietly love and care only about what he thinks and give the way he's given to me and empty myself and serve others as he served me. That's all that matters to me. If you do that, you'll have a vision for your life. A lot of you feel like my life is stalled. It can't stall. Not if you understand Christmas. The only way to imitate the babe in the manger who became a nobody to love us, to have a vision of greatness utterly different than that of the world. And if you understand the doctrine of Christmas, you can have the spirit of Christmas. He abhorred not the virgin's womb. You see? He wasn't afraid to come down. He didn't want to praise his holy name that he did. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that as we conclude our time of worship here by thinking about what you've done,

how the shepherds came though they were off, they were outcasts, outsiders. How you became a child weak and lowly. Help us to see that you're trying to teach us something about greatness. You're trying to teach us something about how we should make our relationships and how we should be able to do things. You're trying to make us utterly different from the way the world works. We ask that we could have the blessing and the freedom and the peace that comes from making that transition as well. Give us your spirit. Give us your truth. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
