Good morning, Redeemer. The scripture reading this morning is taken from the book of Isaiah, chapter 56, verses 1 through 8. This is what the Lord says. Maintain justice and do what is right, for my salvation is close at hand, and my righteousness will soon be revealed. Blessed is the man who does this, the man who holds it fast, who keeps the Sabbath without desecrating it, and keep his hand from doing any evil. Let no foreigner who has bound himself to the Lord say, the Lord will surely exclude me from his people. And let not any eunuch complain, I am only a dry tree. For this is what the Lord says. To the eunuchs. Who keep my Sabbath, who choose what pleases me, and hold fast to my covenant. To them, I will give within my temple and its walls a memorial and a name better than sons and daughters. I will give them an everlasting name that will not be cut off. And foreigners who bind themselves to the Lord to serve him, to love the name of the Lord and to worship him. To them, I will give within my temple and its walls a memorial and a name better than sons and daughters. All who keep the Sabbath without desecrating it, and who hold fast to my covenant. These I will bring to my holy mountain and give them joy in my house of prayer. Their burnt offerings and sacrifices will be accepted on my altar. For my house will be called a house of prayer for all nations. The sovereign Lord declares, He who gathers the exiles of Israel, I will gather still others to them besides those already gathered. This is the word of the Lord. We're going to continue to look at the last chapters of Isaiah and at the vision of Redeemer. The vision of Redeemer is what we're here for, our purpose. Why are we here in New York? What are we trying to do? And every week we're printing it on the inside front cover. Inside front cover. On the top where it says, The vision of Redeemer is to build a great city for all people through a gospel movement that brings personal conversion, community formation, social justice, cultural renewal to New York City and through New York to the world. And so why, today we're going to look at why is it so important to form community? Why is community formation, why is it so important to form a community? This passage, Isaiah 56, will tell us about the importance of community, the patterns of life inside. Inside that community and the power to create that community. So, the importance of it, the patterns of it, and the power for community. Now, look at verse 1, the importance of this. This is what the Lord says, Maintain justice and do what is right, for my salvation is close at hand. Now, in chapters 54 and 55, all the stress has been on God's unconditional salvation. You can't merit it. It's free. We'll see, actually, Isaiah 55, next week, when it talks about the fact that God's salvation is without cost to us. It's free. We can't merit it. This verse, though, look, it says, Live justly, do what is right, for God's salvation is close at hand. It sure sounds like that famous, that immortal poem, You better watch out, you better not cry. You better not pout. I'm telling you why. Hmm is coming. You know? He's going to find out whether you're naughty or nice. Hmm is coming. And so it sure looks like it's saying, You better live a good life if you want to be saved. And that seems to contradict everything else in the Bible. So maybe there's another way to read it. And there is. Because salvation, the word salvation here is important. We have to look at what the Bible says about salvation, and especially about the fact that salvation has a history. There's a history to it. Go back to the beginning of the Bible, and we're told that God made human race for three purposes. First of all, to build our life, to center our life, to serve God. Secondly, to live in loving community with one another. And then thirdly, to care for this created world. But as we point out pretty much every week, the Bible tells us the human race opted to not build its life around God, but rather we opted to keep control of our own lives and to serve ourselves. And when our relationship with God unraveled, all other relationships unraveled. So relationships between nations now are characterized by all sorts of strife and often by war and violence. And relationships between classes and races are characterized by strife and conflict and often by violence. But even the basic relationships, even relationships that are not across cultural divides, even family relationships, even friendships are always, have you ever noticed, they're always blowing up. Unless you work incredibly hard, and even if you do not, even if you do work incredibly hard, they're always blowing up. What's going on? Well, the answer is you can only have a solar system if there's only one center. If every planet wants to be the center, you have a solar collision. You don't have a solar system. And in a world in which everyone is self-absorbed and everyone is thinking about, about me and my needs, and everyone is self-centered, human community, which we desperately want, is a lost dream. And I mean everyone. I mean, sure, there are people who let other people walk on them and exploit them and push them around. You know who you are. But think about why you do that. Isn't it fear? Isn't it cowardice? Isn't it, in some cases, a need to be needed? That's a self-absorption. That's ruining human community. But God was not content to leave us in our ruins. He came down to Abraham and he said, I want to make your family into a new reconstituted human community. I want to create a new humanity, a new community of peace and of justice and of love, and I'm going to do it out of your family. But in order to do that, he had to intervene into time and space and he had to make a, he had to bring a baby out of a 90-year-old, a great woman, Sarah. A couple centuries later, Moses, Mount Sinai, and God comes down again and says, I want to make you not just simply a family, but a whole nation, a whole society. I want to create a reconstituted human community, a new humanity of peace and of justice and of love. But in order to do that, he had to intervene in time and space. He had to come down in a much greater way because he had to liberate them. He had to liberate them from slavery in Egypt and bring them to Canaan. And now Isaiah, chapters 40 all the way through 50, all the way through, as we have been seeing, points forward to another intervention. He says a greater Moses is coming who's going to bring about a greater liberation, Jesus the Christ, who on the cross is not simply going to be liberating us from political and social oppression, as bad as that is, but from sin and death itself. And that's the greatest intervention to date in which God himself comes down in the form of a human being, in the form of Jesus Christ, and he dies and he rises. And then, on the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, and we looked at this last week, he says to his disciples, you're a city on a hill. You're the reconstituted human community. You are the new community of peace and love and justice that God is creating in the world. But now, it's not just a fact. It's a family. In fact, it's not just one nation or ethnic group. It's now all the peoples are to be incorporated into my new community. And not just in one land, but in all the lands. You're the alternate city, alt.city.org, in every city. And finally, see, history salvation is not done. Because when you get to the end of Isaiah, chapter 65, God says, Behold, I will create a new heavens and a new earth. The sound of weeping and crying will be heard in it no more. The wolf and the lamb will feed together. The lion will eat with the ox. They will neither harm nor destroy. On all my holy mountain, saith the Lord. All the relationships are back. The future. Absolute human community. Absolute harmony between us and the created world. Every relationship, instead of being frayed and broken, is brought back together again. That's the salvation which is to come. And notice, now do you see the history, what's happening? God comes down into time and space, in stages, each time more radically, with his saving intervention. And every time he comes down even more radically, and therefore the recipients of his grace are more transformed, the community they're part of is also reconstituted in a more extensive way, in a more radical way. And now, what is verse 1 really saying? It says, maintain justice and righteousness. And that's about relationships, see? Justice and righteousness has to do with relationships. This is a relationship. This whole passage is about being a people, a community. That's the reason why it says, let no foreigner who has found himself to the Lord say, the Lord will exclude me from his people. This is a community living in light of the future, ultimate salvation, that final new heavens and new earth. We are to be a community that is a foretaste, a sign, a mini version of that perfect human community of peace and of love and of justice, that God is finally going to reconstitute, totally and fully, the whole earth at the end of time. And now we begin to understand what all these rules are about. This is not a set of rules that say, now, if you live like this, then God will save you. Think about it. Think about the book of Exodus, for example. In the book of Exodus, where does God give the law? Does he give the people of Israel the law in Egypt, and because they obey, he saves them? No. He saves them and then gives them the law. Well, now, why? Obviously, you're not saved by obeying the law, you're saved by grace. Well, then why? What's the purpose of the law? To turn you into that community, to make you a sign and foretaste of that community. See, God says to Abraham, I'm going to make you into a community, walk before me. God says to the people through Moses, I'm going to make you into this community, here's the law. Jesus Christ says, because of my cross, my death, my resurrection, I have made you, the new multi-ethnic people of God, a new human community, and now here's the Sermon on the Mount. And what are all these rules about? They're not so much. Wait. They're not ways for you as individuals to live. They are mainly ways for the community of people, how the community of people who've been transformed by grace should be living together. They're blueprints. They're ways for us to be the sign of the future kingdom of God. That's what we're being told here. Now, what are the practical implications of that? And let me tell you, let's, let me put it to you as bluntly as I possibly can. The purpose, the purpose of God's salvation is to create this new human community. You say, well, I thought the purpose of salvation was to pardon my sins and forgive me. That's a means to an end. Of course, that's incredible. But it's a means to an end. What do you have at the very end of history? You have a city coming down out of heaven. In other words, God wants a new society. He wants a new human community. And that's what, here's what this means. When God summons you into his salvation, when God summons you into his, into his forgiveness, when God summons you into a relationship with him, he also summons you to be cemented deeply into a new human community, the community of those in your locale who have also been changed by grace. This means you can't just come to church, even every week, and just get information and inspiration. And apart from that, you're not cement yourself into the community. That's not enough. You're frustrating the very purposes of God's saving power. And you can't expect his renovating power to work in your life like that. Yeah, he'll forgive you your sins, but he's not going to, but the purpose of God's salvation is to change us by putting us into a community. Do not fall for the Western myth that you are mainly the product of your personal individual choices. And therefore, by your personal individual decisions and agenda, you can change yourself. You are mainly the product of how you've been treated. You're mainly the product of your family. You're mainly the, you'll know this the more you get older, you're mainly, you're much more controlled by who you've hung out with and who you've been around and what your models are. And you will never be changed into the likeness of God. You will never be renovated. You'll never be transformed by the power, the saving power of God, unless you're willing to put yourself in the community that his salvation has been moving toward. You've got to do that. It doesn't matter if you're only in New York for a year. It doesn't matter if you're only in New York for two years. You've got to put yourself into a community. It doesn't just mean showing up here and listening to a sermon and going home. That's not being in a community. It just means being in a crowd. It's not the same thing. See the importance of community? Verse one. Secondly, let's look at the patterns for human community. In other words, this community is not just an aggregation of people giving one another emotional support. It's an alternate community, an alternate society. And so, there are three patterns, at least we see here, for how life inside the community needs to be different than life outside in the rest of the world. And what we have here are patterns for work and money, patterns for family and sex, patterns for race and power. Yeah, all here, but I have to be brief, of course. First of all, it talks about how money and work are to be used, conducted, I guess you could say, inside this new community. Verse one says, look, it says, maintain justice and do what is right. Then verse two, blessed is the man who does this. Blessed is the one who does justice and righteousness, who keeps the Sabbath without desecrating it. Now, you see, a lot of us say, wait a minute, wait. It says, blessed are the people who live with justice. Blessed are the people who do this, who keep the Sabbath. Why is that a synonym? Why are those the same? Because you and I, when we think of the Sabbath, we think of time off. That's nice, but, is there more to it than that? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah, yeah. There has to be much more to it. Deuteronomy chapter five, verse 12 to 15, God says this. On that day, it's a Sabbath day, no one in your house may do any kind of work. That includes you, your family, your male and female servants, your livestock, and any foreigners living among you. All your servants must rest as you do. Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and the Lord your God brought you out of there with a mighty hand and an outstretched hand. Therefore, the Lord your God has commanded you to observe the Sabbath day. God liberated you from slavery, therefore, you have to observe the Sabbath day. Huh? God says the Sabbath is a reenactment of liberation from slavery. Now, why would that be? Because here's the one thing we do know about the Sabbath you could hear. The Sabbath is a deliberate limitation on how much work you do, how much money, how much profit you take, how much production comes from you. It's a deliberate limitation of work and of money and of income and of production. How is that liberation from slavery? Oh, my. First of all, for you, if you do not know how to practice Sabbath, which is to say, if you do not know how to regularly walk away from work and money for the sake of your body, for the sake of your family, for the sake of relationships, for the sake of your soul, you're a slave. You're a slave of somebody's system. You're exploited. Yes, you are. You may not believe it. You may be doing it voluntarily, but you're still a slave. You're being exploited by the particular consumption and production system of some culture because the culture comes at you and says, if you're a successful person, if you want to be, think of yourself in a certain way, you have to have these many things and you have to be able to live in this kind of place and you have to be able to go these sorts of places. In other words, the culture, the culture is a mill and you are the grist and if you do not practice Sabbath, it's grinding you. You're exploited. But not only that, it didn't just say that this is a celebration of liberation from slavery for you. It says all your servants must rest as you do. The Sabbath mindset means you must also not exploit those around you. You mustn't let others exploit you. The Sabbath keeps that from happening. But then you must turn around and, you know, now, a lot of you say, well, I don't have any male or female servants. And, okay, but it's maybe a little more complicated than that. What this means is you don't squeeze your employees. It means you don't squeeze your customers. And, for example, you don't. You look to see whether the companies you're making money through are squeezing their employees, are squeezing their customers, are harming the neighborhoods and communities in which they work. You say, well, you know, I guess I haven't even looked into that sort of thing. Actually, I don't want to look into that sort of thing. It's because you're living like the world and not a member of the new community. Do you see? Economic relationships, work relationships inside the community mean this, that when it's a choice between making profit and your body or your family or your soul, if it's a choice between work and money and the needs of your customers or your employees or the broader community, you make less. Simple. And because of that, because of that constant choosing, you don't have the physical, you don't have the social, you don't have the family, you don't have the social breakdowns that happen out in the rest of the world. You have whole. Holistic. There's a wholeness about the new community. I can't go any further on justice because we have a whole sermon on justice October 23rd. Next. There's secondly, patterns here about how you regard sex and family that are pretty interesting. The eunuch. To the eunuchs who keep my Sabbath, to them I will give my temple and a name better than sons and daughters. Let not the eunuch complain I'm only a dry tree. Now, let's talk about the reasons in ancient times for castration. You didn't think you were going to be studying that today, did you? Didn't think you'd be hearing about this in church, did you? Okay, it's New York. Okay. Why in Israel was castration forbidden? The reason it was forbidden, was because God wanted on the one hand to say sexuality, physicality, childbearing in family is a good thing. Because in the cultures around Israel, there were many places, many cultures that practiced castration because some people just thought that the body and sex and physicality was defiling and polluting. But another reason, probably even a more common reason for castration, was that kings did not want high officials to be castrated. Working in close quarters with the royal family unless they were castrated. They didn't trust them. And so the way to get up into power was castration. In other words, you chose career over family. And you see, God said to Israel, you can't do that. You mustn't make an idol of individual status over family. You mustn't choose career over family. However, Isaiah says, that does not mean that a eunuch who has bound himself to the Lord should be excluded from the people of God because, and God says directly to the eunuchs who now have bound themselves to the people of God, I will give you an everlasting, I will give you a name better than sons and daughters. This is just as radical. This is not just a critique of the kind of, well, cultures we have today, which actually choose the individual over the family and choose career over family. This is a critique, a radical critique of ancient cultures and of traditional cultures today. Because as you know, traditional cultures today and ancient cultures back then made an idol out of family and said to women, you're nothing if you're not married with children. And basically said to men, you're nothing if you don't have, you know, heirs and if you don't have a family. You're nothing. And God, in that milieu, in that culture, has the audacity to say, I will give you a significance apart from family. I will give you a name better than sons and daughters. We'll get back to that in a second. But you see, Stanley Hauerwas writes this about, shows how radically different this is than any other religion ever. He says, one of the clear differences between Christianity and all the traditional religions was that singleness was legitimated. Don't forget, Jesus was single. St. Paul was single. Now he says, you don't realize how incredibly radical that was. He says, it was legitimated in Christianity not because sex was in any way questionable. Rather, it was a clear expression that one's future is not guaranteed by the family but by the kingdom of God. In traditional religion and culture, the family bore one's deepest hopes. It was the way to establish your name, the way to realize your economic and social aspirations. But Christians do not place their hope in their children. Rather, their children, if they have them, are a sign of their hope that God has not abandoned and is saving the world. Boy, that, the balance, the criticism, the critique of both individualistic and traditional culture when it comes to family and sex is remarkable. The new community is different. So it's different in money and work. It's different in sex with regard to sex and family. And then thirdly, it's different with regard to race and power. Notice it says, verse 3, let no foreigner who has bound himself to the Lord say the Lord will surely exclude me from his people. Now, Isaiah is looking forward to the next stage in his history of salvation. As we just said, salvation had a history. God intervenes more deeply in time and space and creates new communities each time. At first, the new human community, the reconstituted human community that he was trying to engineer was only a family, Abraham's family. Then it was only an ethnic group, a nation state, Israel. But now, Israel is looking, pardon me, Isaiah is looking forward to this and Jesus, of course, establishes this. Now the people of God have to bring down those racial barriers because all people can be part of this new human community. What I love about the book of Acts is it's almost a commentary on Isaiah, chapters 54, 55, and 56. In Acts chapter 1, Jesus, before he goes to heaven, before he goes and ascends, he gets everybody together as disciples and he says, I'm sending you to Jerusalem, Samaria, and the uttermost parts of the earth. How clear could he be? I don't want you to simply go back to Jerusalem and keep the God's community one people group anymore. I'm sending you out. I want you to go in all the cities, in all the lands, amongst all the peoples. And of course, what we have, he tells them that in Acts chapter 1 and they never go. Now this is the apostles, this is the good church, this is the Holy Spirit and all that. And they still won't go. You know, they were much better than we are. But in Acts chapter 8, God actually has to come down and persecute, create a persecution to literally drive them out. And when they go out, the first case of a person who embraces Christ is both a eunuch and a foreigner, the Ethiopian eunuch, the African, the African official in Acts chapter 8. But almost my favorite passage to illustrate Isaiah 56 and 54, 55, and 56 is chapter 16. When Paul is planting the church in Philippi, you know what he says? He says, he goes first to Lydia and she's the first convert. She's a businesswoman, professional. Secondly, the slave girl, the demon-possessed little slave girl who is being economically as well as spiritually oppressed and he saves her. And then he brings to faith the tough guy, the Roman, the Philippian jailer. And you know, there was a prayer. It goes way back, centuries old, that Jewish men often prayed. Probably, it could be that they prayed it as far back as the time Acts 16 was written. You know what that prayer is? They would get up in the morning and they say, oh Lord, I thank thee that I am not a woman, a slave, or a Gentile. And that's the first three converts that God used. You see, this is God saying to us, this is God through Isaiah saying this, the new community must be committed to power sharing and to relationship building between groups of people and classes of people and races that out in the world can't do it. And two brief words by application before we get to the last point. First of all, and I've never done this before, exactly, but can I say something to you white people? Some years ago, an African American Christian friend of mine said, you know what I, he said, one thing that bothers me about you white Christians is you do not know you've got a culture. It took me at least 10 minutes for him to figure, to help me understand it, which proved his point, by the way. What he says is, you white people, you understand, you say, oh, you have a black, there's black culture, there's black, and there's Asian culture, there's Latino culture. But the way you do things is just the way things are done. You see? You don't think of it as a culture, but it's a culture. It's not just the way all sensible people think. It's not the way all Christian people think. And because white people have been in charge for so long, you know, non-white people know how culture works. They know how their culture works. They know how white culture works. You wouldn't be able to get around. But we, white Christians, we don't know. We tend to just think this is the way things are. And if we're going to be part of the new community, we're going to have to listen. More than we ever have. Now, where do we get the power to do something like that, huh? Where do we get the power for this? Where do we get the power to have this kind of attitude toward power? This kind of attitude toward money? This kind of attitude toward family and sex? This kind of attitude toward community? We're Western people. We don't want to be in a community. We want to keep our options open. We don't want to be accountable. We don't want people to know our business. We don't want group decision making. We want to make our decisions unilaterally. Where are we going to get the power to do this? Because you see, on the other hand, we want community. In spite of this fear of it, which basically, I would have to say, sin has created, and our Western culture has definitely aggravated, we need it. What do you think solitary confinement is? It's a punishment. It can drive people insane. We know that babies who are not picked up and actually, actually touched and loved, they're just laid in cribs and institutions. They die. We're dying for a lack of community. We're afraid of it. So where are we going to get the power to get it? Here. It's what God actually gives to the foreigners, to the eunuchs, to everyone. He says, I will give you an everlasting name that will not be cut off. An everlasting name that will not be cut off. Let's just meditate on that because that's where the power comes from. Number one. What is a name? What does it mean to have a name? You notice it also says, I will give them a memorial and a name. And the background, it's sort of a sad background. In 2 Samuel 18, 18, Absalom got near the end of his life and Absalom had a very tragic life and he also had no children. And he says, it says in 2 Samuel 18, 18, Absalom set up a pillar as a monument to himself for he thought, I have no son to carry on the memory of my name. Now, what he was struggling with was meaninglessness, insignificance. We all want to count. The idea that no one misses us, that we've made no difference to anyone at all,

is that we're just a statistic. We don't have a name. There's no significance. We don't count. Now, in ancient times, the ancient cultures felt like if you didn't have children, if you didn't have children, who carried on your name, you didn't count. That was meaninglessness. That was namelessness. It meant you were just a wave on the sand. It meant you really weren't a person. But on the other hand, are we in better shape today? Andrew Delbanco puts it like this. He's a teacher at Columbia. He says, we have to, he says, in order to live, we have to imagine some purpose to life that transcends our own tiny allotment of days. If we were to escape the lurking suspicion that all our getting and spending amounts to nothing more than fidgeting while we wait for death. He says, I will use the word culture, quote unquote, to mean the stories and symbols by which we try to hold back the melancholy suspicion that we live in a world without meaning. Now, why does he say that there's this kind of overwhelming sense we have in the modern world that our lives are meaningless, that we are insignificant, that we make no difference? Well, listen, go to Columbia. Some of you have, have or are. Go to any of the institutions of any sort, anywhere in Western culture, and say, what's life all about? And they'll say, well, we're here by accident. We came from nothing. And we go to nothing. In fact, eventually, the sun is going to burn up and everything is going to go away. And therefore, whether you live a violent, cruel life or an incredibly loving, sacrificial life, in the end, will make absolutely no difference. No difference. And everything will be forgotten. You are just a wave upon the sand. You are utterly insignificant. And if you believe that this world is all there is, as Delbanco points out, you're going to desperately spend all of your time watching movies and telling stories and involving yourself in symbols to hold back what you know to be true. And that is, you don't have a name. See? You're not going to last. You are insignificant. You're just protoplasm. You're just a statistic. And there won't be anybody to remember this statistic. But what if this world isn't all there is? What is available? And here's what's available. Isaiah 43, verse 1. But now, this is what the Lord says. He who created you, O Jacob, he who formed you, O Israel, fear not. I have redeemed you. I have summoned you by name. You are mine. I will give them an everlasting name. If God loves you, because he lasts forever, so will you. There's this amazing place to me. It's amazing to me. And it's a kind of obscure spot. In Matthew 22, where Jesus is arguing with the Sadducees about the afterlife because the Sadducees didn't believe in an afterlife. And Jesus says, haven't you read this place? And he quotes a place where it says, God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God is the God. He is never the God of the dead. He's only the God of the living, says Jesus. Do you know what he's saying? When you love someone, you never, ever, ever want that relationship to go to past tense. You never want to say, this was my friend. And you never want to say, this was my son. This was my daughter. You never, ever, ever want to put the relationship in the past tense. But we're not all powerful. And our love relationships go into the past tense. But God is omnipotent. And that means that if God puts his love on you, his relationship with you can never, ever go in the past tense. Never. If he puts his love on you, you have an everlasting name. You are eternally significant. You count forever. Do you believe that? You say, how could I know something like that? That would be an amazing thing. That would be amazing. How could I know something like that? Well, the answer is, here's how you can know. The second part of that verse. I will give them an everlasting name that will not be cut off. What does that term mean? That is not an accidental term. Because the word to be cut off was the curse of the covenant. It was the curse of sin. It's used over and over again in the Bible. You know why? To be cut off from your people, to be cut off from God was the curse of sin. It's very simple. Sin is selfishness. Sin is self-centeredness. And self-centeredness isolates you. Self-centeredness takes you away. And yet we just said solitary confinement is torture. Solitary confinement makes us go insane. And we need we need human community. And yet sin cuts us off from human community. We can't bear that. We can't bear the curse. We can't bear the natural punishment that comes from our self-centeredness. And we don't have to because Jesus Christ we're told came. And he bore it. Because we're told in Isaiah 53 verse 8 and we read it a couple weeks ago by oppression and judgment he was taken away. And who can speak of his descendants? For he was cut off from the land of the living. For he was cut off for the transgression of my people. He was stricken. And he wasn't just cut into. He wasn't just cut by the spikes. And he wasn't just cut by the thorns. And he wasn't just cut by the spirit. He was cut off because he says my God my God why hast thou forsaken me? And the thought that changed my life many years ago I don't even know who gave me this illustration originally but somebody basically put it here. Let me give it to you. If after this service one of you says I hate you and I never want to see you again that will really hurt me for a while. But if after this service my wife says I hate you and I never want to see you again that will be infinitely worse. Because you see the deeper and the longer the relationship the more the agony of a lost relationship which is the greatest agony to be cut off that we can know. But for the father and the son who have known each other from all eternity for the son to voluntarily lose the infinite heart of the universe the love at the heart of the universe to lose love infinitely was the greatest agony. You can get rid of your images of hellfire and sulfur and stuff like that. It's nothing compared to this. But he lost the love. He went into the ultimate infinite solitary confinement so that we could be brought in. He became nameless so that we could have a name. And listen. Do you believe that? If you believe that it's a truth. But not a truth that leads to exclusivity. You know people are always around New York saying now if you think you have the truth that's exclusive. If you think your view of reality is right and everyone else is wrong that's exclusive. But of course that is a very white western enlightenment understanding of reality that you think you know the idea that there is no objective truth and that what really matters is individual rights. In other words for you to say to someone else if you think your view of reality is right and everyone else is wrong is a view of reality that you think is right and everyone else is wrong. In other words you cannot avoid truth claims. The real issue is which truth claims lead to embrace of people who are different than you and which truth claims lead for you to scorn people who oppose you as fools. Which truth claims lead the community. Which truth claims both humble and affirm you so that you're not afraid of people who are different than you are. Nor can you despise them. And the answer is this one. If I build my name if I build my identity on being liberal then I'm going to have to despise conservatives. If I build my name on being moral and traditional values then I'm going to have to despise liberals you see. If I build my identity on being a hard working person then I have to despise people I think of as lazy. But if I build my identity on what Jesus Christ did for me and the fact that I have an everlasting name by grace I can't on the one hand feel superior to anybody nor do I have to fear anybody else. I don't have to compare myself to them at all. In other words my identity is based on somebody who was excluded from me who was cast out from me who loved his enemies and that is going to turn me into someone who embraces someone who that's the basis for the new human community that this world so desperately needs. Take it yourself. Take hold of it. Let us pray. Thank you Father for giving us this vision of your future. We ask that you would help us to incorporate it into our hearts and into our lives but not just into our individual lives but into our relationships and we pray that you would help us by your Holy Spirit to apply this truth to our hearts. We ask this in Jesus name. Amen.