Matthew chapter 5, verses 1 through 9. Let's read verses 1 through 10. Now when he saw the crowds, he went up on a mountainside and sat down. His disciples came to him, and he began to teach them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. This ends the reading of God's Holy Word. We've been looking at the Beatitudes. And we are saying. That whereas. Many people think. Of the Beatitudes. As describing. Eight or nine. Different classes. Of people. The poor. In spirit. The mourners. The meek. And so on. We see. That. Because. At the beginning. Of the verse. Blessed. Are the poor. In spirit. For theirs. Is the kingdom. Of heaven. And. Because. Of the. End. Of the. Beatitudes. Where it. Says. Blessed. Are those. Who. Persecuted. For. Their. Is. The. Kingdom. Of. Heaven. We see that these are not really eight different classifications of people. But they're one class people. Because, you see, obviously. We've been talking about this each week. But we have to underscore it. Obviously. Every one of these people. Are getting into the kingdom. In the beginning. It says. There's the kingdom of heaven. Then it talks about being comforted. It talks about seeing God. It talks about inheriting the earth. Jesus talks about. Being adopted into the family of God. Being children of God. Jesus talks about obtaining mercy and deep soul satisfaction. Filledness. And what he's doing is not talking about different blessings. He's talking about all the blessings. All the different beautiful aspects of what it means. To enter the kingdom of God. Because all these blessings are essentially the same thing. They're aspects. Of the great riches that belong to anyone. Who's entered the kingdom. So this is not eight different kinds of people. These are eight characteristics of one kind of people, the people who enter the kingdom of God when they're born again. As Jesus says in John chapter 3, you must be born again to enter the kingdom. Being born again is not an end in itself. It's the gateway into the kingdom of God. And what we have in the kingdom is all this stuff that Jesus is talking about. Inheriting the earth, deep soul comfort, being adopted into the family, seeing God face to face. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. It's almost like what we're doing is we're listening to a, the Beatitudes, we're listening to a Bach piece, variations on a theme, an unending series of rich variations on a theme. The theme is the kingdom of God. Now, the order is very important, and we've been looking at it, and I realize that today is a day to draw together what we've already seen. Because it's so easy over a period of weeks. When you're looking at the Beatitudes. To lose all perspective. The first four Beatitudes. Tell you how. To become a Christian. The first four Beatitudes. Tell you how. To be sure. That you are entering the kingdom of God. And then. The last four Beatitudes. Tell you about the new life. That we have in Christ. It's time. To look at the whole. So. Let's take a moment. You remember. We said. Or. If you weren't here. I will say. And review. And help you. Remember. Or. Understand. that you first, in order to belong to the kingdom of God, have to be poor in spirit. And to be poor in spirit simply means to say, my problems are beyond me, I cannot save myself, I need help. I'm not competent to deal with my own problems. Number one, first absolutely irreplaceable requirement for entering the kingdom of God. You can't come to Christ as if he's a self-help enrichment course. Secondly, mourning in spirit. If you're to be poor in spirit, we also have to mourn in spirit. And we said to mourn means to go beyond the first beatitude and to say, I have problems, but I see now that my problems are not just philosophical, they're not just sociological, they're not just psychological. They are spiritual in nature. My problem is sin. Until you're willing to call your neuroses or your lack of self-esteem or your bitterness or your resentment or your sensitivity, until you're willing to call your problems, to see at the bottom what they are is sin, you cannot enter the kingdom of God until you mourn. What that means is this. You may not have the outward behavioral symptoms of what we call sin. You may not have a lot of sins in your life. You may not have activities of dishonesty or violence or impurity, the things that we ordinarily think of as sins. You may not have much of that in your life, but the essence of sin is this claim that we have to run our own lives, to say, I own me. You know that book, I'm Not Much Baby, But I'm All I've Got? There's a basis behind all of those books, and that is there's a fundamental assumption, and that is I own me, even though I didn't create me. I own me. my own life, I can call my own shots. I have the right to live as I see fit. In other words, I am my own God, and I center my life on myself, and that's what sin is. And you can have a lot of sins out in your life that manifest sin, but we all have sin in the heart, and you cannot enter the kingdom of God until you've mourned. And then thirdly, poor in spirit, see that your problems are beyond you. Mourn means that you're willing to call your problems sin. And thirdly, meekness. What it means when we say blessed are the meek is it means we turn to God humbly and say, I take my hands off my life. There's a surrender here. I don't just admit that I'm a sinner. I also turn to you and I surrender to you and say, Lord, you have to take over. There's a surrender that has to happen. But then, finally, we come to blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. And let me give us an illustration that brings together what we talked about last week and before. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. You see, it's one thing to say, I need somebody. I need something in my life. I need God in my life. I'm a sinner. My problems are beyond me. But then we have to turn and to see that there is a record that we need to open the door into God's presence. And that record is not something that we can develop. What is that? Imagine this. Suppose you went into baseball and you come out with an incredible record. Five Cy Young Awards, you see, or four MVP Awards or three batting championships. You have a tremendous record. And then you retire at the ripe old age of 37 or something like that. You retire. Because of that record, that record opens an incredible number of doors for you. In fact, it's already been doing it. But once you retire, it opens all kinds of doors. It opens doors for business opportunities, right? The rest of us don't have. Because of that record. It opens a social. Opportunity. Doors. It opens. Marriage. Opportunity. Doors. And. Re. Marriage. Opportunity. Doors. And. Re. Marriage. Opportunity. Doors. Re. reopen. Re. reopen. Re. reopen. reopen. silver stars and bronze stars and so on. And you come back. And because of that record, again, all kinds of doors are open. Business opportunities and marriage opportunities and social opportunities and so on. Or what if you go, let's get even closer to home. What if you go to the very best graduate school in your field. And you come out of that graduate school with the highest honors. And the best grades. And the most incredible recommendations from your professors on your record. That record opens all kinds of doors up for you. What does it mean to open up the door to God? We know what we mean. How could we be sure that we can come into the presence of God and feel his love? And in a sense, he talks to us and we can talk to him. To know that his power comes into our lives so we are able to do things we couldn't do before. So we know that he answers our prayers. So we know that he guides us no matter what kind of a mess we seem to be making of our lives. He always is guiding us. that complete access to God. What record will open the door to God? And the answer is, we all know it, a perfect record, a perfect life. The one thing that I think is so funny is that all of us deep down know we should be perfect. Now, those of us who are the most aware of that knowledge go off to the therapist to try to get rid of it. And a therapist tells us, this is very, very bad that you feel that you should be perfect. And they do everything they can to get rid of it. know you never have. And those of us who are honest about ourselves, though we haven't run off to the therapist, we've done all kinds of other things to beat our conscience and numb our conscience and inject our consciences and so on. But deep down inside, we know what kind of record will open the door to God. Only one kind, a perfect life. And none of us have that record. And it's very often that people come running through the first three free beatitudes. And then immediately take a left turn and go out into left field or right field and never find their way home. And the reason for that is because you can get, you can feel like your problems are beyond you. And you can realize that your problems are your own fault and due to your own sin and pride and self-centeredness and self-absorption. You can even say, Lord, I need you in my life. But then you do everything you possibly can. You come to church or you start reading spiritual books. You try to clean up your life. You do everything you can to get that record

and you either get crushed under the load of guilt, or you get burnt out from the Christian busyness, or eventually you throw your hands up, you go off to the left or right field, you never come home, because the fourth beatitude is this. Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after somebody else's righteousness, not their own. Because they're hungering and thirsting, they know it's not theirs. They realize that they don't have any of their own, and they say, I need a record, a perfect record from somewhere else, and it's found in Jesus. And when you receive him as Savior, his perfect record, his death and his life, comes to you. And the most perfect, to me, illustration of what it is to hunger and thirst after righteousness before Jesus Christ is found actually back in the Old Testament, back in Genesis. There's a place in Genesis that tells this long story. It goes, I don't know how many chapters on. It tells us a story about 12 brothers. Twelve. And the 12 brothers have a one brother named Joseph that they hate because he's, for various reasons, he's the favorite of the father. And what they do, and many of you are familiar with this. Many of you are not. They beat him up. They throw him into a pit. And they sell him into slavery. And essentially they kill him. They don't actually kill him. They sell him into slavery in Egypt. And they say that's the last we'll ever see of him. He'll die on the road. He'll die in some dungeon. rid of him. But Joseph goes down to Egypt, and though he is a slave, and though he ends up in prison and in a dungeon, at a certain point, because of God's help and because of his own godliness, he rises up and becomes the most powerful person in Egypt next to the Pharaoh. And later on, it turns out that his brothers come down into Egypt and have to buy grain from him, And there's this amazing moment in which Joseph reveals himself to his brothers. And then Joseph could no longer control himself before all of his attendants. And he cried out, have everyone leave my presence. So there was no one with Joseph when he made himself known to his brothers. And he wept so loudly that the Egyptians heard him. And Pharaoh's household heard about it. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. But his brothers were not able to answer him. Because they were terrified at his presence. Then Joseph said to his brothers, Come close to me. I am your brother Joseph, the one you sold into Egypt, and now do not be distressed and do not be angry with yourselves for selling me here because it was to save lives that God sent me ahead of you. For two years now there has been a famine in the land, and for the five years there will not be plowing, but God sent me ahead of you to preserve you, your lives. So come, hurry back to my father and say to him, This is what your son Joseph says. God has made me Lord of all. Paul, come down to me, don't delay, and you will live here with me. Of course they're trembling before Joseph. These brothers had killed Joseph, and now he's back from the dead. And they stand waiting, full of guilt and fear, waiting for his wrath to come down on them. Instead, they feel his hot tears on their neck. And he says, listen, I love you. Yes, you killed me. but it was all in order to enable me to save you. And now I am Lord of all and I have access to the throne of Egypt and you can come and live here as kings like I am living on the basis of my record. And they go home rejoicing. Do you know what it is to enter the kingdom of God? Do you know what it is to hunger and thirst after righteousness? It's to stand before Jesus Christ. It's knowing this. Number one, Jesus is our brother. two, you've spent all of your life rebelling against him. All of your life basically trying to live your own life and be your own master and get out from underneath his clammy hands so you could really swing, you thought. And because of your sins, Jesus Christ was put to death for you. Your sins caused him to die. And now in the gospel, he appears before you. And if you have I've got an ounce of understanding. You bow your heads, we all do, in terror and guilt, and we wait for the sword to come down, and instead we feel hot tears. And he says, listen, yes, you killed me, but it was so that I could save you. Move into my kingdom and live here as kings, like me, on the basis of my record. And what it means to hunger and thirst after righteousness is to bow the knee and to say, Lord, I don't know why I don't feel a sword, cold steel on my neck. Instead, kisses. This is incredible. And I see that because of what you have done, not because of anything that I have done, you have a record that I can receive and live on the basis of. Oh, Father, save me for Jesus' sake. I give up trying to earn my own record. I give up trying to clean up my own life. I give up trying to have the record that will open the door. I receive Jesus Christ as Savior. That's what it means to hunger and thirst after righteousness. To come to Him and say, say, you owe me. I've tried my best. I've lived a good life, or I've even had a hard life. To come to God and say, you owe me. You have just maybe gone through the first three Beatitudes, but you haven't hit the fourth one yet, and you'll never get home. You have got to say, I am nothing. I owe you everything. I am nothing. Jesus Christ has to be my everything. Don't you see? All you need is need. All you need is nothing. You have to hunger and thirst after righteousness. Are you there? You see, you can be there today. Now, what we have to do this morning is to show you, because we're right at the midpoint, and I realized this as I was preparing this sermon, we're right at the midpoint. We had to take the overview of the first four Beatitudes. It's almost like we're at the top of a mountain, And when you get to the top of a mountain on this hike that we're hiking through the Beatitudes. You've got to sit down for a minute. And not really do a whole lot of work that day. Not make a lot of progress that day. So we're not making a lot of progress in the Beatitudes today. But look behind us and see where we came from. And now let's for a moment look ahead of us. And see where we're going. A changed life. Blessed are the merciful. Blessed are the pure in heart. Blessed are the peacemakers. for righteousness sake. If you've entered the kingdom of God through the first four Beatitudes, you now have these next four Beatitudes which sum up this completely different kingdom life that we've got. I think this might, no, I probably have another couple weeks left. I like to read a book and get one illustration a week out of it for at least five weeks. Then I feel, got my money's worth out of this book. And I've been using Becky Pippert's book, Hope Has Its Reasons. Last week and the last week. Here's a great one for this week. Becky Pippert, the author of the book, was taking a course in graduate psychology at Harvard. And she was just listening to a very, very fine teacher teach how to use psychodynamic psychotherapy to help a person understand the hostility. They were using a case, and they were using psychodynamic psychotherapy to help a particular man, a case, see how much hostility he had toward his mother and how it was controlling his life and how it was ruining his life and how he was denying it. And at the end of it, Becky says it was a marvelous lecture. She raises her hand and she says, Okay, let me ask you a question. What would you then say to the man if he said, Thank you for showing me all this, but how do I forgive my mother? And the man looked at him. The teacher, this great teacher, looks at her and says, Well, I guess what the therapist would say is, Lots of luck. And suddenly, the entire room, all the students started going, wait a minute here. You know, we're all studying to be therapists. And everybody started raising their hands and essentially saying, I thought the whole idea of counseling was to help people. I mean, I thought the idea was to give people the ability to change and all that sort of thing. And as they kept pushing all this thing up, you know, this professor says, look, it's hard enough to understand what ruins, runs us hurt us. It's hard enough to understand your insides. It's hard enough to understand your family life and background. Don't foist your neurosis about forgiveness on the patient, throwing your values on him, he said. And at that point, Becky finally puts her hand up and says, wait a minute, she said, number one, I don't know. She said, I have two things to say. One is, I don't know how to put this in the appropriate psychobabble, but what good is therapy if you can't teach somebody, once he sees what his feelings are, how to deal with his feelings. What's the use of helping a person understand and feel his feelings when they're just going to destroy him? And number two, she said, I want you to know I'm not taking this course for credit. And the last thing he said to her was this. He looked at everybody and he said, listen, I appreciate your concern, but if you're looking for a changed heart, you're looking in the wrong department. department. Now, I really hate to disappoint some of you with that story, but a changed heart is what kingdom life is about. Don't forget, listen, there's nothing wrong with psychodynamic psychotherapy. It sounds great to me. I've read a little bit about it. But here's a man who is honest enough to say this is what it can do and this is what it can't do. It can help you understand, but it can't take you beyond that. But the Bible tells us that every aspect of your life, if you enter in under the kingdom, if you enter in under the kingship of Christ, then the hands of the king are healing hands. And thus shall the rightful king be known. If you really have the right king there over you, you will find yourself starting to blossom. Just like a garden blossoms under the right gardener. Like a team blossoms under the right coach. And therefore, your life, every aspect of your life, Life will blossom. It will explode. With it's potential. If you're under. The right king. And these. Last. Beatitudes. Tell us. Number. One. All. Of. Your. Relationships. Will. Be. Transformed. Because. You. Become. A. Merciful. Person. And. Number. Two. Intracyclic. You. Will. Be. Transformed. Not. Just. In. Your. Relationships. But. In. Your. Psychology. Will. Be. Transformed. Because. You. Become. Pure. Of. Heart. your whole direction in life will be transformed because you'll now have a mission in life. You'll be peacemakers. And your mission will be so tough and strong, and you'll be so stable that persecution is going to do nothing but make you a better person. And that's what those other Beatitudes are saying. We're going to look at them in the coming weeks, but I'd like to talk just here at the end about the first one, mercy, for a moment, just for a moment. Blessed are the merciful. Let me just give you a little insight into the glories of the new kingdom life that you've entered into. Or that you could enter into. You could even enter into today if necessary. Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy is teaching us that mercy can become the basis of all of our relationships. We have transformed relationships because we have a relationship with Jesus Christ which is based on mercy. Now, let me briefly explain what mercy is in the Bible. The word mercy is a little different than grace. Not that you could ever, you could actually have grace without mercy. But you couldn't really have mercy without grace. The word grace means to give help to somebody who doesn't deserve it. So grace means, to be gracious means undeserved help. But the word mercy is a little deeper. And it's really a richer word. Believe it or not. The word mercy means to be moved by empathy for the suffering of somebody else. It means to vibrate to somebody else's pain, to feel somebody else's pain, and be moved to extravagant effort to alleviate that suffering. Do you see how it's possible to have grace without mercy? You could actually give help to somebody undeserving and not really feel for that person, but you couldn't have mercy without grace. Mercy is to be moved with compassion for somebody else's hurt and to alleviate that hurt even at extravagant cost to yourself. And in the Bible, there's two examples of human mercy that mirrors the divine mercy. Two examples. One form of mercy is forgiveness. forgiveness. In Matthew chapter 18, we've got that great story about the king who forgives one of his servants 10,000 talents. And at one point, the king comes and says to that servant, you should have mercy on others the way I've had mercy on you. The king knows, Jesus knows, that forgiveness is mercy. Well, somebody says, why would forgiveness be mercy? When people wrong you, forgiving them, why is that mercy? I thought you said mercy is costly. And the answer is this, forgiveness is always expensive to somebody. Do you realize that? You can never actually get rid of a debt. You can only absorb it. If somebody knocks over your lamp and breaks it, and you say, I forgive you, does that mean that somehow the cost of that's going up into the air? No. If you don't forgive the person. That person. You know. If you don't forgive the person. The debt. That person pays. Whatever the. The lamp cost. Or you. Pay whatever the lamp cost. Because you replace your lamp. Either that person. Bears the cost. Or you absorb the cost. But there's nothing. There's no way. The debt. Goes into the air. Somebody pays it. And whenever. You forgive. Somebody. That means. You absorb. The cost. Mercy. The first form. Of mercy. Is forgiveness. And Christians. Christians. Are merciful. People. everybody, no matter what has happened. Jesus Christ says in Matthew 11, if you stand praying and you realize you have anything against anybody, forgive them. Jesus does not say there, wait till they come groveling on hands and knees, kissing your toes, and then go ahead. He says, if you have anything against anybody, forgive them because Christians are the most merciful of people. And another form of mercy, the second form of mercy besides forgiveness is basically costly giving. In the Good Samaritan parable, you've got a perfect example of mercy, where Jesus Christ tells us about a man in a road and a Samaritan comes along and gives an enormous amount to that man because of his suffering. He risks his life for him. He takes him to an inn and puts him up for months. He waits for him. He gives him medical costs and transportation and so on. If you really will bear people's burdens, you know what that means? You can't bear somebody's burden unless part of the burden falls on you. If somebody's walking along with a hundred pound log. How do you bear the burden? You get under it so that twenty pounds is on you. And eighty pounds is on him. Or maybe fifty pounds on you. And fifty pounds on him. There's no way to bear somebody's burden. Without some of it coming back on you. And when people say. I can't afford to help you. Or I can't afford to give to that. What you mean is. I can't afford without some of your burden. Falling on me. me. Because if I give to you, that means there'll be certain things in my life that I won't be able to do. If I give to you, I won't be able to go out to eat tonight. And you see, your need then would fall on me. Or at least part of it would fall on me. And a merciful person says, okay. Okay. Come on, burden. That's what I'm here for. A merciful person forgives. And a merciful person makes good the debts. Makes good the debts, no matter what the cost. And a merciful person matter what the cost. Now, can you imagine if we had a community of people? What if 50% of the people in this church forgave everybody, never paid anybody back, never revenged themselves, but only repaid evil with good, and who also were quite willing to go to the mat for people and to meet people's needs, whether social or psychological or spiritual or economic, with extravagant efforts to alleviate those needs? What if we were a community like that? then you know what we'd be? We'd be a church. Because that's all the church is. Now somebody says, fine, this is great, but you're starting to make me feel guilty. Where in the world do I get the power to do that? And the answer is, you have to go through the first four Beatitudes to get to the fifth Beatitude. If you just take little, if you take this verse out of context and just rip it out, and you say, Well, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. All by itself, you know what it looks like? What does it look like? It looks like the only way God will be merciful to me if I go out and live this life of mercy, and I can't handle it. You're making a tremendous mistake. You've got to go through the first four Beatitudes to get to that fifth one. If you are poor in spirit, if you understand that Jesus Christ has died for you, if you hunger and thirst after righteousness, then think for a minute. the only reason that you would ever be able to be a merciful person is if you continually look at the costliness of God's mercy to you. Can I show you how to do that right now? Let me just give you the exercise. Don't forget what Jesus Christ suffered on the cross for you. You know, people seem to think forgiveness is an easy thing. Think nothing of it. With all due reverence, let me say that the only problem that almighty God ever faced was our forgiveness. Because when he wanted to see light, he said, let there be light. And there was light. And when he wanted to see earth, he said, let there be earth. And there was earth. And when he wanted to see people, he said, let there be people. And there was people. And when he wanted to see us forgiven, he never snaps his finger and says, let there be forgiveness. But instead has to go to this incredible effort to send his son to earth to die on the cross and take our punishment. You see how hard it was? Jesus Christ on the cross was cut off from God. He took our punishment so that God could give us his righteousness. And what I do, let me be very personal. When I'm having trouble being merciful, I think about the costliness of God's mercy in three ways. First of all, I think of his costliness in terms of the quality of his suffering. You know, when Jesus was on the cross, God cut him off. when Jesus said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It means the Father turned his back on Jesus. Do you know what that means? Listen, if any of you getting up here come up to me after the service and say, I hate you, I'm going to be pretty crestfallen. I'll feel pretty bad. If my sons get up and walk forward and say, I hate you and I never want to see you again, I'll feel a lot worse. But actually, the worst that would happen my wife gets up and says, I hate you. I never want to see you again. And that's the worst of all, don't you see? Because the more loving and the more joyful and the more intimate a relationship, the more devastating when you're cut off. And some of you have known that, and I haven't. And yet that's nothing. Because you see, I've only known my wife for 15 years, and as great as our marriage is, it's nothing. The father and the son were, the son was in the bosom of the Father from all eternity. And what God did at that point was he cut Jesus off. And we're told this. Think of the quantity of his suffering. We're told that when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane, that he sweated blood. That means the Son of God was under such pressure and was experiencing such inward agony just looking at what he was going to go through, that the blood vessels close to his skin burst and came out through his capillaries. Just looking at it. And if that, if, listen, if this eternal son of God could sweat blood just thinking about what he was going to go through, how much worse must it have actually been to actually suffer it? And lastly, I think about the costliness of God's suffering in terms of the voluntariness of what Jesus did. When I think of the Garden of Gethsemane, I consider that Jesus Christ knew when everything was dark, when the disciples were asleep, when there were no soldiers there, Jesus Christ knew that now was a time in which he could have gotten out. You know, I tell my sons sometimes, don't touch that TV. Or don't do this or don't do that. And if I'm there, I don't know whether they have heart obedience or not. But if I'm not there, and they still obey me, I know that's obedience from the heart. And here's Jesus Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane facing what he knows is going to be the most awful thing. and there's nobody around. The disciples are all asleep. And what God comes, in a sense, to Jesus and says is this. He says, Son, look at the cup that you're about to drink. Look at what you're going to suffer. Taste it. Smell it. Do you see what it is? Are you going to do it? And Jesus Christ at that point could have easily said, Why should I, who am infinitely greater than all the angels, give myself for people like this? Leave all this glory and leave all this love for people who will never repay me and right now who don't even love me enough to stay awake with me, who never will even be willing to spend 30 minutes a day praying to me for the rest of their lives. You know, won't even give me that kind of love. Why should I do it for them? He should have said that, but instead he said, Sure, Father, for your sake I'll do it. And for their sake I'll do it. And even though they're going to kill me, I'll know it's really all to save them. it totally voluntarily, that is the suffering that he went through for you. Now, if you think about that, do you know what that will do? That will make you merciful. It will make you merciful. One of the reasons you're not merciful is you're so absorbed in your own problems. What I do is I say, look at my little cups that I've got. Oh, what little teeny cups. Look at the big cup that Jesus Christ did for me. Look at Jesus Christ, the only one who didn't deserve to suffer, writhing on the ground in agony for me? Why am I so absorbed with my own problems? And if the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth was willing to trust his father at a time like this, why can't I trust my father now? And that gets rid of my self-pity. And 90% of the reason that I am not merciful to people, and 90% of the reason that you're not merciful to people, I happen to know, is because you're too self-absorbed in your own problems. This is the death of self-pity. If you know his mercy, you'll be merciful. And when you look at people who are unloving and who are unlovely, and you see what Jesus Christ did for us, and you're starting to withdraw from them, you have to say, how dare I do this? If he was willing to give himself to me when I was in that condition, why can't I give myself to them? Friends, this is the one you seek. This is the love you seek. No married love, no friendship love, no professional success, nothing will fill when the first Adam came along, God looked at him and said, obey and you will live. And he didn't do it. The second Adam, Jesus Christ, came along and God said to him, obey and I'll crush you to powder. And he did it anyway. For you and for me. If you look at that mercy, if you look it full in the face, you'll fall down and you'll say, I give you everything. And when you get up, you'll be like him. Let's pray. Thank you.