Now, we talked about Esther, Nehemiah, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther ministry. One of the reasons why this last talk is completely dedicated to thinking about what it means to be missional in your job, in your work, in your so-called secular vocation. It's partly because of the, over the years, Redeemer, I think, started out almost immediately pretty good at Ezra ministry and has slowly worked its way into Nehemiah ministry. ministry, Esther ministry, which actually, you know, Catherine Leary sometimes questions, you know, is it a good idea to call it Esther ministry, you know, concubines for Christ?

Yeah. Actually, I've got a son working for Bear Stearns. If you work on Wall Street, you are, in a sense, a concubine, I know. But you are not your own. You're bought with a price. So This is the area where we have the most to do, and it's partly because we have the fewest models from churches around the country or so on. So let's pull right into this and try to – this is a shorter handout than the first one, the one we did today, but I hope I can get through it all. A hundred years ago, there was a German theologian, Ernst Trilch, who wrote The Social Teachings of the Christian Church, a very influential book. and it's still, I think, largely true, though it's very soon it's going to be almost completely obsolete within about 10 years. But he noticed something, and I'll show you why it'll be obsolete, he noticed something about the churches in North America and Europe. He noticed that there was basically an insider and an outsider strategy for relating the Christian community to the broader culture. The first approach, the outsider approach, he called a sect. Now you can see right The two approaches he called The Sect and The Church. So you can see almost immediately where his sympathies lie. The Sect, The Outside Strategy, saw The World negatively and demanded its members form a Contra Culture. That's not a Counter Culture. A Contra Culture. Which largely separated them from mainstream society. At the other end of the spectrum, The Other Approach The other approach was The Church. The Inside Strategy. The fulfilled The Social society. Now, right away you can recognize this is the liberal mainline churches of, are what Troutch is calling the church. And the conservative or fundamentalist churches are what Troutch is calling a sect. Right away shows that, you know, he's already favoring the mainline liberal inside approach. The church saw the society as basically positive. The church saw society as us.

church looked at its surrounding society as us, the sect as them. The pastor of the church was basically a chaplain accommodated to the existing culture, while the pastor of the sect was a prophet denouncing the culture. As Max Weber, I think, put it this way, you get born into a church, but you have to join a sect. In other words, you're born into the church, but you're born again into a sect. Like many mothers, this is Weber who said this, like mothers, the mainline church will embrace you irrespective of your behavior. Like a stern father, the sect will make you follow a strict ethical code. Now, I'm not sure this is true anymore, but you can see that this has been the way it's been. The church wants to make virtually everyone in society feel like part of it. Oh, you're welcome here. It will therefore stress love and acceptance and be happy whenever you come around. The sect believes it's only for the truly committed, and it will therefore stress law and standards, and it's fairly quick to discipline people. Now, I think that up to the current time, that distinction still fits most religious institutions pretty well in the United States. They either embrace the culture and kind of say, this is our culture, or they disdain it, they're contemptuous of it. The inside, what Weber calls the church and what Trout called the church, has virtually no membership standards for doctrinal belief or moral behavior at all. On the other hand, conservative Protestant Catholic churches are very sectarian, classic example, which I'll give you in a second, is how, well, I'll get to the thing. Artists are a great example of this, and we'll get to that in a minute, okay? Those of you who are artists can't wait, but wait. The Bible doesn't tell us, as far as I can see, that either of these approaches is the right one. The problem with this analysis is that the Bible doesn't call the church to be either a sect or a church. Now, again, the trouble is because Trout skewers it, probably I should, I don't know what I should call it. I don't think the Bible either is calling us to be liberal mainline or conservative fundamentalists, at least as they generally exist out there. For example, a key metaphor which 1 Peter employs to express the Christian relationship to culture is resident aliens, and there's a Greek word he uses, you know, paroikos, okay, parapodemus, people who are where neither transient or hostile to the host country, nor assimilated into it. Resident aliens means they're not tourists. They're not just here for a visit. They're not spies. They're not terrorists. They're not here trying to figure out how can we bring it down. But on the other hand, they're not just assimilated. They continue to have an understanding of their identity. They're positive toward their host country. But they still know they're different. That's a very hard balance to maintain. But this is what the Bible calls us to. Like, for example, Abraham was called to leave his home culture and go to a new land, which was both his and yet not his. The tension between leaving and arriving. You know, Abraham is called to leave his home culture, but he never arrives. And that's a perfect metaphor for where we are. That is to say, when you become a Christian, it does, to some degree, lift you out of the host culture. It shows you what's wrong with it. on the other hand, you never actually come down. To become a Christian, like for example, put it this way. If you're Chinese and you're raised on sort of traditional Chinese worldview religion. And you become a Christian, that, in some ways, removes you. You leave, in a sense, your Chinese-ness. But you don't come into something else. Because what else should you be? Let's just say you become a Christian at a Latin American. Well, this does happen. If you come a Christian on a Latin American Pentecostal church, There's going to be a tendency on the part of that church to assume that you're just going to drop your Chineseness, but you shouldn't. You've left, but you don't come down into something else because you're supposed to incarnate your Christianity in your culture. So on the one hand, you leave it. On the other hand, you don't leave it. Is that sound like a tension? Yeah, but it's biblical. It's absolutely biblical. Let's keep on going. A resident alien. The ultimate root of Christian corporate identity lies not just in the history of Abraham and his descendants, but in Jesus. Why? He did not stay in Heaven. But when he came to his own, his own people did not accept him. He loved the world and he gave himself for the world, and yet was rejected by that world. He was not alienated from the world because he loved it. But he was an alien IN the world. He... because he was constantly misunderstood and different. Yet he loved it. He died for it. He sacrificed. Isn't that interesting? He wasn't alienated from He didn't disdain it, he didn't hate it. I mean, why would he be here? On the other hand, he was never accepted by it either. He was alien in it. So when we follow him, we should find ourselves neither alienated from the world, nor even just part of the world, but rather aliens in the world for the world. Now where you, which means you say, you're supposed to leave but not arrive.

Okay, when are you too adapted and when are you not adapted enough? When have you stayed back too far? When have you come in too far? That's the trick. That's the point. That's what means to be mission. When you hit it right God starts working in your midst. God starts working your society. When you over or under adapted. It's not. If you are under adapted. You are too conservative. You are holding on the old ways. If you are over adapted. You actually have assimilated. And that's the key. The Bible doesn't call the church. The church or sect. The resident aliens. aliens. This describes the people who are permanent residents of a new country they love. Permanent. They are not here temporarily. They are not detached tourists. They are not disdainful temporary residents. They are not terrorist cells on the other hand. You know I had to add they are not terrorist cells. I mean I wrote this up some years ago but I added that recently. Because that is another way to be on a land which is just fulfilled with dissent and hatred on the other hand they are significantly different on their way of life. So they're aliens. Now, here's the essence of the difference, though. It's not just a matter of being a Christian. It's not just a matter of being kind of in the middle. It's not just a fundamentalist, you know, dresses terribly and a liberal dresses real, you know, polished and you're going to find something in the middle. It's not as wooden as that. Read at the bottom of page 37. To me, the essence of the difference, as I've thought about this over the years, is that for all their apparent dissimilarities, the liberal mainline church, the... By the way, I'm not... I don't mean every PCUSA or Episcopal churches like this. I'm talking about, you know, I'm not trying to say every Independent Baptist Church is a sect and every mainline Presbyterian Church is a Trulcian Church. But I'm talking about... I'm not saying every local congregation is like that, but I'm talking about the institutions, okay? Okay? Clear? Okay. For all their apparent dissimilarity, both the conservative fundamentalist and liberal mainline church, they are not really about serving the world, as I think about it, but about accruing and maintaining institutional power. The totally inclusive church that keeps its power in society by not challenging it, that's how it keeps its power, by just adapting. If this is the way we are now, we've got to keep up, and that's your way of staying, in a sense, in power. you stay established and well thought of. So the totally inclusive church keeps its power in society by not challenging the current social norms. But the exclusive sect attacks and vilifies the world in order to maintain its power over its members. There's no doubt about that. It's another way to get power over your members is by teaching you to hate everybody and resent the world around you. The gospel is too radically humbling for its recipients to want to seek power over others, and it's too radically affirming for its recipients to need to seek power over others, theoretically. Now, I mean, the first conference we did in the fall, when I say theoretically, I mean the conference we did in the fall, the premise behind that conference is those of us who believe the gospel don't really believe it. We don't practice it. We haven't worked it down into our lives. And therefore, to a certain degree, we still live like people who don't believe the gospel. That's a different conference. But at least in principle, the gospel can really remove us from either being a culture-disdaining, hating sect, or a culture-embracing, celebrating church. The ability to hate feels superior to others, and or the need for social approval and power are both deeply eroded and undermined by the gospel. The reason that most institutions are pushed into being either a sect or a church, and including Redeemer, in other words, I'll tell you what the pressures are to push us one And I'm trying to show you that what Redeemer wants to be or what a Christian community I think ought to be is not just a halfway between, not just liberal or conservative, but sort of in the middle. You know, not left-wing or right-wing, but centrist. That's not it. It's really the question is, are you after power or are you after service? You see? That's the key. Are you willing to serve the world? Serve the world with your distinctive identity or are you going to lose your identity or Now that's not an in-between. That's something else. It's sort of off the chart. It's a third thing. But here are the practical pressures. The first are pressures from inside every church. There's pressures to go on with the other. There's psychological pressure toward one side or the other. It's far simpler to reflect the surrounding culture or to disdain it. It's vastly easier to go on with the other. If a subculture is different from its surrounding culture, it's impossible not to feel subtly superior. It's really hard if you're different. not to look down at the culture around you. Why would you be different unless you thought your practices were better? Of course they are. So unless your practices, unless our different practices from the New York City around us flow out of the gospel, we're going to feel superior to everybody else. The gospel gives us emotional resources and so on. We're affirmed by God, though moral failures. Now if you know that, then though you do believe our practices are better ways for human beings to live. You will do it without superiority. But then there's an intellectual pressure toward one side of the other, not just personal, not psychological. A sect calls its lawyers and actors to use their gifts, for example, within the Christian community. It's very simple. You shouldn't play in bars if you're a jazz pianist. You just shouldn't be there. Okay? And that's simple then, right? On the other hand, a church, not a sect, but a kind of mainline church, you might say, expect its lawyers and its actors to work out in

God does not call you to be distinctively Christian, distinctively biblical. The mainline church, in general, doesn't say to actors and artists, you've got to be distinctively biblical in the way you do things. But a sect tells them, the way we can know that you're being distinctively biblical is you only do it in here. If you're a singer or you're an artist, you only do Christian stuff. And so it's simple. What's really hard is what the Bible calls us to be, resident aliens. And here's an example. An artist in a sect withdraws from the surrounding culture and directly represents Christian subjects. An artist in a church, you know, a mainline sect church, a mainline church simply works in society reflecting pretty much whatever is happening in the broader culture. But an artist in a church like Redeemer has to ask the pastor all these questions that he can't answer. which is, how does Christ in me now make the world look to me? Now that Christ is in me, how does the world look? It will look differently than if Christ wasn't in me. Therefore, when I paint the world or when I sculpt the world or when I represent the world, it will be a world that looks to me the way Christ makes it look to me. That's not the same thing as just presenting Christian subjects, is it? What does Christ look like in an artist? How do I depict life and the world from a Christian perspective? Christ so it makes my art different as I work in society?" And they ask me and I say, I don't know, I'm not an artist. And they say, well, thanks. So one of the things we've done at Redeemer over the years is, and those of you who have been around know, that this isn't the first time you've heard this. Maybe this is a little bit more, that's why you're here I hope, a little more detailed, a little more theologically and biblically grounded. But when it comes down to it, we have, we can say, yes, we're this wonderful, you know, know, cool, you know, approach, but how does that work? And one of the reasons why most people don't try it is because that's a big question, and there aren't pat answers to it at all, and it's going to take a great deal of thinking, and it's a whole lot better just to go one way or the other. There are also pressures from outside. Both the world and religious institutions will simply refuse to believe that any other than these classic categories are valid. most sectarian religious institutions say no sex outside marriage. Okay, let's let's this is a good example I hope for you. No sex outside marriage, okay, but almost always when a sectarian church, as we've been describing sectarianism, when a church says no sex outside of marriage it is said as and in a power play. That is it is said in a self congratulatory way within the sect community. We're not having sex with everything. Or, it's said in a condemning way to those outside, we're not like you. It is usually laid on individuals with ill will. In other words, it's said to individuals intending to make the other person feel guilty or excluded, not to persuade them. And it's usually said without the context of the gospel, which is the Christian sex ethic when seen in the context of the gospel. It's really a call to grow into Christlikeness. It's a call to grow into imitating him. It's an invitation to create a new kind of human community based on a whole new vision of the purpose of sexuality. The sectarian group does not promulgate the sex ethic like this. It doesn't talk about no sex outside marriage in order to invite, attract, or serve other people with it. It is a power play. It's an instrument of power. It's a way of excluding people and keeping people in line. And the world knows that. They know that. They know that's the way that conservative churches talk about sex. Especially secular New Yorkers know this of them are fleeing from church communities like that, where they were saying the right thing because we know that's the right thing. That is what the Bible teaches about sex, but using it in a sectarian way, using it in a power, not a service way.

In fact, most people in New York City have felt the traditional sex ethic used against them in that way, and that's the reason why they don't believe it. That means that they will not imagine anyone can hold the view that you shouldn't have sex outside marriage without being self-righteous toward those who do not hold it because they've never met anybody other than that. They can't conceive of a church that Redeemer aspires to be that's alien but not alienating or alienated. They can't imagine that Christians could hold this ethic without being judgmental and exclusive toward those who differ with them. The world, in other words, will almost have to think that a church like Redeemer is a sect. And in many cases, sectarian churches have to think that a church like Redeemer is basically a kind of loosey-goosey, losing its valiance for truth. In other words, people who are from the sectarian background, and some of you may be, come into Redeemer and realize, boy, back at home, they have no idea what they let happen at Redeemer. and I won't tell them. You see, on the other hand, people coming in from a kind of more what the Trulshian church mainline approach come into Redeemer and say, gosh, these people are fundamentalists. But we're neither. At least we shouldn't be. But it's not easy because we don't have many models. And so in some ways, maybe Redeemer is a little bit of a patchwork rather than some perfect model. Now, having said that, what does this mean, especially to people who say, all right, I'm an actor, I'm in business, especially. What does that mean to you? It's a problem for me and it's a problem for you because once we have, you might say, marked out this pathway, we've got to talk. We have a lot of talking to do. Now, what I'm going to do here is just show you three aspects, without talking about the structure yet, it, three aspects to how the Christian community has to support people to think out the implications of the gospel for how they work so that you are letting the gospel affect the way in which you do your work. And I would say there's three parts to this. And we're not going to talk about structure. Where does that happen, you're saying? Let's just talk about the content, and then we'll talk about the form. Aristotle's. This is the material principle, not the formal principle. There's three things that you need if you are trying to be a Christian and you're trying to integrate faith and work in the world. The first is you need vocation-specific spiritual nurture. Now, I'm going to be kind of brief on this. Each vocation presents particular spiritual and moral issues. It presents particular spiritual and moral issues that are peculiar to the profession. So that's a business type person may not have any idea what it's like to be a professional singer at all. And in some ways, you don't even...you know, in other words, you probably need to find other professional singers who know about the peculiar temptations and issues and ethical quandaries. And what do you do about that if you...you know, if you're a Christian and so forth. So there are particular ethical quandaries. I just said that. Temptations, discouragements, and other questions that confront the Christians in that profession. So a lot of spiritual nurture in the church is very general and only addresses more generic or private world matters, yet you spend most of your life in your work world. So what the first thing that needs to happen is Christians who are in similar professions really do have to interact with each other. They really do have to support each other, nurture each other, hold each other accountable, encourage each other, and address many of those. How do you deal with the fact, because of our job, because of our work, how do you ever make worship? How can you be in a small group? Or how do you get Christian fellowship and input because you're traveling so much and so on? That's the first one. Again, I won't talk about structure just yet. That's the first thing you've got to have. Because if you just come to church and nobody ever addresses peculiar issues a vocation. There's an awful lot of Christians over the years, and some of you might be in this boat, who have a bad conscience because you know that essentially you're living a double life. That is, in your work world, you really know you're doing things that probably other Christians and probably isn't biblical and probably isn't right. But, you know, I don't know what else to do because I don't even know how to, I don't know how to function if I don't do that. Well, you need to be talking to other Christians who are in the same situation who maybe have found some ways around it or some ways to change that. So that's the first thing you need is vocation, specific spiritual nurture. Now this is the hardest one of the three, very important. Worldview development. Across the country, if you've ever seen a group, here's a Christian arts group or Christian businessman or women's group or you know Christian musicians group or Christian writers group almost always it tends to mean spiritual nurture and accountability, spiritual support. That's fine. I just said it's one of the three. But the second one is much harder to find anywhere and that is in worldview development training you're asking yourself the question, let's put this dilemma like this, how do we become not just artists you know who are Christian but Christian artists? How do we become you know not just actors who actors. Here's a way to put the dilemma. It's easy to divide life into the secular and the sacred. So a Christian singer can sing about Jesus in church, directly inviting them to come to Christ. That's easy when you're singing in church. But the real question is, how am I glorifying God by the way in which I use my singing gifts as I'm just going about making my living as a singer? It's very hard to do. What's my motive? How do I operate out of a Christian worldview? Now, Now, what I want to talk to you about for a minute, even though Catherine Leary, where are you, Catherine? Yeah. Catherine hates this word and says the first thing she's going to do, if she can figure out, is find us a better word. But it's a word that's been around with us. It's a philosophical word, unfortunately, and I'll just talk to you about it. But it's important to know so you at least have a little label for this condition, and you need to know it. The ultimate reason that most Christians seal off their faith from their work so that they're Christians on the weekends or whenever they're home, but in their work they're not really thinking out a particular Christian way of doing their work is because of what the philosophers called dualism. Dualism is a very unrevealing, unilluminating term, but here it is. Dualism separates the spiritual and the sacred off from the rest of life. It originally had roots in Hellenistic thought that viewed the material world as bad and the spiritual world as good. It has also been, in our modern times, very, very, very reconfirmed and kind of deepened by Immanuel Kant's philosophy. Because Immanuel Kant believed that science can give you facts. And in the public realm, you work in the world of facts. but he believed that faith and morals were in the numinal realm, which is that they were subjective and there was no way to prove them. There was no way to validate them. So he believed that religion was utterly for your private life. There was absolutely no way you could make a case for somebody else that your religion was right. In the public realm, he would say, you work on the area of facts and science and empirical truth. And because of Kant, and you put that together with our Hellenistic roots to our culture, which there are some, you get down to the place where most people believe today very, very strongly. I mean, I read letters to the editor every week in the New York Times saying, it's absolutely critical that you do not bring your religion out into the way you work or the way we do government or the way you do anything else. It's critical that you keep your religion absolutely private. Of course, that is a religious point of view which you are demanding that everybody follow in their public life. explain that and they say, no, I'm not. And it takes about five minutes and they begin to say, oh my gosh. But of course, at this point, we don't have a good, fast, public language way of making that point. And so people live still. Our culture is strongly committed to dualism, strongly. The first result of dualism is the widespread belief the only way to truly serve God is through direct ministry. So Christians over the years have been taught in many churches that if you're really, really sold out for Jesus, you will quit your job and go into full-time The second result of dualism is that it seals off your personal beliefs and faith in the way you actually live and work in the world. Christianity is seen as a means of individual spiritual peace and strength and not as a comprehensive interpretation of reality that affects everything we do. Now this one is, and I want Redeemer to be as well known for moving people out of dualism as for moving people out of legalism. And actually they are very, very interrelated. Why? Legalistic Christianity leads to dualistic Christianity. A. When you don't grasp the gospel of grace, you tend toward a pharisaical obsession with ritual purity because you're saved by doing everything right. It encourages people to stay very much within the church because we don't have to deal with unbelievers and be out there with all these questions. So if you're an actor and you want to say, I only want to do acting of Christian plays and Christian movies, that's simple. As soon as... I remember one of the first... Some of you know him, too. I won't mention his name. One of the first actors. He acted on TV on stage. He became a Christian Redeemer. He came in and sat down and said, Great. I want to be a Christian. I really want to be a Christian every year of my life. So, Pastor, tell me. What roles can I take and what roles can't I take? Can I ever take my clothes off? Or how many clothes can I take off?

Does it have to have a happy ending? Can I play a villain? Can I play a villain who in the end doesn't get, you know, his comeuppance? And I sat there and went, blah, blah.

You see? But partly, if your understanding of salvation is God will only bless me and will take me to heaven if I do everything just right, you just get out of that. You just get out of that because you never want to be in a gray area. And legalism B, also, while the Bible does not tell you a great deal about how the church should operate, great. While it does tell you a lot about the church, the Bible tells you very little about how to run your business in a Christian way. Again, that takes reflection, creativity, relationships with other Christians. The everything black or white world of legalists can't cope with that kind of flexibility and uncertainty. So, the opposite of dualism is worldviewish Christianity. Now, I've already alluded to this. Anyone who is operating in the world, who is operating on the basis of a worldview, and we said before a worldview is an answer the question, what is fundamentally wrong with things and what will fix it? And we said every worldview, whether it's Confucianism, whether it's Western individualism, whether it's existentialism, whether it's Buddhism, whether it's, you know, there's various things. They're not all religions, they're not all philosophies. Everyone's operating out of a worldview. And if you do not believe the gospel of grace, which is that you're saved by what Jesus Christ is done, then you are making something else besides Jesus salvation. Which means you both on the one hand are taking something and making an idol out of it. On the other hand, you are demonizing something good. And saying that really is what is really wrong with the world. The whole problem is that. And you are idolizing something good. Something that is good but you made into an ultimate. Something that is good but you made into a demon. Let me give you an example. This is from Al Wolter's book, The Creation Regained. important book, not a super easy book to read. Sin, he says, attaches itself to every good created thing like a parasite. Hatred, for example, had no place within God's good creation. Hatred is a fruit of sin. Nevertheless, hatred cannot exist without the creational substratum of human emotion and healthy assertiveness. Have you ever thought of that? Hatred is assertiveness gone bad. Hatred participates simultaneously in the goodness of creation and yet in the demonic distortion. You're following this, so let's keep going. The great danger is that to always single out some aspect of God's good creation and identify it, to single out some aspect of God's creation and identify it rather than the alien intrusion of sin as the villain, that's the big danger. The problem with life is this. The problem with the world is this. You are taking some part of the creation which has got a good substrate on them and saying that's the problem. You are demonizing something. The good evil dichotomy is intrinsic to creation itself. The good creation is identified as the source of all evil instead of sin. The good creation is identified as the salvation instead of Jesus. The good creation has been Plato and Greek philosophy said that what's really wrong with life is the physical, the body and its passions. But Rousseau and Romanticism said it was culture in distinction from nature. You're naturally okay and beautiful and wonderful, but culture screws you up. Or psycho-endemic psychology says what screws you up is authority figures in society and family. And Marx says what screws you up, the real problem, is economic forces. And Heidegger and the existentialists says what's wrong is technology and management. The Bible is unique in its rejection of all attempts to either demonize some part of creation as the root of all problems or idolize some part of creation as a solution. All other religions, philosophies, and worldviews, in one way or another, fall into the trap of idolatry or failing to keep creation and fall distinct. And Christians do it too. Now, here's what that means. Christianity, if you're a Christian, whatever field you're working in, there are idols there. Because there are worldviews operating that most of the other people in your field at your time are operating on that worldview. are some things because the worldview is always based on some creational good. We said that this morning, remember? If Confucianism says family is really what's going to save you, that's partly right, but it's distorted it. And it creates authoritarian fathers, for example. And it creates oppressive structures, but it's also good. It participates in something that's good. And individual freedom, which is our summum bonum in our society, it participates in the good. What a Christian has got to do is you can still operate, but you're going to be different, and you have to work that out. So we see that every cultural activity has creational good elements in it. Every cultural artifact that is not produced from a solid Christian perspective will lay out some kind of worldview that makes an idol and a demonic other out of some finite and good aspect of creation. Christians should thus be the most nuanced of all cultural observers, never trashing hardly anything, not dividing the world into good, okay, holy, safe, and bad, off-limits, prohibited, we would be far more nuanced than the average critic of the New York Times, because on the basis of their idols, they just utterly trash certain things. Everything's wrong with this, and everything's wonderful about this. Notice that because non-Christian worldviews demonize some part of the good created order, or idolize some other fallen part of the created order, they also will tend to create good guys and bad guys to divide up the human race, just like the sectarian conservatives do. For example, Marxism assumes all our problems come from the powerful, greedy people, capitalists who won't share the means of economic production with the people, so they demonize them. The solution is a state, totalitarian state, control of the economy. Freud believed all our problems come from repression of deep desires for pleasure and authority figures. The solution is unrepressed freedom of the individual. Thus, the villain becomes repressive moral gatekeepers in society like the church.

The solution is a moral revival in society and religion and morality and virtue. That's what's going to save the world. Only the Christian worldview locates the problem with the world not in any one part of the world or in any one group of people, but in sin. And only the Christian worldview locates the solution in God's grace and the coming of the kingdom rather than in some idol. Sin infects us all. We can't simply divide the world into good guys and bad guys. Don't you realize if you move out into your field like that, you're going to be nuanced. You're going to be positive. really critical. How you actually work that out is going to take a great deal of time. You still get back to the thing where you are a Christian actor. What roles can I take and what roles can't I take. Do you know what you really need? The best Christian scholars in the world, especially in the area of Literature and Narrative Theory. You really need teachers. You really need pastors. You really need practitioners. The really deciding what the questions are, deciding what the best answers are, accumulated wisdom and community. And as far as I know, there's no place like that's trying to do it. Probably we need something like a think tank, not a school. It would have classes in it. Hard work. We've got to think it out. Now, the third thing, and then we've got to stop here. There's three things you need. You need vocationally-based spiritual support.

To be the best at business, the best at art, the best at music, the best you can possibly be, thinking distinctively as a Christian. The reason I put this third, by the way, of course, is if you don't have the first one and the second one, then getting together to do cultural production often is not very productive, okay? But I got to finish up. Let me just say that we have already started vocationally-based fellowships. We've got them in writers, lawyers, teachers, educators, financial services, music at least. So we've got some. But we don't want you to think that just getting people together every month or every so and talking and having speakers in, we realize this is a tremendous challenge, a complex thing. The next most important thing that I know I can give leadership to, it's sort of like the part of Redeemer's house that's never been furnished. There's a room, there's a whole wing. We've talked about it, we've got the theological space for it, we've made the rhetorical space for it, but we don't have anybody living in there really yet. We haven't furnished it, we haven't worked it out. It's quite exciting, and we invite you to be part of it. So let me close in prayer, and then we're going to do our breakouts.

Our Father, resident aliens, we really have.

We can sit here kind of smugly feeling superior because, oh, we're so nuanced, we're so sophisticated, we're not like everybody else. But we should quickly wipe the smile off our face because we actually have chosen for ourselves a difficult path, a path that's going to take, where no one has the answers, no one has the model, nobody can sit down and say, this is how you do it. And actually also, no one really does have the answers. The people on the field don't have the answers. The pastors don't have the answers. The theologians, the scholars don't. Only as Christian communities of brothers and sisters come in together and sharing wisdom and working these things out can we really see this accomplished. There have been other times where you brought this about. We can't even look back on them. They are different times. Show us how we can do this. Show us how we can give you glory in every area of our life. Show your lordship over not only our private life but our public life. And help us to really, truly seek the peace of the city by renewing its culture and serving it in love. For we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
