The scripture reading tonight is found on page 8 of your bulletin. We'll be reading Mark chapter 7 verses 1 through 13. The Pharisees and some of the teachers of the law who had come from Jerusalem gathered around Jesus and saw some of his disciples eating food with hands that were unclean, that is, unwashed. The Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they give their hands a ceremonial washing, holding to the tradition of the elders. come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. And they observe many other traditions, such as the washing of cups, pitchers, and kettles. So the Pharisees and teachers of the law asked Jesus, why don't your disciples live according to the tradition of the elders instead of eating their food with unclean hands? He replied, Isaiah was right when he prophesied about you hypocrites, as it is written, these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They worship me in vain. Their teachings are but rules taught by men. You have let go of the commands of God and are holding on to the traditions of men. And he said to them, you have a fine way of setting aside the commands of God in order to observe your own traditions. For Moses said, Honor your father and your mother, and anyone who curses his father or mother must be put to death. But you say that if a man says to his father or mother, Whatever help you might otherwise have received from me is korban, that is, a gift devoted to God, then you no longer let him do anything for his father or mother. Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down, and you do many things like that. This is the word of the Lord. We've been looking at the book of Mark and looking at the life of Jesus in the book of Mark, and tonight we come to a place where Jesus is talking about his view of Scripture, of the Bible. And you know, it's kind of weird to imagine that actually we live in a cultural moment in which this is a major cultural issue. Books dealing with the question of the authority of the Bible are on the bestseller list all the time. People really in our culture struggle with the idea of the authority of the Bible. And I think you have to keep in mind all during this, as we look at this text, you've got to keep in mind that when Jesus in verse 13 talks about the Word of God, God, when he talks about in verse 8 and verse 13 the commands of God, he's actually talking about the part of the Bible that modern people probably struggle with even the most, which is the Hebrew Scriptures, what we would call the Old Testament. And yet Jesus says three remarkable things about the Bible. He tells us something about his relationship to it and his view of it. He tells us here three things. We must adjust to the authority of it. We must adjust to its authority. We must grasp its purpose, and we must love, we must come to fall in love with the person at its center. We have to adjust to its authority, we have to grasp its purpose, and we have to fall in love with the person at its center. Let's look at these three things he tells us. First, first of all, we have to adjust to its authority. party. Now, Jesus five times in this passage criticizes what he calls the traditions of the elders. Now, Jesus is not against tradition altogether. In fact, you can't be. Tradition per se is a great thing. For example, what if we didn't have the tradition that every Sunday night here we had a service at 7 o'clock? What if I said, you know, from now on, we might have a service some weeks, we might not have a service some weeks, we might have it at 8, we might have it at 5. you just have to check to see. It would be chaos because it's so nice to have the tradition that we do this every week at 7 o'clock. You can't really have a life without tradition. You can't have a human community. You can't have emotional health without traditions. And Jesus is not criticizing tradition per se. It's a fine thing. But he is criticizing the traditions of the elders. And the tradition of the elders was a set of rules and regulations that over the years had grown up around the Bible. They weren't in the Bible. Teachers and scholars had developed these traditions, these rules about the Bible, and they had added them to the Scripture as binding authoritative regulations for life. So, for example, in the Bible, you read that we are supposed to rest on the Sabbath. And so the teachers said, what does it mean? You know, it's natural to ask, what does it mean to rest on the Sabbath? And the answer of the tradition of the elders was a couple hundred rules that you did this, and you can do this, you can't do this on the Sabbath. That's what it means to rest on the Sabbath. And there was all these other things in the Bible, like what is ritual purity? Why do we have to be pure when we go into the temple? And what does Passover mean? How are we to observe the Passover? the tradition of the elders answered what this means is and gave a bunch of very detailed rules and regulations. Now, the problem was that the rules and regulations weren't in the Bible, but they grew up around the Bible, and they became equal in authority, and that's what Jesus is criticizing, equal in binding authority on people. And because the rules and regulations were considerably more detailed and concrete than the principles of the Bible, they tend to distract people and sometimes even contradict the actual original biblical principles. Now, Jesus gives two examples to illustrate what I'm saying. Two examples. The first is the washing. If you go back to the Bible, where does the Bible talk about ritual washing for purification? Now, this is not hygiene. This has nothing to do with why we wash our hands before eating. The idea here was ritual purity, and in the Bible, the only people who are told to wash their hands are the priests. According to the law of Moses, the priests had to wash their hands before they went in and led worship, and this makes perfect sense, actually. It's a very important part of the liturgy. It's a very important symbol. It was a way for God to say, I am holy, and if you who have sin are going to approach me, it has to be cleansed, it has to be dealt with. It's a very helpful and important part of the worship. But by the time of Jesus, everybody, according to the tradition of the elders, everybody was required to wash constantly with water. Wash before eating. Notice all the references to sometimes washing clothes, washing furniture. Why? Because you might have touched something unclean. You might have You might have touched something that was unclean. And just to be sure, even though it wasn't in the Bible, there was this obsession with ritual purity. But think about this. One of the principles of the Hebrew Scriptures was that Israel was to be a light to the Gentiles, a light to the nations. And yet, of course, that basic principle is totally lost in all the legalism and separatism that comes from all of these kinds of rules when it came to eating, which utterly separated you, see, from the nations. Or another example, Jesus points out here at the latter part of the passage, this thing about korban. You see, the Bible, of course, says that God's claims supersede anyone else's claim. And as a result of that, the tradition of the elders had developed a really wonderful little loophole. You could take a piece of property and you could declare it korban, which means the word korban means offered or offering. And you could say, I have dedicated, I have offered this property up to God. And what that meant was that if somebody in your family, if one of your relatives or even your own parents got into economic trouble or financial trouble and came to you and said, you're the kinsman, would you help me get out of trouble? You could say, oh, well, yeah, but I can't use any of this because it's all God's. See? And what Jesus says, look, and by complying with the tradition of the elders, you've actually contradicted the whole spirit of the biblical principle, honor your father and mother. And then the very last line of the whole passage, you notice what he says? He says, I could give you a hundred more illustrations, but I won't. Now, why is he so angry? You can see when he replies to them in verse 6, he was so angry. And here's why he was so angry. He's so angry because, as he says, they worship me in vain. Their teaching are but rules by men. They have let go of the commandments of God and are holding on to the traditions of men. This is a remarkable statement. What he says here is, if you fail to honor the unique authority of the Bible, you fail to worship God. God. If you let human traditions, what the experts say, what your heart says, if you let anything else have equal authority with the Bible, you fail to worship God. You create your own God, actually. You are your own God. And so Jesus is actually saying a failure to recognize and honor the unique authority of the Bible is a failure to honor the authority of God. The authority of the Stand or fall together. You can't have one without the other. Now, this is a remarkably, astonishingly high view of the Bible in which Jesus is seeing the Bible as not a human product, but something that's divine. And this isn't the only place. If we really don't understand what Jesus is saying here about the Bible and about how he says by, you know, he's saying by not identifying the unique authority of the Bible and adjusting your life to its authority, God. To understand all this, we need to do a little survey of the other things that Jesus says about the Bible. And if you look at Jesus' life and you look at the Gospels and you see His view of the Bible, it is astounding. Jesus based all of His thinking, all of His actions, and even His heart on the Bible, mind, will, and emotions, everything. For example, mind, thinking. Whenever Jesus had a problem, an issue, a question, some intellectual issue

The final word for Jesus was, Gegrapetai, it is written. It is written. And when he said that, it didn't matter what the expert said, it didn't matter what the culture said, it didn't matter what the tradition said, it didn't matter what your heart said, it was settled. So John 10, Jesus says the scripture cannot be broken, which means it can't be disobeyed. Matthew 5, in Matthew 5, Jesus says, not a jot or tittle, which means not a letter or a part of a letter. Jot means the smallest of the Hebrew letters. Tittle means a part of a letter. Not a letter or a part of a letter will pass away from the Word of God till it all comes true. So, he based his thinking on the Bible. It was the supreme authority intellectually. But secondly, he based his actions on the Bible, his plans, his decisions. To me, one of the most the amazing thing, places where this, you see this, is in Matthew 26, where it's the Garden of Gethsemane, and the soldiers arrive to arrest him. They're arresting him, and think of all the chaos of that. And as they're arresting him and grabbing him, Peter pulls out his sword, and what does Jesus say? He says, Peter, put down your sword. I could call legions of angels, but then, what does he say, how will the Scripture be fulfilled at a time like that? He based everything in his life on the Scripture. He did everything according to the Scripture, every, all of his decisions, all of his plans, all of his actions. So, there's the mind, there's the will. But I think the most moving thing is to see that if you read the life of Jesus, you will see that the main fortification for his heart was the Scriptures, that he did not handle the cosmic challenges of his life with willpower but with the Scripture. So, for example, when he's assaulted in the desert by the devil, when he's assaulted by the devil, cosmic temptation, cosmic accusation, every single time, what does he say? Gegrapati. It is written every time he takes the Scripture. In fact, one time he actually says to the devil, man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. And that's Jesus' way of saying, every word of the Scripture is my bread, my meat, my strength, my life. When he was carrying his own cross to his execution, and his life was literally ebbing out of him, and he falls down at one point. You read this in Luke 22, and he sees some women weeping. What does he say to them? Where do you get the words at a time like that? He quotes Hosea. He's quoting the Bible. And when he actually gets on the cross, and when he's in the absolute greatest possible agony of body and soul, he quotes Psalm 22, verse 1. He says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He quotes Psalm 31, verse 5. Into thy hands I commit my spirit. He's quoting the Bible. Look, look, you know what this means? If you're plunging over a cliff and you see, you know, if you're falling off a cliff and you see your death in the rocks below and you cry out, what do you cry out? Or if someone comes after you with a knife and you see your death in the eyes of your assailant, what do you cry out? Whatever it is, you don't people think. You know, certainly, I mean, what are the expectations here? No, what comes out is what's ever in you, the real you. The real depths of your heart are revealed at a time like this. And when Jesus Christ is at the absolute limit, at the extremity,

you see that His mind, heart, and will are so saturated with the truths, the narratives, the images, the cadences, the promises, the warnings of Scripture, that when he was stabbed, he literally bled Scripture. It just flowed out of him. He faced everything with Scripture. His identity was based on Scripture. His life was based on Scripture. Now, you see the first point? Here's what the point is. Remember how Jesus said that and the authority of the Bible standard fall together well the authority of Jesus and the authority of the Bible standard fall together too and here's the reason why there's people all over New York I know who say oh you know I want to follow Jesus I'm interested in following Jesus and they say ah but the Bible well there's some parts I like some parts I don't like you know there's some jots and tittles that I like there's some jots and tittles that I don't like and some parts that are regressive some parts we can't accept anymore listen you can't follow Jesus very basis of his whole life. At the very best, that's just not thinking. At the very worst, that's hypocritical. It's like, I want the warm fuzzies of saying I believe in, you know, I'm with Jesus, but you reject the very basis of your life. Listen, unless you are willing, like Jesus, to conform, to adjust your life to the supreme authority of the Scripture in every detail, even where it hurt, even where you don't want to do it. Unless you're willing to conform and adjust your life to the authority of the Scripture, especially at the places where it contradicts your heart, or your tradition, or your culture, or the experts, or your friends, there's no way you can follow Jesus. The authority of the Bible and the authority of the Scripture, and the authority of God and Jesus Christ stand or fall together. Now, aren't we glad that there's not just one point to this sermon? Aren't we glad this isn't the end? Or actually, some of you are saying, it isn't the end? Well, no, it's not the end. Because, you know, if we stop here, you know, you say, oh, so that's following Jesus. It's just like, wow, it's really hard, and you're going to do a lot of things I don't want to do, but you have to suck it up, and you just have to do it, and you have to do your duty, and I guess that's following Jesus. Is that following Jesus? you're not going to be any good at your work you're not going to be any good at your friendships you're not going to be any good at your family life, you're not going to be any good in life if sometimes you don't just simply suck it up and do what you ought to do even though you don't want to do it you're not going to be a functional human being if you can't do that but fortunately there's a whole lot more to being a Christian than that. Point two first point, we have got to adjust to the scripture's authority and Jesus criticizes people who aren't willing to and unique authority of the Scripture. But the second thing Jesus Christ is saying about the Scripture is we have to grasp its purpose. We have to see what the Bible is for, what we're trying to accomplish when we obey the Bible. Now, notice it says here, these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. They worship me in vain. Their teachings are but rules taught by men. Now, what's Jesus saying here? This is a quote from Isaiah 29. What's he saying here? He says, God says the purpose of the Bible is not formal compliance, but I want your heart. I want your heart. You're far from me. I want to be close to you. Jesus says, if you look at obeying the Bible, if you add all these rules and regulations to the Bible, that shows that you think the purpose of the Bible is so that you can feel like a righteous person, So you can feel like you're an obedient, righteous person. So you can say, oh, God, you've got to bless me now because I'm living such a good life. But that's to completely miss, according to this, the purpose of the Bible. Because the purpose of the Bible is not to get God in a corner, not to manipulate God, not to control him so he's got to bless you and answer your prayers, not so you can feel righteous. The purpose, according to this, of obeying the Bible is an intimate love relationship with God. God says, I want you to obey the Bible because I want intimacy with you. Now, the greatest illustration and demonstration of this principle, of this understanding of the purpose of the Bible, you find actually in Exodus chapter 20 and 19 and 20. Now, in Exodus 20, we have what? Ten commandments. The ultimate revelation of God's will for how people should live. The Ten Commandments. But where does God give the Ten Commandments? In Exodus 19, when he brings them to Mount Sinai, he says this. Just before he gives them the Ten Commandments, he says, You have seen what I did to Egypt and how I carried you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, you will be my treasure. Now, notice. Listen, this is one of the most important points in the Bible. God did not come to the children of Israel in Egypt and said, if you obey my law, then I'll rescue you. I'll bring you out of slavery on eagle's wings. He didn't say, if you obey, I'll save you. What does he say? I saved you. I brought you out of slavery. I released you from the bondage to the most powerful nation in the world, and you didn't have to lift a finger. You didn't have to lift a weapon. I saved you. You didn't do it. And I didn't do it because you were obedient because you weren't obedient. I didn't do it because you obeyed the law. I didn't, you didn't even have the law. I did it because I loved you. Sheer, unmerited grace. Hmm. Well then, okay, if I'm already saved and all by sheer grace and God's already set his love on me, why in the world do I obey? He says, because this is how you can become my treasure. This is how you can treasure me and I can treasure are you. This is how we can have an intimate relationship. You have to obey my will if we're going to have this incredible intimate relationship that I want with you. Now, for modern Western people, the idea of obeying the law and intimate personal relationship seems very antithetical, don't they? I mean, we don't put those two things together. They actually seem to be antithetical. Well, we're wrong. We're wrong. Let me show you. If you're really falling in love with somebody, really falling in love, and you want a love relationship, what do you do? You start to do research. Oh yes. And of course, one of the things you're after is you want to find the things that offend and outrage the person, of course, and you want to avoid them. Important safety tip, don't have a love relationship if you're constantly offending the other person. But you're not satisfied with that. that you not only want to know what will offend and outrage them, but you also want to know what even the little things that will delight them and make them happy, even the little things. And what are you doing? You're tracing out an arc. Well, what is this arc? It's the will of your beloved. It's what your beloved wants in his or her environment. It's what your beloved wants. It's the will of your beloved. And once you figure, you've done all your research, you find out not only the things that outrage and offend, but even the things that make the person happy, even the things that delight the person, and without being asked, you begin to conform your life to the arc of your beloved. You begin to obey the will of the beloved. Well, why doesn't it feel like obedience? We don't even think of it like that, and here's the reason why. When you fall in love with somebody, you put your happiness into their happiness. You're only happy if they're happy. You can't help it. That's how love works. And it's not exploitation. if the other person is doing it to you. If the other person has inserted their happiness into your happiness, and the other person is tracing out the arc of your will, the other person is beginning to submit to the authority, adjust your life to the authority in love of the will of the beloved. And when you're both doing that, wow, that's a love relationship. But what's really, really bad is if one of you is doing it and one of you is not. the old TV Star Treks the old ones you know with Leonard Nimoy and William Shatner of all the old TV Star Treks I think one episode was probably the silliest and most ridiculous and since all the old Star Treks were silly and ridiculous therefore this would have been the best of them all think about that. Okay? And it's about a man named Harry Mudd. And Harry Mudd has a nagging wife, just terribly nagging wife, you know, and he's just miserable. And he flees to a planet, and on this planet, there are thousands and thousands and thousands of robots, nothing but robots, and they all are beautiful women robots. This is real high concept science fiction, I hope you know. So he flees to this planet and he says, finally, paradise. Because every one of these absolutely beautiful women robots never, never, never contradicts him. No matter what he says, you know, he traces the arc of his will and all they ever do is, yes, dear, yes, Lord Mud, yes, dear, yes, dear. And he even has a, he has a robot made of his wife. And what he does, some of you are remembering this, I can tell just by the way. And what he can do, he can go over and he can push the button to start and she begins to berate him and says, hardcore Fenton Mudd, where have you been? Is there alcohol in your breath? Where have you been? And what he says is, shut up and pushes the button. She goes, you. Paradise. Beautiful women, nagging wife. And when the intrepid crew of the Starship Enterprise find this planet, Harry Mudd is desperate to get off. He's absolutely miserable because he doesn't have a single personal relationship. Because if you're in a relationship with another person who can't contradict you, never contradict you, only ever says, yes, dear, yes, dear, yes, dear, that person is not a subject but an object. And there are lots and lots of marriages in the world in which one party is so traumatized and afraid of the other party that all they're ever able to do is say, yes, dear, yes, dear. They can't contradict. They can't be honest. And that is not a personal relationship. That's an exploitive relationship. And the person who is afraid to be honest and can't contradict has been objectified. They're not a subject. They're an object. Would you like a personal relationship with God? There's only one way. you've got to have a God who can contradict the deepest convictions, some of them, the deepest feelings of your heart. Otherwise, you don't have a personal relationship with God. And if you say, oh, I want a personal relationship with God, but, you know, there's parts of the Bible I like and parts I don't like. I'm going to accept the parts I like. I'm going to accept, you know, I like this part. This stuff I just can't accept anymore. In other words, you have no way now for God to contradict you. So you've got a robot God. God. You don't have the God of Job 42. When Job says, why are you letting these things happen? You know, he's very upset with God. When God says, where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? No, you don't have that. You have a robot God who says, where were you. Because you push that button. You say, I'm sorry. There's parts of this I don't really like. Unless you've got a God that can contradict you, you can't even have a conversation. He's not a person. He's an object. And here's what's really tragic. There's all kinds of stuff in the Bible that you don't want to believe because it's kind of stuff you don't want to do. But there's all kinds of stuff in the Bible that are hard to believe because they're too good to be true. The Bible says, when our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts. There are times in which you're going to feel like such a failure. And the Bible comes, you know, and says, through the grace of God, in spite of all your failures, no matter what you've done, you can be my child. And you say, no, no, it's impossible. But you know what? If you haven't seeded the Bible, the authority to tell you the stuff, the bad stuff, how can the Bible come and give you hope when your heart is hopeless? How can it argue you into absolute contentment and joy? It can't. It can't. You can't have a personal intimate relationship with God unless you're are willing to submit to adjust your life to the ark of God's will and to the authority of the Bible. But if you adjust your life to the authority of the Bible out of love, out of a desire to please and know him, then you are understanding the purpose of the Word of God. Now, here we have come to the place where some of you, if you're really listening and you're really thinking, and this is New York, so a lot you actually do really listen and really think. Some of you may be saying, guess what? I'm still skeptical because I know what's actually in the Bible. Yeah, here you're talking about submit to the authority of the Bible, and here you see Jesus saying religiosity, religiosity says external compliance to the rules. But the gospel is an inner heart filled with love and joy that wants to passionately, wildly love God and love your neighbor, the Bible is the way to do that. And you get out there, you go beyond just what offends to what delights, and you're out there loving, and the Bible is the way for you to know how to love God and how to love people. And you say the trouble is that if you actually read the Bible, and you read the stories, and you read the things that the Bible really demands, it doesn't make you feel close to God. It doesn't fill you with inner joy. It makes you guilty. It can almost crush you. Virginia Stem Owens is a writer and also taught writing and composition to a class at Texas A&M some years ago, and she figured, well, I'm in the Bible Belt, so surely they will have heard of the Sermon on the Mount. So for her composition class, she assigned that they would read the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, and that then they would write an essay about it. Well, to her surprise and to their surprise, most of them had never really read the When they read it, they were appalled. And in the essays, they said things like this. One of the students said, I do not like the Sermon on the Mount. It made me feel like I had to be perfect, and no one is. But here's the fun one. It says, the things asked for in this sermon are absolutely absurd, not to look at someone with lust, not to scorn or despise anyone. These are the most extreme, stupid, unhuman statements I have ever heard in my life. Now, by the way, have you ever really read the Sermon on the Mount? actually read the Sermon on the Mount and see the kind of life it requires, if you really, really listen to it, you don't sort of read it through some kind of rose-colored, you know, sentimental glasses. If you really see what it says, you're going to, I remember one minister says, you're going to look up to heaven and you're going to say, God, save me from the Sermon on the Mount. It's not going to make you feel close to God. It's not going to make you feel all sorts of inner love and joy. what are we going to do about it? Here's what we're going to do about it. The main reason the Pharisees are so shocked by Jesus, just remember what the tradition of the elders was. It was a way to explain to people what the Bible means. The traditions of the elders said, this is what this means. This is what this part of the Bible means. This is what the Sabbath means. This is what the Passover means. But when Jesus was just sweeping all the traditions away and telling his disciples not to follow them, saying to everybody, don't follow them, he was putting himself

he was saying I'll tell you what the bible means I am the ultimate revealer of the bible I can tell you what it means how can he this is what's so shocking to the pharisees how dare he and here's how he dare when Jesus Christ came back from the dead in Luke in the book of Luke when Jesus Christ comes back to the dead he meets with the disciples on the road to Emmaus he meets with his disciples in the upper room and what does he immediately bring up I mean and you're trying to get your friends ready for the rest of history, what do you say? And you know what he says both times? It's imperative that you learn to read the Bible rightly. He says to the disciples on the road to Emmaus in Luke chapter 24, he says, how foolish and slow of heart to believe everything in the Bible. Didn't the Christ have to suffer these things in inner glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, part of the Scriptures about himself. And then in the upper room, he said to his disciples, this is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets and the Psalms. And then he opened their minds so they could understand the Scripture. Jesus says, the Bible will be an absolute despair to you. It will only crush you. It won't be a joy to you unless you learn how to read it. And what does he say, is the secret to reading it. You have to see that there is a center to it. There is a plot line running through it. Oh, there's all these stories and all these stories and all these demands and all these stories and all these rules, but there's a plot line running through all of them, and they all point to me. And unless you see that, the Bible will be nothing but a crushing burden. You say, well, how does that work? Well, I try to show you this almost every week, and I have been doing it for basically the main part of my life, but let me give you two quick examples. there's a wonderful story in the Bible about Joseph isn't there Joseph and he's sold by his jealous brothers and resentful brothers and bitter brothers into slavery in Egypt and they figure he'll die in slavery but instead of dying he's successful and he rises up to be prime minister of Egypt and he's sitting at the right hand of the king and when his brothers who betrayed and sold him get into his power Joseph forgives them and he redeems them. Okay, what are we supposed to get from that? Okay, isn't that inspiring? Now, you see what the Bible is saying to you? Be like Joseph. Even if people hurt you, and they stab you in the back, and they try to ruin you financially, they try to ruin you reputationally, they try to ruin you relationally, no matter what people do to you, no matter how much they try to hurt you, love and forgive them, and help them have a good life. Now, run along and be like Joseph. Is that inspiring to you? us from this story of Joseph. Who in the world could be like that? It's not inspiring. It's crushing unless Jesus is right. And here's what Jesus says, I am the true and better Joseph, don't you know? See, I was sold not into near death, but into real death. And I rose up not just from slavery, but from death itself. And now I'm sitting at the right hand of the Father. And when the true and better Joseph sees us, the people who turned our backs on him, the people who have lived as if he doesn't exist, the people who betrayed him, the people who you know, we, the people who caused his death, he forgave us at infinite cost to himself. And to the degree that you see that, and that moves you, and that melts you, and that humbles you, and that affirms you, to the degree you see him as the true and better Joseph, that empowers you to go out to try to be like Joseph. Or Esther. Here's one more story just to show you. Esther, there's a wonderful story in the Bible, and it's about a woman who's got the palace, and she's got power, and she's got money, she's got this status, but she realizes her people are about to be destroyed, and in order to save her people, she has to risk losing the palace. She identifies with her people, though it risks losing everything. She risks losing her life. She risks losing her status, but she does, and as a result, her people are saved. So, be like Esther, everyone. Go ahead. Be courageous no matter what it costs. Do the right thing and speak up for the truth, even if it costs you your job, even if it costs you your money, even if it costs you your reputation, even if it costs you your life. Get out there and let nothing cow you. Be afraid of nothing at all. Go run along. Go be like that. God, God save us from the story of Esther, unless there's a true and better Esther, someone who was in the real palace, the ultimate palace. And he saw that the only way we could be saved is if he identified with his people. And he came and identified with us, not at the risk of his life, but at the cost of his life. Not at the risk of the palace, but at the cost of the palace. And you know what? Unless that thrills you, unless that becomes the basis of your life, Son of God loves me like that, unless that changes your very self-image, unless you see that He loves you like that, and that becomes the basis of your self-image, you do not possibly have the security to walk away, to be courageous. See, without that, without knowing that the eternal Son of God loves you like that, and that the God of the universe delights in you, where do you get your self-image from? Your achievements. You get your self-image from your money. You get your self-image from your status. For the truth's sake, you're not going to compromise those things because that's all you've got for a self-image. But not only if you see the true and better Esther, Jesus Christ, and he's changed your life with his love, can you actually be like Esther. Don't you see, unless you see God, Jesus, as the ultimate Joseph, the ultimate Esther, the ultimate David, the ultimate Abraham, who lived the life you should have lived and died the death you should have died. So when you say, Father, accept me because of what Jesus has done, that gets you out of Egypt. not on the basis of your works and your obedience but on the basis of sheer grace and then you can be like Joseph you can be like Esther you can be because out of gratitude until you see that the ultimate rock of Moses Jesus Christ was struck with the rod of God's justice to give us real water of life until you see the ultimate Passover lamb was Jesus Christ the ultimate Passover lamb who was slain so that the angel of death would pass us over until you see he's the ultimate prophet the ultimate priest the ultimate king the ultimate korban the ultimate offering the Bible will just be a crushing thing for you. It won't be something you read with joy. It won't be a way of entering into a love relationship with God. It'll just be a despair. Oh, but now wait a minute, you smart New York types. Some of you have been tracing it out and saying, no, wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. I kind of remember you saying something, though. You said, yes, you give up your rights to live your own life. life you adjust to the authority of the will of the beloved, but unless the other person is doing it back, it's exploitation. Okay, so where's God adjusting to me? You want me to adjust my whole life to the Word of God? Where's God adjusting to me? Don't you see now? In the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus said, I don't want to go to the cross. I don't want to go into that cosmic hell. Whatever it was he experienced on the cross, he suffered the punishment we all deserve for everything the done wrong. But he said, not my will but thine be done. He adjusted his life to us in the most radical way possible. He adjusted his life to the fact that we needed to be redeemed. He let his will be crossed in the ultimate way. He's not asking you to go to hell for him. He did that for us. He's asking you to go to heaven for him. And it means letting your will be crossed, but do it. Have that love relationship with him. Humble yourself under the Word of God. Have the same relationship that he had with it in your mind, your will, and your emotions, and it'll be a joy. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for granting to us this word about your Word, and we pray that you would help us to receive it as a joy, receive it as a gift, not as a burden, because we see at the very center of all the stories of the Bible is Jesus Christ, your Son. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.
