Let's read the passage in your bulletin on which the teaching is based. It's John chapter 18, verses 1 to 14. It's printed there.

When he had finished praying, Jesus left with his disciples and crossed the Kidron Valley. valley. On the other side, there was an olive grove, and he and his disciples went into it. Now Judas, who had betrayed him, knew the place because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. So Judas came to the grove, guiding a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and Pharisees. They were carrying torches, lanterns, and weapons. Jesus, knowing all that was going to happen, went out and asked them, who is it you want? Jesus of Nazareth, they replied, I am he. Jesus said, Judas the traitor was standing there with them. And when Jesus said, I am he, they drew back and fell to the ground. Again, he asked them, who is it you want? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. I told you that I am he, Jesus answered. If you're looking for me, then let these men go. This happened so that the words he would be fulfilled. I have not lost one of those you gave me. Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servant, cutting off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. Jesus commanded Peter, put your sword away. Shall I not drink the cup the father has given me? Then the detachment of soldiers with its commander and the Jewish officials arrested Jesus. They bound him and brought him first to Annas, who was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, the high priest that year. Caiaphas was the one who had advised the Jews that it would be good if one man died for the people. This is the reading of God's word. Now, we're in a new series, and the thesis, the premise of the series is that the more words you have for what you see, the better you'll see it. An example I can give you for this principle is if I go out woods, with the number of words I have for tree, I know there's birch, I know there's oak, I know there's elm, I know there's maple, that's about it, that's about all I know, fir trees, I guess, fir, and if I go out of the woods to look for the trees, I come back to tell you, and I really won't see that much, because I only have four or five words for trees, but if you trained me, if you sent me out with 50 or 60 words for different kinds of elm, and different kinds of maple. If I knew the terminology, if I knew the definitions, if I knew all those words, I would go out and I would see the woods different. I would see the trees differently. I would notice things I wouldn't have noticed before. The more words you have for what you're seeing, the better you see it. Now we're applying that to the area of spirituality and faith. There's a great deal of interest now in spirituality and a great deal of interest in connecting to supernatural and divine and spiritual reality. And yet, there's still a real allergy that many of us in our culture have against what we call theology. We say, I want experience, not theology. And certainly, my goodness, I'll be the first to admit that theology can overwhelm experience. But very often what people mean is, let's not talk about words like sin, salvation, atonement, incarnation. I just want experience. But how can you get around in a new field without the words? Kathleen Norris gave me this idea originally. She's a writer, and she had rejected Christianity that she was raised in years ago as a youth. She was a writer in New York City. But when she came back to faith, or maybe she became a Christian it's hard to know, and I'm sure it's hard for her to know, too, she realized that she didn't really understand all these words, and she needed a vocabulary. She realized that she couldn't move about, and she couldn't understand God, she couldn't understand what she was experiencing unless she went back to many of these old words, and she came to understand what they meant. She needed a vocabulary for faith, and we all do, and so what we're going to do every week is we're taking a word out of the Apostle's Creed, that great ancient summary of the faith that we often recite, especially on the Lord's Supper Sunday when we do that. I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord, who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, and so on. And each week we're going to take one word, and we're going to find out what that word means from the Gospel of John. Last week we took a look at faith, I believe, and that's a pretty basic word. But today we come to the next word, which is, I guess, as basic as with faith as the most basic vocabulary word in this area, and that is God. What does the word God mean? And what's interesting about the Apostles' Creed is when you get into the Apostles' Creed, it is smart enough, it is wise enough to give us a marvelous hint at the definition of the biblical God. I mean, there's many gods, many, many people believe in God, but what is the essence of and the Apostles' Creed does not say, I believe in God, and in Jesus Christ is only, no, he says, I believe in God, the Father Almighty, and I would like to suggest to you that the juxtaposition of those two ideas, Father and Almighty, give you the very essence of the unique Christian, or the unique biblical understanding of who God is. Now, we get that from this text, text because in this text we see three kinds of what I'm going to call paradoxical excellence. What do I mean by paradoxical excellence? Jonathan Edwards has a great sermon called The Excellency of Christ, and he puts it this way. Edwards says, quote, Jesus Christ combines characteristics of superlative excellence which outside of him are utterly opposed to each other and incompatible in the same person.

Jesus Christ combines in Himself superlative excellence, but the kind of excellencies which are really opposed to one another and never coexist in the same person, except in Jesus. Now, what we actually see here is the paradoxical excellence of Jesus, which points to a paradoxical excellence of the Father, which actually results in a paradoxical excellence, then, in the lives of those who follow the Father and the Son. There's a paradoxical excellence of a paradoxical excellence of the Father, which results in a paradoxical excellence in those who follow them. Look, first of all, and that'll get us to the nub of the Biblical understanding of God. The first of all, and this is, the first and the third points are ancillary, and the middle point is where we get to the nub of who God is. But the first point is, look at the paradoxical excellence of Jesus Christ, His majesty, yet His weakness, at the same time, is a majesty about him, but a weakness. Now, first of all, the weakness is obvious. Everybody's abandoning him here. He is utterly rejected. He is utterly deserted. He is utterly vulnerable. He is completely helpless. First of all, we see the whole world abandoning him. You know, take a look here in verse 3. It says, Judas came to the grove, guiding a detachment of soldiers and some officials from the chief priests and Pharisees. Now, you know, there are people, there are bigots who twist the accounts of Jesus' execution, trial, and arrest to anti-Semitic purposes. But you can't do that if you read the text. What we have here, what we have here is the whole world rejecting Jesus. You have Jew and Gentile and Roman. You have pagan and religious Bible-believing people all together coming to the whole world rejects him. Not only that, all of his followers reject him. You have Judas, who betrays him. You have Peter, who's just going completely berserk and not helping at all, and who eventually denies him. And then you have all of his disciples, which, of course, eventually desert him. So, not only does the world desert him, all of his followers desert him, and the Father abandons him. In verse 11, what is Jesus really saying? You know what he's saying We've got to save you. And Jesus says, no, this is the Father's doing.

This is the Father's doing. Even the Father is abandoning him. So everyone abandons him, and so we see the signs of utter impotence and weakness in Jesus. But at the very same moment, we also see some signs of enormous, mind-staggering power and majesty, two in particular. First of all, Look at the power of his claim. When he walks out and they say, we're looking for Jesus of Nazareth, he says, now I know, this is another one of those places where the translators just can't, this is as good as they can do, but it helps to know something behind it. In the translation, it says, I am he, but that's not what he says in the original text. The word he is not there. When they say, we're looking for Jesus of Nazareth, Jesus comes out and says, ego, a me, I am. Twice he says, am, and you know, you might say, what in the world does that cryptic remark mean, and the fact is that since he uses it several times in the book of John, we know what he's saying, and it's remarkable what he's saying at this moment, but here's what he's saying, he's taking the divine name upon himself, this is the name that God gave to Moses in the burning bush, God speaks to Moses in the burning bush, and Moses is told to go to Pharaoh, and Moses, you know, this is almost comical. Moses says, hmm, when I go to Pharaoh, who should I say has sent me? You know, who, you know, Pharaoh's going to say, what? And, well, let me tell you who sent me. Who am I going to tell him has sent me? And God says, tell him I am has sent you. Now, what kind of name is I am? Oh, it's an amazing name. I am, period. You know, only God, only the creator of the universe, Only the sustainer of the universe could say that? When he says, I am, I just am, it means this, only, God says, I can say, I just am, no because. I'm not I am because anything, I am, I just am. I don't have to say I am because, because I have no beginning, nothing started me. I don't say I am because I'm dependent on something, because nothing is, I'm not dependent on anything, Everything that exists is dependent on me. God says, I alone can say, I am. I just am. I'm the self-existent creator and sustainer of everything that exists. Now, that's incredible to have God say that, but here is a human being walking out and taking that name on himself at the moment of his greatest weakness. Why doesn't he come out and say, yes, it's me, me, the suffering servant? Oh, no. He comes out and says, I am. But not only that, do we see the power of his claim? We see the power of his being. Because what's interesting here, notice this, when he says, I am, in verse 5, verse 6, and when Jesus said, I am he, when Jesus said, I am, they drew back and fell to the ground. Now, why? Notice it doesn't say they fell to the ground. it says they fell back and fell to the ground. What this means is something blew them off of their feet. They didn't just prostrate themselves and say, oh, I'm so amazed or astounded. They were blown back. Why? Well, there's a lot of mistaken ideas about this, and actually some of them are hilarious. You know, one of them, some people say, well, they were amazed at his claim. Well, now listen, these are a bunch of, you know, pagan soldiers, and there's a motley group of people, you know, they're coming with torches, and they're going to make a rush for a guy, and they're going to arrest him. He comes out and says, I am. Now, can you imagine them all saying,

wow. That's, you know, the vocabulary he uses and the grammatical construction is identical to that which God uses in Exodus 3 and Isaiah 40 to 55. That's just amazing. No, I don't think they're doing that. There's a couple of commentaries that are just so against the supernatural. A couple of commentaries said, well, you know, the Mount of Olives here was sort of steep,

up. And he came out, and they took a step back, and they all fell. I suppose it was so steep that they were all hooked up to each other, too. What blew them off their feet? And the only answer I can come up with, actually, there's several other people, it's not just my idea, but here's what it is. When I was, when my kids were little, my boys were little, when they were three, four, or five years old, they used to want to wrestle me. So I used to come home. If I walked back in the room, would tackle me around the knees to take me down. So I immediately had to fall down and begin to wrestle with him. Now, when you're 6'4", 240, wrestling with a four-year-old, you have to exercise a tremendous amount of restraint. You can never, you know, you pin him, but you can never, you can never let the child actually experience what you really weigh. If the child actually experienced, if I rolled over in the wrong way, if I pushed out my arm in the wrong way, if even for a second, I actually let the child experience my real weight, my real, I use the term literally, my real glory, they would be devastated. It takes enormous restraint.

Alexander McLaren, a Scottish preacher, puts it this way. He raises this text and he says, you know what I think happened? He says, I'm inclined to think that here there was for a moment, a rending of the veil. And just as Moses could not look upon the face but only survived the merest glimpse of the back parts of his glory, and as Isaiah, who through the smoke had the merest glance of his majesty, said, Woe is me, for I am undone. So here, one stray beam of manifest deity that shot through the crevice, as it were, for an instant, was enough to devastate and prostrate with abject awe even those armed men. Why would Jesus, at the moment of his greatest weakness, flex?

Because he's trying to show us that his very weakness, paradoxically, is the most incredible feat of strength in history. Because I want you to know it is much, much harder when you're really, really strong to be gentle. It takes a tremendous amount of strength to be weak. And Jesus Christ is saying, I am the most powerfully weak person and the most weak, powerful person in history. I'm exerting my strength and power as I become utterly and completely vulnerable. And there's Jesus Christ for you. See the creator of the universe in the manger needing his diaper changed. changed, see Jesus Christ utterly exhausted on the boat, so exhausted that there's a hurricane going on, and they can't wake him up, but when he wakes up, with a flick of his wrist, he turns off the Northeaster. You see, meekness and majesty, power and unbelievable tender condescension.

now so okay that's our first point Jesus Christ has a paradoxical excellence about him an enormous strength and power and majesty and yet incredible meekness and weakness at the same time why you said well that's interesting that's not I hadn't really thought of it like that's great but so what I'll tell you so what Jesus Christ has this paradoxical excellence in everything he does because he's a manifestation of the God who has, the biblical God, who has at the very heart of what makes him God, the juxtaposition of two ideas that human beings cannot keep together. See, there's many, many, many gods. Every philosophical system has some kind of God, virtually. Almost every kind of religion certainly has some kind of God. God. And actually, you know, out in America where everybody's putting together their own religions, they all have their own kind of God. But nobody's got a God like this. This is a unique God. This is the biblical God because at the very heart of who this God is, there is the juxtaposition of two ideas that Jesus holds together, that God holds together, that the Bible holds together, but none of the rest of us can. What do I mean by that? Well, here, take a look. Here's the paradoxical excellence of the Father. Verse 11, shall I not drink the cup the Father has given me?

Now, there it is. Now, there's two ideas about God that Jesus holds together. He refuses to separate them, but all the rest of us cannot hold them together. What do I mean? Well, first of all, you have the cup. What's the cup? In the Bible, in the Old Testament, in fact, actually in ancient literature, there's really, this is a no-brainer if you know ancient literature. controversial interpretation. The cup is the wrath of God. The cup is divine cosmic justice. Oh, we hate to hear about this, but here it is. In Ezekiel chapter 23, we read, you shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation, and you will tear your breasts. In Isaiah 54, you will drink the cup of his fury, and you will stagger his fury. See, the paradoxical excellence at the heart of God is we have a furious God, a God of wrath, a God of a cup. But on the other hand, this is a cup who gives him. Jesus does not say, this amazes me, I mean, the juxtaposition right here is really striking. Jesus does not say, this is the cup, this cup that's coming to me. This is the cup that the Lord is giving me, or that this is the cup that all sovereign is giving me. Or he doesn't even say, this is the cup that the Holy One is, he says, this is the cup Father is giving me. Now, when Jesus Christ uses the word Father, what does he mean? What is a father? Jesus doesn't mean some kind of austere and stern patriarch. Jesus says, when he says Father, Jesus is talking about Abba. When he prays to God, he uses, doesn't just say Father. When the apostles were astounded when Jesus prayed, he would say Abba, which is an Aramaic diminutive. It's the word for Papa. It's the word that a child uses with Daddy. And whenever you see Jesus talking about God as fatherhood, you know, for example, the parable in Luke 15 that we allude to so much, the man, the father who had two sons. There we see what God thinks, what Jesus thinks of the father. You see him loving his sons and pleading with his sons, and being so gentle with his sons, and being so patient with his sons, and running to his sons, and embracing his sons, and kissing his sons, to God, to Jesus, Jesus' Father means unbelievable compassion, bottomless love, and tenderness, and intimacy, and Jesus has the audacity here to say, this is the cup from the Father, Father, let me paraphrase it. Jesus Christ is saying, my Father, Papa, is sending me to hell on the cross. When I go on the cross, he's saying, I'm going to experience what any human soul experiences when cut off from its source. Every human soul has been made for the love of God, has been made for the presence of God, and any human soul that's cut off from the source experiences an eternity of torment, infinite, infinite torture. I'm going to experience that on the cross. Father is doing that for me. Father is doing that to me, and so here's what we have. You and I and everybody else in the world, this is what we feel. If there's a cup, he's not Father. If he's a Father, there wouldn't be a cup. If he's loving, he wouldn't do that, and if he does that, then he's not a loving God, But, see, Jesus Christ keeps them together. He keeps them together. In other words, everybody else feels either he's almighty, sovereign, or else he's tender, loving father, but he can't be both. He's either almighty, then he's not father, or he's maybe the father, but then he's not the great almighty. But Jesus Christ says, No, I believe in God, the Father Almighty.

Now, let me tell you why nobody else can keep them together. Let me tell you why. Why? First of all, those of us in Western civilization, most of us experience the most comfortable lives and the safest lives that any particular body of people have ever had in history. I mean, even a hundred years ago, even a hundred years ago, in this city, you didn't expect all your children to live to maturity. You know, you had six children, you expected to bury three or four of them, I just expected it. I mean, we have the most safe life, we have the most coddled life, we have the most secure life that any group of people have ever experienced in history, and partly because we have such a comfortable, safe life. If you have a comfortable, safe life, one thing you can't see is how if he's a loving God, he would condemn people. The average person in New York City says, I believe in a loving God, I don't believe in a God who would condemn people or send people to hell. I can't believe in that. I believe in a loving God. And they can't get their mental arms around the idea of a God who would be both father and have a cup. But on the other hand, if you have experienced injustice, if you have experienced wrongdoing, you've got another problem, even if you've lived in modern Western society. Recently, Recently, for example, just this last week, I was reading, New York Times was an article about the trial of Kip Kinkle. Kip Kinkle was a 15-year-old boy in Oregon a year and a half ago that killed his parents and then went to school and shot up the school, killed two high school students, wounded another 24 or something like that. And what the article said was that his sister and a number of other people were trying to say about him, you know, forgive. He's a kid. He's sick. He's troubled. Forgive. But the mother of one of the victims said, for him to be as tortured and as troubled as we are is to me the only final justice. Are you going to argue with that? And you know what the judge did? The judge gave him life imprisonment, 110 years I think it was, without chance of parole. And this is what the judge said. There is a price to be paid for every bullet.

Now, you see, if you have really experienced injustice, one thing you cannot understand, one thing you can't get your arm around, is the idea of a forgiving God, hmm? If you've really experienced injustice, you can say, what I can't understand, how God could ever forgive that person? How dare God forgive that, how dare you forgive God that person? If you forgive injustice, it's unfair to the victim, it's unfair to society, because, well, that's just going to keep on going. perpetrator. You're just going to let that person go on doing what they did before. If you've experienced injustice, you can understand the cup, but you really can't understand a forgiving God. And if you haven't experienced injustice, if you lived a very coddled life, then the idea of a condemning, punishing God is very upsetting to you. You can't get them together. But let me tell you why they have to be held together and how they can. First, why they have to. They have to be held together logically and emotionally. Logically, number one. Let me tell you why they have to go together. In Exodus chapter 33, one of the great passages in the Bible, Moses comes to God and says, show me your glory. Now, when Moses says, show me your glory, what he's actually saying, I mean, I want to put this the most respectful way. In some ways, this is not the right word. What Moses is saying when he says, show me your glory, is he's saying, God, define yourself. Tell me who you are. Show me what makes you. Show me the innermost depths of who you are. Show me exactly the essence of what makes you great. Show me who you are. And you know what God does? An absolutely amazing thing. God says in verse 19, He says, I will, okay, He says, I will. He says, I will make all my goodness pass before you,

and I will declare my name to you. See, Moses says, who are you? Show me your glory. And God says, okay, I'll make all my goodness pass. Now, Moses didn't ask anything about goodness, But when you ask God, who are you? What makes you? Show me your glory. God says, you have to see all my goodness. So he puts Moses in the cleft of the rock, and he passes by, and this is what he says. Listen carefully. He says, let me tell you about all my goodness, and this is what he says. says. He says, the Lord, the Lord, I've got to find it, yeah. In Exodus 34, verses 5, he says, the Lord came down, and he said, the Lord, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love, maintaining love to thousands, and forgiving wickedness. But he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished, and he will punish the children and their children's children under the third and fourth generation. Did you hear that?

now anybody listening to that immediately is going to say, maybe you noticed it, maybe you never really read that, this is the place where Jesus, Moses says, tell me who you are, give me the essence of it, God says, I will let you see all my goodness, and he says, number one, he says, I forgive, I am compassionate, I am abounding in love, I forgive people, and then he says, but I never let the guilty go unpunished, In other words, the first clause contradicts the second clause. At least anybody who would, you'd say, well, that's a contradiction. How can you on the one hand say you're forgiving, and yet you can never let anyone guilty of anything go unpunished? There's not a single sin and not a single wrongdoing, not a single act of evil that will ever go unpunished. And you say, how could that be? That's incredible. And here's the answer. God says, it has to be because I'm good. Because I'm good. Think. What if the judge of Kip Kinkle had said to the jury and the families, let's forgive him. Let's let him get off. He's 15. You know how boys are. They act like that. Do you think the families of the victims would have gone out saying, well, you know, the reason he let that guy off is because he's so good? That judge is so good. He's so good-hearted, that's it. No, no, no, no, no, they wouldn't say that. They would say that's either indifference or a bad heart. If you're really good, you would not fail to do justice, and therefore, the reason why God says I can never let a single sin go unpunished is because he says, I am absolutely good, but on the other hand, the reason he says, I will not fail to forgive you. I must forgive you. I will rescue you. I don't want to see you perish. Why does he say that? Because he's good. You see, there is no, listen, there are not two attributes in God that are at war with each other. Oh, no, no, no. If he is absolutely and completely and utterly good, he cannot, he cannot let a single sin go unpunished. He can't overlook a single thing. On the other hand, he must forgive us. He must rescue us. He must save us. Well, now somebody says, how could that be? And the answer is, for one minute, I'll tell you how it can be, but for one minute, do you feel it? There's an old guy, Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones used to put it this way, an old British preacher used to say, do you see that your sin and your wrongdoing creates a huge problem for God. Do you see that he, do you see he must punish you, but he just, but he desperately does not want to? Do you see the problem? Now, if you've never noticed the problem, you don't know who he is. You've never really met him. You really don't see his glory. And I'll tell you why. Because almost all, the most, the reason that most of us do not see that as a problem is because we actually choose the Almighty, or we choose the Father, we choose a loving God who's not really holy, or we choose a holy God who's not really loving, and therefore, we don't see all the goodness of God. We either compromise His justice goodness in favor of His love, or we compromise His loving goodness, you see, in favor of His justice. We either, here's what we can do, we can say, well, no, I don't see there's any problem. I don't see why there's a big problem. God gives us the law, and then we try to obey it, people don't. You don't really have a good God. You're a legalist, and you know what? You don't really have a good God because your God, because the true biblical God, demands perfection. He doesn't just demand I'll take the top 10%. He doesn't grade on a curve. What he actually says is not a single sin can go unpunished or I wouldn't be absolutely good. If you have a legalistic view of God, a kind of God of law and not really of love and grace. You don't really have a good God. But on the other hand, on the other hand, what if you say, no, I don't really have a problem. I just think God just accepts and loves us all. But then what did that God, the God that you have, and it's not a biblical God, a God who simply says, well, you know, I accept people. I love everybody. I wouldn't send anybody buddy to hell. I wouldn't condemn people. I'm a God of love. What sacrifice did that God have to do to save you? What price did he have to pay? Nothing. And here's what's so ironic. The biblical God is much more holy than the God of the Pharisee, because the biblical God says, I must punish every sin. I'm not just going to take the good people and leave out the bad people. The good people can't be saved. Even the good people do many wrong things. And therefore, the Biblical God is far, far more holy than the God of the legalist. On the other hand, the Biblical God is far more loving than the God of the relativist, because the God of the relativist says, well, I just don't believe in wrath, I don't believe that God had to punish Jesus, I don't believe any of that stuff. Well, what that means is you have a God that didn't cost anything to love you.

you. And when God says, you will not see my glory till you see all my goodness, here's what I'm trying to say. If you only have a God who just loves everybody, is that going to transform you? Is that going to amaze you with his glory? Is that going to dazzle you? Is that going to change your life? No. Or on the other hand, if you have a God who's really a God of law, you just obey and God will take you to heaven, is that going to dazzle you? No, and I'll tell you why. You haven't seen the glory of God because you haven't seen all of his goodness. You're either having an almighty God who's not really a father, or you have a fatherly, sweet God who's not really almighty, and as a result, you don't see the problem, you don't see the fact that sin is a problem for him, you don't see that he has to punish, but on the other hand, he can't punish his heart? Until you see that, his glory. You're not amazed. You're not gripped. You're not changed. But once you see that, you must keep them together. You say, well, then how can they be together? Here's the answer. It's absolutely counterintuitive. Common sense says, look, he can't be all good. He's either just and not really loving, or he's absolutely loving, but he's not really just. But we're told right here how it happened. There is a way for God to be absolutely holy and gospel of Jesus Christ. But here it tells you, the very last verse, one had to die for the people.

You see, years and years and years and years ago, many years ago, God set a man down in a garden and put a tree in front of him.

And he says, obey me about the tree. Don't eat the fruit of the tree. You may eat of every other fruit of the garden, but not the fruit of that tree. And so he said, Adam, obey me and you will live. And he didn't. And centuries later, God puts another man down in a garden again, this garden, and he puts a tree in front of him. And he says, obey me about the tree, but it's a different tree. It's a cross. And to the first Adam, God had to say, if you just obey me, you'll live. And he didn't. But to the second Adam, God says, son, obey me and I'll crush you. Go to the cross and I'll punish you for them. And he did. And the tree, the tree is the place. Because you see, on the tree, when Jesus Christ died, there and only there, only there, that both the love and the justice of God perfectly, brilliantly coincide and shine forth. Because as the stroke came down on Jesus, the same stroke at once, no place in the history of the world was the holiness of God more brilliantly manifested than when we saw that his holiness and justice had to be satisfied, even at the cost of his own son. But at no place else in the history of the world was the love of God more brilliantly manifested than when we saw that he has to save and love and rescue and forgive us, even if it costs his own son. The same moment. And that's the reason why, you know, George Herbert, in his wonderful poem, tells about Jesus Christ crying down from the cross and explaining his substitutionary death as the second Adam. Because in that wonderful little poem, it's called The Sacrifice, Jesus says, all ye who pass by, behold and see, See, man stole the fruit. Now I must climb the tree, a tree of life for you, for all, except only me.

Substitution does this. If Jesus Christ came to be a teacher, then you have a holy God, but not a loving God. You have to live up. If Jesus Christ just came to tell you that God loves everybody, then you have a loving God, but not a holy God, and that will never change you. amaze you. It'll never thrill you. You'll never say, look at what God did. If he's just a loving God, but not really holy, just a holy God, but not really loving, you'll never be changed. Never, never, never. Perfect example. Simone Weil, who was a French Jewish writer and philosopher during World War II, suffered a lot during World War II, being Jewish in France

during World War II. And she, you know, her whole, her life has been celebrated at Columbia University all week, and they were celebrating her works and her literary criticism. And she's a feminist, and she did some great things in thinking and in writing. One thing I don't know that they talked about at Columbia was how she was converted to Christianity. I don't think they probably said anything about that, but here's what happened. Simone Weil had headaches, and she found to her surprise that one of the ways in which she could deal with her headaches was she could meditate on the poetry of the Anglican Christian poet George Herbert. And she had one particular poem that she loved very much. It was called Love Three. And in it, there's a dialogue between Jesus and a soul. Now, all she thought of it was as a beautiful poem, and here's what she said. She says, I used to think all I was doing was reciting a beautiful poem, and it helped her get over her headaches. but my soul was beginning to cling to the tenderness that the poem enshrined. It was during one of these recitations that I had an experience of Christ's love that was overwhelming, and Christ himself came down and took possession of me.

And you know what she was reading? She was reading this. At the very end of the poem, Jesus and the soul are dialoguing, and the soul says, Lord, let my shame go where it doth deserve. Jesus says, but who bore the blame? My dear, then I will serve. And he goes on and says, you must sit down and taste my meat. So I did sit and eat. See, the dialogue goes like this. It says, you wretch be gone, depart in shame. And Jesus says, no, come here, my love. I bore the blame. You must sit down and taste my meat.

eat. Now, bore the blame, bore the blame, substitution, concrete, and when she saw, listen, if you have trouble, I got to conclude here, if you have trouble with the whole idea that once you become a Christian, you're saved, there's no condemnation, Jesus did everything for you that you should do, and that means that once you become a Christian, there's no condemnation for you, you're in, you're accepted, you're accepted in spite of all your flaws, there you are, if you say, oh, that's too easy, that's too easy, I don't believe that, you have to work, you have to strive, that's too easy, you have a God of holiness, not of love and grace, and he'll never transform your life like he did Simone's, or if you say, well, I don't believe in a God of wrath who would punish Jesus, I can't believe in that sort of thing, I don't believe that sort of thing ever happened, In other words, your God didn't do anything costly for you, and that kind of God's love is just sentiment, and it will never change your life. Never. If you have a God of holiness and not love, you're always, always gonna feel like I'm not living up. You're always gonna be running and running and never getting there. If you have a God of love who never says no to you and just accepts everything you do, no matter what. You're both orphans. You know, if you have parents that never cross your will, never come down with standards, never say no, you feel like an orphan because you are. But if you're a God who's always living up to, if you have a God who you can never live up to, never really be sure you're good enough, then you're an orphan too. But in the gospel, you have a Father Almighty. Who wants a Father who's not Almighty? But who wants an Almighty who's not a Father? Now, by the way, if in the end you see that God is Father Almighty, that will create a paradoxical excellence in you, because you'll be both humble and bold at the same time. You know, if you don't understand the gospel, you can be humble when you're failing, bold when you're succeeding. But if you're a Christian in the gospel, you'll know that though you are a sinner, you're accepted. So you're humble, bold at the same time, and there's going to be a paradoxical excellence about you, a unique self-image that grows out of the gospel and not out of any other philosophical system. You know, when we, in about 10 minutes or five minutes, when you sing this song, Let Us Love and Sing and Wonder, it has it all in there. The first verse says, let us love and sing and wonder. Let us praise the Savior's name. He has hushed the law's loud thunder. He has quenched Mount Sinai's flame. How? Well, verse 4, let us wonder. Grace and justice join to point to mercy's store. And when through grace in Christ our trust is, justice smiles and asks no more. He who washed us with his blood has secured our way to God. Let's pray. Our Father, the last part of this service, as we sing, as we pray, as we receive some new members, help us to see it's all done through the cross. Help us to have that paradoxical excellence of humility and boldness growing in us because through the cross, both your fatherly love and your almighty justice and holiness can come in and take root in us and grow together. We thank you that through the gospel we have a God like you. And we ask that you would make us people who exhibit your nature and your characteristics in our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
