The scripture reading is taken from 2 Samuel 12, verses 1-7a, and Psalm 51, verses 1-12, found on page 8 of your bulletin. The Lord sent Nathan to David. When he came to him, he said, There are two men in a certain town, one rich and the other poor. The rich man had a very large number of sheep and cattle, but the poor man had nothing except one little ewe lamb he had bought. He raised it, and it grew up with him and his children. It shared his food, drank from his cup, and even slept in his arms. It was like a daughter to him. Now a traveler came to the rich man, but the rich man refrained from taking one of his own sheep or cattle to prepare a meal for the traveler who had come to him. Instead, he took the ewe lamb that belonged to the poor man and prepared it for the one who had come to him. David burned with anger against the man and said to Nathan, As surely as the Lord lives, this deserves to die. He must pay for that lamb four times over because he did such a thing and had no pity. Then Nathan said to David, you are the man. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion, blot out my transgressions, wash away all my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions and my sin is always before for me. Against you, you only, have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you are proved right when you speak and justified when you judge. Surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me. Surely you desire truth in the inner parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place. Cleanse me with hyssop and I will be clean. Wash me and I will be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones you have crushed rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquity. Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit to sustain me. This is the word of the Lord.

The life of David. The life of David is the longest, the greatest single narrative presentation in all of ancient literature of a single human life. The longest and greatest narrative presentation of a single individual human life. Not just in the Bible, but in all of ancient literature. and therefore we have this account to show us what it is that actually makes or breaks an individual life. Tonight, we come to an item, we come to something that if you have it, even if your life completely blows up, it can be repaired. If you've got it, if you can do it, no matter how broken your life, no matter how severely broken your life is, it can be made whole. I'm afraid to name it for you. And the reason I'm afraid to name it for you is because when you hear it, at least when I use the English word, it's the only English word we've really got for it, pretty much, I'm afraid a lot of you are going to say, oh, that. Anybody can do that. What's so special about that? I already know about that. I beg to differ. Because when I became a Christian, for at least a couple years, maybe longer after that, I just I saw lots of things in my life that just had to change I just knew they had to change they really have to change but I try as I might they didn't change and then I came across a couple of 17th century Christian books on spirituality about repentance they're about repentance and when I first saw them and I thought oh how musty how old-fashioned how negative you know repentance but to him, I realized this is the secret of deep permanent change. This is how you change. If you find that the things you try to change always seem to come back, what the Bible means by the word repentance is the secret for how to change that. And this incident of David and the psalm that he wrote at the bottom of the barrel when he was in the middle of it is the best resource we have on what the Bible means by repentance. Let's take a look at this incident. Let's look at the call, the context, the parts, and the power of repentance. The call to it, the context of it, the parts of it, and the power for it. Now, the first thing we see is the call. God calls David to repentance. And how? Well, if we're going to get into the heart of the incident, we've got to ask, what did David do? What has God done? And when we ask what David did. We have to go to chapter 11. Obviously, the reading begins in chapter 12. But what happened in chapter 11 of 2 Samuel? And this is what happened. You remember David had a group of mighty men, 30 or 40 guys, that gathered around him when he was in the wilderness, when Saul was hunting him, and when his life was on the line, these mighty men came around him, and they saved his life. They defended him. They became his greatest friends, his comrades-in-arms, and they also became people who were very important in his administration. He owed his life to them. Now he becomes king. And many of these men have these different positions in the government. And one of them, one of these best friends, one of these mighty men, is Uriah the Hittite. And he also has a beautiful wife named Bathsheba. And one season when David sends Uriah and the army out to do war, back in Jerusalem, David has an affair with Bathsheba. And then she gets pregnant. and David's got to cover that up. So what he does is he calls for Uriah. That is, he ostensibly, he says, I would like Uriah to come and give me a report about how the battle's going. So Uriah comes back and gives David the report, and then David says, great, thank you for that report. Now, it's too late for you to try to get all the way back to the front tonight, so why don't you go home? Sleep in your own bed. Sleep with your wife, you know. One night, and then you can go back to and Uriah has a, it's got integrity, and he says, he says, when my men and my friends are sleeping on the ground, you know, on the front lines, how dare I eat in my home and sleep under my roof? I won't do it. So he sleeps out with the servants on the ground, and David now feels his hand has been forced. So he sends a message to Joab, the commander of the Israelites, and he says, when Uriah's company goes out to fight, pull back the other men so Uriah's alone and he'll be killed. But Joab realizes that's too flagrant. Why would the men, knowing that Uriah was going to die, why would his comrades pull back and leave him to die? It would never work. So what Joab has to do is he has to send an entire company into an excessively dangerous part of the battle. and many of them are killed and Uriah is one of them. And when Joab sends a messenger back to tell David that Uriah is dead, then David takes Bathsheba to be his wife and she bears a son. Now, that's what he did. How could he? How could he do this?

Think of the character of David. Think of what we've already seen about him. Here is a man of great leadership qualities, Here's a man of incredible devotion to God and tremendous devotion to his people. Here's a man of artistic genius. Remember? You know, he's a poet, the Psalms. A man of tremendous courage, a man of character. Where did this come from? It seems like it came out of the blue. How could he do such a thing? Well, Robert Alter, who's written a great commentary on 2 Samuel and 1 Samuel, says this is not out of the blue, not at all. And the reason it's not out of the blue is if you go back and read what's been going on in David's life, David has slowly but surely been changed through the way political power is ordinarily wielded. Slowly but surely, the way he wielded political power changed him. Years and years of not exactly lying, not technically lying, but deceiving. years and years of marginalizing opponents not dealing directly and honestly with them but most of all what happens especially to political leaders is years and years of more and more taking liberties and feeling like they're above the rules because of the majestic self-pity that happens to political leaders now you say what are you talking about well see if you're in leadership especially if you're in great leadership. Two things. You suffer a lot. All kinds of hassles. All kinds of attacks. All kinds of problems come to people who are in leadership. And if you're not there, you don't know what they are. So leaders get lots and lots of suffering, but also leaders get all kinds of acclaim. People are always praising them. And when you put those two things together, what tends to happen to leaders is bit by bit, they develop a self-pity. Majestic self-pity, I call it. Because what they say is, nobody knows. Nobody knows how much I suffer. Nobody knows what I go through to rule this people. I deserve a few breaks. I deserve a few comforts. Yes, they're not quite in accordance with the rules. People wouldn't understand, but I deserve it. And so bit by bit by bit, David has been changed. David has been corrupted by the way political power is wielded in his life. So he's been doing it in smaller doses, smaller doses. And finally, he drives over a cliff. This is not out of the blue. This has been happening to him all along. And Robert Alder says he doesn't even realize just how much of a train wreck his life has become. He blew up his life. He doesn't even realize it completely yet. Because at the end of chapter 11 that I just recounted to you, Robert Alter says that the way the messenger speaks to David, when Joab sends a messenger from the front and says, Uriah Hittite, your servant is dead, it's pretty clear that the messenger knows that Uriah's death was arranged. And certainly, Eunice, the domestics and the servants watching Bathsheba have this baby, they know. They know the date. They know it couldn't be Uriah's, and they know it couldn't be David's within the marriage. And now what's going on is that the public trust on which David had built his kingship is crumbling. People already know or will already know that he betrayed his greatest friend, that he took his wife. Everything in David's life is about to blow up. Everything is ready, and he doesn't even know about it. He doesn't even realize it. So what does David get? What does God do? God sends Nathan, and Nathan tells him a story. When Nathan the prophet comes to David, as you see, he tells him a story, and it's an interesting story, and it's kind of a sad story, but almost all interpreters agree that David's response to it, did you notice, David's response is over the top. I mean, listen, lamb stealing, what a shame, but it's not a capital offense. In any legal code, anywhere that we know, stealing, especially a rich man stealing a lamb, that's not a capital offense. But David gets furious, and he says, this man deserves to die. Does this man think there's no justice in my kingdom? Who is this man? And Nathan, in the greatest, the most direct sermon application ever in history, says, You are the man. One of the questions that comes up right away is, why did Nathan just get to the point? If Nathan wanted to say, you've sinned, why didn't he get right to the point? What's really monkeying around the story? David's conscience is beginning to wake up. That's why he's over the top. That's why he's starting to say, this man deserves to die. He knows. He's feeling. He senses it probably at a kind of semi-conscious level. And when his conscience begins to awake, Nathan moves in. Why? Because God has sent Nathan not to do condemning, but to do converting. God does not send a sword to smite David, but a scalpel to take out the tumor. In other words, God is calling David to repentance. Repentance. Wake up. Repentance is his only hope now. The only way that is possible for him to put his life back together again. So what is repentance? Repentance. Repentance is killing the habits of your heart that are killing you without killing yourself. That's repentance. Repentance is killing the habits of the heart that are killing you without killing yourself. Well, how do we do that? Let's get on to it. But let me just say something real briefly. You know, this is New York, and I'm sure there's a lot of great people in this room. There's a lot of talented people and good people and maybe eventually or maybe even now prominent people. But no matter how great you are, you're not like David. Do you think anybody here, is there anybody in this room that 3,000 years from now people are going to be discussing their life? I doubt it.

Nobody in this room is the equal of David. Yet look what happened to him. If it can happen to him, it can happen to you.

Because David couldn't repent, it happened. And only because he learned to repent was he able to get out of it. It happened to him. It can happen to you. How important is repentant? Hear the call to repentance. Okay, now, how does it happen? How do we learn it? This is so critical. This is the thing that makes or breaks your life. How do we learn it? First thing, as I already mentioned, we have to see the context of repentance. And I like to be brief, but it's pretty important. New Yorkers especially feel like, okay, okay, so you say repentance is a way to bring deep, permanent change to my life. Fine. That's very interesting. So what are the steps? You know, put it in a sermon, put it in a lecture, PowerPoint, a book. Look, give me the steps for how to do deep change, and then I will do them. I'll work through them on my time and at my terms. Uh-uh, it doesn't work that way. You never know you're sinning when you're sinning. Sin never feels like sin. Look at David. When he sent for Bathsheba, he didn't feel like a sinner. He felt like a lover.

And when he actually gave the order for Uriah to be killed, he didn't feel like a sinner. He felt like a general. Generals always are giving orders that they know are going to result in the of people. I mean, David was probably saying, well, yeah, he's going to die, but you know what? He could have died yesterday. He could have died tomorrow. I mean, you know, it could happen anytime. David was self-deceived. Your greatest flaws, the habits of your heart that are killing you the most, by definition, are the ones you don't see. That's why they have control over you. Because you don't see them. Because you don't want to know. Because you don't want to see them. Because you don't want to know anything about them. And therefore, you a little list, which I'm about to. Here's how you go about repenting. Here's how you go about finding the parts of your heart that are killing you and learning how to permanently change them. Even if you go off and say, okay, I'm going to work on my biggest flaws, you don't know what they are. By definition, you couldn't know what they are. You see that. If you sit down with your list, you're going to go after some red herrings, some things that are probably maybe, you know, you need to change, but probably not the big ones. Well, then how are we going to ever find out? How are we ever going to be led into life-changing repentance? And the answer is, friends. Spiritual friendships, radical community. Nathan was David's friend. He wasn't just a cleric. You know that from if you read the whole passage, if you read the whole narrative. And David in a million years would never, ever, ever have seen what he saw without Nathan. Now, I would like to publicly thank God, which I have at every one of my services here today, for the Nathans that he sent me over the years without which I wouldn't be here. I would not be here without my Nathans. Now, I want you to know that was never as good to my Nathans as David was to this one. I mean, because David admits that Nathan's right. Now, he immediately, as we're going to see, immediately says, you're right. I've never said that to a Nathan the first time around. It takes me weeks, months, maybe even years before I finally go to a Nathan saying, I guess you were right.

because Proverbs 27, 6 says, faithful are the wounds of a friend. Have you got Nathans in your life? Have you deputized people to be Nathans? You're dead without them. In fact, even the Nathans of your life wouldn't be Nathans unless they had Nathans. We're dead without Nathans.

But do you make it safe for people? Or when they come and talk to you about what's wrong with you, do you get too devastated or too upset or too angry? Do you have Nathans in your life? Do you give them the freedom to operate? Do you deputize them? Do you have the time to have any of them? We are dead without them. So there's the context of repentance. It's spiritual friendship. It's radical community. You can't learn to repent like you can learn golf where you give me the book and then I go out and at my own time on my own terms, I work it out. It doesn't work that way. Then secondly, I said, first of all, you have to know the context of repentance if you want to repent. and have this experience of deep change. Secondly, you need to know the parts. And there are three parts of repentance, which you see in this marvelous, this greatest of all psalms that tell us about this repentance. It's Psalm 51, which David wrote when he was in the middle of this. And verse 4, the first part of verse 4, has all three of these incredibly important parts of repentance.

The parts are all in the first half of verse four. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. There's a thing you do with a mind, there's a thing you do with a will, and there's a thing you do with a heart. Mind, will, and heart. The first thing is with a mind, you must say, I have done what is evil in your sight. Now, what do I mean by that? Here. Everybody agrees, I think, that you can't completely trust your feelings. was down in the depths. Sense of failure, self-recrimination, guilt. And everybody, at some point, has to deal with a sense of failure, a sense of self-recrimination, guilt. But the question is, is your guilt true guilt? Is your guilt false guilt? Or is your guilt proportionate guilt? See, we all know some people who rob banks and don't feel guilty about it. But they should. And we also know all kinds of people who get really guilty about every little tiny misstep and they shouldn't. Right? I mean, we have a lot of people who should feel guilty, but they don't. And we have a lot of people who should not feel so guilty, and they do. In other words, there's a lot of people who have false guilt, and a lot of people who lack true guilt. You can't deal with guilt unless you decide is this true versus false. We all know that's true and false. Guilt. But how do you decide that? What is your straight edge? And you suddenly realize we're in trouble. There are people who say, well, you follow your feelings. You follow your heart. But we just said there's all kinds of people whose hearts are wrong, right? Jiminy Cricket said, always let your conscience be your guide. But do you realize that serial killers have been doing that for years?

It doesn't work.

I remember years ago watching, I can't remember which one of the Fox TV shows with all the beautiful young people falling in love with each other. I think it was Tori Spelling. She was a teenager. Beverly Hills, right? 90210. And she comes to see a minister, a minister to get counsel. And she says, I'm thinking of having sex with this young man, and I don't know whether I should or not. It would be right or wrong. You know what the minister says? The minister says, well, only your heart can tell you whether that's right or wrong. And she hugs him and walks out, of course. But

So it would have been a much more interesting scene if she said, well, let me get this straight. So you're saying whatever my heart says is okay is okay, no matter how exploitative, no matter how selfish, no matter how dishonest this relationship is. If my heart says it's okay, then it's okay. Then the minister would have said, well, no, not exactly that. And she said, yes, because, you know, if you say only your heart can decide whether it's right or wrong, you have to follow your heart. Well, Hitler followed his heart, and look where it got the world. So are you telling me that no matter what my heart says, all right, the minister would have said, no, no, no. Oh, then you are saying, she could have said, that there is some kind of standard above my heart that I have to look to decide whether my guilt is true or false. What is that standard? And then the minister would have had to do his job, you know, which he didn't want to do. Now, how does David find it?

David says not I have sinned in my parents site your parents might not have the right standards you know might be overburdened he doesn't say I have sinned in my friend's site he doesn't say I've sinned in my site because we've already said that doesn't work and he doesn't say I've sinned in the New York Times editorial pages site he doesn't say anything like that he says I have sinned in your site he goes to the scripture

of biblical moral tradition. And that's the straight edge. And do you realize, listen, if you don't do that, where are you going to go? If you're going to go to psychology to find out whether your guilt is true or false? I know a Harvard psychologist that once said absolutely rightly. He says, psychology cannot help you give or take, give or receive forgiveness. Because he says, psychology can only tell you what is, never what ought to be. Psychology can say, for example, most people mistrust other races. Most people are racist. But that doesn't make it but it doesn't really make it wrong. Psychology can only tell you what is, never what ought to be. The minute somebody says you should feel guilty or you shouldn't feel guilty, that is religion. That is not science. That is moral reasoning based on a set of faith assumptions. When you say to somebody, if a therapist ever says to you, you shouldn't feel guilty about that, what you're saying is, oh, I feel guilty and you don't think I should. Why should your set of faith assumptions be privileged over mine? You're not doing science. You're doing religion. So you can't go to science. You can't go on your heart. There's no way to deal with guilt in a secular way. The only way to deal with guilt is to do what David did. I am going to judge myself and my behavior and whether my guilt is true, false, or proportionate by what is evil in your sight. So the first thing you have to do is your mind and use the scripture. The second thing you have to do is with the will, take full responsibility. Take full responsibility. Notice what he says in verse four is he says, Against you I have sinned. And there's no but. Adam, yes, I sin. But the woman asked me to do it. Eve said, yes, I sin. But the serpent asked me to do it.

The Serb says, yes, we are killing the Croats. But they killed us last century. And the Croats come back and they say, yeah, but they killed us the century before that. You see, the way you're able to do evil is never you say, let's go be evil. You don't take responsibility. for what you do. You don't take responsibility. You say, yes, that's wrong, but the. David, no buts. As soon as David takes full responsibility, then and only then does he start to change. So first of all, with your mind, you have to look and see what is God's standards. With your will, you have to take full moral responsibility. When you do take full moral responsibility for what you have done, then change begins. And only then, in fact, that's the you got into the fix you're in, almost always, because you said, well, yeah, I shouldn't have done that, but she did, but he did, but this happened, but I was like this. No but the. And then and only then will you start to find regeneration happening in your life. And I can't tell you how often I've talked to married couples who are having troubles, and I can look at them. If they're having any troubles, I always say, you're not being the husband you ought to be, are you? You're not being as warm or the wife, You're not being the spouse you ought to be. You're not being as warm. You're not being as kind. You're not being as proactively loving. The person says, right, but why? You know what they always say? Because she's not. I'm not being the husband I ought to be because she's not being the wife she ought to be. I'm not being the wife I ought to be because he's not being the husband I ought to be. Down and down and down you go until it explodes. All because neither of you will take responsibility being the husband, I'm not being the spouse I should be, period, period. And if you do and take full responsibility for what you've done, things start to spiral back up. You say, I'm going to do what I'm supposed to do because I'm responsible before God to be what I should be. And once you do that, you'll find regeneration in a marriage, in a life, whatever. So with the mind, you have to think, is this evil in God's sight? With the will, you have to say, I have sinned, period, no but the, but with the heart. Let's go through these three parts quickly. Repentance is making careful distinctions with your mind, is taking radical responsibility with your will, and it is achieving emotional distaste against your sin with the heart. I want you to see something fascinating, but you can only see it if I give you a little orientation of the entire Psalm 51. Psalm 51, at the end, is amazingly positive. Now, you read the first part, which is pretty bad, pretty low, but here's what he says at the end. Here's some things he says at the end. They're not printed here. Open my lips, and my mouth shall sing forth thy praise.

Then I will teach transgressors thy ways. And in your good pleasure make Zion prosper, build up the walls of Jerusalem. Now, that's interesting. What's happening is David was as low as a person could go. was as far down into a pit as a person could go. He was in the depths when he understood the enormity of what he'd done. And I know a lot of people who've gone down there who've never gotten out. The rest of their lives, they're crippled with self-recriminations, with a sense of failure. They've just never gotten any better. David comes up when it's all done. First of all, saying, open my lips and my mouth shall sing forth thy praise. He's got his joy back. back, the most amazing is when he says, I will teach transgressors thy way. How dare he? After what he's done, how dare he say, I will teach? He's got his confidence back. He's got his joy back. He's got his leadership, his sense of being a leader back when he says, you know, prosper the walls of Jerusalem. How did he do that? Here's how he did it. He came to hate his sin, but not hate himself. Before he had his affair with Bathsheba, as we've been seeing, first he had a love affair with power. The only reason he was able to have the affair with Bathsheba was because he had a love affair with power. He wanted power. He liked power. He lusted for power. But Robert Alter, the great Hebrew scholar from Berkeley, says from this moment on in his life till the end of his life, David completely different when it comes to power. He never has that same lust for power. Power has lost its influence over him. Power can no longer seduce him.

So on the one hand, he's come to hate the sin. It's lost its influence over him. But on the other hand, he doesn't hate himself. How does that happen? Here's how it happened. Because he says, against you, you only have I sinned. The way David worked on his heart was he said, you and you only. when people see that, they say, wait a minute. Wait a minute. You only have I sinned? What about Uriah? What about Bathsheba? What about the other guys that got killed with Uriah? How can you say you, you only? Well, if David was writing a theological essay, yes, the most correct thing would be to say, against you primarily have I sinned. But he's not writing a theological essay. This is a prayer of repentance, and he's absolutely right to focus on what he focuses on. Because he could have said, truly, theologically, this is true. I have sinned against your law and so now I'm in danger of punishment. Or he could have said, I've sinned against my people so now I'm in danger of losing my kingship. Or he could have even said, I've sinned against my own standards and therefore I've lost my self-respect. And all those things are true. I've sinned against the law of punishment. I've sinned against my people. I'm losing my kingship. But in every case, notice, the focus is on the mess his sin got him into, not on the sin. In every case, the reason he's so upset, I've sinned against the law. Why is that so upsetting? Because now I'm going to be punished. I've sinned against my people. Why is that so upsetting? Because now I'm going to lose my kingship. In other words, if you focus on sinning against the law, sinning against the people, if you focus on the consequences, that's not repentance, that's self-pity. you're focusing completely on what's wrong how it has grieved you and when you fill your heart with fear of consequences it might make you stop it but the sin still has power over you marriage counseling again for example i've seen this happen many times it's happened to me the wife pulls her husband in to see the pastor and says i'm leaving him and he's shocked what do you mean you're leaving me i'm leaving you because you make an idol out of money all you do is work and work and work, and you're always at work, and you're always running around trying to make money. Money's more important to you than me. You never spend any time with me. I've had it. I'm leaving. And he gets down on his knees. He says, don't do it. Don't leave. I am sorry. I am repentant. I will change. And so he makes the changes, and she says, okay. And but when the threats are gone, and when she's no longer making those kinds of noises, he goes right back to the way he was before. What does that mean? The love of money in his life has not been defeated. He was not sorry for it. He didn't come to hate it. He only came to hate the consequences of it. When the consequences went away, he was back into it. See that? And if you say, against the law, I have sinned. Against my people, I have sinned. Look at all the, look at the mess I've made out of my life. If you look at fear of consequences, if you look at the danger of sin and the bad things that sin has brought into your life, you won't actually come to hate the sin itself. But David found a way to do this. What does he say? Against you, you. Now, you know, in Hebrew and in Greek, the doubling. When you say my Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son. When you say Martha, Martha. The doubling of the name means intense feeling. It's loving intense emotion. And here's what David is saying. your law, but mainly I sinned against you. Yes, I trampled on your rules, but mainly I trampled on your heart. I have sinned against a loving God, verse 1, a compassionate God. And he doesn't fill his heart with the law of God and the punishment. He fills his heart with the love of God and the grief of God. And when the thing that most assures you of your value, which is God's love, is the thing that most convicts you that you've done wrong, how could I trample on God's love? You see that? When the thing that most assures you of your value is the thing that most convicts you of your sin, then you will hate the sin for what it costs God and not yourself. Then you will actually find that power or money or whatever the problem is will lose its ability to control you, and you will come up singing. And that's what David was able to do. Now, that's the parts. And you say, well, you did it again, Tim. Very, very nice outline, and I can't refute you, but I can't imagine doing it, actually. I mean, I can't argue against you, but I don't know how I could do it. Well, here's why. Here's the secret. The power for all of this, the power for repentance is in verse 1. He says, says, according to your unfailing love. David booted off assurance. The way he got himself changed, the way he killed the things that were killing him without killing himself, was he didn't look primarily at punishment. He didn't look primarily at fear of consequence. He didn't look primarily at what he was losing. He looked primarily at God and the loss of a relationship with God. And he used the unfailing, unconditional love of God on his heart. And that's what changed him. In fact, it never occurred to me until recently what he was really saying. When he says, against you, you only have a sin, realize what this psalm is about. This is a psalm about what? Adultery. If you look in any Bible, the caption of Psalm 151 is, this is a psalm about adultery, when David committed adultery with Bathsheba. But when you get into the psalm, what does David say? Against you, I did this sin. You know what he's saying? Before I committed physical adultery, I was committing spiritual adultery. Before I committed adultery with Bathsheba, I was committing adultery against you. Why did I need power? Why did I need her? Why did my soul have this incredible suction in it, the emptiness, needing power, needing her? Why? I needed her arms because I didn't have your arms. I needed her beauty because I didn't have your beauty. But there's no beauty like your beauty. There's no arms like your arms. There's no love like your love. don't you see? Brilliant. What he's saying is, if I just beat myself up with fear of consequences, that doesn't fill the emptiness in the heart, which was the reason for the sin to start with. If I say, you're going to get it now. You're going to lose your kingship. You're going to be punished by God. You do that. That doesn't get rid of the emptiness. It makes it worse. And for fear of consequences, you might pull back and stop doing this or that bad thing. thing. You'll get right back into something else later on. He says, though, the sin underneath all the sins, underneath physical adultery with spiritual adultery, I wasn't in your arms. I wasn't thinking about your love. I had lost it. I lost my being ravished with your love, with your unfailing love. And so he assures himself, and he fills himself with God's love, and that's what changes him. Now you say, I don't know that I have the same assurance. of unfailing love. I don't know that I have that assurance. You've got even more assurance. You've got even more resources because centuries later, Jesus also confronted a woman caught in adultery, right? Jesus confronted a David, as it were, a female David, a woman caught in adultery. You know what he said to her? Did he say, forsake your sins and I'll condemn you no more? Is that what he said? Did he say, forsake your sins and I won't condemn you? No, that's religion. that's fear of consequences. That's saying, if you're really good, I'll give you another chance. Forsake your sins, and I'll condemn you no more. That's not what he says. He says, neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more, which is the gospel. He doesn't say, you need to sin no more, and then I won't condemn you. He says, because I have taken your condemnation upon me, because I got all the things that David asked God not to give him. says, don't cast me away from my presence, but Jesus on the cross was forsaken. David says, don't break my bones, but Jesus on the cross, every one of his bones was broken. Jesus got all the things that David asked, please don't give me that. Well, God didn't give them to him. Why? Because Jesus got them. And when Jesus says to you, I have taken your condemnation, go and sin no more, that will free you. Because you see, the love of Jesus fills the emptiness that was the cause of the sin to start with. If metal is broken, you can't fix it with a hammer. You can only fix it with fire. It can't be banged and hammered back. It needs to be melted back. Let me just speak real personally. For many years, when I took my sin, the things I wanted to be changed, to the law, to fear of consequences, the law. I hammered myself with it. Whenever I heard the law say, drop these things or I'll get you, you know what my heart said? It said, oh yeah, make me. It just got harder. The more it banged on me, it just didn't work. But when I took my sin, when I took the things that were wrong with me, the things that needed to be changed, to Jesus, and I heard him say, say, I have taken the condemnation on myself. Then my heart said, well, who needs these things if I have him? In other words, when I stopped being hammered and started being melted then I changed and so were you. At the very, very end of The Bridge on the River Kwai, Alec Guinness plays this British officer who builds the bridge over the River Kwai and he has forgotten that he's betrayed his country. He's betrayed his country's values. He's come over to the other side. At the very end, he actually has some of his friends, his friends, he betrays them and kills them, you know, to save the bridge. And then suddenly, in a way that only Alec Guinness can say, one of the great lines in the history of movies where Alec Guinness, it suddenly dawns on him, he says, what have I done? And when the enormity of what he's done hits him, there's only one thing for him to do. walks into a hail of bullets and dies, bringing down his own bridge, pretty much is an atonement for sin. But when you and I realize, what have I done? And the enormity hits us. We don't have to walk into a hail of bullets in order to atone for our sins. Jesus is atoned for your sin. And that means, no matter what you have done, I don't care if it's adultery, I don't care if it's murder, in Christ it can be healed.

As there is no sin so small, but that it deserves destruction, so there is no sin so great that it can bring destruction on those who truly repent. Let us pray. We pray, Father, that you would teach us how to do this. We don't like to talk about sin and repentance, but I hope tonight we've seen that there is no way to deal with deep change except through the love of God in Jesus Christ, Christ, the grace of God in Jesus Christ applied to those points where we most need to change. I pray that you'd help us to do that and give us the freedom that comes from that so that we can be restored to confidence, we can be restored to praise, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
