A couple minutes, so let me ramble. My subject, our subject for the evening, since this is the third in three, a series of three sessions on self-image and self-esteem, we, in the first week, lay down some historic Christian principles for understanding self-image. There's a sense in which we said, you'll never come to find out who you are if you don't want something more in life than to find out who you are. We said what one theologian said is that knowledge of God and knowledge of self are coterminous. You can't know God without knowing the self, and you can't know the self without knowing God. That they stand and fall together. They may run ahead of each other in some cases, but they're more like your left and your right foot. You always have one out generally in front of the other progress, but the other one has to catch up very quickly, or you will not continue to make progress. In the same way, we laid some of those things down. Therefore, you don't find yourself by pulling yourself out of context. You find yourself by putting yourself in the context of God. Or, put another way, as one of our friends says, it's not who am I. Identity is not a question of who am I, but whose am I. That means that you don't stand on your own. You don't stand as yourself. for something. Or as Bob Dylan once put it so poignantly, you got to serve somebody. And your identity will come from who you're serving. And nobody's a freestanding self. There's no such thing. Everybody lives for something. And if that's true, then your identity is found in who's, not who am I, but whose am I? Who do I belong to? Everybody belongs to something. And we laid all that down the first week. And if you weren't here, that may sound intriguing, but get the tape, right, Jim? By the way, the gentleman, Jim Irwin, in the back near the tape, on my right, your left, he's the guy, if you're so burning with zeal to get one of the tapes of the three series, you can talk to him tonight. But we can't re-go over that. But those were some of the principles. They're extremely important principles. And whereas I think in, you know, you might say general so-called scientific psychology can give you a lot of insights into the dynamics of how identity is put together. There's a lot of wonderful books on how a child growing up develops an identity. Nevertheless, when it comes to finding out what it... When we come to talk about how identity ultimately is dysfunctional or functional, that's not a morally neutral field. Everybody's making moral judgments when you start talking about identity. And so as Christians, we put it in that way, said. It's not who am I, whose am I. You have to lose yourself to find yourself. Last week, we applied some of the principles to one very popular and very interesting hot topic in the field of self-image. We talked about codependency. This week, we're going to apply the principles to another important topic. It's actually a little trivial. It's trivializing it to I call it a hot topic. We don't want to trivialize it at all. Don't want to be cavalier about it at all. We're talking about male-female roles. We're talking about what does it mean to find out who you are as a man and as a woman. What is masculinity and femininity? Now, it seemed like in the past, you know, I would get up and speak. My wife would come and respond and add. And then we took questions. Tonight, my wife will begin. Only fair, I think. and I will then get up and say something. I think we're probably going to go back and forth twice. So we'll have, instead of one long talk and a short talk and questions, we'll have a first medium-sized talk, a second response, and probably a third and a fourth. And then we will open it up for questions. So my wife's going to take the lead on this subject. Let me open with prayer, and then we'll get started. Our Father, we pray not because since I'm a minister and since this is a church building that therefore we pray, but rather we pray because we're talking about, in a certain sense, we're on holy ground. We're talking about things that are very, very central and core to who we are. We're talking about areas where there's been a lot of pain and confusion. We're talking also, about you, and about your word, and about your truth. And therefore, we need your help. If we don't have your help, we will not be able to understand. For it's only your spirit that plumbs the depth of your heart, and therefore only your spirit that can lead us into truth. Lead us into truth. Sanctify us in the truth. Your word is truth. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay? Okay. That's all. The reason we're going back and forth as many times is print is my medium. I would rather write a paper than give a talk any day, and therefore having to think on my feet and say lots of words one right after the other, I run out of steam. I can't access the next bite while it's still coming out my mouth. So this is a condescension to my weakness. and then we're kind of going, well I run out of things to say, I'll say over to you Chet and while I think of some more things he'll talk gender is really the most fundamental fact about us after our very existence, before you're categorized by your race or your ethnicity or your socioeconomic status or anything else, the first thing the parents look for before they even count your fingers and your toes is what did I get

but the question that we probably have arrived at in the context of self-image is can you find out your identity does it have any bearing on your identity whether your gender is male or female is there such a thing as masculinity and femininity or are we neutered souls so to speak that are kind of arbitrarily assigned to biologically male or female bodies What bearing does it have on your identity as a person to be male or female? And does that affect the way you live as an individual, or is it only something that is relevant in a sexual relationship? There was a sort of cynical modern humorist who I found who he was worth quoting. He said, you know, there's been an awful lot of discussion about what boils down to nothing more than a few ounces of fatty tissue variously distributed around the human anatomy. Well, is that all it is? I mean, is this just a matter of Model A and Model B and how Tab A and Slot B fit together for the purpose of both the reproduction of the species and the recreation thereof? Or is there more to it? Is there more something fundamentally masculine or feminine belonging to your soul? Now, there are those who believe, and I'm one of them, that there is a masculinity and a femininity that is imprinted on the soul when God assigns you your biological gender. It would make sense that God is not a poor designer. He doesn't put the world together in a haphazard and arbitrary way. But beyond that, we always have to look to scripture. Now, you know, the Bible's not a textbook. You can't go searching through it for an answer to supply-side economics or an awful lot of specifically oriented questions. But there's a lot you can learn just in passing. And I would really commend to you, if you want to make a study of this on your own, I'll give you a list of verses to look at. I'm not going to have you flipping through the Bible, and I'm not going to be flipping through either. But I really do recommend that if this is something that is nagging at you, that you take the time and the trouble to go look through the passages of Scripture that are relevant. It's not the easiest thing to do to find time for that kind of a study, but you can't have strong opinions about something that's so fundamental to who you are without having the guts to do the research behind it. One passage that I will mention, because it's fundamental to my understanding of what it is that God has done in creating us male and female, is, of course, Genesis 1 and 2, where he was creating everybody. And in Genesis 1.26, you get a very unusual construction where God says, let us make them in our image. Let us make them male and female. And it's a plural. We shall, us, we. God is speaking of himself in the plural. Now there's been some debate over whether that's the plural of royalty, like when Queen Elizabeth says we are, Victoria, I guess, was we are not amused. She wasn't talking about her several multiple personalities. She was using this royal we. There's been some debate over whether that's the force of the we in this verse or whether God is at that point referring to the fact that he is multi-personal. Here we're on ground where I know it's easy to err and where even the best minds are willing to cry, mystery, mystery, I don't understand. The Trinity, okay, is a tough subject. C.S. Lewis has done a lot in forming my thinking, but one of the best things that he says is on the subject of the Trinity, and I'll just say this in passing so you don't feel too bad about having it be unclear in your mind how the Trinity works, because nobody does. He said, if you lived in a two-dimensional world, try to explain a cube to a square. There's a two-dimensional world, and you have come from the three-dimensional world. You've incarnated yourself as a square. Now try explaining a cube. It's another dimension. It's hard. Well, yeah, it's a little bit like this, but it's not completely like that. And he goes on in his essay, Flatlanders, is it? Flatlanders? Flatlanders and something else, I forget. Which I recommend to you. To say that we can believe in something that we have evidence of without really having to have all the understanding. And that's merely by way of tangent think. Don't worry if the Trinity is not something you've got all clearly straightened out. But for the salient point is that God is multi-personal. And when he wanted to create beings in his image, he had to have more than one so that they could relate to each other. You can't have a relationship without having at least two people. So when God went to create us in his image with all of the dynamics that go into making up who he is, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, that demanded at least two people so they could love each other, so they could serve one another, so they could deny themselves for the benefit of one another. Now the question is, well, should they be two identical people? Should it have been Adam and Steve instead of Adam and Eve? You know, why did God do things the way he did? I ask myself that about a lot of things, but when we get down to male and female, I ask it a lot. the way you did this. I don't know. But I trust his wisdom and I trust his understanding as far as that goes. In the Trinity, you have the Father who plans our salvation, the Son who purchases our salvation, and the Holy Spirit who applies our salvation. That's called the economic view of the Trinity. It means for the purpose of saving us, the division of labor that went on within the Trinity. Son and the Holy Spirit do when they're not talking about our salvation is a mystery that we don't know. God hasn't seen fit to tell us. I mean, I don't tell my kids some of the things that Tim and I do when they're not around either, so I'm not worried about that. But the economic view that there's a division of labor within the Trinity where the Father has planned for our salvation, the Son has purchased it, the Holy Spirit has applied it, gets us right into the subject of gender role differentiation. When God assigned you your biological gender, did he assign you a role that went with it, that is generally described under the heading of masculinity and femininity? Oh dear, those are not terms that are real good or real well received in our culture. The Bible teaches, as far as I understand it, that male and female have overlapping but distinguishable characteristics

and femininity are our ways of revealing part of the nature of God to each other. Now, you cannot get cut and dried and say, give me a quantifiable logical definition of all of this. Again, C.S. Lewis says, it's an awful lot more like a dance than it is like anything else, the dance of gender. And that satisfies my understanding on a lot of things where I can't quite get it all down. to think in terms of there's something that goes beyond mere logic. We're talking dance, we're talking mystery. I know that I'm not being as clear here as I could be, and I hope Tim's going to come to my rescue in a few minutes and be his usual clear self. Not tonight. We can understand all of this business about the dance and masculinity and femininity when it's operating within the context of a marriage relationship. relationship but it's a lot more difficult to say what about the person himself the person herself. When you are an individual what does your gender identity your role have to say about who you are as an individual as a person. When you are not in sexual relationship you are not in relationship at all you are just sitting there being you what is there about yourself that is defined by who you are either male or female masculine or feminine. I have a quote from Lewis. If I can find it. We brought along about 100 papers here. No, no. Can you pick them up and put them in the bag? Yes, it is. Lewis is talking about the Christian view of equality. And I know this is kind of lengthy, at least a bit of it. It says, The Christian view of equality is rather different from those that we have been trained in. I do not think that equality is one of those things like wisdom or joy, which are simply good in themselves and for their own sakes. I think it's in the same class as medicine, which is good because we are ill, or clothes, which are good because we are no longer innocent. I don't think the old authority of kings, priests, husbands, fathers, and the old obedience of subjects, and children wasn't itself degrading or evil thing at all. It was intrinsically good and beautiful as the nakedness of Adam and Eve. But it was rightly taken away because men became bad and abused it. To attempt to restore it now would be the same error as that of the nudists. Legal and economic equality are absolute necessary remedies for the fall and protection against cruelty. But when equality is treated not as a medicine or a safety gadget, but an absolute ideal, we begin to breed a stunted and envious sort of mind. I don't want to read too much of this. Husbands have so horribly abused their power over women that to women of all people, equality is in danger of appearing as an absolute evil. Naomi Mitchison speaks of women so fostered on the defiant idea of equality sensation of the male embrace arouses an undercurrent of resentment. And Chris Sheeran was after Lewis's time, but she says much the same thing. Let us wear equality, but let us undress at night. Now, what he's talking about, and I didn't read all of his argument, is that because of sin in the world,

democracy is a good thing. Power corrupts. And to have a rule that involves a headship and submission is a very dangerous thing because you get the upper hand. Power corrupts and what is it? Absolute power corrupts absolutely. It becomes a dangerous thing to have that kind of unchecked authority because people will use it against the one that is out of power. And we hear a lot of talk about empowerment. But Lewis's comment, let us undress at night, he goes on to say that within the home and within the church, we're able to return to reality and shed the protection of some of those, the democratic equality ideal and return to some of the beauty of the dance where we can enjoy the differences that God has given us and exploit them. I think Tim, you're ready to talk about masculinity and femininity and the differences thereby? Having aroused everybody's questioning mind here, I'm going to find my next set of notes, and he's going to talk. Masculinity and femininity. When I was in college, we had an interesting child psych professor And he, each year, used to have his grad students research the differences between men and women at birth. And these are still my, and by the way, I've checked these out recently because my college years are 20 years ago. So check these things out, and they're pretty much still, they've been validated by continued research. At birth, boys tend to be larger, girls tend to be smaller, of course. Boys are in their motor skills more aggressive. And girls are in their motor skills adaptable. That means to say that girls will go around an object and boys will try to go through it. Boys are less... Now why would you ask yourselves, why did you laugh? Just ask yourselves that. I didn't say anything funny. But you thought something funny. boyfriend to stimuli, girls are far more sensitive to external stimuli like sound and light at birth. At 6 months, now the reason these things are important is because you're not talking about what happens after socialization you know. After socialization women are taught that they have to walk you know they cross their legs in a certain way, men cross their legs in a certain way but this, we're talking about something that's not a matter of socialization. At six months, boys are not sensitive to jazz music, and girls are. At six months, girls' heartbeats go up when they hear jazz music. Boys don't seem to notice. At 13 months, boys prefer a lower complexity of stimulation. Girls prefer higher complexity. Boys are better at figure-ground distinguishing, discernment. When you show them a picture, they tend to focus on certain things in the picture, to look at the whole picture in the context. At 13 months, boys are considerably slower in language development than girls. In childhood, boys have five times as many learning problems as girls do. Girls have five times more emotional disturbances than boys do. And the trouble is, as we get older, the differences get even greater. And in a way, it gets a little bit harder for us to say, well, those are inherent differences. right now. Somebody may have heard, for example, that male suicide rates are three times, male adult suicide rates are 300 times higher than female. But what does this come down to? Well, that's some interesting stuff that is hard data. On the other hand, what did the Bible tell us? The Bible tells us that there was a brief period of time in which males existed. The male of the species, the daddy of us all, Adam, was alone. He was making it, but not completely. And God looks at him and says, it is not good for man to be alone. It's the first malediction. You see, the word benediction means benediction, good word. And everything in the early part of the book of Genesis has been addicted. So the Bible says, and God made this, and it was good. And God made this, and this, and this, and it was good. And suddenly, really surprising, he looks at Adam without Eve, and he says, it is not good. That's the first malediction. It's the bad words, the first thing that he says that's bad. He creates Eve, and the Bible says that Eve is created to be a helper. fit for him. Now, a lot of people have immediately taken offense at that and said, the word helper sounds demeaning. And of course, you can think of it like that. You can say, I hired somebody to be a helper, which means that person is not as expert as me, because if they had the expertise and the ability that I would, they'd have my job, but I just hired him to be a helper. That's not the only way the word help means, can be used. I can help my children with their math homework, work for at least another year or two because I know more about their math than they do. If I didn't know more about it than they did, I couldn't help them. Now it's when I put myself in a helper mode that means I can help them because I've got something that they lack, but I am not doing it for them. You see what makes me a helper is not that they are more able than I No, I am actually more able than they but that I actually put myself under them in some way. I subordinate myself. It means I do not actually do it for them. I empower them. I enable them. You see, if I was weaker than they are, I couldn't help them. On the other hand, if with my strength I moved in and did it for them, I wouldn't be helping them either. In a sense, I keep my strength under in submission. I keep my strength in submission. I help my kids with my homework. When it says in the Bible, especially in the Old Testament, It's used in Genesis 2 when it describes Eve as a helper fit for Adam. And then if you get out a good concordance and take a look at that Hebrew word help and every other place it shows up in the Old Testament, 95% of the times it shows up, it's referring to who? Who in the Old Testament is usually talked about as a helper? God. God is our help, you see. It says in Psalm 121, it says, God is our help, God is our strength and our refuge. I look unto the hills, from whence cometh my help? My help is from the Lord who made heaven and earth. Why can he be a helper? Because he's more able than I am. Now, therefore, here's what's odd about Eve. On the one hand, she has never existed as an independent human being. She was built to be in a team. On the other hand, she couldn't possibly be a helper unless in some ways she was complementary to Adam. That there were some ways in which she was more able. So there's this odd situation in which, on the one hand, Adam and Eve come together, and each of them is complementary. Each of them is complementary to the other. It's obvious, we're told elsewhere, that there is no diminishment in dignity or being between men and women. Men and women are joint heirs of the grace of life. Men and women are equal in power and dignity. and in some ways men must be better than women otherwise they couldn't be complimentary in some ways women must be better than men or they couldn't be complimentary the very idea that the Bible uses in the New Testament when it talks about the husband being head of the wife

as much as that sounds terrible to some women because it sounds like authority and there is authority in that word the image that the Bible is trying to evoke is the image that we have in the Scripture about Jesus and about the rest of Christians being part of a body. A body is many parts. A finger can't do what a toe does. A hand can't do what a foot does. We're all one in Christ. We're part of the body. That means we're complementary. If you're a Christian, then there's some things you can do that somebody else cannot do, and everybody is necessary for the body to work properly. What we're being told is therefore men and women have to be different or there could not be any such thing as complementariness here. There couldn't be any complementary nature, also means in this that men therefore, and I think the research bears it out, men have the gift. There's a masculine gift and women have a gift. There's a feminine gift. Just as I'm called, for example, at one level to be a pastor because I'm a public communicator. And if I was trying to do something else somewhere else, it wouldn't fit my gifts as well and I wouldn't be as fulfilled. fulfilled. When I preach because God has made me a preacher, I get in touch with something very deep in myself. I experience a kind of freedom because I am finding out who I am. I believe at another level, and that's true of all of you. Some of you have found the job and the career and the calling. We talked about this two weeks ago. Some of you are extremely happy because you're doing exactly what you're built to do in terms of your usefulness in society. And we're talking about the vocational Some of you are not very happy because you haven't found any job like that. That's another part of what it means to find yourself. But now we're saying, I'm saying, I think the scripture is saying here, that there's also a calling, not just to be a preacher, or to be an engineer, or to be an artist, and some of you found your calling because you're artists, great. At another level, you're called to be a man or a woman. And when you obey that calling, Just as obeying the calling of artists the more closer you get to being the artist you were called to be the more you find yourself so as to obey the calling of being a man or woman to be masculine if you were made man to be feminine you were made woman gets you in touch with something deep inside of you and in another level in another aspect you come to find out who you are according to what the Bible says in light of what I said according to what the research says in light of what I said the male gift is of independence and the female gift is the gift of interdependence. Did you think I was going to say dependence? That shows that you don't know about a certain balance here. Okay? Men have got a gift of independence. That's the reason why they would rather send than receive. That's the reason why they don't notice what's going on in their environment. I mean you can make all kinds of cute little anecdotes to prove this sort of thing. The fact is for example that I can't sneak anything into the apartment. If I've got flowers, if I've got a present, if I've got something, no way I can sneak it past my wife. No way. I'm not kidding. Unless she's asleep. And even then it doesn't usually work. On the other hand, my wife could bring an elephant into the apartment, you know. And I would be sitting there. I'd be reading. And later on she'll say, didn't you see me do all that? I said, I didn't know you were going to have a party for me. What about all those big bags of gifts and party gifts and the cake, that big cake box I brought in? Oh, I didn't notice anything. Now, you can tell tons and tons of little funny stories about why at birth the boys don't notice their environment like the girls do. But it goes back to this basic principle that Eve was created to work on a team. Eve was created to use her power in such a way that empowers. She's got the gift of, in a sense, adaptability. She would rather, in a sense, she would rather find out what's out there and adapt. the men would rather in a sense in their gift of independence they'd rather send than receive and they are not as good at listening and they're not as good at receiving but having said all that having said all that this means for example wait a minute where am I this does not mean for example that out in the world that men and women can't both be bank presidents but all the studies will show you and there's not enough women bank presidents in my estimation

president leads differently than the man does. All the studies will show you they have a different leadership style. A lot of the people in the feminist movement want to make a case that the feminist leadership style is better. At that point they're slipping into doing the very thing you're not supposed to do and that is they're making value judgments. The fact is that they're different. Now the second thing I want to point out which is very important to understating the biblical view of this is that sin has distorted masculinity and

Now, most of you probably think that there is a feminist understanding and maybe you call it a fundamentalist. There's a feminist lobby and a fundamentalist lobby when it comes to male-female roles. And the fundamentalist lobby says men are to be in charge. Women are to submit. Men should be in leadership. Women never should. Men are to be the head of the home women are just simply supposed to let the men do the decisions men are supposed to lead women are supposed to follow and so on and on the feminist side there's a sense in which the feminists are actually saying they're either saying one of two things they're either saying the only difference in the way in which men and women are supposed to function in society is the biological sexual see you know men can impregnate women can have children there's differences there Apart from that, there mustn't be any difference. In relationships, there needs to be actually an interchangeability. Out in the world, there needs to be an interchangeability. That's the feminist lobby and the fundamentalist lobby. The Bible doesn't really go either way. Here's why. If you go back into Genesis 1 and 2, you will see that there's a distinction between men and women. The man was formed first. That's why it's the gift of independence. The woman was formed second. That's why she has the gift of interdependence. is an interesting thing. Adam names Eve, and you must not overlook that. The fact is that Adam gives Eve her self-image. On the other hand, when Adam sees Eve, he says, at last. By the way, the first poetry in history happens when Adam sees Eve. You can't tell when you read many of your translations, but it's actually Hebrew verse. And he says, this at last is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. You shall be called woman. See, that's where he names her, because she was taken out of man. But what he's really saying is, I now see a part of myself that I never saw before. You are my, you are me. And Kathy and I like to paraphrase it. What Adam is saying is, love you, I am you. Or at least now that I have you, I know who I am. And this happens very, very quickly. And there's obviously a differentiation. We've talked about the helper, the complementariness. when Adam and Eve sin, God comes to them and says, you are now cursed. Now, there's a lot of things cursed. Work is cursed. And we could talk about that, but it's another subject. In fact, a week, a month from now, we'll talk about work. Work has been cursed. Our bodies have been cursed. That's why they break down and die. You know, from dust you came to dust you will return. But the two parts of the curse in Genesis 3 that are relevant for us today is, number one, he says, your husband will rule over you and your desire will be for him. And what's pretty clear there is he's trying to say that under the influence of sin, male initiation, male leadership will turn into tyranny. Your husband, instead of leading you, instead of naming you, instead of initiating, which is his job, instead of helping you through independence, which is what his job is, he will help you be independent. He will be independent with you and for you. On one hand, you see that's going to be turned by sin into tyranny, and he will oppress you. On the other hand, he says your desire will be for your husband, but he will rule over you. And you see that word but shows what's going to happen to her. Her natural calling, just as his natural calling to be a leader and to be an initiator and to be an independent, the independent one is going to turn into tyranny. So her calling as the person who knows how to bring her power in under him to enable him, her calling as a team person, her calling as the ability to get people to work as a group and so on, her calling is going to be, her interdependence gift is going to be mitigated by sin into a dependence gift. That means she's going to become dependent. She's going to have to have a man in her life. She's going to have to, she becomes a doormat. The Bible very clearly says that there are role differentiations between men and women. There is such a thing as headship. There is such a thing as submission. On the other hand, sin is going to turn it into oppression and dependence. So what you've got is exactly what the feminists say. Sin has turned men, in many cases, into oppressors and women into the Cinderella complex. I need to have, my life will be fine if I can just find the man that will come in and whisk me away and solve all my problems and I do not have to face the world on my own. Now, what happens then is a Christian, a person who studies the scripture and realizes that neither the fundamentalists are right because all of their talk about how, you know, put men in charge and women should stay pregnant and barefoot in the kitchen and that's their place. I mean, that kind of attitude shows a complete insensitivity to the role that sin plays. That's the reason why C.S. Lewis can say equality is a medicine. We need to work for equal rights. We've got to protect ourselves from sin. On the other hand, Lewis is also right in saying that in a sense equal rights is medicine but it's not food. It's not enough. You can't build a marriage on equal rights. You've also got to get into touch. At the marriage level certainly, but even out in the world, just working together, you've got to get into touch with your essential callings of masculinity and femininity. And so let me just read you something and then I'm done. Unfortunately, this is something I wrote so I guess I can read it. Unfortunately, because conservative Christianity ignores Genesis 3, they have often failed to blow the whistle in our culture. They fail to show that the world tends to polarize men and women under masculine and feminine stereotypes, which tend to oppress women and less directly men who are alienated from all other individuals by the Marlboro man myth, which makes it impossible for men to have friends. You see, in other words, society, because of sin in society, is going to try to make men and women more different than they really are. It's going to say to the man who's independent, you don't need friends. It's going to say to a woman who's dependent, you should never be a leader. On the other hand, many people, because they've seen that, are discarding all the Bible says about inherent male-female differences, which are well documented by modern researchers, and the distinguishable callings to represent and reflect the richness of the Trinity, the Father and the Son, equal partners in the Trinity, the son lovingly submits to become part of a team. The father initiates. The son helps. And therefore, men and women are reflecting that. We're built into God's image. We're told in Genesis 2 and Genesis 1, when God made man in his own image, he had to make man male and female modality in order to reflect the multi-personal nature and richness of his own being, in order to reflect the rule and submission, the ebb and the flow of his own being Within marriage, a husband and wife come to find their virtually indefinable differences truly completing one another. See, because, this is where Kathy told me we should do a little bit of personal testimony. When we get into marriage, my wife and I, we're not particularly happy. We certainly don't believe in the traditional distortion of what it means to be a man and a woman in marriage. The traditional distortion is that every decision, the husband has the vote and the wife does not. So the husband wins every disagreement by a score of one to zero. From what I can tell, the feminist distortion is that there is obviously no difference in authority at all in a marriage. And that therefore, when you deadlock it one to one, there's nothing to do but split, divorce. The Christian understanding is that men and women are, first of all, their best friends. As iron sharpens iron, so friend sharpens friend. That obviously means that within the greatest friendship, marriage, that's going to happen as well. But when you cannot come to conclusion after quite a bit of time going around and pricking each other and jousting with each other and seeking in every way to come to consensus, ultimately who breaks the tie? In a few cases, my wife and I have realized that since we couldn't break the tie, whose job was it to break the tie? Whose job was it to vote twice? And there's been a half a dozen times at least in our relationship where the tie was broken by me and therefore it was a 2-1 vote. Not a 1-0 and not a 1-1, a 2-1 vote. Now the way in which we're built and the way in which our background leads us to be, neither of us liked me in that role. Neither of us. She wanted the role. I wanted her to have the role. and we decided that if we were going to really follow what the scripture said we would both have to submit to the scriptural role and neither of us liked it was one of those wonderful situations what if we both wanted my role it would have been a lot harder of a problem but since we both wanted her to have my role it was a little bit easier for us to come to grips with our need to submit. And so what happened was as we began to do that, we began to find

we began to find we began to get in touch with our actual underlying masculinity and femininity. We began to find ourselves in very deep ways. We began to get in touch with something that was even more foundational than our family life had really led us to believe was true of us. And so I put down here, it's often discovered for example, we found this I as a husband, I as a man, was better at stuffing my feelings than Kathy. So what happened is, for example, if I have to be really, really civil to somebody who we're both really mad at, I've got to take the leadership in that. Because I'm better at stuffing my feelings and saying, look, we just have to work with that person. And Kathy will have much more of a problem with being civil. She has a lot more trouble keeping her feelings out of it. On the other hand, Kathy will come along and say to me, you're mad. Three days later, I'll say, no, I'm not. back to her and say, I definitely was mad. I didn't know it. And she'll say, you know, she'll say, I cannot imagine what it's like to be a kind of human being that doesn't know when he's mad. And the answer is, our distinguishable callings make mean that I have, in a sense, helped her along into independence. She's helped me along into interdependence. What's really weird is because of sin, I was not as masculine as I needed to be. On the other hand, because of sin, I was too masculine. Because of sin, she was not as feminine as she needed to be. In other words, she was too feminine, with the feelings too feminine. And that meant, in a sense, by saying, we're going to submit to what the Bible says inside marriage, we got into touch with ourselves and began to get renewed. However, what do you do if you're not married? Maybe I'm going to have Kathy say something about that, but what it doesn't mean, for example, I certainly believe the Bible teaches inside marriage there has to be authority and the husband has to have the final authority. vote. Outside, in the general world, for example, at the bank, I think there still needs in some way for you to recognize not that there can be a legal authority that men should have over women. Remember what C.S. Lewis says, because of sin in the world, we've got to protect men and women from each other. There has to be, in a sense, a legal fiction that there's no difference between us. Only in a very good marriage, only in that kind of safe place, can you begin to, in a sense, and get in touch with the deepest part of yourself. However, even out in the world, I think a woman needs to come to grips with the fact that as a woman, I'm going to lead like a woman. And I have got to stop letting the world make me think that because I do have emotions, because I do prefer to work in a team, because I do have these interdependence gifts, that there's something wrong with me. And a man also, I think, in many cases, has to do something similar. Is there such a thing as masculinity and femininity? Yes. Is there a gift and a calling? Yes. And I think we have got to make sure that we keep from either distortion, either the traditionalist, what I call the fundamentalist, or the feminist distortion. Now, you have one thing that you want to say, and then we should take questions because I have no other comeback. Okay. Yeah, that's it. That's all right. My gift is to be short. Sometimes you know what your gift is. testimony. I wanted to raise the issue. No, I won't tell those stories. We had a discussion in the car. Well, will your mother buy this tape if we say that? So we didn't say it, Mom. She does buy the tapes. I dare her to ask. Tim's right in saying that neither one of us wanted to submit to the role that God had assigned to us and Betty Elliot was someone that was very fundamental in my rethinking where that rebellion was coming from she has written and spoken widely on the subject of gender and role and masculine and feminine and I wouldn't put her on the same level shirt. I don't think you need to endorse everything that she said. But in class she was very helpful at driving the idea that both of us, both men and women, have to accept the role and the office that God has given them and grow up into that. Not everybody who's become a king feels like a king. You have to take on the burdens of the role and the office because it's been given to you. And do your best. Have any of you seen King Ralph? yet? It was sort of a joke along those lines, that you're not ready for it in reality, but when you have to inherit a role, you have to make your best with it, do your best with it. And Tim's right in saying, when we got married, my natural tendency was to go ahead, charge, to abdicate my role as any kind of helper, and be covetous of the role that said, I'm in charge, you know, I make all of the of decisions. I get all of the bottom line on everything. And for him, now this isn't true of everybody. We're not trying to hold ourselves up as sort of the archetypal male and female because everybody has a different pattern. And every marriage invents its own way of working out this pattern of interdependence and independence. Underneath the scriptural guidelines where headship and submission are the form, there's a lot of freedom. This is something I think that my fundamentalist brethren overlook. There's a lot of freedom in how that's worked out. At a certain point in our marriage, my being a helpmate meant...
