From the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10, verses 25 through 37. On one occasion, an expert in the law stood up to test Jesus. Teacher, he asked, what must I do to inherit eternal life? What is written in the law, Jesus replied, how do you read it? He answered,

and who is my neighbor? In reply, Jesus said, A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he fell into the hands of robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him, and went away leaving him half dead. A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side. so too a Levite when he came to the place and saw him passed by on the other side but a Samaritan as he traveled came where the man was and when he saw him he took pity on him he went to him and bandaged his wounds pouring on oil and wine then he put the man on his own donkey took him an inn and took care of him. The next day he took out two silver coins and gave them to the innkeeper. Look after him, he said, and when I return I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have. Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hand of robbers. The expert in the law replied,

the one who had mercy on him. Jesus told him, go and do likewise. The word of our Lord. We're looking at the life of Jesus as we find it in the Gospel of Luke, and we've said that the first nine chapters of Luke are really all about who is Jesus. But the next nine chapters, from chapter nine to about 18, are about what does it mean to follow Jesus. And chapter 10 begins to answer that question. What does it mean to be a disciple of Jesus. And the first part of chapter 10 says that all disciples are messengers. We looked at this last week. We're messengers and that every disciple is given the gospel as a message that we're supposed to communicate to everyone and urge everyone to believe it. But now at the last part of chapter 10, we have the other side of being a disciple. Here, instead of gospel messaging, we're called to gospel neighboring. Instead of just being called messengers, we're also called to be neighbors. To be messengers means to take the gospel to everyone and urge them to believe it. But gospel neighboring is a mandate to meet the needs of all the people around you whether they believe the message or not. Gospel messaging, gospel neighboring, absolutely have to be understood as going together. In fact, gospel neighboring in some ways is just a nonverbal form of gospel messaging. They're intrinsic in Jesus' mind. Though in most of our minds, they're not. They intrinsically go together. So let's take a look at what we mean by this term, gospel neighboring. And there's four things we learn from the passage, from the text. We learn about its mandate, that it's required, its mandate, its magnitude, the dimensions of it, its motivation, where do we get the dynamic for it, and a few things about method, how to do it. Mandate, magnitude, motivation, method, first. mandate. This story, or pardon me, this is a parable, but first there's an interaction between Jesus and what's called here a law expert. Now, when you and I think of law expert, we think a civil law, but this law expert would have been an expert in religious law or biblical law. This is a religious scholar, and this guy asks a question, and here's why he asks it. You see, it says he stood up to test Jesus, to trap him. Now, why would he want to do that? Well, you see, welcoming people that disobey the law. He's always welcoming sinners. He's always so friendly to them, so open to people that religious folks consider sinners because they're not obeying the law of God. So, the religious scholar has some suspicion, and he wants to expose Jesus as someone who does not really respect the law of God, does not really respect the importance of obeying the moral law. So, ask the question, what must I do to inherit eternal life? life. What must I do to become saved or accepted by God? And he expects Jesus, because of his attitude toward sinners, quote-unquote, he expects Jesus to say something like, oh, it doesn't really matter how you live. God accepts everyone. Just go to him, and God just will accept you and love you. He expects Jesus to say that and trap him, expose him. But Jesus has a trap, except Jesus' trap is a trap of love. It's all right to be trapped by Jesus. He comes back at the guy, and by the way, just keep this in mind. When someone's trying to trap you with a question, always come back with another question. It works every time. Well, not every time, but Jesus shows us the way here, okay? And he comes back with a question and says, well, tell me what's in the law. How do you read it? Now, there's only two ways to answer a question like that. in the law. You either get it out and read all 700 rules or whatever, you know, the entire Torah, or you give a summary. And that's clearly what Jesus is saying when he says, how do you read it? Which is a way of saying, give me a summary of it. What does basically the law require? And of course, he gets the summary that most Jesus probably expected, because this was actually typical. This guy did not think this up. We know that at the time, law experts had studied the law, the moral law of God, and had come up with these basic two principles and said, you can summarize everything in the law of God all in these two lines. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And love your neighbor as yourself. Now just think of this for a second. Because it's critical in understanding what Jesus is doing. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. What does that mean? My favorite explanation of that. Archbishop William Temple once put it this way. Your religion is what you do with your solitude. And what he's saying is this. When you're standing on a corner for hours, for some reason, and you're waiting, and you have literally nothing to read, you have nothing to look at, you have nothing to listen to, and you have nothing to do. When your mind is completely unfettered, and it's not forced to think of anything, where does it go naturally? Where does it go instinctively? Where does it love to dwell? Is it God? Is it his attributes? Is it his excellencies? Is it his beauty? Is that where your mind automatically goes whenever it's free to go? And the answer is, of course not. It goes to something else, and whatever that something else is, Archbishop Temple said, that's your real religion. That's your real God. That's your real deity. That's what you really, that's your ultimate concern. That's your faith. And therefore, the first, actually, the first test of the law is love God so much that he dominates your solitude. Love God so much that you are content in any circumstances because you always have what you most want. And that's the first rule. There's one more to go. And the second one is love your neighbor as yourself. And what does that mean? Well, think about it. Meet the needs of your neighbor with all of the force, with all the joy, with all the speed, and with all the power that you meet your own. Meet the needs of your neighbor with all the joy, the speed, the power, the force with which you meet your own. Be as happy for them when their needs are met as you would be for your own because you've put your happiness inside their happiness so that what makes you happy is what makes them happy. Oh, is that all? Do you feel a force of it? it. You see, when you're looking at the laws, if you look at enough laws, if you break it down into six or seven hundred, and you're ticking a lot of them off every day that you're doing, you can start to feel like a pretty good person. But when you look at what the law is after, when you look at the character it's after, and Jesus says, you have answered rightly, do that and you will be saved. And this is brilliant because on the one hand, what Jesus is saying is the law outlines a way of life that is right. That's how we ought to live. That's how it was certainly. It's absolutely right. You should love God at that level because it is only equitable to treat the being who has given you everything and sustains you every second like that. And you should love your neighbor at that level because it's only fair to require from yourself what you require from them, which is the golden rule. So he says this kind of life, you should be living like this. The things that the law demands, you should be doing. But, he says, when he says, sure, obey that. Completely fulfill the law of God and of course you'll be saved. What he's saying is though the law is a way of life, it's not the way to life. You should live that way but you'll you'll never be saved that way, and I'm trying to show you. Go ahead, live that. Sure, if you want to be saved, just do all that, and you'll be saved. But you see, the man immediately, the religious scholar immediately senses what Jesus is doing, because it says he wanted to justify himself. So he said, who is my neighbor? See what's going on? Why does he say, okay, okay, okay, let's be reasonable here. Who is my neighbor? You don't just mean anybody, do you? Let's whittle this it's reasonable and doable. Why is he doing that? Because the premise of his life, as Luke shows us here, is, the premise of his life is, God will accept me if I'm virtuous enough. That's the premise of his life. And he senses that Jesus is knocking him off because Jesus says, well, give me a summary of the law. And as soon as he summarizes the law, it's an impossible thing to accomplish. And Jesus says, sure, go ahead. I mean, it's brilliant because on the one hand, and he's saying, that is how you ought to live. But if you think that's how you inherit eternal life,

that's silly. And of course, the man feels it, and he says, okay, okay, wait a minute. He fights back. You're not going to push me off the main thing, the main premise for my entire life. And he says, you don't mean I have to love anybody. Who is my neighbor? Tell me the minimum standards, Jesus. Tell me the minimum standards for salvation. What is the basic outline of, that God wants? What is the minimum standard humanity that God wants? And Jesus says, that reminds me of a story. And he tells them a parable, and in the story we have a protagonist, a hero, the hero. And if you see what the hero does, the hero meets basic human needs through deeds. It's incredibly costly, as we're going to see. It's incredibly sacrificial. It's incredibly dangerous. But the hero meets a whole range. It's what's called holistic ministry. Meeting emotional needs, as well as physical needs, as well as financial needs, as well as medical needs, as well as transportation needs. And you have to realize that this story, as you know, it's, you say, oh, isn't that wonderful? But realize what this story is. The answer, the question that this story is the answer to. The question is, what is the absolute core of what God means when he says, love thy neighbor? What is the bare minimum standard? And Jesus Christ says, to meet the needs of people around you, even people who don't believe what you believe at all, because Samaritans and Jews had two different religions, and each one thought the other one was blasphemous. Jesus is saying, I want you to look out there and look at people I want you to look out there and see people who don't believe what you believe. And I want you to meet their needs with such concreteness and such sacrificial love that it'll astonish people. That's why we're calling it gospel neighboring. What is gospel neighboring? To meet the needs, the concrete needs. The human needs. Of all the people around you, whether they believe like you do or not, with such costliness and such sacrificiality that people will need to hear the gospel just to try to make some sense out of your life because you're so inexplicable. And so realize that Jesus, the question is, just give me the basic bare minimum of what God requires in loving the neighbor. And Jesus gives us an example of what we'd call today social work. This is the core, he says, of what it means to be my disciple. This is the core. Feeding,

sheltering, protecting the weak, liberating the oppressed. This is the essence of what it means to be a disciple. This is the essence of what it means to love my neighbor. This is it. And that's pretty astounding. In fact, you know, this is not the only place. In Matthew chapter 25, Jesus tells a parable. Well, it's not a parable. It's like a parable. And he says, on the last day, the great shepherd, the judge, will have to separate the sheep from the goats. Now, that's something that shepherds had to do because they, every so often, there are other white animals that would come into the flock, and they look like sheep. But hey, they're not sheep. They're goats. You don't shear and as the sheep, the shepherd would have to sort of weed out. It's kind of a mixed metaphor, isn't it? But anyway, weed out the goats from the sheep. And Jesus says, on the last day, that's what we're going to have to do. The judge of the universe is going to look down at all the people who say they're believers, and he's going to have to take some nominal people out and say, you know, you say you're a believer, but you really aren't. And you over here, you have experienced the supernatural grace of God. Well, how do they know the difference? I mean, mean how will the judge know the difference. And Jesus' answer is. On that day. The judge will say. You're the goats. And they say. Why. They say. I was hungry and you didn't feed me. I was naked. And you didn't clothe me. I was shelterless. And you didn't bring me. In. I was sick. And you didn't care for me. I was in prison. And you didn't visit me. And they're going to say. To the judge. Lord. When did. We see. You. In that condition. And Jesus. Says. We'll. Say. I'll. Say. To when you failed to do it to the least of these, my brethren, you failed to do it to me. Now that is astounding. And think about it this way. Jesus is always saying, by their fruit you will know them. Here's two trees. And here's a tree in June filled with fruit and leaves. And here's a tree in June with no fruit and no leaves on it. Which one's dead? Which one's alive? This one's alive. Does the fruit give the tree life? No. The fruit tells you it's alive. And Jesus has the audacity to say. Here's how I know the difference they believe in a person who's actually experienced my supernatural grace. A life poured out in deeds of compassion and service, especially to the poor, is an inevitable sign that you've actually experienced my salvation. It may come later, it may come sooner, but it will always come. It doesn't give you life, but it proves that you've met me. So, first of all, the mandate of gospel neighboring. So, did you hear that, everybody? You hear that? Don't you start to

sympathize with the law expert a little bit? Don't you want to start to say, well, Jesus, let's be reasonable about this. Would you please, you know, certainly we could put some limits on this thing because I'm feeling really guilty. It would be all right if you just put some limits on it. And Jesus won't. There's three ways in this passage in which Jesus shows the magnitude, not just the mandate for gospel neighboring, but the magnitude of what he's calling disciples to do. And he says there's three ways that we tend to limit it and try to limit it. And he won't let us do it. And the passage shows us he won't. The first way we tend to limit gospel neighboring is we try to limit the who. Secondly, we try to limit the when. Thirdly, we try to limit the how much? First of all, we try to limit the who. Now, it's natural to want to give and aid and help people who are like you and who you like and who like you. For example, and this is, I'm not, you know, in no way am I saying this is wrong, is if you were unemployed employed, and the diaconal fund here and the deacons or deaconesses helped you get through that, and now you got a job, and you're back on your feet, you're going to be a pretty generous donor, I think, to the diaconal fund. This is one of the reasons why I think as the years have gone by, it's becoming a better and greater and more, you know, widely subscribed to ministry because people have tasted, you know, the graciousness of it. And because, so what happens is you give because you know it's probably going to be somebody like you, another young professional person in the middle of maybe Manhattan who's, you know, get down on their, you know, some misfortune and so on. It's natural to want to give to people who you can identify with because they're just like you, and you know what they've gone through and so on. But Jesus says, watch out. Because he says, let me tell you who is your neighbor. And he puts it in here. Of course, the only two characters in here are a Jew and a Samaritan. And these two racial groups were utter bitter enemies at the time. Jesus deliberately does this. Why? Because he's trying to say, your neighbor is anybody in need, absolutely anyone. The protagonist reaches across an enormous racial barrier in order to help. And it's Jesus' way of saying, don't you dare try to limit this. Don't you dare. So we tend to limit the who. Secondly, we tend to limit the when. See, it's very typical, and boy, I got this a lot in my church in Virginia, where I first started trying to passage. Studying this parable from 1979 to 1982 changed my life. I wouldn't be in New York. I never would have thought of coming if I hadn't figured out what this parable is about. When I was first trying to help my own folks in Virginia come to grips with this gospel neighboring, one of the things that often came up was people said, well, look, there's certain kinds of people I don't mind helping. You know, lightning strikes their house and it burns down. All right, that wasn't their fault. But these people over here, I know something about that family. And they're irresponsible. And they're stupid. And they're foolish. And they're reckless. And they're always in trouble. And it's their fault. So, I won't mind helping. When it's not their fault. When they deserve it. Well, one of the problems is that the Samaritan in this situation. Jesus has painted us a story of a Samaritan. And when the Samaritan discovers the person in the road. If you understand something about the historical context, Jesus gives us a character who absolutely would believe that the guy who's dying deserves it. Absolutely. Because that's not an individualistic society back then. You have two groups of people. Each one felt like that group is oppressing me. You know, each one said, you're oppressing us. And the other said, no, you're oppressing us. And because they weren't individualistic, when they would see a member of the oppressor group, they would say, you deserve what you're getting. you've you know there's all so jesus gives us a person who looks at someone who absolutely in his own context in his own way of thinking would absolutely see this person deserve what's happening and he reaches down don't you dare limit the win whether they deserve it or not jonathan edwards who was a pastor in new england in the 1740s wrote a fascinating the duty of charity to the poor, because his own congregation were giving him all these excuses why they didn't want to do it. And here's a couple of examples. He made lists of all the excuses and gospel answers. Here's one excuse. But you say, they are not truly poor. I only have to help people when they are truly destitute and poor. And Edwards' answer, we should relieve our neighbors only in extreme destitution. That is not agreeable to the rule of loving our neighbors as ourselves. We get concerned about our situation long before we become destitute. We do something about our situation long before we become destitute. So you should love your neighbor as yourself. Well, here's a second excuse. But they brought on their trouble themselves. I don't have to help when they have brought it on themselves. And Jonathan Edwards writes this. but Christ loved you, pitied you, and greatly laid himself out to relieve you from all that want and misery which you brought on yourself by your own folly. Should we not love others as Christ loved us? In other words, Edward's saying, Jesus looked down from heaven, and if he'd said, I only want to help the deserving poor with my blood, he could have saved himself a trip, because there isn't anybody down here who deserves it. So we tend to, you know, in other words, does we limit the who? Jesus says, don't you dare. We tend to limit the when. Jesus says, don't you dare. And the third thing is we tend to limit the how much. We have a tendency to say, well, look, if I was doing well, maybe, but I can hardly make ends meet myself. I can't afford to help people like that. I can't afford to do it. Jesus deliberately, even though he's making this story up, it's a parable. He puts the story on a stretch of road that everybody knew about. out. He didn't just say, on the road, robbers got them. He put them on a particularly dangerous stretch of road between Jerusalem and Jericho. Lots of hills, lots of caves. There's a pass on that road called, literally, the Pass of Blood. So many people get jumped and robbed and killed there. It was called the Pass of Blood. And so what happens is, likely, the guy has been destroyed at the Pass of Blood, and he's dying. Along come the priest, along come the Levite. Now, we're going But let me tell you why they pass by on the other side and hurry on. Because they're smart. Because if you see somebody who's not dead yet, what does that mean? The robbers are right nearby. To stop might be fatal, perhaps. So when the Samaritan stops, he's risking everything. When the Samaritan stops, he is risking everything. It is an incredible sacrifice. And, of course, he opens his purse up, and he doesn't just say, here's two denarii, but he says, I will pay for any amount of time it takes for this man to get better. And Jesus is trying to say, I want radical costliness. See, Jonathan Edwards, Jonathan Edwards, in his treatise, deals with a person who says, I can't afford to help people in need. I can't afford it. And here's what he says. Remember Galatians 6.2, bear one another's burdens. And Edwards goes on. We may, by the rules of the gospel, be obliged to give to others when we cannot do it without suffering ourselves. Else how is that rule of bearing one another's burdens fulfilled? If we never are obliged to relieve others' burdens except when we can do it without burdening ourselves, how do you bear your neighbor's burdens when you only do it when you can, when you bear no burden at all? Now that's Edwards thinking like this. When people say, to give, what they mean is I can't afford to give to the poor or the needy without it burdening me, without it hurting my living standards, without it really making me radically sacrifice. And Jesus says, yes, that's it. There's no such thing as a person then who can't afford to help. In fact, if you can't afford to help, you're not helping enough. Jesus Christ says, let me tell you the magnitude of what I am calling my disciples to do, gospel neighboring. Let me tell you how radical it is. You are to help even people that ordinarily you would hate the sight of. You are to help them, even people who have brought this on themselves, and you are to help them to the place where some of their burden falls on you, so that to some degree you experience some of their difficulty because you're giving that heavily. and he says, that is what I call you to. Don't you dare limit it. That's the magnitude of gospel neighboring. Well, let me ask you a quick question. How do you get anybody to live like this? I mean, obviously, is anybody going to say people shouldn't do that? Of course not. I mean, I think everybody, if you knew where there were two people living like this, you'd want to move into their neighborhood. I mean, obviously, this is great, but nobody lives like this. Nobody lives like this. So how do you get people to live like this? And that brings up to the third question. The question of motivation. Motivation. Where do you get the power to live like this. Where does it come from. And there are only two possible ways to get people to live like this. And Jesus shows us both of them. One of which is inadequate. One of which is all adequate. One of which is a common law. One that is completely insufficient. And one of which is all sufficient. The first way that you can try to get people to live like this. Is through morality. Secular or religious. For example. The secular version. Goes like this. You say. Well. If you're a enlightened person. If you're a progressive person. If you're a liberal person. You know. If you're a decent person. If you're a civic minded person. You'll be concerned for the poor. And you will. You will vote for policies that help them. And you will give yourself and your volunteer, your time through volunteer work and through your money. And, of course, you have to be very, very concerned for the poor because you are an enlightened, progressive person. That's a secular version. The religious version is you must give to the poor because the Bible commands it or the Koran commands it or the Torah commands it or whatever. There's not a single religion I know in the world, no major religion that doesn't put a lot of emphasis on helping the poor. religious version and you have a secular version, but they both basically motivate you through guilt. Guilt. You have so much and they have so little. Don't you feel bad? Give it away. And you know what? Jesus puts into the parable, very unnecessarily, unless you understand his point, two people who are extremely moral, extremely religious, a priest and a Levite. And the irony of the thing is the priest and the Levite, it was their job. I mean, he could have chosen some other kinds of people, a Pharisee or something, but the priests and the Levites were the people who gave to the poor. They distributed the alms to the poor. And what is Jesus trying to show us. He's trying to show us people who out of a duty, who out of morality, who out of just simple conscience ordinarily do help the poor when it comes to the radical costliness, when it's going to cost them something, when it's going to make them risk their life, when they're going to have to lay themselves out in the radical way that Jesus Christ is demanding. Radical gospel while neighboring, they can't do it. Let's go around the side. Jesus is saying morality can't take you very far. It can make you a little bit generous, make you feel bad about, you know, the way you're living, but it can't take you very far. It doesn't really change your life. In fact, let me ask you a quick question. Is there anybody here feeling guilty about their lack of involvement or lack of generosity, lack of concern for the people in need around? around. Is anyone here feeling guilty? Stop, because it won't take you where Jesus wants you to go. And it doesn't even, because Jesus is not trying to make the lawyer feel guilty. He's not trying to say, look how bad you are that you don't help the poor. Don't forget what his original problem was. Look, here's what Jesus Christ says is the only way to get the power to do this. The key to the parable is where the religious scholar has been placed by Jesus inside the story. If Jesus Christ had said the story like this, if he said, a man just like you was riding along on the way on the road between Jerusalem and Jericho. A man just like you was riding along. And in the road, he saw a Samaritan. And the Samaritan had been robbed and had been beaten. And he was almost dead. But that man, just like you, though a man was a Samaritan, he got off of his steed. And he went over. And he poiled oil on his wounds. And he sacrificed himself. And he risked his life. And he gave to this man. Go and do likewise. What if that's how it was? A man like you, in the saddle. Samaritan on the ground. The hated the loser, the blasphemer, the oppressor, but he overcame all those terrible racial and class and barriers and that sort of thing and went down and helped him go and do likewise. What would the guy have done? He would have said, he would have laughed at Jesus. He would have said, are you kidding? I'm not a traitor of my people. That's the weirdest story I've ever heard. No self-respecting Israelite would ever do something like that. I would have just trampled on him and put him out of his misery. I would have ridden over him a couple times. He says, you do not inspire me, Jesus. You do not move me, Jesus. It's the most ridiculous thing in the world. And it's true. It's exactly what would have happened. But Jesus didn't do that. Jesus puts the Israelite into the road. And he puts the hated Samaritan on the steed, in the saddle. And here's the question he's asking the man. What if you were in the road? What if your life was ebbing out? What if you were bleeding to death? And what if your only hope was an act of free grace to you from an enemy who doesn't owe you any mercy, in fact owes you the opposite? What if your only hope was an act of free grace from someone, an act of radical neighbor love from someone who in no way owes you neighbor love at all. What if that was the situation? Would you want grace? What if that was the situation? And you realize what he's doing? If he had said, you're in the saddle, the Samaritan's on the ground, reach across the barriers, and don't be a racist, and don't be a classist, and be generous, he would have been basically saying, I'm giving you a do it, a rule. And even if the man agreed, he would just be complying. It wouldn't have changed his heart. But he's not giving him a do it. He's giving him a dynamic. He's not just saying, you're in the saddle and he's on the ground. He's saying, what if you were on the ground? What if you had an experience of radical grace? What if you were shockingly saved only by the grace of someone who owed you nothing but rejection? Only if that had happened to you would you get up and start to look at everyone differently. Only then would you become a radical lover. Only then would you become Only then would you look at people who in the past you despised. The wrong race. The wrong class. People who you didn't think were responsible. And you look at them and say. But I was no different. I was saved by someone. Who didn't owe me that. I was saved from someone. Who had been an enemy. I was saved from someone. That I had rejected. And resisted myself. I. Have been. Saved by radical grace. And that would change. It would get rid of the moralism. Would get rid of the pride. That makes you look down. the other people who aren't just like you. That's what would happen. And Jesus is saying, you will never be a neighbor until you get a neighbor. In other words, you will never be a radical neighbor until you're radically numbered. You will never be able to have the kind of ministry to the people around you until you are the recipient of radical neighbor grace. now you have to ask yourself alright, that's very interesting where would you get something like that? you notice how Jesus has turned it around he started off saying the question who is my neighbor? but at the very end, look at Jesus' question he changed it who was neighbor to you? who was neighbor to the man in need? and the guy has to choke out he can't even use the word Samaritan but he basically gets it he says the one who showed mercy what has Jesus done? he says until you get that the rule won't happen. There's a no racism rule. Sure, it's wrong to be racist. There's a no selfishness rule. Sure, you shouldn't spend all your money on yourself, but I'm not giving you a rule. That wouldn't change your heart. You need a dynamic. Well, where do you get that dynamic? You know. Everyone who embraces the gospel of Jesus Christ gets exactly what you need. Here's what the gospel says. We're all self-justifiers. Every one of us, everyone. We justify ourselves. And when you are a self-justifier, do you know how that beats you up? If you say, well, I'm okay. I'm good. I'm justified. I'm significant because of this or that. Whatever you set your heart on. You know, Becky Pippert says, if you set your heart on power, you're controlled by power. If you set your heart on human approval, you'll be controlled by the people you want to please. If you set your heart on family, you're completely controlled by your family. And whatever you try to justify yourself with, if it's not God, it's a master that will up. We'll fill you with fears. We'll fill you with discouragement over the years, and eventually you'll be in the road. You'll be dying spiritually. But the gospel says Jesus Christ came into the world. He came onto our road. And of course, He owes us nothing but rejection because, you know, He's the Creator. We owed Him everything, and we've been trying to be our own masters for all of our lives. But when He came to our place in the road, He had compassion on us. And this word compassion in verse 34 and 35, 33 and 34. It says pity, but the word there is a word that is used more about Jesus Christ's emotional life than any other word in the Bible. He had compassion on him. When Jesus Christ saw us, he knew that to stop wouldn't just risk his life. He knew that to come into, to come to us wouldn't just risk his life. No, it would cost his life, but he did it. For Jesus to get down and come to us and put us up in his place on his saddle cost his life. God made him sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God in him. But he did it. And if you see him as your good Samaritan, if you see him as your radical neighbor, if you see him as having done that, that changes you forever. And you can do this. You can. You can begin. You see, in the parable of the Good Samaritan, Jesus Christ demands the love that cannot be demanded. He requires the love that cannot be required. You know what I'm saying? In other words, Jesus Christ says radical gospel neighboring requires a love that cannot be a response to a requirement but a response to free grace. And only when you see the true neighbor and what he's done for you will you become a true neighbor for others. Now let me, just in closing. about what we learn here for method. I'm going to say this really fast. Three things that were taught in this passage about how to go about being a gospel neighbor. Number one, you have to re-neighbor yourself. You have to re-neighbor. You know what I'm saying? Look, the Levite and the priest really were in the vicinity. You know, they crossed over to the other side of the road. It's almost ludicrous as if to say, he's not really in my path. Of course, he was. but notice there's three guys. The Levite, the priest, and the Samaritan all see Him. See the word saw? The Levite saw Him. The priest saw Him. The Samaritan saw Him. But here's two things that the priest and the Levite didn't do. They didn't think about Him, and they didn't come and contact Him. In other words, they didn't look twice. They looked once, and then they looked away. But the Samaritan looked at Him and felt His misery and was filled with compassion. passion. So the first thing is that the Samaritan thought about the needs of the man. The other two were too busy. And the Samaritan contacted the man, touched the man, came to be where he was. The other guys went as far away from them as they could possibly do. Now listen, when you live in a city in which 25% of the kids under the age of 18 in New York City are living at or near or in poverty. 25%. And if you stay in your professional residence enclaves, and if you spend all your money on yourself, you're the priest and the Levite. Let's face it. You're a geographical neighbor to them, but you're not a true neighbor to them. How do you make yourself from a geographical neighbor into a true neighbor? You have to re-neighbor yourself two ways. You have to think, and you have to contact. You have to spend time thinking about their needs, and then you have to actually go and be in contact. And there's no better way to do that than to begin with the Hope for New York Ministry Fair today. No better way. So you have to reneighbor yourself. Secondly, we have to reweave the message and the neighboring. The gospel message where we say to people, please believe this. And gospel neighboring where we say, I'm going to love you whether you believe it or not. Now let me tell you something. When you hear, here's Luke chapter 10. Look at how it weaves these things together. When Jesus says, I want you to be the fearless proclaimers of the message of the gospel, conservatives feel good and liberals get nervous. And when Jesus says, I want you to radically pour yourself out as a neighbor for the needs of the poor, liberals feel good and conservatives get nervous. But Jesus has no trouble. He completely weaves them together. And, you know, in the history, whenever Christianity has flourished, they've been utterly together. together, concern for the body and concern for the soul. And that's the reason why there's this great letter from one of the Roman emperors, Julian, who was so upset with how Christianity was growing and paganism was shrinking. And he writes a letter on why it's happening to a friend of his. And he says, you know, the religion of the Greeks does not prosper, he says. Why do we not observe how the charity of Christians to strangers has done the most to advance their cause? It is it's disgraceful that these Christians support our poor in addition to their own. While everyone is able to see that our co-religionists lack aid from us. And what he's trying to say is, you know, the Greeks take care of the Greek poor and the Romans take care of the Romans poor and this part takes care of the poor. But the Christians are promiscuous about this. They take care of their own poor. They take care of everybody's poor. There's never been a group of people like this in the history of the world. And that's true up to that time. You have to reweave the two things. and I'll have to say one other thing quickly about racial reconciliation. This is a great racial reconciliation passage, and I want you to keep this in mind. When Jesus is dealing with a man with a self-justifying heart, in other words, here's a guy who doesn't understand the gospel. He's religious, but he doesn't believe the gospel. In other words, he's trying to justify himself, and Jesus assumes he's a racist by putting into this situation a man who he would ordinarily hate because of his different race. And I think this is what it means. You know, nobody thinks they're a racist. And when I look at Redeemer, for example, there's only two kinds of this. You've got white people who went to college, and you have people of racial minorities. Now, the white people who went to college says, well, I'm not a racist. I took all those courses. And the minority says, I can't be a racist because I've been a victim of racism. But you know what? So nobody's a racist. But where's the problem then? then. Jesus assumes that racism is part of self-righteousness. It's part of the way the heart decides, until it understands the gospel, I've got to make myself feel like I'm a pretty good person. And the best way to do that is to look at people who are different culturally and say, I'm better than them. He sees racism as something that's very, very, very closely allied to the heart that doesn't understand the gospel. And therefore, we should all look into our hearts and assume it's in there somewhere. So if we're going to become radical neighbors, re-neighbor yourself, re-weave the body and soul, work on racial reconciliation, repentance for the racism you find in your heart. Listen, is there anybody here who still feels guilty? Say, I just feel guilty. I don't think I can live this way. Well, all right, but do what Jesus wants you to do with the guilt. Until you are crushed by the sight of the mercy God requires from you, you'll not be humble enough to receive the mercy God offers you. And he offers it to you in the great Samaritan, as it were, Jesus Christ. When you see what he did at the cost of his life to save you, when that penetrates your heart and you can begin to sing, amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, should die for me? Then you'll be able to go and do likewise. Let's pray. Thank You, Father, for giving us an understanding of this passage strong enough to make us radical neighbors. We pray that Your Holy Spirit would give us the experience of grace Jesus told this man he needed to have. In some of our cases, You need to give us a deeper experience of the grace we already have. In some cases, You have to give us an experience of the grace we don't have. But we pray that You would do it. So that we truly can walk in the steps of the One who came not to be served, but to serve. his life a ransom for many. In his name we pray. Amen.