Let me just read from Psalm 95, then we're going to stand and sing. Come, let us sing for joy to the Lord. Let us shout aloud to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before Him with thanksgiving and extol Him with music and song. That's the first part of our worship service. Praise. Then, further down in Psalm 95. Come, let us bow down in worship. Let us kneel before the Lord our Maker. For He is our God and we're the people of His pasture. That's the second part of our worship service every week. That's repentance. renewal. And then finally, today, if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. That's the third part, listening to the word. And so what we were going to do here is just go through a little version of that right here for a couple of minutes as we sing, and then listen to the word again. So stand and let's praise the Lord. What we've been doing this year is we've been saying Christian community is not just a place where we get together and sort of care for each other and love each other and support each other. Christian community is, according to the Bible, an alternate city, an alternate nation, a new humanity. In other words, the Christian community is supposed to be a little mini human society in which the normal idols, sex as an idol, idol, money as an idol, power as an idol, race as an idol, that those idols are taken away. And when Jesus Christ is supreme, what does that make human society look like? That's what our job is, to build a society like that in our church, our Christian community. And what that means is we're asking ourselves, how will Christians, how will a Christian community look unique and different than any other part of society in these areas. And what we're going to do these last four months of the...well, I realized today as I was looking at this, there's just no way I can finish this at all this year. Because you know we only have a March MCM and an April and a May and a June and then we take two weeks, two months off. And in these last four months we're going to look at the big three, sex, money and power. and we have to when we look at these three what we're asking ourselves not just is what are my individual ethical does and don'ts. As a Christian what must I do with my money what may I not do what may I do what must I do what may I not do in sex may I you know that sort of thing that's that's missing the forest for the trees. There are of course ethical guidelines that the bible gives but we're supposed to be trying to build a Christian community that looks really in the way in which we regard sex and use sex, money and power. Now, tonight and next month, I remember thinking I've got to do this all tonight, but I just gave up. I realized what I'm going to do tonight is I want to lay down some real basic principles that will help us understand how do we build a Christian community that's uniquely, distinctively gospel-centered and Christ-centered in the way in which we deal with the issue of sex and gender. I have never really tackled that. I'm sorry to say. I've never really taught on that. I mean, I've taught sex ethics and what the Bible says we're supposed to be dealing with sex. But when we start talking about our community, that's different. I'm very excited. But I want you to know what I'm doing here is fairly rudimentary. And even tonight, at the end, I want you to give me some ideas for next month. Most of what you really want to hear is next month. But if I would get to it too quickly before laying down these basic principles, it wouldn't be illuminating or helpful. But here's what I want to do. I want to lay down three basic principles that the Bible gives us in the very, very beginning. The first place and the first spot that sex is ever mentioned in the Bible, which is Genesis 1, 26 to 28, we have three very important principles that I want to show are fundamental for getting a Christian grip on sex and gender. Let's take a look at what these three foundational principles are. Go down to where it says foundational principles. And the first mention of sex and gender in the Bible occurs with the first mention of humanity. Now, all by itself, that's very significant. Here it is. In verse 26 of Genesis 1, God says, Let us make man in our own image. And then verse 27 and 28 reads this. In the image of God, created he him, male and female, created he them. That little semicolon. Of course, there's no semicolon. There's no punctuation at all in Hebrew. In the ancient Hebrew. What that simply means. These are two parallel statements. They are identities. They are saying the same thing twice. They're two different ways of saying the same thing. They're not two different things. You see. It's just like. When. You know. Jesus says. Love the Lord. You're. Got. With all. With. All. Your. Soul. With. All. Your. Strength. With. All. Your. Mind. He's. Really. Not. Talking. About. Four. And the same thing here. When he says, in the image that God created in him, male and female created in him. Then we're just two ways of saying the same thing and it's extremely significant. Why? It means that sex and gender is not incidental to our humanness. It's at the very, very essence of who we are. In other words, as soon as God began to create, he created male and female. Immediately it happens that way. It means he does not create general persons, but he creates male and female persons. And this sentence shows a nutshell what the rest of the Bible unfolds and it's these three things. Number one, it means that male and female are absolutely equal in dignity. Both are in the image of God from the beginning, and not only that, but both, not just males, are given the dominion over the earth in the very next verse. See, verse 26, let's make man in our own image. Verse 27, male and female, created he them. And verse 28, he says, now be fruitful and multiply and have dominion, fill the earth and subdue it. And he's giving it to both, which is very interesting. He's telling not just men but women to rule. Very important. And it means that only as male and female together in full participation can we carry out the mandate to build civilization and culture. And I put down here, we're going to get to this a little later, compare that with traditionalists, and we'll talk about what I mean by that, with the idea of women's places in the home. Does that fit with Genesis 1, 26, 27, 28? The answer is no. Don't think so. though. Oh, it doesn't mean that being at home with children isn't, by the way, a way of doing the cultural mandate, but the idea that's generally what traditionalist means is women are not supposed to be in the public world, but what you have here is that the dominion mandate is given to both men and women. So that's the first basic principle. Second principle, though, and it is sort of a though, that maleness and femaleness are irreducible. They're not interchangeable. We are not made into a generic humanity and then later differentiated. You mustn't think that's what it's saying when it says, in his image, in the image, pardon me, when he says, I've lost it. Where is it? Oh, in the image of God created he him, step one. Male and female created he them, step two. too. I tried to say that a semicolon indicates by the translators that's not two steps. It's the same thing. What that means is we're not first made human and then made male and female. It means that only accepting and understanding our maleness or our femaleness in the end is how we accept and understand ourself. And that does not against a traditionalist view that says a woman's place in a home. That actually does against a postmodernist view. That says a gender is a complete construct. That there really is no two genders. That we do or what culture does. It says, no, no, no. The Bible says it's more fundamental than that. Now, there's a third thing, and it's very important. And not only the third thing is, it tells us that only male and female together point us to the Trinity itself. Why? Because since both males and females image God. Now, it's a shame I don't have time to go in and say, what is the image of God? It's a big issue. However, you can tell almost just as a general

reflection. It's like a mirror. And if it's true that both male and female image God, the being of God, it means that God has all the traits associated with both human maleness and human femaleness, however you define it. And only, therefore, as male and female together can we understand the full range of God's character. But it's even more than that, even though I won't get into it this week, this month. Further, since the Trinity is multi-personal, male-female relationships with God and they image relationships between the persons of the Trinity. And therefore, only with understanding male and female relationship, not just maleness and femaleness, do we really understand God. Now, what does this lead us to? These three principles actually lead us to understand how sex and gender becomes a demonic power in the world. Now, if you were here in October, we talked about this issue of power. And we said previously, now you have to go back to the, by the way, you have to go back to your life, what I gave out in October, which was part two, Roman numeral two. And it says the theology of Christian community. And when you go through the book of Ephesians, I make a little reference to it here. here. We said that God has given many good gifts in creation that under the influence of sin become idols or they become powers. There's all this reference in Ephesians 3 and Ephesians 6 to the fact that Jesus Christ has defeated the principalities and the powers. And I spent some time that night trying to say that the traditional view both of liberals and of conservatives, when they see this term powers in the Bible, is that both liberals and conservatives think

and they think that they're demonic, and therefore liberals say, that's stupid, we're beyond that, and conservatives write books like The Present Darkness, and they think that what it really means is there's demons sort of running around making people do sinful things. My own father, who's by no means an intellectually, well, I shouldn't say that, he's by no means a theologically sophisticated person, he was leading a Bible study through Ephesians. He called me up and he says, I don't understand this. Because it says, if the powers are demonic, and it seems like they are. They're bad things. And we're supposed to defeat them. Why does the Bible want to seem to persuade them? Why does it say that the church is supposed to show the powers the wisdom of God? Why would it be trying to convert demons? And I said, you're right, Dad. They're not demons. You wouldn't be trying to convert demons. What are the powers? The powers are good, created things that when you make them an idol, with demonic energy in our individual lives and in our corporate lives. Technology is a good thing, but in our modern world, it's a power. It's a good thing that actually has demonic energy. Sex can become a power, and sex and gender, race becomes a power. Obviously, the demonic power, it became in a place like Nazi Germany, but it's actually wreaking havoc in our own world. Now, sex in general are very clearly powers, which means they're good created things that need to be redeemed. Here are some questions you ask. This is from the Gospel and our Culture Network. Now, don't worry, I'm not going to go into this with detail. I just want you to know that this is an interesting set of questions to ask about a particular power. I know what you're saying, wait a minute, is this the same thing as an idol? Yeah, but generally at Redeemer, when we talk about idols, we're talking about psychological individual idols. Like when you make your music, no, I'm going to pick on it, music into a kind of personal idol. You can make your spouse, or you can make romance into a personal idol. Actually, we're getting close to that. But the point is, the powers we're talking about is when a community together, in a sense, serves one of these good creative things and makes it too ultimate. Then it becomes a power distorting the life of the society. And here's an interesting, this guy, Bill Wiley Kellerman, no relation at all, in the Gospel and Art Culture Network, questions to ask about a power. Three sets of questions. There's the creation question. What was the original reason for this power? Why did God originally create it? Secondly, what is its creaturely purpose, its original and best intention? That is, hmm, what's the difference between that? Oh, well, I have to think. How in particular is it called to praise God and serve human life if it was functioning properly? Then there's the next set. Fall. Because of sin, do you see where that vocation has been confused? How do human beings make an idol of it? In what ways may it be said, to usurp the place of God now? Do people find meaning, identity, and justification in connection with it now? How are their identities observed, confused, and distorted by it? See, that's a great set of questions. Then lastly, where do you see the power unmasked and disarmed? How are its illusions, lies, and deceptions exposed? Now, I don't have time to go any further but to say I began asking this question not about sex and gender in our society. I started asking these sets of questions and saying, how does it function in the world today as a power that needs to And I came up with these three. I'm not asking you to sort of figure out the process. I just want to let you know that's what's behind these three things. And from what I can tell, there's at least, I mean, there's got to be more ways. But here are three ways I see that sex and gender become an idol in our society. Three very different ways. In fact, they're almost opposed to each other. The people with these different idols hate each other. And they pick at one another. And they vote for different candidates, you know, in the elections. reflections, but they're all in different ways letting sex and gender be an idolatrous power in their life and in their society, and it's distorting their society. Here's a start. Number one, I don't think these are great names, but at least I'm sort of going at it. First of all, you have what I call a traditionalist idolatry. Now, traditionalist idolatry, and this, by the way, goes against the principle of equal indignity that I put you on the first page. One way we make sex and gender an idol gender differences and build our identity around very, very rigid gender roles. Real rigid. Real macho guy. Real, you know, sweet, frilly women. And what they've actually done is they've taken very, very rigid gender roles and they say, that's who I am. And that means that's an idol. That's a power. That's making sex and gender into a power. What do I mean? Well, let me show you. Many traditional cultures overemphasize certain biological givens. For example, men tend to be of the hormones. They tend to be more independent. And hopefully nobody here disagrees. These are kind of biological facts. They tend to be physically stronger. So in such a social structure, what we do is we take some of these differences and we exaggerate them. We take something that's sort of a principle and we turn it into an absolute. That's the very essence of idolatry. And in such a social structure, both men and women can actually take refuge in the safety of men always being in charge and women always being removed from power and public. It's safe. Both sides, it takes little discernment and no courage at all to live that kind of life. In many ways, extremely traditional roles take less courage to live out, as I just said. But biblically, male and female are both equal in dignity, given equal change, charged to build culture, and so on. We talked about that. Christians understand or should understand that gender roles are penultimate identities. My maleness and my femaleness, manless females is important, but when you turn it into the very thing that makes me who I am, it's the main thing. It's the whole only thing about me. Well, see, the point is that we're, according to Galatians 3.28, we're Christians first and men and more women second. And as you're going to see, I mean, I don't have time tonight, but when you take a look at the fruit of the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit are not gender specific. It's not right to say, okay, Women are self-controlled and gentle and humble, and men are faithful. No, I'm sorry. Every one of the traits is for every one of us. And that always sort of takes down. In some ways, the fruit of the Spirit always works against rigid gender roles. No doubt about it in my mind. Rigid gender roles tend to pin one's whole identity not on Christ, but on living to a long list of gender stereotype traits. A hundred things that men do and only men do and a hundred things women do. So traditionalist idolatry, as a result, makes marriage and family into an idol. I couldn't help, even though I don't know them and it may be different. Did anybody see the cover story of the New York Times two weeks ago? It talked about, you know, an evangelical family. You know, it's somewhere in the Allentown area where I was raised. Now, I don't know enough to say this, but Kathy and I read through, and we said, we certainly can't be sure, but there's an awful lot about what we read there, and you know, you're reading it through the filter, who knows. But there certainly seemed to me a lot of rigidity and the gender roles and almost beginning to make the family into an idol, at least along these lines from what we could tell. So anyway, I'll show you. Traditionalist idolatry always, as a result, makes marriage and family into an idol because you essentially feel like, unless I'm married, I'm nobody. While Jesus' own life as a single man shows that marriage is a penultimate identity issue because he was somebody. Fairly significant person, never got married. The second is very different, but it's based on the second. It's a second kind of idolatry, but it's based on the second principle I gave you in Genesis. I'll call it the deconstructionist idolatry. I just still think I've got to find better names, but there we go. And this is versus the idea that maleness and femaleness are irreducibly distinct. Another way to make sex and gender an idol or a power in your life. Life. Ironically. It's when we rebel against a very idea of gender given. And thus we build our whole identity around our apparent radical freedom from traditional gender roles. In other words. Well. Let me just read through it. This may take many forms. But those involved in it are driven very often by anger. And a need to break the barriers. And a need to break the traditions. And a need. Very often. To push against the limitations. Of their own body. Ironically. They're thus. Nearly. As controlled. By gender. As a traditional. Whenever I've met somebody who says, I'm totally free of this stupid idea of two gender roles, and this is just ridiculous, and yet it's very clear that's what makes them feel significant. I'm different. I'm better. And they are just as driven to a great degree. They're not relaxed about gender at all. I mean, to a great degree, this idolatry is triggered by, I'm going to tell you, an awful lot of people who are locked in this idolatry are locked in it because they think that the traditionalist idolatry, it's a reaction. I'm a lot more sympathetic, personally, to people who are in this one than the other one, because I don't think you'd come up with this unless you've really been turned off by the first. But nevertheless, that's why I put down here, it's a little bit like a person who rejects his father and spends all his life doing the opposite of what his father wanted, and thus paradoxically has made an idol in reverse of his father. Or you see, I know you wouldn't think, well, idol in reverse, that's what I mean by a power. A power is something that controls you because you made it too important, even by way of negation. He is utterly controlled. They can't relax or enjoy gender differences any more than traditionalists can enjoy gender exceptions, you see. When a traditionalist person sees a man or a woman who's at one end of the bell curve, somebody who doesn't really fit traditional rigid gender roles, traditionalists go nuts and they may kill them. On the other hand, deconstructionist idolatry tends to go nuts with people who are really masculine or feminine. In many ways, they find them just very threatening. They just write them right off. They act like I'm superior to you. So they can't stand the differences. Any more than traditionalists can stand the exception, and that shows that gender is a power in their life. There's no peace. Thirdly, is what I call, and this is the one who, if you're in New York, if you're a New York single, this is the biggest problem. I call it the consumer idolatry, and this is opposite to the idea of the pointer to the trinity. See, See, if gender, look at me for a minute, if it's really true that maleness and femaleness is supposed to reflect the relationships within the Trinity, which I believe is very obvious from Philippians 2 and a lot of other places, what that means is that sex is for service and commitment. It's not for what we usually, consumer idolatry, go back down here. The most obvious way that sex and gender is an idol power is when we try to use sex not for committed service to another person, but as a way of maximizing pleasure and or power in the sexual market. Now, I'm not talking about the meat market, all right? I'm talking something general, and that is this. In modern Western society, look, A, if you are very physically attractive, there is a lot of power and impact that you have. There's no doubt about it, whether you're male or female. If you're very physically attractive and you play that up and you use that, you can go a long way. I'm not even, and it has nothing to do with sexual intercourse. way, the consumer idolatry means that you buy into the idea that with sex I can get someplace. But it may not have anything to do with actual sexual contact. We're talking about the fact that you give yourself over to an idol of beauty and sleekness and attractiveness and all that sort of thing as really a way of what? Getting an identity. So it's a power in your life. It makes you assess people superficially. It makes you yourself to a great degree, you're locating your glory and you're attracting this. Then on the other hand, pleasure. In this case, a consumer idolatry, that sex becomes a power in the most obvious way of all. This might be the way the average conservative Christian thinks that sex becomes an idol. That is, when the actual experience of sex becomes a narcotic, a way of consoling ourselves, dealing with the harshness of life. We just have to have it. We have to have it or we just can't really live because I just need it. It's like being addicted. It is being addicted. It doesn't mean you necessarily have to be a true sex addict. I'm not talking about that. There is that. But just somebody who absolutely has to have the pleasure regularly coming into their life. The fact is that sex and gender was, from the beginning, not a way of power but a way of service. But in this culture, it's a way for power. It's not a way to maximize yourself but to complete somebody else. In this culture, it's a way of getting yourself pleasure. The life of the Trinity is one of love and service, complete commitment to one another. It's utterly different. And those are three ways in which sex is a power. Now, I want you to know that everybody, just about everybody in this room, to one degree or another, is wrestling with one of these kinds of powers. The brokenness that comes into our sexuality comes somehow, but to one degree or another, it is. So, for example, let me just give you, it's not down here, but just listen. The traditionalist idols, for example, make you overly desirous of being married and absolutely disconsolate if you're not. See, it's an idol. Why? The desire to be married is natural. The over-desire to be married is not. Or for example, if men are only looking for gorgeous, thin women and women are only looking for wealthy and powerful men, that's a traditionalist idol. And yet, that's rampant in New York. work. Or, if you want sex outside of marriage, period, that's a consumerist title. If you are having it, it's a consumerist title. It's a power in your life. You're not following the life of the Trinity. Or, if you are completely afraid of getting married because you're in absolute perfections, you're saying, I was starting to fall in love with her and then I found out that she mispronounced, then I heard her mispronounce Goethe. Or as Seinfeld once said, and I realize her earlobes are too big. And, you know, she can cover it with those big earrings, but I hate big earrings and so on. But that's a consumerist idol. It's a consumerist idol because sex to you is power. I want somebody who's really perfect and is going to maximize me and fulfill me or at least look incredibly good with me. I mean, so if you don't think you're having trouble with one of the brokenness of sex and gender in your life through one of these kinds of idolatry, I don't think you know yourself very well. Now, the turnover, well, you're already there. This leads to three ethical principles. I'm calling them operational principles because based on the above principles, there's three embankments for sex. See, now we're getting a little bit down to practicality. What do I mean by embankments? Well, a river is only beautiful and helpful if it stays within its banks. Only then is its beauty and usefulness for irrigation and navigation useful. really. It's certainly not very helpful. The river goes past its banks. So if sex stays within its banks, it's not destructive. These three banks are based. By the way, you see the metaphors breaking down. Three banks. Yeah. I think we have a lake or a dead end. What do we have here? Anyway. But anyway, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. We have an estuary. Is that it? We don't have a bank. So only if sex stays within its banks, it's not destructive. These three banks are the three things I got out of Genesis 1. Here we have them. Number one, sex has to be with commitment. Sex with commitment. Sex was invented first for commitment. And I'm only going to say this real briefly because I actually need to get some questions from you. I can come back to this next week as a kind of recap. I say next week, next month. But first of all, and you've heard me say this before, but if not, here I say it. Sex is a covenant renewal ceremony. ceremony. And therefore, there's no covenant to renew. It has no purpose. It doesn't work. Sex is a way to restate to somebody else, I belong completely and exclusively to you. And the proof of the pudding on that is the fact that if it's really mirroring the life of the Trinity, well, I'm not going to press you, all right? So the implication, here's the first ethical implication. It's very simple. You don't have sex outside marriage. That's the first implication of what Genesis 1 says marriage ought to be, right? Number one. Or not, I mean what sex ought to be used, pardon me. Number one. Number two, sex has to happen with complement. What that means is sex was invented first for commitment, for renewing a permanent relationship. Secondly, sex was invented for complement, just as the bodies of the two genders literally fit together. So Genesis 2 and elsewhere directly says that there's a deep oneness possible between a male and a female that's not possible in sexual relations between two So the second basic principle is that sex must be between, in marriage, and between a male and a female. And the third, sex with joy and justice. Sex was invented thirdly for partnership, sex servant partnership. If you just have number one and two, you still don't have it. Traditionalist cultures see the purpose of marriage as the fulfillment of social duty. Thus, you don't marry for romance but just to get the best family, the best social standing and honor the best honor for the family you came from to bring them up and so on. In modern consumerist cultures, we see the purpose of marriage as the fulfillment of psychological needs. Thus, you see marriage as mainly for personal fulfillment and personal pleasure. And you aren't at all ready for the enormous sacrifices. You know, traditionalist marriage says the important thing is really you don't marry for pleasure, you marry for duty and family and social standing. They're good on sacrifice, not at all on romance and pleasure and so on. Consumerists say, we get together as long as it's meeting our needs, but they're completely, in our culture, unready to deal with the changes and the sacrifices that it takes to have a long-term relationship. Biblical purpose of marriage is to become a minister to your partner, committed to the development of his or her glory. That's your job. You say, I see something beautiful and great that God's making this person and I'm committed and I'm committed to sacrificing as Jesus did so that I could come into fullness. And that's the purpose. And when I say joy and justice, what it really means, of course, is the traditionalist marriage, everybody knows the traditionalist culture took women down. It basically used women. But everybody knows, I think, that consumerist culture

is really selfish. That is, we're together as long as we're not sacrificing for each other. But here what you want in Christian marriages is to really not just merge the two. I mean, there's both duty and there's joy, but it's because you have a whole different purpose. Both the traditionalist and the consumerist model are essentially selfish. In this one you say, I am committed to the development of the glory of my partner. And therefore, you know, it's joyful justice. One person is not using the other person. That's why I put down in traditional marriage, the husband uses the wife. In consumerist marriage, the husband and the wife use each other. Because they're ready to go if it's not mutually happy. You know, if I'm not doing well. This is utterly different. And there's your three operational principles. Now, what I want to do, I want to tell you that what we have to do next month, and I'm going to ask you some very important questions. In light of this, there are four areas. Don't turn over just yet. There's four areas in which a community like Redeemer has to be very different and very distinct and really look different. I don't think we look that different. There are many, many ways in which I'm proud of Redeemer. And actually, I'm still proud of Redeemer. But we have a long way to go to create a community in which none of those three idolatries are really, really distorting us. And here's four areas of practical application. And when I've told you what they are, My watch says I have at least five minutes for you to tell me if there's any others I ought to work on for next week, next month. But here's where they are. First of all, one area where we have to be utterly different is sex outside of marriage. Can we have a community? These are important questions. Can we have a community of singles who are practicing abstinence joyfully and keeping each other accountable without condemnation and guilt? Okay, we can't, right? Okay. Well, you see that question? There are lots of churches in which everybody's practicing abstinence, but that's not what I'm asking. So you can practice abstinence through a traditionalist model, but we don't want to do that. Can we become a community, can we become a Christian community, largely of singles, in which we're practicing abstinence joyfully and keeping each other accountable without condemnation and guilt? Can we do that? Okay, secondly, there's a second area we'd have to be unique. I already told you about these. Our attitude toward dating and marriage seeking. Can we have a community where neither traditionalist idols are rampant, with like over-desire to be married, men looking only for gorgeous women, women looking for wealthy and powerful men, or consumerist idols, wanting sex without marriage, under-desire for marriage out of perfection? Can we, in our dating relationships, comb ourselves free of these things? Okay, no. No. All right. Number three. Now, I think this is the third area. It's very important. And here's three very important questions. We have lots and lots of gay people, some openly gay, many, many not openly gay, who come to Redeemer. Now, what are we going to do? Here's three questions, and they're very important questions. Can we admit that traditionalist idols do... do. Sorry about the. Sorry about the grammar. Can we admit that traditionalist idolatry does create Homophobia and gay bashing. Can we admit that. Do we want to admit that. That. We. Single. Out. Homosexuality. If. You. Single. Homosexuality. Over. Things. Like. Prejudice. And. Anger. And. You. Know. And. You. Know. Joy. Less. N. Us. Then. You. Probably. Are. In. The. Group. Of. A. Traditional. Idol. Why. Would. You. Single. That. Out. Secondly. Can. We. Talk. To. Gay. People. About. The. Gospel. Without. Making. heterosexual is what will save them. I know that plenty of people at Redeemer gave gay people that impression. Number three, can we explain how most heterosexuality is just as broken under the powers as well? Are we willing to admit that and talk like that? You know, I was buying tea downtown at my tea salon, which is a very good place to buy tea. I buy tea at, it's between 20th, it's on 20th Street between Broadway and Fifth. And the lady who owns the place was giving me tea. And she says, says, what do you do? She's very garrulous and outgoing, really sweet lady, great. And I said, I'm a minister. She said, oh, you have a church in town? I said, yes. And she says, gay or straight? Which is, there's not many places that would be asking me that. And you know, I have to tell you something. On the basis of, I avoided it, not because I was nervous, but you know what? I hope you understand now that you've listened to my three questions. I would like to be able to say neither. You know, I don't think that in light of traditionalist idolatries, we ought to say we're a straight church, as if there's something unbroken about straightness, you know. So anyway, that's number three. Will we be different there? And the fourth place where we have to be really unique and different is how we help people understand gender roles inside marriage. And here's my one question. Do we understand a view a view of headship and submission that avoids all the different idolatries. Now, I'll tell you what. I'll tell you next week. We're going to have a talk about this. I think to get rid of the idea of headship and submission is a mistake. And I think to define. To pre-define what that is a mistake too. Now, there's. I would say. To every. Well. I'll tell you next time. But. Now. Here's what. what I want to know. I mean, we would be really, really weird and really, really unique if in those three, four areas we could unmask and disarm sex and gender as idolatrous powers. However, are there any other areas? I mean, in those four areas, how we understand headship and submission in marriage, how we understand homosexuality, treat gay people who are in our midst, how do we depower our dating and marriage seeking, and then lastly, just being able to handle keeping sex inside marriage with all our single people. Now, can anybody tell me some other area, or does that cover it pretty much, those four areas? Some other practical area of application, yeah. Right, okay. Okay. Well, you know, already we're kind of unique there, but everybody hates it. You have to remember, don't forget, that sometimes if you take an idolatry out, most people who are under the power of an idol, you don't think you are. and therefore very often a balanced approach in some areas may dissatisfy you. But generally speaking, what will happen is, I think that the beauty of a community like this will probably pull through, but I'll say that. That probably is worth a whole other subject, but I'll talk about it. Yes, a couple others. Right here. How ministers to single mothers and divorced people. I'm not promising I get to all this, but I'm writing it down. Yeah, that would be great. Okay. Give me a few more. Yeah, over here. That's a breakout issue. Yeah, you're right. else? Okay. Well, false intimacy, define it briefly, so I'm pretty sure I know what you mean, so I don't go off. Yeah, between men and women, a male and female. Right. Okay. A couple others. No, I got you. That's what I thought. Yes, here. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Now, you're not talking about necessarily just when you're in full-time Christian ministry, how the marriage works. Yeah, no, you're right. Yeah, in other words, you're called together to build culture and creation. How are you doing that? Okay, a couple more. Oh, yeah. Yeah, back there. Well, you know, what's interesting is I think I'm going to touch on that because a traditionalist idol says, you know, I want somebody powerful and wealthy or beautiful. A consumerist idol, see, if you are that perfectionistic, very often it's because you're just afraid. You don't, you're not really getting into this so much to minister and give. You just want to make sure that the other person is. Aren't two more? Wow. Yeah. Hey, Scott. All right. Okay, so you'd like a form for an exit interview. And, right. And don't you have to give notice and sort of put them on probation? You're under review. See, actually, I'll tell you, I have to admit, that's the hardest thing about, as we all know, I think, that's one of the reasons why you don't even want a date. Because you say, either I'm going to have to marry this person, or else I'm going to have to break up. And both of them sound incredibly scary to me. And so, you know, why even start? No, I know. All right. One more. Yeah, right straight back. Yeah, you've had... What was the first? I hear stereotypes. What was it? Okay. Now, you know, that one is not... Of all the ones that were just mentioned, that's the one I really hadn't been thinking much about. Thank you. But it's time is up. I'm sorry. Put your hands down. See you next month. I'm thinking about getting a virus or something that week. We'll have a hymn sing that night. Yeah, no, you can't bring visitors. Let's pray. Our Father, we're very grateful that you even give us the hope that we could build a society and build a community from many of these problems that we have. Help us to see how important, though, it is for us as leaders to set the pace here. We'll just never have, in a church like Redeemer, people in process, various sorts of process, we'll never have this Jerusalem on earth. But we will, we must set the pace. And I pray, Lord, that I certainly have been convicted by the teaching myself as I've been thinking about these things. enable us to show we'll be a city on a hill that really shows the glory of God in this area and many others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.