The scripture reading this morning is taken from 1st Peter chapter 2 verses 9 through 12. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you have not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Dear friends, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. Live such good lives. Among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. This is the word of the Lord. The passage you just heard read, the text that Peter wrote here, he wrote to a particular group of people trying to be the church in a spot. A particular place. And therefore, if you are a Christian believer and you're visiting from out of town, or if you are someone who would not identify yourself as a Christian believer, you're not really sure what you believe, I'm sure this text will be helpful to you. Maybe even amazingly so. But because of its original purpose, I'm going to be bringing it home mainly to the people who live in the city and who come to Redeemer. I first confronted this text 30 years ago. Almost. When I was a fairly new Christian, I was part of a campus fellowship at a university. And in the spring, we had a conference for all the various campus fellowships in central Pennsylvania. And I heard that there was a man named Edmund Clowney who was going to be the speaker. He was a minister and professor. And his topic was the church. And I said, oh my word, nobody's going to come. How boring. Because my wife, Kathy, and I became Christians in campus. On the campus, 1960 to 1970, that era. And we didn't know anybody who became a Christian through church. We didn't know anybody that found God through church. My goodness. You found God through dorm rooms and groups of people who met and strummed guitars. In apartments and houses. Nobody to church. And I said, nobody's going to come. It's going to be boring. But because I was an officer in that fellowship, I had to go. And it astounded me. Because what Ed Clowney did was he just... He just took these two verses. 1 Peter 2, verse 9 and 10. And went through it word by word. An entire conference. Five or six long addresses going down into almost every word. And it just blew me away. Never forgot it. And here's what he said. What's in the text. And what I've been also thinking about for the last 30 years. This passage, better than any other passage, shows us the church's promise. Its purpose. Its method. And its power. First of all, the church's promise. When God brought the children of Israel together. He brought the tribes of Israel together at the foot of Mount Sinai. He brought them there. He assembled them. And this is what he said to them. This is from Exodus. He said, out of all the nations, you will be a people belonging to me. You will be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. I will take you to be my people and I will be your God. Sound familiar? Yeah. You know why? Because the four descriptions that God used of the Mount Sinai assembly, Peter picks up and applies to us, believers in Jesus. And here's why that's so important. What was so unusual about the Mount Sinai assembly? Again, back to Exodus. God says, you have seen what I did to Egypt. How I carried you on eagle's wings to myself. Now, if you obey me fully, and keep my covenant, then out of all the nations, you will be my treasured possession. You will be a kingdom of priests. I brought you out of Egypt that I might dwell with you. And the glory of the Lord settled on Mount Sinai. Let me pull that together for you. There's two things I want you to see there. What was so unusual about the assembly, Mount Sinai assembly. First of all, God says, I carried you. I brought you on eagle's wings out of Egypt. You didn't fight your way out of Egypt. You didn't even walk out of Egypt. I carried you. You were saved strictly by grace. By my power and my grace. You contributed nothing to it at all. And notice the order. Notice the order. He doesn't say, I gave you my law. Obey my law. He didn't give them his law and tell them to obey him. And then deliver them. He delivered them and saved them. And then he asked them to obey. That's completely the different order. The opposite order. All other religions work on it. Every other religion says, here's God's will. Obey it and then he will bless and save you. But that's not the Bible's religion. That's not the gospel. The gospel, he saves you by his grace. Now obey him. The God who brought the people together at Mount Sinai was a God of grace. But then he said, I brought you here. So now if you obey me and you keep my covenant, I will dwell with you. My glory will dwell in the tabernacle. It will dwell in the temple. It will dwell in your midst. Now the glory of God, just for a second, Moses got a glimpse of the glory of God in the burning bush. And from the time he got that glimpse, he hungered for it. Remember one time in which he blurts out on the mountain, show me your glory. Why was he so hungry for the glory of God? As intimidating and traumatic as it was, because I think he knew that the beauty that all human beings have, that all human beings are looking for in sex and romance,

that the value that people are looking for in money and assets, that the significance people are looking for in their work and their accomplishment is here. It's in the glory of God. This is what they've been looking for. This is what we're all looking for. And now you see the audacity of Peter to take the promises that God made to the assembly at Mount Sinai and apply them to us. You know what Peter's saying? He's saying, if you have had an experience of the grace of God, if you've been brought on eagle's wings, see, through Jesus Christ, if you've had an experience of grace through Jesus Christ, and you are willing to bind yourself into a covenant community with other believers, God's glory indwells that community. God's glory is available to you in a way otherwise he would not be. He indwells, he inhabits us as a community. Now, that's the, that's the promise. Did you hear that? Let me say it again, and let me just pull it out a little bit, because it says, God says, if you've had an experience of my grace, and now you covenant together, the word covenant always means, by the way, a corporate thing, where the people who've experienced grace bind themselves together to serve God. They bind themselves into a community. He says, I will dwell in your midst. My glory, the thing you're looking for, will be accessible to you through the community, in a way it's not accessible to you as individuals. Now, some of that is common sense. It only makes sense that you'll get more of God's power in your life through the word of God. If you actually study it with other people and come to a place where you hear it, taught and preached, then if you just go off and do it by yourself, you're probably, you know, that's common sense. You're going to get more, more out of it if you do it in a community. All right. And you're going to get more out of prayer and worship. If you do it in a community, if you're, if you're worshiping and singing and praising God and confessing in a community, you're going to get some things out of it. You're going to get the power of God in your life in a way that you wouldn't if you're only off by yourself doing it. That's common sense. But there's more to it. In Hebrews chapter three, 13 and, uh, Hebrews 13, uh, verse, uh, 17, it says things like this. Exhort each other daily lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Or it says, um, obey your leaders and submit to them for they're keeping watch over your souls. In other words, there's grace. There's grace that God wants to put in your life. His power will not come into your life unless you're in a community where people are holding one another accountable. You've got to be part of it, but I can press it even a little further, um, to understand what, what we're talking about here. Uh, David Martin, Lloyd Jones, who some of you realize if you've been around as a kind of hero of mine, a preacher, hero of mine, he was a great preacher in the center of London from the 1940s through the 1960s. And, uh, I'm very glad he allowed this, but one of the things that he was always deeply ambivalent about was the recording of his sermons. Starting in the fifties, they began to tape record his sermons and he was very ambivalent about it. And I'm very glad he allowed it. And we all are because we have a lot of his stuff that we wouldn't otherwise. But why was he ambivalent? Here's why it was ambivalent. He says, when you read a sermon or you even listen to a sermon, you're only getting a tiny fraction of what God wants to do in your life through the sermon. Because it's one thing to listen to the sermon in the privacy of your home. It's another thing to come into a community and to be assembled in the presence of other people and to be assembled in the presence of God because you've been worshiping and praying. And then hear the word of God preached. That's the first thing. That is an utterly different experience than just extracting the content for yourself. It's not going to shape you in the same way that it does if you're part of a community. And you might say, well, I can understand that. I can understand that. And the reasons are psychological. No, it's theological because it says he inhabits, he indwells his people. It doesn't say he indwells his persons. Of course, he's with you personally. Of course, he's with you individually. But there's a particular way in which he indwells his people. And what Lloyd-Jones is saying is a sermon can be a product or it can be a participation. You can turn it into a product or you can make it into a participation. Is it? When you participate in a community that comes together to hear the word of God and that talks to each other about it and you're members of one another, it's utterly different than if you download it and listen to it and you say, I'm getting every bit as much out of it as if I was actually there and without all the fuss and fuss and trouble and inconvenience. Wrong. No. The promise of the church is access to the glory of God. Secondly, now what's the purpose of the church? And the purpose of the church is the declaration then of the glory of God. The declaration. This is at the end of verse nine. What is all this? I'm doing this for you. And we'll get back to that. And this for you. You're this and you're that. I've made you this and you're that. What's it all about? That you may declare the praises, the excellencies, the beauties of him who has come unto you. who called you out of darkness into his wonderful life, into his wonderful light. Everything goes to that, you realize this. Everything that God's doing for us, everything God's calling us to be as a people, the whole ultimate purpose is to declare the excellencies of him who called us out of darkness into his wonderful light. Now the very, listen, the very, this very phrase, darkness into light, is significant. Significant. Throughout the rest of the Bible, it's actually a technical nomenclature for describing conversion. And here's one of the ways you can tell whether you're a converted Christian, not just a nice person, not just a moral person, not just a religious person, not just a person who goes to church and believes in the Bible and tries to be a good person. No, converted by the Spirit of God on the inside. Here's one of the ways you know. And that is you understand you've come from darkness to light. And there's wonder over it. Wonder. Wonder. So for example, if you ask religious people, what are you doing? You know, what's your life about? The religious people always say something like this. Well, they say I'm not perfect. No, no, I'm far from perfect. But I try very hard to be good. And I go to church and I read the Bible. I try very hard to be good. It's really hard, but I try. Notice, there's no darkness or light there. It's all kind of gray. They don't feel like darkness. They feel like, well, I'm not perfect. They don't feel like I'm a terrible sinner. And as a result, because they believe that they're saved by trying really hard, there's no wonder. There's no light. There's no amazement. It's not a miracle. But here's how you know you're a Christian. First of all, even if you're a good person, at least on the surface, a Christian is someone who's come to understand that he or she has darkness in the center of their being. That there's a self-centeredness, a self-righteousness, that even in all your good deeds, you're just trying to control people. You're trying to control your life. You're trying to control God, even. And a Christian comes to see, I've been part of darkness. And then when you turn and you see what Jesus has done for you and you grasp his forgiveness and his grace, it's like coming into the light and there's wonder. Ravi Zacharias, the preacher and teacher, loves to say, the older you get, the more it takes to fill your heart with wonder. So if you take a five-year-old to a zoo, and you say, look, a bear, they go, whoo. They're filled with wonder. If you take a 25-year-old to a zoo and say, look, a bear, they say, yeah, it's a zoo. Sure, okay? See, the older you get, the more it takes to fill your heart with wonder. This will fill any heart with wonder. At the very thought of it, this will fill the oldest, most world-weary heart there is. It will be filled with wonder. And that's the reason why the purpose of the church and the purpose of every person who calls him or herself a Christian is to declare the beauties, the praises, of the one who called us out of darkness into his marvelous light, which means what? Two things. What is this call? Let me, just two things about this call. This is what it's all about. This is what your life's about. This is what our church, Redeemer, is about. First of all, it's a duty to tell others, to tell other people that you're a Christian. Not everybody in the next five minutes. But it's a duty to tell other people you're a Christian and to tell people about Christ, about what he's done for you and what he means to you. And I knew in New York, right away, people go, oh, warning flags. Uh-oh, that sounds like evangelism. And so what people say is, now listen, proselytizing is wrong. You shouldn't proselytize. You should not tell people that they need to abandon their body and their beliefs about God and adopt yours. Okay. Now, if you say to me, you shouldn't abandon, you shouldn't proselytize. You shouldn't call people to abandon their beliefs in God and adopt your beliefs in God. You're assuming that this God doesn't exist. See, if this God exists, this kind of God exists, who says you must evangelize, you must tell people the good news, you must tell people the truth, if this God exists, then we have to do it. And if you say, oh, no, you shouldn't do it, then you're assuming that if there is a God, you may believe there's a God, but it's not this kind of God. Fine, it's a free country. I'm glad you believe that. You have the right to believe that. But when you tell me to stop evangelizing, when you tell me to stop proselytizing, you're proselytizing. When you say, you mustn't tell people to abandon their beliefs in God and adopt yours, you're telling me to abandon my beliefs in God, my belief in God, and adopt yours. I'm telling you to adopt your kind. When you say, don't proselytize to another worldview, you are proselytizing to another worldview. You say, oh, don't believe your take on spiritual reality is superior to anybody else's, but you believe your take on spiritual reality is superior to mine, otherwise you wouldn't tell me to adopt yours, which is, we don't have to do that. In a sense, everybody's evangelizing. Everybody's saying, this is the way we ought to go. Christians are just honest about it. And also, they should be different. Christians should not just be honest, but different. Here's how they should be honest, the different. We are not there to argue the existence of God. Is that the call? You have been called to argue with atheists about the existence of God. Prove to them that he really exists. No. You're not there to argue about the existence of God. You're not there to argue about this or that. What are you supposed to be doing? You're supposed to be giving testimony. You're supposed to be showing the beauty of God, the wonder of God, the excellencies of God, who saved you by grace, called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. And that's what this, listen, if you cannot share your faith out of a motivation of grace, you really should just shut up. Because you're not actually fulfilling the call. If you believe you're saved by your works, if you believe that God loves you because you are right and good, then anybody you talk to, you will give them very much the impression that you think they're wrong and bad and you're better than they are. You know, you might be saying X, Y, and Z, but the subtext is, I'm right, you're wrong, and I love telling people about it. And if that comes through, I mean, even sarcasm, even disdain, if that comes through, you should just keep your mouth shut because you're not answering the call. The call is to show people the wonder of God. If you are answering this call, then even though, of course, you've got to tamp it down a little bit, you know, you don't want to get too emotional on people, but they should sense your wonder, your love and joy in the one that you're talking about. They should sense your attraction to him. And that's not at all what most people call, by the way, proselytizing at all. And that's the call. It's your duty, but you must do it out of this motivation or you shouldn't even open your mouth. So there's the, the promise of the church, which is access to the glory of God in a way that you can't get anywhere else. And that's the purpose of the church, which is, which is what? It's declaring the glory, declaring the glory of God, showing the glory of God. Okay, now thirdly, what's the method? How are we supposed to do this? And now let's look at two of these four descriptors. A royal priesthood, a holy nation. And this is how you, we, are supposed to be declaring the glory. The glory of God. Right away you say, declaring the glory of God, meaning writing books. Nope. That's not the key. Here's what the key. First of all, what does it mean to be a royal priesthood declaring the glory of God? In the Old Testament, there were three kinds of, you might say officials, that God appointed. Prophets, priests, and kings. The prophets told people the word of God. The priests offered sacrifice, and worship. And the kings ordered the lives of the people. And because there were only some prophets, some priests, and some kings,

all of Old Testament religion was, you might say, inward. Everything, you came in to see God. You came in, which means, for example, the only place you could do worship, the only place the sacrifices could be offered, the only place the priests were able to do their work was in the city of the great kingdom. You had to go to Jerusalem. You had to go to the temple or the tabernacle. That's where you had to go. So it was all, come in and listen to the prophets. See the priests, you know, bow to the king. But Jesus Christ is a prophet, a priest, and a king. He teaches the word of God, prophet. He sacrifices his life and lays down his life to serve us, priest. And he orders our life. He shows us how to live, king. And, and when you believe in him, according to this text, and we actually talked about this in late August, by the way, if you were here, when you become a member of the body of Christ, you become, you become a prophet and a priest and a king. Why does it say that? Quite a few places, but right here. You're a priesthood, you're a royal priesthood, that's kingly, and you're a royal priesthood that declares, that's the prophet. What? Yes. Every single Christian's a prophet. Meaning, the Bible, in many ways, says, you need to know the word of God well enough that you can tell it to other people. You can bring it to bear on their hearts so you can see the transformation. You can talk to people who don't believe. You can talk to people who do believe that need encouragement. You counsel each other. You teach each other. You encourage each other. You evangelize each other with the word. Every Christian's supposed to be like that. In Acts chapter eight, the very first great persecution when all the Christians are in Jerusalem, and they scattered, it said, every Christian, went around preaching the word. Every Christian went around doing that. Every Christian's a prophet. Every Christian's a priest. We're supposed to be sacrificed, sacrificially laying down our lives for one another. And every Christian's a king. What? Yes, because remember that text I mentioned, exhort one another daily, lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin, Hebrews three. We have the right, in fact, we have the responsibility to holy God, to hold each other accountable, to not just, you know, New Yorkers, hey, my life is my own. Nobody tells me what to do. Not if you are a member of a community in which the glory of God works because the members of that community who believe in Jesus are prophets, priests, and kings. They teach the word to each other. They lay down their lives for each other, and they hold each other accountable. They order one another's lives. And that's the reason why in the Old Testament, the whole trajectory, the whole trajectory of the people of God is inward. Come in and see the worship, and in the New Testament, it's go out. Go out. Every person's a prophet, a priest, and a king. You've got friends, you've got neighbors, you've got colleagues. Are you prophets, priests, and kings to them? You say, oh, no, no, I'd rather, you know, listen to what the professionals have to say. Or maybe I'd rather bring someone to hear you. I'm flattered. But that's not making you a prophet, a priest, or a king. And then the city, and then your community does not have all it's supposed to have. So the first way in which we declare the glories is by everyone being a prophet, a priest, and a king. Everyone being a minister, going out and sharing. But then secondly, the second way we do this is a holy nation. The second way we declare the glory of God is we are a holy nation. The word holy, originally, has meant different, separate. And the word nation means just what you think it means. It's a society, a completely different, unique society. It's interesting that the Greek word used here is ethne. You are a new, distinct ethnic. And you say, wait a minute, I thought Christians were from all the different ethnic groups. Yes, but the gospel comes into your life and so changes the way in which you look at everything that the new community that Christians create is actually different than any other particular culture. You have one foot in your old culture, if you're Chinese, if you're European, if you're African, whatever. You have one foot in the other culture, but you have another foot in this one. And this is saying that one of the ways in which people see the praise, see the excellencies of God, is this new community. Let me read you one review by a Christian of the movie Witness. If you've never seen the movie Witness, you can probably check out, check it out for the next 60 seconds. But if you do remember, especially the ending of the movie with Harrison Ford, remember? He's a policeman and he has to run for his life and he goes to live with the Amish for a while. And here's what a Christian reviewer says is the message of that movie. He says, in Witness, a hardened Philadelphia police officer protecting a young witness to a murder must hide out in an Amish community. His tendency to violence meets a counterpoint in the faith of God. He says, in Witness, the Amish bear witness to teach him new ways and the community ultimately saves him from the violence that encompasses him because in the end, and do you remember the ending? It is the community that has gathered and who are unarmed witnesses that makes it impossible for the violence to continue. Remember? And in the end, the movie is about people who are living out their faith in the midst of a culture that goes counter to everything else they believe and yet the witness of that community transforms lives. People will see the glory of God and be attracted to the message of the gospel most when they see a community that they cannot really account for. A level of love, a level of integrity, a level of mutual service that they cannot account for. Do we have that? Are we that? That's the method. Those are the methods by which we declare the glory of God. Now, finally, where do we get the power to do this? Because I know some of you are saying, I can't, gee, I see what you're saying about the involvement I should have, that's the promise. The witness I should be, that's the purpose. The ministry I should have, that's the method. I don't know that I can do that. You know what the power is? You need a power for that. You know where that power comes from? A new identity. Look at these last two of the four disciples. The beginning and the end of the four. You are a chosen people and a people belonging to God. Two planks of a new identity. First plank, you're a chosen people. Now, I remember this from 30 years ago. I've never forgetted Clowney preaching on this. He says, what do you think of that term? Class, what do you think of that term? You are a chosen people. What does that sound like? You say, oh, boy, it sounds pretty exclusive. No, no. He says, you misunderstand. It doesn't say you are a choice people. That's what you think it means. That's not what it says. You are a chosen people. If you were a choice people, then there'd be something good about you. That's why God is working with you. It doesn't say that. It says the only reason you have any relation with God is simply because he chose you. Hmm? Before I knew I needed him, Jesus came and died for me. He came to me. Before I ever sought him, Jesus Christ sought me. Every person who's ever found Christ, looking back on their lives, realizes that even before I started seeking him, he was actually after me. You know? It is not that I did choose thee, for Lord, that could not be. This heart would still refuse thee, hast thou not chosen me? My heart unseems none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first. It's a source of wonder. And a source of humility. That the only reason I have a relationship with God is because he chose me. He chose us. That's this first plank. The first plank in the new identity is the humility. The second plank

is you are a people belonging to God. And that's not a great translation, I'm afraid of it, and nobody quite knows what to do. It's a word that means prized possession. Now your prized possession is worth everything, more than anything else you have. Imagine you have a normal kind of income, and you don't have much in the savings, you don't have much in the way of assets, and then you inherit a necklace that, from your aunt, that is worth ten million dollars, and now that's your prized possession. It's worth more than everything else put together. That's what God essentially is saying about us. In fact, he says it in Exodus 19, he says, though I have the whole world, though the whole world, the world is mine, you are my treasured possession. You are my prized possession. The galaxies, and the oceans, and the forests, and the oceans, and the mountains, and he says, they're nothing compared to you. And that's the second plank. Jonathan Edwards says, you'll never, ever, serve anybody else, except for yourself, until you understand this. Until you know you're that treasured, until you know you're that loved, until you know you're that valuable, and delighted in, by God, everything you do is gonna be basically a way for you to try to assure yourself that you're okay. All your ministry, helping the poor, you know, being a good father, mother, or kid, you know, child, or, everything you do is basically, now I know I'm a good person. Which means you're using those people. Jonathan Edwards is absolutely right when he says, you are not really doing anything for anybody until you know how utterly and absolutely treasured you are. You're exploiting people. You're using them. You're using people. Your heart's not transformed by the gospel enough. Until you've got that unique identity, you can't be the people of God. Your heart's not filled with wonder. You say, I still don't know where I'm gonna get it. Okay, this is the last thing I can give you, but it's the greatest thing. Peter explains where you can get it. It's verse 10, which is actually a quote from Hosea chapter two, verse 23. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you would not receive mercy, but now you would receive mercy. Where does that come from? Here's where it comes from. In the book of Hosea, God comes to Hosea, the prophet, and says, marry that woman. Her name was Gomer. She will be unfaithful to you, but marry her. And he does in obedience. And she is unfaithful to him. And she has a series of children, and they're not his. And one of the children, God says, name that child Lo-Ami, not my people, because my people have turned away from me. See, God was having Hosea tell the world that he's like Hosea, that he loves us the way a husband loves a wife, but we have turned from him, and we've fled him, and we try to live our own lives, and we want to do what we want to do, and his heart is broken, as the heart of a husband would be broken by an unfaithful wife. And so he actually says, these are not my people anymore. Look what they've done. You are not my people. I am not your God. But the story's not over. Because Gomer leaves Hosea and goes to live with a guy and goes to live with another guy, and eventually she gets more and more degraded as time goes on, and the men she goes with are abusing her, and finally one sells her into slavery. And she's on the auction block to be sold. And God comes to Hosea and amazingly says, go love her again. And Hosea says in response, and so I went and bought her, paid a lot of money for her, took her home to be my wife. Now you say, how does the story end? And actually we're not told how that story ends, because we're supposed to be looking not to that penultimate, but to the ultimate story to which it points. Because God then says to Hosea, just as you have done this, and this is what he says in Hosea 2, verse 23, someday I will show my love to the one I called not my loved ones. Someday I will say to those who I called not my people, and I will say to them, you are my people, and they will say you are my God. And that's the verse that Peter quotes here. This is Peter's way, this is Peter's way of saying that in Jesus Christ, the thing God predicted he would do has been done. What is God predicting? God is saying, I too will pay the price necessary to get back the people that I love. And in Jesus Christ, the true bridegroom, our true husband, God came into this world and entered the marketplace of the world and bought us, not with money, but with his own blood. Not at the cost of money, not at the cost of emotional pain, which is what Hosea did, but at the cost of infinite suffering on the cross. And that's your wonder. There's your wonder, there's your identity. How can I be sure I'm his treasured possession? Because of the investment. Look what he put, he didn't do this for the oceans, he didn't do this for the mountains, he didn't do this for the stars, he did this for us. And when you see that, that will fill you with wonder, and you'll know who you are. And that is the problem we have. Why are we not the church we ought to be? We're not the church we ought to be. Why won't I, why won't you, tell other people about Jesus more? Because we take too much of our identity from what people think about us. Why don't we give more of our time to being discipled and to be trained so we can be prophets, priests, and kings? Because we get our identity too much from our success and how much money we make and our careers. Because our identity is not deeply rooted in this, this joy, this humility, this wonder. We're not the church we ought to be. But, you know, Redeemer over the next few years is going to very slowly go through slow but significant changes. And one of the reasons why we are breaking Redeemer into four medium-sized churches is so that the pastors can get way closer to the people than I've been able to be to you over the years and mobilize you more to be prophets, priests, and kings. And so that you can be trained in a way that you haven't been probably ever since we started. And yet, unless you root your identity in this, unless you have enough wonder in what Jesus Christ has done for you, all this is going to be organizational shuffling of the furniture. Look at what Jesus Christ has done for you until it fills you with enough wonder to be the people of God. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you that you have come. have found a way to inhabit a group of people through the grace of Jesus Christ, your son. And now we want to be all the things that we're being told about here. We want to realize the church's promise. We want to fulfill the church's purpose. We want to embrace the methods that we should, and we need the power to do this. And that power comes from a new identity, and that new identity comes from a knowledge of what your son did. Teach us, O Lord, to use the gospel on our hearts until we get enough wonder that we can be your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
