I'd like you to look with me, as we move through this gospel, at Jesus' discourse on the bread of life. And I'd like to point out that it's a sandwich of sorts. There's two parts of the sandwich. Of course, the top and the bottom of the sandwich is always bread, and that's what he's talking about. And in the middle, he's talking about something else, grace. And we're going to look at that later.

Today, I'd like just to read from verses 25 to 35 of chapter 6, and then verses 48 to 59.

The top and the bottom of the sandwich. Jesus' discourse on the bread of life.

When they found him on the other side of the lake, they asked him, Rabbi, when did you get here? Jesus answered, I tell you the truth. You are looking for me, not because you saw miraculous signs, but because you ate the loaves and had your fill. Do not work for food that spoils, but for food that endures for eternal life, which the Son of Man will give you. On him, God the Father has placed his seal of approval. Then they asked him, what must we do to do the works that God requires? And Jesus answered, the work of God is this. To believe in the one who he has sent. So they asked him, what miraculous sign then will you give that we may see it and believe you? What will you do? Our forefathers ate the manna in the desert. As it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. And Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth. It's not Moses who has given you the bread from heaven. It's my Father who gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Sir, they said, from now on, give us this bread. And Jesus declared, I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. And he who believes in me will never be thirsty. Can you skip over to verse 48 if you're following?

And there he says, I am the bread of life. Your forefathers ate the manna in the desert, yet they died. But here is the bread that comes down from heaven, which a man may eat and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. This bread is my flesh, which I give for the life of the world. Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves, how can this man give us his flesh to eat? And Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth. Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats of the flesh of the Son of Man, whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood is eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me, and I in him. Just as the living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me. This is the bread that comes down from heaven. Your forefathers ate manna and died. But he who feeds on me will live because of me. He who feeds on this bread will live forever. He said this while teaching in the synagogue in Capernaum. Here ends the reading of God's holy word.

You know,

at dinners and places like that, I've probably told you that one of the great funny things that any of my kids ever say is, when we were moving up here from Philadelphia, almost two years ago, not quite, you get out a lot of things that you ordinarily don't see the light of day, and at one point one of my children saw my junior high yearbook and was looking through it and asked me what it was. I said, this is my junior high yearbook. And he says, oh, and he looked at everybody and he said, I guess most of these people are dead now. Laughter And, uh...

Now, I think, and some of you heard me tell that before, and it's funny, but you need to laugh at me because I want you to know that instead of laughing at a time like that, it was kind of a shadow

cast over me because the fact is that there are a lot of them that are dead already. And I know that I'm only, you know, some of you are saying, ha, I've only passed one of the great landmarks, which is 40. I don't know that some of you think 30 is a big landmark, but it's not. Laughter

And at a certain point you feel like your life is slipping away. You start to lose the adolescent illusion that you're immortal. How long can you keep the water in your hands? You know, when you put water in your hands to cup it and drink it, you have to drink it fast. Why? How long can you keep water in your hands? Not very long at all. The tightest hands can't keep it in there very long. And the older you get, the more you realize that is your life. It's just seeping out through your hands. You can't keep it in there very long. And anybody, anybody who's outgrown that kind of adolescent understanding of your immortality, anybody who's outgrown that takes claims of eternal life very seriously. And Jesus Christ here, says, I have the eternal life.

He's telling us this time, as he often does, he has eternal life. But this time he's using a particular image. And every time he uses a different image, he tells us something different about the eternal life that he brings. In this case, he talks about the eternal life as being bread. And therefore, he is talking about what it means to be a Christian in terms of digestion. And that means we're going to learn something new about this life as we consider him and this life that he brings us as bread. What Jesus is saying is that I have a life that is brought in. I have a life that is meant to be brought in and made part of you. Digestion. It's basically a biological process, but actually we've got mechanical versions of it. How does a car digest gas? If it lays in the gas tank, nothing happens. But if the gas comes in and circulates, and if it explodes inside the system of the car, then its energy is released and the car is powered. And that is exactly what happens, actually, when you eat a piece of bread. In the same way, the food that you're eating, the energy of it is released. It circulates. It explodes. It influences and powers you. And Jesus says this, and this alone, is a valid picture of a Christian life. And I want to ask you, I don't care what you think Christianity is, and in a way I don't care what you think a definition of a Christian is, I would like you to put that behind you and just try on this one. Is there anything about you that could be described as the heavenly life, the supernatural heavenly life that Jesus is talking about, coming into your life and surging through you, and swirling through you, and circulating through you, and exploding with its power, and breaking through old habits and old ways? Is that kind of thing happening? Is energy like that being released and exploding throughout your system? Is there anything about you that can be described in those terms? And Jesus says this is what Christianity is. Christianity is this. I am the bread of heaven. I give you the bread of heaven. Now let's just ask ourselves, what is this? What is this bread of heaven? Let's, in a sense,

digest the image. Let's digest the information. Let's digest this metaphor and so we can get the sweetness out of it. And I'm just going to ask these three questions, and I'd like to answer these three questions, and you have them there in your bulletin actually today. The three questions are this. What is this bread of heaven Jesus talks about? Where does this bread of heaven come from? And how do we get it? Isn't that simple? Let's just ask the text three questions. What is it? Where is it? How is it? What is it? Where does it come from? And how do we get it? Very simple. And if your own Christianity can't hold up to the definition of it that Jesus is giving you today, and basically every single week, that's what he's doing, he's giving you a new definition. So you see Christianity as this beautiful diamond with so many facets, and in through any one of the facets, you can look and see the whole diamond, and only when you've looked through all of them, or many of them at least, you can get some idea of the richness of it. Jesus today is giving us another definition. Look at yourself in light of it. And he says, I am the bread of life. I give the bread of life. All right. What is it? Where is it? How is it? One, what is it?

Again, we come up against this idea that there's two, not this idea, we come up against this fact that there's two Greek words for life. Jesus says, I am the bread of life, and he's talking here about a quality of life. Because all the way through, he is using a particular Greek word. There's two Greek words for life. We only have one English word that we have to use two ways. The two Greek words are bios and zoe. And somewhere else I know we've had to bring this out because this is really a very critical theme in the book of John. Bios is the word for biological, physical life, but zoe is the word for life. It's for quality of life. It wasn't that long ago that one of my other sons went flying with me because we had one of these things where I had to go on a business trip and I could take along somebody free. So I took one of my sons with me, and boy, he loved it because he liked the fact that the stewardesses would bring him soft drinks. And so at one point he asked for a soft drink. She brought him a soft drink. He kicked back. He put his chair back. He kicked his legs up. He looked down on the clouds, and he sipped his soft drink, and he turned around at me, and he said, this is, he's seven years old at the time, he says, Dad, this is living. And what he's doing, you see, is he's, now you ask a kid, even a seven-year-old, you say, what, you mean you were dead a minute ago? I mean, what was wrong with you? Your heart wasn't beating? What he's doing is he's taking the word in English and using it in two different ways. The Greeks didn't have to do that. What he said is, of course my heart was beating. Of course, you know, my lungs were pumping. Of course I had physical life, but I was, that's existence. I'm not talking about existence, Dad. I'm talking about life. I'm really living now. And what he's talking about is quality of life. Hmm? Meaning.

Exhilaration. Energy. Joy.

Now, even though bread is traditionally linked to physical life and bio, here Jesus is talking about another kind of bread that brings zoe. There's a big difference between existing and living. Nowhere, when the Bible talks about eternal life, does it simply mean life that goes on forever. That would be eternal existence, and that is the definition of hell. You don't want to know what hell is? Hell is eternal existence. And every so often, some science fiction novel comes up with some world or some place or some scientist that has discovered the secret of eternal existence, and now this person has gone on and lived for 5,000 years, and he's miserable or she's miserable. And there's lots of variations on the theme. Existence is not what we're after. Eternal existence is hell. In fact, that's what hell is. There's only two places to live, the Bible says, a place of eternal existence and a place of eternal life. Life, though, we're talking about, is that which makes life worth living. Meaning and energy and exhilaration and joy. That which gives you a meaning in life. And that's what we're talking about here. And Jesus says, the bread of heaven is that. The bread of heaven is not eternal existence, it's eternal life. It endures, we see in verse 27, to eternal life. And that is what the bread of heaven is. It's a quality of life. It's radical life. It's ultimate life. It's Zoe. Now, Jesus also points out here that every individual has several options, has many options in front of him or her to find this Zoe, to find this radical life. We all have to have it. We've all got to have it. Existence isn't enough. And he says, do not labor for food that spoils, but labor for the food that endures to eternal life. What he's saying here is that every one of us have got to find our Zoe. We've got to find our radical life somewhere. We've got to, we've got to, we have to in our own mind, like my son, decide that's living. And we make a beeline for it. And we spend all of our life, we have a vision of what would be living. What would be living? You know, for a seven year old, it's somebody bringing him all the soft drinks he wants. And you can laugh at that. But you don't think God is laughing at what you think living is? Now, you see, when you, when you have in your mind, in some deep recesses of your mind, decided what would, what it would really be like to be living, Jesus says, unless that's the bread that I can give you, unless it's the gospel, unless it's the spirit of God, unless it's the faith, unless it's me, he says, it will spoil. Now, the Bible is constantly talking about these false Zoes, these false lives. For example, I'll give you a great example, one that we still have around. Paul says in Ephesians 5, 18, he says, do not be drunk with wine wherein is exhaustion, but be filled with the spirit. Now, what is he saying? He is saying that here's one false Zoe, here's one false life, one false way of finding radical life, alcohol. See, alcohol can be a foodstuff or it can become a way to find what? This radical life. When you drink, because it's a food, that's one thing. But when you drink, for example, number one, to get bold, to get up your courage. When you drink in order to have joy, to loosen up. When you drink in order to be warm, to open up, to lose your self-consciousness, to be able to talk to people, what you're doing at that point, of course, we all know what that is today, we know that's called a drinking problem. When you drink for boldness, when you drink for joy, when you drink for warmth, when you drink to get rid of your self-consciousness, when you drink to somehow deal with the meaninglessness of your life, we call that a drinking problem. But you see what Paul is saying is that what you're actually doing is you're trying to go to alcohol to get what only Jesus can give you. Boldness, joy, warmth. You're trying to get out of the bottle what only Jesus can give you. Now, having picked on people with drinking problems, don't you see the purpose of this? The Bible says, what Jesus says, is that drink is only one way you can do that. If you go to anything for boldness and poise, if you go to anything for courage, if you go to anything for warmth, if you rely on anything, it will exhaust you. Paul says, do not be drunk with wine, which is exhaustion, but be filled with the Spirit. Jesus says, do not labor for the food that spoils, but for the food that endures to eternal life. Those of you who've been through drinking problems, and lots of you freely have admitted it to each other and to me, lots of you, you know that Paul is right. Don't be drunk with wine, which is exhaustion. Whatever your drug is, it will exhaust you. If your drug is money, if your zoe is money, if your drug is your looks, what is your bread? What is your zoe? What is your meat and drink? Is it the need and dependency of somebody else upon you? Whatever it is, whatever you said, that's living, if I can just have that. Paul is saying, Jesus is saying, eventually it will exhaust you. You will need more and more to get your high, and eventually you will be exhausted. It will all turn to dust. What is your meat and drink? What is your zoe? What is your radical life? What is living to you? Unless it's the bread that Jesus can give you, it will exhaust you. It will spoil. It will turn to dust. You know, another example,

another feature of this example that Paul gives us, between a false zoe and the true. Alcohol is a depressant. If you go to any pharmacology book, you'll know that it's a depressant. How does it give you joy? How does it give you boldness? How does it give you vulnerability? It gives it to you by depressing your mind's ability to see reality. It dulls your understanding of reality. And I tell you this, every false zoe does that. Every food that you labor for other than the bread of heaven, that you think will give you boldness, that you think will give you joy, that you think will give you warmth, it gives it to you by helping you escape reality. But the Spirit of God, Paul says, is a stimulant. Don't be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. It's a stimulant. Here's how the Gospel gives you boldness. Here's how the Gospel, the bread of heaven, here's how Jesus gives you life. He heightens, He stimulates your ability to see reality. The Gospel doesn't say, here's something that you can escape into. Here's your work. Here's your lover. Here's your bottle. Escape reality. That's how you get your boldness, but eventually it will exhaust you. What does Jesus say? No, here's reality. The Gospel comes and says, think, worship, screw this down in to your heart till it catches fire there. The truth. What is the truth? Are you a Christian? Then a Christian is someone who's always hearing the preacher or hearing the Bible or hearing friends whisper this to you. Hey, here's the facts. This great God who's a creator and is in charge of all this, He's become a person. And He's come to earth and He's died for you. And He's taken away the judgments against you, all the liens against your soul. Your failures, your sins, they've all been paid for. And now, if you just ask His forgiveness, if you transfer your trust from your false Zoes to Him, if you make Him your master, He will come to you and He will enfold you with His light and power. Your conscience will be cleared forever. Forever? Your conscience will be cleared forever. He will adopt you into His family. So now, instead of looking at life as just being a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing, instead we now know my life is in the arrangements of a loving Heavenly Father. I now have a new self-image. I now have a new community of other people who have also been adopted. I now have a new power that's been put into my life, a new nature that's going to unfold, and it's going to turn me into a person of beauty and of greatness and of character that's gorgeous. I now have a sure hope and an absolute anchor in the midst of suffering. I now know that I'm going to be received in His bosom when life is over. What is this? What am I talking about? Reality. The truth. If you want to find life through the bottle, if you want to find life through love, if you want to find life through a lover, if you want to find life through your work, what you're actually doing is you're losing yourself. You say, I don't want to see what life is really like, so maybe this will make me feel better. Instead, you know how Christians feel better? You know how Christians feel better? By having to constantly tell themselves the truth. Wake themselves up. So when you're all alone, when you're so unhappy, you have to say, let me tell myself the truth. Isn't that a whole lot better? Don't you see? Labor not, Jesus says, for food that spoils. But labor for the food that endures to eternal life. It's a quality of life and it can be found only in Jesus. He alone can give you the bread of heaven. Jesus Christ does not say, everybody has to go out there and find your own bread. You have to find your own Zoe. You have to find your fulfillment in the way that you need to find it. Jesus does not say, whatever two consenting adults do is fine with me. He says, labor not for the food that spoils. But for the food that endures to eternal life. That's what it is. It's a quality of life. It's radical life. It's ultimate life. It's only found in the bread that he can give. Secondly, where is this bread found? We've seen it's a quality of life. We see it's the radical life that every one of you, in order to have any meaning in life, you have to decide where it comes from. And we're all operating on some way of thinking about this radical life. But now, where does it come from? Jesus says, in a very radical statement, he says, the bread of heaven, the bread that came down from heaven, look down here at verse 35.

He says, I am the bread of heaven. I am the bread of life. He who comes to me will never go hungry. But to me, the most startling place where he says this is where he says, the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven. Would you remind me something? The reason I'm struggling here is I keep forgetting. Which side of the brain is supposed to be analysis and which side of the brain is supposed to be intuition? Remind me. Which side is analysis? Is that the left? And the right is the intuitive? Yeah. Listen, Christianity is neither a Western nor an Eastern religion. Please don't get the impression that it's a Western religion just because it did such a great number on Europe for so many years. It didn't come from the West. It didn't come from the East. You see, the Greeks would say, here's how you find life. Life, truth, beauty is in this realm of ideals. That's how Plato taught it. And the way in which you really find life is through escaping the world through contemplation. And that's the reason the Greeks, the Western people, were left-brained in their religions. They said, what you want is intellect. What you want is to be a contemplative. What you want is to be a philosopher. They're the ones who can find life. Because, you see, life is in this eternal realm of ideas. Eastern religions have always been right-brained. They've always said, no, life is a kind of force. Life is not this high realm of ideas. Life is a kind of force. And you tap into it through mystical experience. And therefore, Eastern religions have always been very right-brained. And they always say, you need to be a mystic. You need to get into God consciousness. And Western religions have always been intellectual. And philosophical.

Christianity is neither. You know why? You know, what I always hated about Western religions, what I always hated about Eastern religions, is they leave out children. Jesus is always saying, let the little children come to me. And Jesus is also always saying that you have to be like a little child in order to be saved. A child cannot be a philosopher. And a child cannot be a mystic. But a child can meet a person. A child can welcome a friend. And can submit to a king. Jesus Christ says that the life of heaven is not an eternal ideal. And it's not a mystical force. It's a person. The bread of heaven is He. Now, I want you to know how important a test this is. Jesus Christ is saying that Christianity is the most personal religion. Yes, primarily, it's a personal religion. Of course, Christianity is full of help for intellectuals. And intellectual people love Christianity. And it's also full of mystical experience. Mystical people love Christianity. But it's not primarily an intellectual religion. Or primarily a mystical religion. Because the bread of heaven isn't primarily an ideal. And it's not primarily a force. It's a person. And you can know a person. You can welcome a person. You can befriend a person. You can talk and listen to a person. And Jesus says, unless your religion is a personal religion, you cannot be a Christian. It is radically personal. You haven't understood Christianity. You know, so many times when I've tried to talk with people from other religions, I've given them the benefit of the doubt. I've said, you also believe, right, that you can be a friend of God. That you can be intimate with God. That God can be your personal friend. And you can have a personal relationship. And again and again, I've been told by people from other religions, No, you can't talk that way about God. Not the God we know. I've been told that by Muslims. I've been told that by Buddhists. Our God is too high. Too high. Too remote. Too distant. Too great for that. Christians have got a God who cried. Who laughed. Who got angry. Who suffered. Who screamed in terror at one point. We have got the most intensely personal religions because the bread of heaven, it's a quality of life. But it's no abstraction. It's nothing mystical. It's nothing intellectual. It's personal. Now, for a moment, I would like you just to test yourselves. Test yourselves. Is your religion personal? Oh, somebody says, of course. I believe certain truths. And I believe in living my life in a certain way. And I often come to church and I say my prayers. But friends, saying your prayers is very different than praying.

There's a lot of marriages that fell apart because they stopped being personal relationships and they'd become business relationships. And many marriages that die go through that stage. They start out as personal and then they become a business relationship. By that, I mean that people still are working together and they talk when they have to and there are certain duties and responsibilities that they carry out. But you start to say, for example, do they feel that they understand each other? Is there that deep interchange of information? And where is the exchange of affection and commitment? Do they spend time just to spend time? Just to spend time? Just to look into each other's eyes? Are they there for each other when there's a problem? Do they know how to support each other? Do they know how to bear each other's burdens? Do they give one another priority? Are they willing to rearrange their lives for the other person? Are they in a position that they're willing to help the person change and to change themselves for that person? That's a personal relationship. There's an interchange of affection. There's an interchange of information. There's an understanding and so forth. And you see, if the relationship has gone to being a business relationship, it's on its way into decay. All right, let's just move for a moment. What about your relationship with God? Every Christian I know, every real Christian I know, admits that before they were converted, either they had no relationship with God at all or they had a business relationship.

If you can't remember a time in your life in which you had no relationship with God or you had a business relationship, you're not a Christian. Because a real Christian is someone who's moved out of where you were into having a personal relationship. It doesn't matter if you're raised in religion. It doesn't matter if you're raised in a Christian home. There's a place at which your relationship stops being a business one and it becomes personal. It stops being just a matter of you suing God for breach of contract every so often. You making demands and saying, Look, I'm doing my part of the bargain. Why aren't you doing your part? A lot of you, that's your relationship. But do you have a personal relationship with God? For example, do you find that He's constantly teaching you new things? Are new truths dawning on your heart? Can you tell me something new He's been teaching you this month? See, that's a personal relationship. Do you sense His love shed abroad in your heart? Do you get together with Him just to get together with Him? Do you find that He reaffirms His love for you constantly and you reaffirm your love to Him? In hard times, does He give you peace? Can you feel Him supporting you? Does He communicate with you? Are you willing to read the Bible? Do you rearrange your life to show Him that He has the priority? Because after all, look how He rearranges His life to show you what you meant to Him. Do you have a personal relationship? Or is He a mystical experience? Is the bread of life to you a mystical experience? Is it a set of rules? Or is He a He? The bread of heaven is He who came down from heaven. Test yourself. Do you have a personal relationship or not? That's a very telling test. You've got to know. By the way, Jesus doesn't just say that He is a person. The bread of heaven is not just a person. The bread of heaven is a broken person. It says here, My bread is my flesh which I give for the life of the world. There's a lot of people that think that Jesus Christ was a moral teacher and a moral example. And if that's all He is, I want you to know He's a failure. I'll speak very personally. When I see Jesus Christ living flawlessly and beautifully, does that encourage me? It doesn't encourage me. I can never live like that. The more I get to know who Jesus Christ is, if He only is a teacher, if He only is an example, then the more I get to know Jesus, the more He is condemning me. His standard condemns me. He is a discouragement to me. He's of no help to me. Take a look at a piece of bread. If it's not broken, it's of no help to you. You might smell it. You might even lick it. But as long as it's intact, it can't really nourish you. If Jesus Christ was only a teacher, if He was only a great example, then He is of no benefit to me. But when He says, My flesh has been given for, My bread is the flesh that I gave for the life of the world, that shows that He was broken. He stood in my place.

For the world means in the place of. Jesus Christ comes to you and says, You tried to hijack your life, even though it belonged to your Creator. But don't worry. I came and took your punishment. I was broken where you should have been broken. My chastisement is your peace. With my stripes you were healed. I was annihilated like the bread has to be annihilated. I was decimated like the bread has to be decimated so you could be made whole. Don't you see, if you come to Him today and say, Lord, I'm hurting, make me feel better. That's no good. If you say, Lord, I'm sad, make me happy. That's no good. But if you say, Lord, I see that I'm a rebel and I should have been broken, but you were broken in my place. And I trust in you. And I give myself to you. Then and only then, can He become the bread of heaven for you. Don't you see that? Only then can He become your Zoe. Only then can He become your meaning and your joy. If you simply come to Him and say, Lord, you're great, help me. You're not seeing that He's the bread broken for you. Jesus Christ is the bread of heaven. He's a person, but He's a broken person. Unless He's broken, He's of no help to you. Lastly, Jesus Christ gives us this quality of life. And secondly, Jesus Christ is the bread of heaven Himself. But thirdly, how do you receive it? The only thing I should tell you is that there is, in the first part of the discourse on the bread of heaven that I showed you, it talks about how to receive it. You notice where it says, the disciples asked, what must we do to do the works that God requires? In verse 28. And Jesus turns around and says, the work of God is this, to believe in the one He has sent. That's a very clear statement. If you want

to, to receive the bread of heaven, you've got to see that you can't work to receive it. The one work that will earn the bread of heaven is to see that you can't do any work that will earn the bread of heaven. That is what He is saying. You have to receive it. You have to believe in it. The one work that will earn the bread of heaven is to see that no work will earn the bread of heaven. That is how you receive it. But then if you go to the latter part of this discourse In verses 53 to 59, you'll see Jesus continually, continually doing, using present tense verbs that have to do with feeding. It's very clear that to be a Christian means to be continually in a process of feeding on Christ. How do you do that? You feed on him through prayer because he talks about abiding with him. Later on, we'll see that Jesus talks about his words are something that you're supposed to feed on. There's another place where Jesus says, my meat and drink is to do the will of the Father. So if you put those three things together, you'll see how you continually can feed on Jesus. One through prayer, one through the word, to feed on the word, and thirdly through obedience. And if you do that, you will find that there's a vitality about your life. You'll find that your relationship is actually a vitality. It's actually personal, not impersonal. It's one thing to pray, to say your prayers. It's another thing to pray. Friends, at the end of life, I don't want anybody in this room to be one of those people who stands there on judgment day and says, I shrunk my own life because I refused to worship something greater than myself and my own needs and my own agendas. Can you see what it means to make him your bread? Something is your meat and drink. Something is what you are making a beeline for because you think that's living. Is it him? Is it a personal relationship with him? If it isn't, it will spoil. It will not endure, and neither will you. Come and eat the bread and labor for the bread and take the bread that endures to eternal life. I'm going to pray that we're going to have the offering. But take a look. There's three questions in the bulletin. And as you listen to the musical offering, and as the offering baskets come around, what I would like you to do is I would like you to ask yourself, what have I learned today that I could praise God for? What have I learned today that I need to repent of? What have I learned today that I can aspire to and ask God to accomplish in my life? Don't just take the things that God has put his finger on today. And say, oh, I learned something. Work it in. Feed on it. Christianity is a process of digestion. And digestion means you take the truth and you make it part of yourself. Because part of your system. Say, Lord, take this truth that I learned today and I want it to explode in my system.

Do that. Let's pray. Our Father, now we ask that you would help us to feed on the truths that we've received. Help us to see our Christianity as an organic and vital process. And not just a mechanical thing. So we ask that you would help us to feed on the truths that we've received.