We're going to read today and study from verse 27 through 35, John chapter 12, 27 through 35. Now my heart is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? No. It was for this very reason I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it and will glorify it again. The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered. Others said an angel had spoken to him. Jesus said, this voice was for your benefit, not mine. Now is the time for judgment on this world. Now the prince of this world will be driven out. But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself. He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. The crowd spoke up. We have heard from the law that the Christ will remain forever. So how can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Then Jesus told them, you are going to have the light just a little while longer. Walk while you have the light before darkness overtakes you. The man who walks in the dark does not know where he is going. Put your trust in the light while you have it, so that you may become sons of the light. This is God's word.

Last week we looked at this passage, we started reading it in verse 20, and this passage is about the glory of God. It's about God's glory. And we see in verse 28, again we read it this week, where God says, I have glorified my name and I will glorify it, we said last week, we said the basic teaching of this passage is that God, everything God has done, everything he is doing, and everything he ever will do, is all for the purpose of showing us his glory, showing us that he is the source of all glory, showing us that to him alone belongs glory.

Now, if you listen to that, if you say, if you hear that, and you say, well, that's interesting theological jargon, but it doesn't have much relevance to daily life. I would like to respectfully submit to you that you're dead wrong. And I mean literally dead wrong. It's a wrong that leads to death. The Bible is full of this teaching. Sola Dei Gloria, to God alone be the glory. Today I'm laudamus. No God, no glory. If you have no God, there is no glory. That is, I'd like to show you just for a second here, a tremendously practical, a tremendously practical issue, a tremendously relevant issue. A lack of glory is a psychological problem and it's a societal problem. For example, let me demonstrate. Number one, for example, the word glory, biblically, and the word, the biblical word glory and the English word matter, both originally meant physical heaviness, right? Remember that's from last week? But it also means that which is important, that which is substantial, and that which is lastingly significant.

So if you put something of glory, if you put something of substance in a stream, it stays put. It doesn't go anywhere. It stands against the flow. If you put something, though, that's flimsy and strawy in the stream, it breaks up and is just brought away. Now, here's the question. Here is a very important question. any culture. What are the abiding values? What are the things that really matter? What are the abiding values that will stem the flow of time? The most important things in history and in civilization. What are the things that we're supposed to work for? What are the things that we're supposed to stand for and we're supposed to sacrifice for because they are more weighty even than our own personal comfort. What are those things? now you know through all of history most every society always believed that the only way to answer questions of what is ultimate what ultimately matters what really lasts what is ultimately significant every society always said only religion can tell you that only religion can tell you what ultimately matters what ultimately is glorious versus what is strawy or what is flimsy what is ultimately inconsequential and only religion can do that. But in the last few years, the common wisdom is a society doesn't need God to build a good society. We don't know if there is a God or not. It doesn't matter. We can all get together and we can decide, we can come to consensus about what the important things are, the weighty things are. Human dignity, honesty, the right of all people to live in peace. We all know that. Or do we? And what's happened is, when you build a society, and you say, look, if you want to be religious, fine, keep it to yourself, but basically we don't need God at the basis of a society. We don't need it. We begin to find, do we not, that it gets harder and harder and harder to really come to consensus about what is really important. How do you appeal to somebody and say, what's really weighty, what's really of lasting significance is human dignity, Therefore, you should sacrifice your own personal comfort for human dignity. How do you appeal to anybody? For hundreds of years, what you always did was you said, the reason you ought to live a life of honesty and unselfishness is because this world is just part of a bigger world of eternity. And how you live right now has consequences forever. There's glory out there, and how you live now has consequences forever. But we don't say that to people now. We say we don't need God in order to have a good society. So we appeal and we say, let's come to consensus on what's really weighty. But what is happening? Listen, the reason it gets harder and harder to convince people to be honest, to be unselfish, to live lives of integrity and compassion. In other words, the reason it gets harder and harder to show people that's more weighty and more important than their own personal comfort and their own affluence is because we have nothing to appeal to. Let's be logical. If there is no God, if there is no life outside of nature, then eventually everything's going to burn up in the life of the Sun and there won't even be anybody around to even remember that we ever existed. Or put it this way, if there is no God, all of history and all of civilization will be so short in comparison to the oceans of time before and the oceans of dead time afterwards that all of history and all of civilization will be inconsequential. Put it another way, as Friedrich Nietzsche put it, if there is no God, it doesn't matter whether you live a life of kindness or violence. It doesn't make a difference. Nothing matters. Everything is weightless, don't you see? There's no way to make a distinction between a life of substance, a life of weight, a life of lasting value, and a life of froth. There's no way to make that distinction because everything is going to burn up. Nothing will last. there is no God, there is no glory. If there is no God, all of society is weightless. It is silly to say to somebody, don't sell drugs. You're going to hurt somebody's life. What do you appeal to? You see, ultimately, when the Bible says, sola dea gloria, all glory comes from God, all significance comes from God, all lasting value comes from God. No God, no glory. No God, God, and everything is weightless. You don't think that's practical. You don't think that's relevant. You think that's an abstract theological verity.

My dear friends, we're having a cultural crisis because there is no way for us to decide. Apart from religion, what really is of value? What is of lasting significance? We can't come to consensus on that because if there is no God, we are awash in a sea of relativism and everything is weightless. And Nietzsche was right. He was crazy, but he was right. I'm not being pessimistic to say if there is no God, then nothing matters. That is an inescapable fact. No God, no glory. And it's also a psychological crisis. When the Bible says we yearn for glory, and we touched on this last week too, when the Bible says we yearn for glory, what it's saying is that we want to matter. We want to know that what we've done counts. and that underneath all of us we have got a deep, deep anxiety. And as you get older, it gets worse. So I just want some of you to realize what you've got ahead of you. And you begin to say, what I have done, is it of any consequence? Is it of any value? What's the point of my life? See, those are glory questions. Will anybody remember me? Do I matter to anyone? What have I really accomplished? Established. Those are glory questions, because ultimately when the Bible says every human being needs glory, it means we're all desperately afraid of inconsequentiality. We're desperately afraid that we don't matter to anyone or to anything. Glory, therefore, the Bible says, is the answer to the psychological issues of the age and the cultural issues of the age. To God alone is the glory, unless you go to God, your society is weightless, and you are too. Now, that's what we said last week. But afterwards, I got sort of deluged with a lot of questions. And they said, you know, that was wonderful. But I got a few practical questions. And there's three of them, and they form now the outline for today. One question is, you say that a person has to experience God's glory. I don't know if I ever have. What does it feel like? How do I know if I've done it, you see? What does it feel like? That's a pretty practical question. Okay, well, that's a fair question. Secondly, people say, where do I get it? Do I just sit here and just say, God, show me your glory? Is that good enough? Or do I have to go someplace? And then thirdly, and when I go there, how do I receive it?

There are the three questions. What does it feel like? Where do I go to get it? And how do I receive it? In other words, what I'm trying to say is, we're going to spend one more week right now briefly answering these questions to show you that glory is an exceedingly practical matter. It's a daily experience. It's not an abstract concept, nor is it necessarily a kind of once-in-a-lifetime major supernatural event. Rather, it's the stuff of daily living. Now, let's answer those three questions, because you asked me after services last week, and the answers are in the text. They're not in my heart, they're in the text. And here's what they are. Number one, the first question is, what does it feel like? What does it feel like to experience God's glory? The fact is, when God says, I have glorified my name and I will glorify my name, he is saying something that's mentioned everywhere in the Bible, that his major purpose, the main reason he wants to talk to you is to show you his glory. That's what he's after. And therefore, we can safely say that the difference between a Christian and a nice, moral, religious person, the difference between a Christian and everybody else is a Christian has experienced the glory of God. For example, John chapter 17. What does Jesus say? He says, John chapter 17, an amazing thing. He says, Father, I have given my followers the glory you gave me. me. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 4 that God has shined into our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Paul says, talks about Christ in you, the hope of glory. Now, therefore, you see, there's many ways to define a Christian. You can define a Christian as somebody who's experienced the glory of God. If you haven't, you're not a Christian. If you do, it makes you a Christian.

Well, somebody says, and I think I touched on this last week, somebody came up to me afterwards and said, this is kind of frightening. How do I know if I have? What does it feel like? Does it mean to be a Christian that you have to have had a vision? Does it mean to be a Christian that you have to have had some kind of close encounters of the third kind thing, where you see this supernatural luminosity of you. What does it mean? Throughout history, there are people who have seen physically the glory of God, but that's not the essence of the experience. Of course it's not. What is the essence of the experience? Just this. Remember what glory is? Glorious is not luminosity, necessarily. Glory is weight, it's importance, it's significance, and when you have seen the glory of God, you have has seen that God is the most important thing in your life.

A Christian is somebody who has seen that God is the most important thing in his or her life. A religious person finds God important, but it's an addition. A religious person prays, but generally only when they're in trouble. A religious person keeps up a pretty good life. God is an addition. It's one more thing to add to my life, to enrich my life, and make me an all-round, full-blooded, fully-orbed person. The difference between a Christian and a religious person is this. The Christian says this. The Christian says, I must examine my entire life, and I have to reorganize my entire life to make sure that God is number one, the very first priority, the center of everything. everything. I've got to ask, does God, his will, his work, and my relationship to him drive the way in which I work every day? Does it affect the way in which I work? Is God the center of my job? Is he the center of my thinking, my thought life, my imagination? Is he the center of the way in which I use my possessions? Is he the center and the most important thing in my relationships, in my sexuality, in my intellectual life, the way I think about philosophy and politics and sociology? Is he the center of everything? I've got to put him smack in the middle. I've got to get him out of the suburbs of my life and put him downtown.

And a Christian every day is examining his or her life and saying, how can I honor Christ in this? Listen, dear friends, nobody acts like that unless you've seen the importance of God, dawned on you and has overwhelmed your soul. Anybody who acts less comprehensively than that has not seen the glory of God. And anybody who is acting that comprehensively has seen the glory of God. Maybe not with a physical eye, but there it is. There's no other way around it. Listen, my dear friends, I know you want this. I know you want this. One of the greatest, One of the greatest compliments I've ever heard, I heard a group of people talking about a woman who's a Christian. And they said, you know what's amazing about her is she's unflappable. She's never ruffled. She continues to love and be kind and tender to people in the most difficult circumstances. She toughs out even the toughest times. she's got a tremendous groundedness about her that and she's got an inner strength that everybody wants to touch everybody was sitting around saying how great she was and what a holy person and suddenly I heard somebody say yeah you know why because nothing matters to her except God nothing matters nothing is weighty compared to God and I said to the person who said this what do you means. She says, well, you see, if she gets awards, if she gets success, it doesn't matter to her. If she fails or if she's insulted, it doesn't matter to her either. They're all mosquito bites. That's the reason why there's a solidity. There's a substantiality. There's a radiance about her. Now, what is that? Talking about it, saying, here's a person who lives as if God's the most important. God's the only thing that matters. What God says is what matters, not what you say Where does she get that solidity? She has seen the glory of God. How about you? Have you seen the glory of God, or is he just an idea? Is he the great and glorious one? Is he the center of everything? When Paul says, whatever you do, whether you eat or drink, do it all for the glory of God. You see that? When you've seen the glory of God, it becomes that comprehensive a deal.

Is God the center of your life? Christian friends, let me just suggest this to you. Are you embarrassed? Because you know it's dawned on you. The importance of God, the glory of God is dawned on you. But have you followed through? And let me encourage those of you who are newer Christians and are still trying to figure out what happened. Two years ago, if I'd come up to you and said, you know what, you need to become a Christian, what would you have said? You would have said, what an insult. You would have been very insulted. You would have said, look, I believe in God. I believe in Christ. I've got my doubts. I'm not perfect. But I ask God to forgive my sins and I pray and I try my best to live a Christian life. Just because I'm not a fanatic like you doesn't mean that I'm not a Christian. That's what you would have said.

But what happened to you?

What happened to you when you heard the gospel and you saw the most important thing was to know his forgiveness? The most important thing was to know him personally. The most important... What happened to you was the glory of God dawned on you. My friends, happened to you or not? Is he the center? Are you everyday struggling to make him the center? Do you want that? Anyone who acts less comprehensively than that has not seen the glory of God. That's how it feels. That's what it's like. Now, the second question is, where do you get this? Do you just sit? Do I just sit? Do I go home afterwards and sit and say,

hmm, you know, God's glory isn't very real to me and he's not that important to me. What do I do it? Do I just sit? The answer is also in the text. You know where you go to find the glory of God? You go to the cross. When Jesus Christ says, I'm scared of my hour, that means the hour of his death, we read from the text. He says, but this is the reason I came to this hour. And then he says, Father, glorify your name. Here's what he's saying. He is saying that my hour glorifies the Father.

The scripture teaches everywhere that if you want to see the glory of God, you go to the cross. Well, you say, what about the Grand Canyon? Fine. That shows you the glory of God? I know. Psalm 19 says the heavens are telling of the glory of God. Of course the Grand Canyon shows the glory of God, but it's like the moon. It's a reflection of the glory of God. But when you go to the cross, you're looking in the full sun blaze of itself. The Bible says if you want to understand and experience the glory of God, let me be very simple about it. You have to see the glory of God on the cross. What's that mean? I'll be real simple. Let me just say it and then I'll elaborate. You have to believe that Jesus died for you. But not only that, you have to glory in it. And this is an act of the will, dear friends. To experience the glory of God is not something you can just turn on. But to actually glory in something is a discipline. It's something you can do. The glory in something is to see, important thing in your life. And a Christian is someone who doesn't just believe Jesus died for them, but you know that the most important thing about you is that he died for you. The most important thing about you. Nothing else is as important as that. Can I show you? If you believe that, if you glory in the cross, you will experience the glory of God. Well, somebody says, how does the cross show forth the glory of God more than the Grand Canyon? A lot of you, if you've been to the Grand Canyon, probably got more of a thrill than you did

so how in the world is it here in and only in the cross do you see glorified god's justice and his love at the same time and his wisdom and all of his qualities how they all come together in the cross you know in the early part of the 20th century one of the great uh challenges one of the great debates and unfortunately uh well it's still going on was whether or not god is a god of wrath and a lot of people, a lot of ministers taught, I don't believe in a God who's mad. You know, the way it used to go is, we're not that bad and God's not that mad. That was the way the controversy went. And when Jesus died on the cross, it wasn't because God had him slain for our sins, but Jesus was just showing us what it meant to live a life of self-sacrifice. Now, why in the world Jesus would put himself up to die when he didn't have to do it to save us

question, is he a masochist? You know, suicide's wrong. But the real issue is this. You cannot explain why he is so troubled unless you understand the old and biblical and traditional understanding of his death. You see, he says, now is my soul troubled. What would make so troubled his soul that he was ready to get out of it? He knew he had come down for the great quest of the ages. And he says, now is my soul troubled. What shall I say, Father? Save me from this hour? this hour I came. I want to know something. What is it that the most mighty being in the universe, Jesus Christ, the second person of the Trinity, the eternal Son of God, what is it that made the most mighty being in the universe scared? What could be so formidable and profound and terrible and agonizing that he was that scared of it? The only possible answer is the old answer, and that is, that he was beginning to feel the weight of our sins, and he was anticipating the wrath of God on his head.

Now is my soul troubled. What happened on the cross was that the Father took love away from Jesus. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? As a pastor, I know that there is no greater agony of heart than to have love ripped away from you. child die, or a spouse, his love or her love taken away by death or by divorce. There's nothing worse than that. Jesus Christ lived under the beams of the fullness of God's love. And as hard as it might be for us to go through the loss of a loved one, it's nothing like what Jesus Christ went through. We don't understand this exactly, but in the most ghastly and the most radically real way, when Jesus was on the cross, he came to the place where he was without any God, where he was without any love, and where he was without any hope.

Somehow, the wrath of God meant that Jesus Christ got what we deserved. Remember what we deserved? We deserved utter inconsequentiality. 1 Thessalonians 3 and 2 and 1 tell us that the ultimate punishment for sin is to be cast out, is to be separated, is to be utterly ignored by the one that we want to, the only person whose love can fulfill us. We all know what that's like. You know what it's like to have a group of people who you desperately want to be accepted by cast you out, make fun of you, treat you lightly. You know the alienation. You know the emotional coldness that you feel, but it's nothing like the cosmic alienation he went through. Somehow Jesus Christ was cast out. Somehow, imagine all of that agony I would experience if we were utterly cast out from the only one whose love could fulfilled God. Then take all of our hells, agony that you and I would experience if we were utterly cast out from the only one whose love fulfilled God. Then take all of our hells and put them on this man's back. And then take all of the eternity of all of those hells and condense them and pour them into his soul at that moment. Think of the acid of that. Right into his soul, the place where his hopes and his loves and his joys used to exist. But now when the acid of all that hell and all of that rejection and all that inconsequentiality pours into his heart, he feels like his hopes are unquenchably burning up. There's a novel in which there's one of the heroes of the novel, at one point is going through some very, very, very, very hard times. And at one place he says, I can feel no taste of food, no feel of water, no sound of wind, no memory of tree or flower or grass. I am alone in the dark, and there is no veil between me and the fire. And that's how he felt. Now when you see that on the cross, for the first time you say, was this really necessary? necessary? Was my sin that bad? Was my rebellion against God that bad? Have my flaws really, really required this kind of punishment? Unless you look at the cross and see what Jesus went through, it was not just the torture of the nails and the crown of thorns. It was the utter rejection, the utter being cast out, the utter forsakenness, the utter bereftness of glory and of weight, to realize that you're flimsy, you're chaff. Is it really true that's what my sin required? Unless you look at the cross, you'll never know how holy God is. You'll never know about his justice. My friends, think about it for a moment. Can you imagine a judge in New York City getting somebody in front of his bar who is guilty, really guilty of stabbing someone to death and saying, well, you're sorry. You mean well. You meant well. I'll let you go. New York would be in flames. Neighborhoods would go up in flames. Even for a human judge to just simply let one sin go unpunished, and how much less can God do it? And unless you take a look at that, on the cross you can't see the glory of his justice, but at the same time, at the very same moment, you see the glory of his love. Why would he do this for us? Why did Jesus do this for us? He knew what he was facing. Now is my soul troubled. when it came into his heart. And what does he say? Father, should I say, save me from this hour? No! It's for this reason I came to this hour. For your glory, Father, and for the love and the glory of my friends. At that moment, you begin to see why Jesus says, when I am lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. You know what the difference is between a Christian and a non-Christian? A Christian is somebody who, when he sees the beauty of what Christ did on the cross, it. You're attracted to it. The transcendent splinter of the energies of his matchless sacrifice draw you like a magnet. Do you ever remember some years ago about, do you remember that there was an airplane that crashed in the river in a very, very cold, icy, frozen river? And there were a lot of people dying in the river because even though they got out of the river, they were dying, of course, from the cold of hypothermia. There was a man, it was a rescuer that continually went back in. Do you remember that? And saved two or three people. And every time, everybody said, don't go back in there. Don't go back in there. Because this could be the time that you die. And he kept saying, I think I can save one more. And finally, he went back and never came back. He died. And I remember a helicopter pulling his body by a rope up out of the water. And as he was lifted up, everybody just looked at this man who had sacrificed himself. And your hearts were drawn to him. you see we're not without analogy Jesus says if you see the depth of your sin the magnitude of the holiness of God the power of his justice and the magnitude of my sacrifice and what I've done for you if you see that if you begin to glory in that you will find that the fact that I died for you is the most important thing about you have to go to the cross not to the grand canyon i'm sorry that's the place believe it glory in it and you will experience the glory of god now lastly somebody says well how specifically do i glory in the cross let me just give you a couple of hints on that your glory in something whatever you glory in is what really drives your life there's a great place in fact we sang about There's a great place in Galatians 6 where Paul says, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of Christ my God. Have you heard that before? God forbid that I should glory. Now, what Paul is saying is, if you want to glory in the cross, you have to recognize the other things you glory in. You glory in things that you think will give you significance. Everybody glories in something. Everybody tries to get glory, a sense of significance from something. You just have to figure out what yours are. are. Some of you, it's your career. Some of you, it's relationships. Some of you, it's achievement. Would you be honest? You come to New York and you want to make it in a field. And it's not just an economic issue. It's essentially a self-image issue. It's a glory issue. I've got to make it. I've got to know that I've done well here so I can accept myself, so I can love myself, so I can know I count. And Paul says, everybody's glorying in something. Everybody's trying to get their glory from something. God forbid that you should glory in anything except the cross of Christ. Years ago, I remember talking to a woman who had become a Christian before she came to my church. And she had lived a pretty miserable first part of her life because she was a very, very lovely woman. And what had happened was, from the time she was 14, she had never not had a boyfriend. next 15 years of her life always having to have a guy who loved her and was after her. She always had to be on some guy's arm. And at a certain point she began to realize how it was just ruining her life and she went to a counselor and every one of the counselors said this, and they were right as far as they went, listen. They said, you got a Cinderella complex, lady. You have decided the only way that you will ever feel worthwhile, valuable, substantial, is if some man loves you. glory to the male gender. And now what they think of you is driving your life. Now that's true, by the way. So she says, what do I do? They said, well, you've got to go out and get a career. You've got to see that you're worthwhile. She says, how do I know that I'm worthwhile? How do I know that I count? Well, go out and get a career. And she said to the counselors, if I go out and get a career, then why won't I be just as emotionally in bondage to my career as I was to men?

And they said, oh, I see your point. Well, she said, how do I know that I count?

And it wasn't until she became a Christian when one day she realized, if Jesus Christ, if someone as glorious as that, someone who really counts, someone as significant as that, if a glorious person like that would actually do this for me, now I know I matter. Now I know I matter to the only one that matters. Now I know. I can have a career now. It's icing on the cake. I can have a relationship now. It's icing on the cake because... What is she saying? Finally, I know I count. Finally. You see, when she stopped glorying in anything but the cross, she got glory. When the Bible says you have to lose yourself to find yourself, what it's saying is that only if you ascribe all glory to God and to what Christ did on the cross, only if you say that's the most important thing about me, much to him that he would die for me. When you begin to let that drive your life, you have all the sense of substantialness. You suddenly realize, I matter that much to him? Yes. What does it mean to glory in the cross? Find the things that you are glorying in and forbid them in your heart. God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of Christ my God. And my friends, until you start doing that, you're never going to know peace. Listen, listen. When the announcement of Jesus Christ came from the angels, what did they say? Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace. When you glory, when you give God glory, you'll get peace. Some of you, until you glory in the cross, until the overwhelming weight and overwhelming significance of the fact that God says, I love you, I will never forsake you, I died for you, until that becomes the driving thing of your soul. You will never have peace. And so don't come to God for peace. Come to God to give him glory. Don't come here and say, I've got needs that I've got to meet.

The Bible says when you glory in God instead of trying to meet your needs, your needs will be met. And if you come to God to try to get your needs met, to use him sort of like a medicine chest, you'll get nothing.

Give him glory. Don't seek peace. But the more you give glory to God in the highest, peace on earth for you. Father, save me from this hour? No. Father, your glory is my glory.

Let us pray. Now, Father, in the next couple of moments, we pray that you would enable us to see that we do not center our lives on you and give you the glory that's due you. We do not glory in the cross but we tend to glory in other things So our lives are just as driven, just as bankrupt as they can be Father, you have asked for glory And it's not because you're a selfish person that likes to be given compliments You ask us to glorify you because you know it's the only way That we will finally find that we count That we'll finally get rid of this sensation of being weightless and inconsequential Of being forgettable and ignored now Father glorify your name in us and your glory becomes ours help us to do that now in these next couple of moments and to know the peace on earth that comes from giving glory to God in the highest we ask it in Jesus name Amen
