The teaching this morning is taken from, it's based on Acts chapter 1, verses 1 to 14. The passage is written out in your bulletin, and I'd appreciate it if you'd turn to that with me if you're not already there. This fall we're going to be looking at the early chapters of the book of the Acts in the New Testament.

And the writer, who is a physician, Dr. Luke, says this. Theophilus, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up to heaven. After giving instructions through the Holy Spirit to the apostles he had chosen, after his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over a period of 40 days and spoke about the kingdom of God. On one occasion, while he was eating with them, he gave them this command, do not leave Jerusalem, but wait for the gift my father promised, which you have heard me speak baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. So when they met together, they asked him, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? And he said to them, it's not for you to know the times or dates the Father has set for his authority, by his own authority, but you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. After he said this, he was taken up before their very eyes, and a cloud hid him from sight, They were looking intently up into the sky as he was going when suddenly two men dressed in white stood beside them. Men of Galilee, they said, why do you stand here looking into the sky? This same Jesus who has been taken from you into heaven will come back in the same way you have seen him go into heaven. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the hill called the Mount of Olives, a Sabbath day walk from the city. When they arrived, they went upstairs to the room where they were staying. Those present were Peter, John, James, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James son of Alphaeus, and Simon the Zealot, and Judas son of James. They all joined together constantly in prayer along with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. This is God's word.

You know, in the middle of the 18th century, both France and Britain, there was a as social inequities. It was the beginning, it was the early days of the Industrial Revolution, and the inequities between rich and poor was a powder keg. In France, it went off, and there was the bloody revolution that we know a lot about. In Britain, something else happened, and historians now pretty much concede that what happened instead of a bloody revolution was with something that's called The Great Awakening. The Great Awakening really lasted a number of decades. For the first few decades, some of the leaders of this Great Awakening, you may have heard of John Wesley and his brother Charles and the Methodist movement. But in the first few decades of The Great Awakening, masses, nobody's sure how much, a sixth to a fifth of the entire population of the British Isles, pretty much, found themselves converted and swept up into the churches. And then after that, the next few decades saw a tremendous amount of social healing, and here's why. The rich got a new force and a new set of thinking, a new power and a new truth that they never had before that moved them toward being just and generous with their resources. and the poor also received a power and a truth, a force and a way of thinking that moved them toward self-discipline that they didn't have before. As a result, in the wake of the evangelical awakening, in the wake of the great awakening, in the wake of this mighty sweep of power, there was a tremendous amount of social healing. As many of you know, the converts of the great awakening abolished the slave trade in the British Empire. higher. As a result, the relations between labor and capital improved. There was a reform of the child labor laws. There was a huge increase in literacy. Why? Because the rich and the poor, they were changed. It's because of that, and because historians look at that, there are more and more calls today, and you can see them if you look carefully. At the highest levels of scholarship, there are calls saying Western society and its breakdown can only really be through another great awakening. Well, what would such a thing look like? How would you know it? What would its impact be? And the answer is there's only one place where we really can go to know and answer questions. It's an indisputable fact that there was one of these awakenings, there was a massive awakening that completely and utterly remade one of the greatest civilizations in the history of the world. It is an indisputable fact years ago, there was a tiny group of peasants and slaves who believed that Jesus Christ was the preexistent Son of God, come to earth, become flesh, died, and rose again from the dead. That little group, when it began, had no political power, no educational power, no cultural power, no economic power, and yet within two centuries, it had swept up millions of people in the Roman Empire. It swept up millions of people into a joy and peace they'd never known, and it became the leading force in a Roman society that was falling apart, so that by the third century, the emperor had to acknowledge that this was a Christian society because it was the Christians and the Christians alone who were keeping the world, that world, together. Now, there is only one document, there's only one historical document that we have written by an eyewitness of the early days of that awakening. You know, almost no one doubts, of all the historic critics, there's an awful lot of people that snipe about how much we can believe in the Bible. Virtually nobody doubts that the one who wrote this one document was actually there, was an eyewitness. It's Dr. Luke, who wrote the book of Acts. And in there we see what an awakening

chapters 1 through 9, the early chapters of the book of Acts. Now, what is a revival then? What is an awakening? What's a revival? Whenever you use the word revival, there's always two parts to it. If you have an architectural revival, remember the, you know, Greek revival architecture we talk about? Whenever a play is revived on Broadway, always two things happen. First, somebody revisits the original genius. Someone revisits the original genius and the essence of some ancient thing, and then after revisiting, it's reapplied and brought. In other words, a revival is something ancient received now. Something ancient received now. And this very first chapter shows us what an awakening would be. It would be something ancient. It would be going back to the ancient The ancient essence of Christianity. And then receiving it now. And I'd just like to look for the rest of the time we have here at what this particular chapter tells us. What is that original essence of Christianity? What is the essence of original Christianity? And how can it be received now? Just two questions. First question. What was the original essence and genius of this Christianity? What was Christianity all about? out. This text tells us, and boy, give me a 60-second detour here. The average person today will say, ah, everybody knows what Christianity is about. Yeah, maybe this isn't a very religious society anymore, but the average person, most of you certainly have had a lot of, some kind of religious background. Most of you Christian. Most of you. Sure, this is America. Most of you have had some kind of church background. Most of you, you know, had some Sunday school here or there. and the average person says, I know what Christianity is about. We don't have to go back and revisit. I understand. Christianity is that, you know, God loves us. Jesus died to forgive us, so now God can forgive us if we ask for forgiveness, and now we're supposed to be forgiving to others, and we're supposed to live lives of love. You know, what's the big deal? I mean, everybody knows what Christianity is about. Listen to me. How could that be? what do you think of Christianity the Christianity you've seen the Christianity that you have seen over the years let me ask you something have you ever seen Christianity doing what it did to the Roman Empire what it did to 18th century Britain have you ever seen it sweeping up millions of people into a peace and joy they've never known have you ever seen it transforming society have you ever seen it running through the community what do you see when you see Christianity today and a lot of you are going to say, at worst, I see a narrow guilt-producing institution. At best, I see a kind of comforting thing that you can use when you're in trouble. All right, that's what you see, right? That can't be the original Christianity, don't you see? Why would the Christianity that you see now and the Christianity that did these things, we know indisputably, historically, why would they be so different? It's pretty simple. It means the average person today misunderstands Christianity. that the average person in New York misunderstands Christianity radically because whenever the essence of Christianity has been understood on a widespread scale, it has become a dynamic force. And the only reason it's not a dynamic force now in this country the way it was in other times is because people don't understand it. So what is that essential genius? Well, it's here, and I believe in a sense you can see it all in verses 1, 2, and 3. It says, in my former book, Theophilus, because Luke wrote a gospel about the life of Jesus, he says, I wrote about all that Jesus began to do and teach until the day he was taken up to heaven. After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. He appeared to them over 40 days and spoke of the kingdom of God. Now look, I wrote to you all that Jesus began to do and teach. Now, there it is. First of all, the essence of Christianity is about something Jesus has already begun to do, something Jesus has already done. He's completed. Something that happened in Luke's first book. The reason that's so important, Christianity is about what Jesus has done, not about what you have done. It is very common for the average person to say, well, I think Christianity is good for a lot of people. I think Christianity is a wonderful model of forgiveness and love. The cross, you know, dying for...It's wonderful. But they say, I believe that all good people, no matter who they are, can reach God. Whether you believe in Jesus or not. I think Jesus is good for many people, and it's a wonderful story. But all good people can come to God. That's the average and that's the normal way that most people in most churches in this country believe. That's what most people think Christianity is all about. out. That's the reason Christianity is dead to such a great degree in so many of these churches and institutions. Luke says Christianity is not about being good. It is not at first about anything you do at all. It's about what he's done. It's all about what he's done. And what has he done? done, okay? First of all, it says he suffered. See that? He suffered. Eight little words. This is an ocean in a thimble. Eight little, not words, eight little letters on the page, but you could get lost in them. Why did he suffer? Recently, I had a chance to talk to some people about the sacrifices in the Old Testament. Why is the Old Testament all filled with all this? stuff about how to live. It's filled with a lot of things about how to be a good person, but it's also filled with a tremendous amount of blood and guts. You can never go in to the temple to see God without something bloody in your hands. You're always having to sacrifice things. And here's the question, why? And what's wonderful is Judaism and Christianity are in complete agreement on one thing, Judaism and Christianity, total agreement on one thing. It's not enough just to be a good person, because we do things that are wrong, and the wrongdoing we do, the wrongdoings, leave a residue, a barrier between us and God. For example, the average person says, well, you know, all good people, if you try your best and you ask forgiveness when things go wrong. You know, God will receive all good people, no matter who. And here's the question that comes up. Could you do that in a court of law? If a judge found a man guilty, let's say, and the man said, I'm guilty, but I'm going to try to do better, and I'm very sorry for what I've done. Here's what the judge says. Great, but there's a residue. There's something left over. You're not free. You mean well. You've said you're sorry. You've asked forgiveness. You're going to do a better job. That's right. But you know what? I can't just let you go free. There's something left over that has to be paid for. There's a barrier. We can't run a society. If you do something and say, I'm sorry, I'll try to do better, and there's no payment, there's got to be payment. And God… You see, if you can't run on a society that way? How on the world can you run a universe that way? If we would impeach a judge who would say, fine, you're sorry. You never have to pay. There's no payment. There's no residue. There's no payment for the wrong. You'd fire a judge like that. How on the world do you expect to have a God like that? Why would you have lower standards for a God than you do for a civil magistrate? God says, look at your inhumanity to your neighbor and your unfaithfulness Maybe you are sorry for it. Maybe you're trying to do better, but there's a residue.

There's punishment. It's got to be paid for. The wages of sin is death. And in this little word, he suffered. We're told what Jesus has done.

The Bible uses a lot of metaphors, but this is one of the ways it paints the picture. He stood before death and destruction.

Apollyon, Tartaros, you see, justice. It has a right for us. Death and destruction. It has a right to take us. The nameless terror. But Jesus stands between us and it. And he says, I won't let you have my brothers and sisters. And so all the malice of that death and destruction comes down on him. And as a result, he pays. The barrier's gone. It's what he's done.

He suffered. But then, secondly, we're told he showed that he was alive. Isn't it interesting how it says he proved to them he was alive? After his suffering, he showed himself to these men and gave many convincing proofs that he was alive. There is a tremendous kind of chauvinism of modern people to ancient people. There's a tendency for people to say, oh, yeah, of course they believed Jesus was raised from the dead. Of course they believed in miracles. Primitive people believed in those things. Look what it says. He showed up, and the disciples did not say, we knew it. They said, this can't be. This is a hallucination. This is a hoax. This can't be. Now, you know what? If you know a little bit about history, you will know that the Jews, believing Jews of that time, were much less likely to believe in the miracle of the resurrection than anybody here. The Jews of that time believed in a transcendent God who could never become human. The Jews of that time also, by the way, many of them didn't believe in the resurrection at all, but the ones who did believe in the resurrection believed in a general resurrection of all people at the end of time. Nobody in the Jewish religion then believed that an individual could be resurrected. When Jesus showed up to say, I'm resurrected, He had a far harder audience than I've got today, right now. He had to convince them, but he did. Why? Why was it so important to convince them? A lot of people say, We have his teaching. Why did he have to convince them that he was raised from the dead? Do you see, though? If you're saved by Jesus' teaching, by being a good person, then you've saved yourself. Then it's what you have done. But the essence of Christianity, it's what he's done. And Jesus comes and he shows himself to have been the one who suffered and the one who rises from the dead. and as a result, he has accomplished your salvation for you. It's what he began to do, but notice the word began. The other part of the essence of Christianity is this. It's what Jesus began to do and teach. What a wonderful word. Luke is telling us something. The founder of every other religion, the founder of every other major religion, the founder of every other religion, has already done all the things he'll ever do, has already taught all the things he'll ever teach. But Jesus has just begun. Jesus is not finished. And part of the essence of that original genius of Christianity was that Jesus has not just died and risen, he's been ascended. He's ascended. He's been taken up. He's sitting at the right hand of the Father. Now, what does that mean? Jesus goes up not to get away from us. What's beautiful about this text is it shows us that Jesus goes up to continue. He's only begun. In other words, why did Jesus go up? In John chapter 16, he says, I have to go up so I can send the Holy Spirit to you. He says in the book of Matthew, you will do greater deeds than I. You know what this is talking about? The Ascension does not mean that Jesus is no longer here. The Ascension means Jesus is here all over. The Ascension does not mean that Jesus Christ is no longer present. When he was on earth, he could only do his works. He could only do and teach through one human body. And now he can do it through millions of human bodies. When he was on earth, he rebuilt souls and bodies, but he could only do it where his body was. He goes to heaven not to get away. The ascension of Christ means that now he is present in us. He is present through us. His power radiates from the throne out into the whole world through us.

The essence of Christianity is that he faced the nameless terror for us, and now he works from heaven through us.

Christian friends, when you come to church, what do you expect? Let me confess a sin. If I write a sermon and I show up, and in my heart, basically, this is my attitude. I'm saying, well, another week. I hope I don't forget my lines. I'm going to say the things that I've written, and some people will like it and some people won't. I hope there's a few more people here this week. I hope things go well. Hope everything goes smoothly. If I have that attitude, I have forgotten the Ascension. And if you have that attitude, you have too. When you open the Bible to read it, when you sit down to pray, when you come to worship, when you open your mouth to talk to somebody else about Jesus Christ, when you open your heart to feed and help somebody else in Jesus' name, what do you expect? If Jesus is ascended, you shouldn't expect a little inspiration. You should expect transformation. You should expect the change of the world. You should expect him to meet him. Every time you come to worship, if Jesus has ascended, not just suffered and died and risen somewhere, but ascended, he's up there to continue what he started. It's what he began to do and teach. Now, see what Luke is saying? I'm now about to tell you what he continues to do and teach. the essence of Christianity. He faced the nameless terror for you. He works his power out from heaven through you. If you understand that, Christians, I'm talking to my Christian brothers and sisters now, give up your small ambitions. Repent for your low expectations. Stop looking at your problems like they're things that will always… stop looking at your bad habits like things you could never, ever, ever expect to get over. How dare you? Stop looking at the problems of New York as mountains that could never be moved. How dare we? Okay, now, then we have to ask ourselves, how does this come to us now? That was the original genius. Oh, see, people say, well, I think Christianity means living a good life. It's not what you do, it's what's been done for you. I think Christianity is trying your best and asking forgiveness. That wouldn't be enough. Christianity is to see because of what Jesus Christ has done, God welcomes us, God embraces us, and God pours into our life with His own power and glory. Now, how can we receive that now? How can that become a living reality now? And it's just two principles that you see here. The first principle I'll do very briefly, but you can't get by it. I'll show you why I'm doing it briefly, because the second hour we're together here, after the worship service, we've got ample opportunity for those of you who take this principle seriously to follow out. You cannot receive the awakening power of Jesus Christ unless you believe that the facts of Christianity are objectively true. You have to believe that Christianity is objectively true for everyone. one. Look at verse 8. What does Jesus Christ say? And this is in your face, and it's only September 10th, but here we go. Look, in verse 8, what does Jesus say? You will receive power from the Holy Spirit, and you'll be my witnesses to who? To all the people who Christianity will help? I mean, some people will be helped, some people won't. You need to go out there and kind of lay it out and see who's helped. No. He says, I want you to be my witnesses in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria most parts of the earth. This is true, Jesus says, for everyone. Now, see, the average person I'm finding in New York who's kind of spiritually searching, they come and they say, I'd like to find out whether Christianity is true for me. I would like to find out if it works for me. Now, friends, you will never be in a position… Let me be pragmatic for a second before I'm principial. How in the world can you be sure that Christianity will work for you? What does that mean? Always be happy? Don't you know if you decide that you're going to be a musician, that there's many places in which being a musician is extremely impractical, extremely unfulfilling, and yet if you work on through very often, if you do your discipline, eventually it becomes enormously fulfilling and so on. You see, how will you know when it works for you? Being a Christian will not work for you if you find out that in order to be true to Christ and tell the truth, you lose your job. I mean, that may not… You know, is Christianity working for you that day? Dear friends, don't figure that out. Don't try to figure out whether Christianity works. That's not what Jesus says. Figure out if Christianity is true. If Jesus really is the Son of God who existed before and came to earth, if He's really ascended, and if He's going to come back, as it says right there, the little angels guys came up and said, you know, He's coming back. if he's coming back to judge the world, if what Jesus said about himself and about the nature of the universe is true, of course Christianity will work. Because to serve him will be to find your designer and your design, and you will be utterly fulfilled in the end. But what if Christianity isn't true? What if Jesus' claims aren't right? What if right now his bones are rotting in some grave somewhere? What if the disciples were wrong, deluded, or liars? then Christianity can't work except in the short run as a placebo. Don't even try to figure out if Christianity is relevant for you. You won't know. You can't tell. It won't be relevant almost for sure. It's never relevant on Friday, for example. It's certainly not Saturday night. Almost never does it work for you on Saturday night. Figure out if it's true. Was Jesus the Son of God? Did he really rise from the dead historically, you know, in time and space? Is it true? If it's true, of course it'll work for you. If it's not true, it won't work for you. But the one thing it couldn't possibly be is just work for some people, don't you see? It's either useful for everyone or it's useless to everyone, but it can't be useful for some people. The nature of the claims that make it impossible. Well, how do you figure that out? You have to think. I love the place in Matthew 9 where Jesus is talking to the Pharisees. I'm going to be talking about this later tonight, actually, but there's a place, or next week, I forget when it is, but in Matthew 9, Jesus says to the Pharisees, go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. Go and learn what this means. I'm not trying to preach on that text right now, but you know what I love about it? Is Jesus doesn't say, here's what to do. He says, think about that. Go and learn. He says, if you can't figure it out, then go think. Ah, Christianity. Christianity. Jesus Christ says, think about it until you figure it out. Now, if you say, oh, I can't believe that all these things, I'm a modern person, I don't believe in miracles and so on, go and think. We have classes afterwards. Mention them right as I conclude. We have a class called Discovering Christianity that Jeff White teaches. It's listed in the bulletin. Today it'll be talking about why do we believe in God and that sort of thing. How do we… eventually, how do we know… you know, every week it talks about how do you know that Jesus is the Son of God, how do you know the Know and think. But lastly, the way we receive this now is not just by seeing that Christianity is objectively true for everyone, but that it's personally true for you. Jesus Christ says, you'll be my witnesses. That's truth. He says, I'm going to tell you. You know about the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. See, they knew that. They were witnesses. They had the truth. They knew he'd suffered. They understood that. But Jesus says in verse 8, that's not enough. You need power. Now, here's the pragmatic secret I try to put into every single sermon. Here it is.

Real Christianity is always an intersection of truth and power, never one without the other. It's not real Christianity if you just have a general belief. Paul says there are people who have a form of godliness, but they deny the power thereof. It's possible to have a general Christian belief in no power. Well, how do you get power? How do you get power? Do you just go pray for it? Oh, it looks like that, doesn't it? In verse 14, the last verse of the text, it looks like they had truth and they just started, they went and they prayed and they said, oh Lord, send us power. If you actually read the prayers in the book of Acts, if you actually read the prayers all through the Bible, you'll see nobody ever prays for power. Never. Jesus, Paul says in Romans 1.17, He says, I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God unto salvation. The truth, the Bible says the truth that we've been talking about, of Jesus' suffering and death and resurrection and ascension, the truth about Jesus Christ does not bring power. It does not result in power. It does not lead to power. It does not have power. It is the power. And if you don't have power in your life, you don't have the truth. You haven't grasped it. You don't get it. Paul doesn't say, well, you've got the truth, now pray for power. If you read the prayers of the Bible, you'll see they're always praying the truth in until it explodes.

Daniel Rowlands, one of the greatest preachers in the history of the world. You never heard of him because he was Welsh and he preached in Welsh, and as a result, almost none of his stuff has come down to us. 1735, he was a curate in an Episcopal church in a little town in Cardigan Shire in Wales, and his ministry was dead. He himself had no... He thought Christianity was being a moral person. Nobody really enjoyed any of his sermons. Everything was pretty crummy in his parish. He went to hear a man preach named Griffith Jones. Griffith Jones said, the determining factor in your relationship with God is not your past, but Christ's past.

You can be made right and holy and blameless in God's sight grace alone, through faith alone, because of Christ alone. Daniel Rowlands thought about that for a month, and he was at a communion service. And suddenly, he realized his righteousness could not save him, and he realized what Christ had done for him, and the truth became a power. Now, what does it mean when the truth becomes a power? I'm telling you that if you believe that you have the truth and you understand Christianity, but there's no power in your life, you don't understand it. Well, you say, what do you mean by power? You can take a look. I could give you hundreds of examples. But what happened to Daniel Rollins? First of all, there's a revolution in his identity. That always happens when the truth becomes the power. You say, I no longer look at myself the way I did before. It changes the way I look at everything about myself. Now I'm a Christian first, and I'm black or white second. I'm a Christian first, and I'm a male or a female second. I'm a Christian first, and I'm British or I'm African second. I'm a Christian first and I'm richer or poorer. So, it utterly changes your attitude toward yourself. Secondly, all the things that used to control your life and drive you and scare you no longer do. They don't scare you because they're not the main thing in your life anymore. They used to drive you. They used to scare you and have a freedom and power. You sense that there's a force that's come into you and remaking you and changing your habitual personality. Now, that is what happens to a person who says, I am not ashamed of the gospel. It is the power of God to salvation.

Do you have power like that? Has there been a revolution in your life? If you say no, then you can tell me you understand the truth of Christianity and you don't. And this is also true for Christians who understand it and yet right now you feel stagnant. I knew a woman who was married to a missionary and the missionary was about to go to a very uncomfortable country. And she was pretty mad and she went to a communion service During the communion service, the gospel became a power to her again. She wasn't a Christian, but she prayed it in. She thought about it, and it started to burn. She suddenly said, I suddenly realized if what Jesus Christ has done for me, if he's done these things, then he could ask me to live the rest of my life in a cardboard box on the streets of Calcutta, and it would be nothing compared to what he's done for me and what he's going to promise to give me. It would be nothing. Why in the world am I worried? Now, what happened there? freedom come from? You know what? The gospel becomes a power. You don't sit there and say, well, I know the truth. Now, oh Lord, just give me some kind of power. That's an abstraction. That's a mechanical thing. Absolutely not. The truth is the power. And if it's not the power,

you don't have the truth. You know, how is this going to change the world? You say, how is this going to change society? I was just spending some time this week with a couple of people, some white middle-class families who had moved into a poor inner city area of one of our northeastern cities and been living there to try to partner with the poor to rebuild their cities. And I remember thinking, why are they there? And I'll tell you why. If they were only there through altruism and hadn't had an experience of power, they would never stay there. People don't stay there because of ideas. There's got to be power with the idea. But on the other hand, if they'd only had this experience of God, but they weren't theologically oriented if they hadn't thought it out. See, a Christian who has this experience of power starts to say, if it's true that Jesus Christ, though he was rich, became poor so that through his poverty I could become rich, you know, you think it out and you say, I should be willing to give away everything. I should be willing to move into an inner city community. Nobody does what they have done unless they had truth and power. Not power without truth, truth without power. Here, last illustration, totally done. 1859, there was a major revival in Northern Ireland, and there was a whole slew of prostitutes. Most of the prostitutes in the cities of Northern Ireland got converted. And you know why? A man, a reporter, sat down with one of the prostitutes and said, why are all of you girls coming to church? And she said, well, sir, there's two problems. First of all, business completely fell off during the revival. And then she says, secondly, for the first time in our lives, people on the street are treating us with kindness and respect. Now, you know what's going on there? There's a lot of people today that say what this country needs is a return to traditional values. Look, the irreligious people were giving those girls business,

so they were exploiting them. The Irish people were treating them with contempt and spitting on them. And they were exploiting them too. So you had irreligious people and religious people. And they were both exploiting the prostitutes of urban Northern Ireland. Do you think if you had just made the religious people stronger, more religious people, more conservative, that would have converted them? That would have gotten them out of their bondage? Heck no. Truth without power means more spitting.

My dear friends, what changed those women's lives Was not that people got more religious, but they got the gospel The irreligious didn't have God's law That's why they went to them But the religious didn't have God's love That's why they felt superior to them They didn't see that they were sinners saved by grace But when they became sinners saved by grace Christians see the law by God's love fulfilled and that changed, that changes the world, that changes the community, that changes you and me. Truth and power. You will receive power to become my witnesses to the uttermost parts of the earth. Let's pray. Our Father, I thank you that we see that by looking at the objective truth of Christianity and by appropriating the personal truth of Christianity, we can be changed and our world can be changed. This is the hope for our city. This is the hope for my Monday and Tuesday. This is the hope for my relationship. This is the hope for my psychology. This is the hope for my sociology. This is the hope. This is the hope for my intellect. This is the hope for my emotions. This is the hope for my habits. This is the hope. This is Christianity, the only hope. Let us understand better, more and more, how an awakening is possible in us personally and in our city corporately. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
