2 Peter chapter 3, verses 17 and 18. Therefore, dear friends, since you already know this, be on your guard so that you may not be carried away by the error of lawless men and fall from your secure position, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. Now, it was a dark and stormy night. I was told stories should start that way. It was a dark and stormy night many years ago, and Simon Peter was talking to the person who he loved most in the world, and that person said to him, you know, I'm going to be soon tortured and crucified, and in the moment I most need you, you're going to chicken out and betray me, deny me. And Simon Peter said, never, Lord. And Jesus replied, because that, of course, is who it was. He said, Simon, Simon, you still don't get it. He said, I've been trying to teach you something about how the human heart works, and you still don't realize how dangerous and treacherous a thing it is. How, unless you're always watching for it, it will deceive you and betray you, and your heart will, and you will deny me, and you will fall. Now, Simon, said Jesus, Satan wanted to have you. He wanted to sift you like wheat, but I have prayed for you, so though you will fall, you will get it. And when you get up, strengthen the brethren. Now, what's so interesting is here at the very end of this epistle by Simon Peter, the same word shows up that Jesus used on that dark and stormy night, because he says in verse 17, in verse 18, pardon me, in verse 17, he says, I don't want you to be carried away by the errors and fall from your secure position, and that's the way that this translation translates, the same word. The same word that Jesus used, he says, when you fall, but when you get back up, strengthen the brethren, and that is the same word that's translated secure position here. What Peter is actually saying is, I don't want you to fall from strength. I want you to stay strong, and it's the very same Greek word here, the very same word at the end of 2 Peter that Jesus used with Peter in Luke 22, the account of that dark. In other words, Jesus says, Peter, you're going to be an expert at falling. You're going to be an expert at tripping and stumbling and falling. See, years ago, Peter was arrogant. Peter was self-assured, and he had no idea how easy it is to fall spiritually and morally and personally, but now he does. And now Jesus says, I want you to use that expertise on the people around you. And that's what he's doing here in this entire book, and especially in the book of Luke 22. And especially here at the end. And that's what's so important to understand when he says, notice, he says, I don't want you to fall from strength, but grow in grace. What a difference a little word can mean. What a difference a little word can have. He doesn't say, I don't want you to fall from grace. Don't fall from grace and grow in grace. He doesn't say, don't fall from strength and grow in grace. He says, don't fall from strength. Don't fall from strength, but grow in grace. You see what that means? It means the only way to avoid falling from strength is to grow in grace. Don't do this, but instead do this, or you'll do this. See, that's the idea. That's the thrust of it. Now, there's many, many ways in which you can put this, but Peter is saying the only way not to fall in the Christian life is to advance. There's all sorts of pithy ways to put it. Other people have put it this way. Christianity is like a bike, a two-wheeler bike. You either go forward or you fall over. Christianity, being a Christian, is like being an egg. You either hatch or you go bad. Some years ago, a minister in the middle of the night heard a bump in his little daughter's bedroom, and he ran upstairs, and he saw his little daughter on the floor, and he said, How did you fall out? And she says, It was simple. I stayed too close to where I got in. And a new illustration was born of the same truth. Peter is saying that Christian growth is an absolute necessity or you will fall. In fact, if you're not growing, whether you know it or not, you may already have fallen. There's a sense in which these three little words, grow in grace, is not only a summary of what everything Peter has been trying to say, but it's a summary of everything the New Testament says that a Christian should do. There's, in a sense, a summary of everything the New Testament wants Christians to do and be. Grow in grace. So let's look at these three words by exacting out of them three principles that I think will prepare us to meet God at his table today. First, let me just mention the three principles and then go back through them. This text, First of all, that growth in grace, Christian growth, is possible. Then secondly, that it's gradual. And then thirdly, that it's gracious. We'll explain. First of all, the word grow literally obviously means that growth is possible. But look, it's true that there are many duties and responsibilities in the Christian life, but the Christian life, according to this word, this little word grow, shows us that the Christian life is far more than duties, far more than disciplines and responsibilities. Instead, what it means to live a Christian life is to nurture and develop a new life that has been implanted in you. In fact, this last verse, 2 Peter 3, verse 18, grow in grace, assumes what he said in the very beginning of the book in 1 Peter, 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 4, where he says, we are partakers of the divine nature. When he says grow, he assumes you already have the divine nature in you. Any word grow assumes that there has been germination, that there's been a new birth, that there's been an inception of new life. And therefore, an admonition to spiritually grow is actually an admonition to take the new life that was implanted in you at the new birth and nurture it. Now, this is so obvious that people miss it all the time. You know how possible it is to be so close to something that you can't see it? It's so big. Or to have a noise that's so relentless and loud that after a while you can't even hear it, or a smell that's so overpowering that after a while you can't even smell it? That's what this is. Every place in the New Testament where people are admonished to be honest, to be courageous, to love, to be generous, to love the unlovely, hmm? To be honest. Every place in the New Testament where people are admonished to do this, it is assuming the people that are being admonished have been born again. Every place. See, all of the book of 2 Peter in which he's been saying do this and be honest and obey and be loving and be faithful and all these things, he's been actually saying, in other words, nurture the new life that's within you. That is a far more complex command than simply to say be a decent person. Grow in grace is very different than saying be good. And every place in the New Testament, every place that you're being admonished to live in a certain way, you're always being admonished to grow in grace. You're never simply being admonished to be good. Many people seem to think that what the New Testament is after is it's calling everybody in general, anybody, and everybody in general to live on the model of Jesus. Jesus was a loving man. Jesus was a man who did love and mercy and justice. And so many people think that the Bible is just in general saying to the world, use Jesus as a model and the world will be a better place. With all due respects, the world, if you think that, the Bible is not that stupid. The Bible knows, the New Testament and all the New Testament writers realize that to ask people to live the lives that, a life like Christ, to ask people to live lives of strength and tenderness and wisdom

is impossible. They're not stupid, those writers. Every place where it says love your neighbor as yourself, every place where it says turn the other cheek, if you read those things and really understand their impact and import, you won't just feel guilty like, yeah, I had a trial. I had to try harder at that. That means you don't understand them. Feeling a little bit guilty like, yeah, I had to try harder. I ought to give more of my money away to the poor. I ought to help people. I ought to be nicer to my mother and my father or my mother-in-law and my father-in-law. Yeah, I know the Bible teaches that sort of thing. I had to try harder. I feel a little bit guilty. If you feel a little bit guilty, if you feel like you had to try a little bit harder, you have never understood the impact of those things. Read and see what it's really asking for, what it's really appealing to. The Bible never tells you to live in a certain way without assuming that you've been born again and that there's a new nature in you, that you're a partaker of the divine nature. And so whenever the Bible says, whenever any New Testament writer or Jesus himself says, love your neighbor as yourself, what they're really saying is, nurture that new nature inside you so that you can love your neighbor as yourself. You've got to be born again in order to grow. So, you know, if something's going to grow biologically, it has to be planted and it has to germinate biologically. If you're going to grow physically, you've got to be born physically. And if you're going to grow spiritually, you have to be born spiritually. There has to have been that new life, that impartation, the implantation of the divine nature. Now, let's move on. What I'm trying to say here, first of all, is growth in grace is possible if you're a partaker of the divine nature. Verse 18 of chapter 3 assumes verse 4 of chapter 1. But before you do that, before I go on, let me just apply this in two ways briefly to two kinds of folks. First of all, I know that some of you are coming to Christianity in a piecemeal way. In other words, you come to Christianity when... You may come to Christ, you may come to Christianity, you may get more serious about church or about praying and so on when you have a particular problem. Like, you need inspiration during a particular time, hard patch of life. Or you need strength to overcome a particular problem. Or you need insight to overcome or to deal with a particular, you know, difficult decision. And we have a tendency to do that. We have a tendency to come to Christianity, to come to Christ, to come to God in a piecemeal way. I need help in this and I need help in that. It doesn't work that way. Don't you see? Christianity is all or nothing. The love you need, the generosity you need, the peace you need, the wisdom you need does not come in a piece. You can't grow unless you've been planted. You've got to be completely uprooted and completely replanted. You've got to be born again. That's why Jesus... When Jesus said that to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, he says, you must be born again. Not like some Christians are born again, the more religious and somewhat more emotional types. He doesn't say that to Nicodemus. He says, you've got to be born again to see the kingdom of God. To see. To even understand what I'm saying. You're never going to be able to live the life that we're talking about unless, first of all, you have had this radical transformation. You've received the new life. Don't you see? You cannot come to Christianity in a piecemeal way. It's all or nothing. So let me just ask you, those of you who are trying to come in a piecemeal way, do you have that new life? Have you made that transaction? Do you even know what the heck I'm talking about? All I'm asking is, all I'm asking you at this point, and all I can ask you right now to do is, don't rest until you know what we're talking about. You know what that new birth is. Don't rest until you know that it's been true of you. Otherwise, all of the little pieces of Christianity that looks so great will not be there for you. It comes as a whole. One more thing. Apply this to other people. Growth is possible. Christian friends, you're a Christian. Great. But have you learned to live with habits and patterns in your life? Have you declared peace with enemies inside your own heart? Bad habits, wrong attitudes, fears and bitternesses, things that are enemies not only of God, but of you. Huh? Have you declared a truce with things that really are not ever going to stop? Their efforts to try to destroy you. Have you declared peace with habits in your life that are dragging you down and are making you really a very hard person to live with for people around you? They're a drain on you and they're a drain on other people and you've declared peace on them and you don't think you can change. Or maybe you've said, I can change because you know a Christian's supposed to say that, but the fact of the matter is you don't. You don't get to it. What does this principle say to you? It says a lot. When it says growth and grace is possible, that means if you have the divine nature inside you, God's nature is holy and all powerful. That means it can absolutely eliminate and demolish anything in you which is evil or ugly or broken. It can, obviously, that divine nature can turn any unloving person into a loving person. Any place in you that's crooked, it can make it straight. Any place that's broken, it can make it whole. Fundamental, mind-boggling, the psychiatrists say it can't be done kind of change is possible if you have the divine nature in you. Let me just ask you, take this as personally as possible. Have you settled for too little? Are you settling for too little? And the person who says, I know that I've got this new life, but I can't change or you never get to it, you're not just being modest or humble. You're not even just a person guilty of low ambition. You're insulting the one who lives in you. Grow in grace means growth is possible. And therefore, the word grow really challenges the complacent and the stagnant among us, doesn't it? But on the other hand, I'd like to also point out that the word grow not only means that growth is possible, but this command also means growth is gradual. So there's a sense in which that word grow, And this is so true, so much of the Christian message. The word grow has both a hard and a soft side to it. It challenges us who are complacent. It makes us say, that's right, being a Christian is not just a status. It's not just a round of duties. I should be growing. I should be changing. I should be advancing. So it convicts us. But on the other hand, it calms us and comforts us because it tells us that this Christian growth is gradual. The word growth means it's been gradual. And the word growth means that Christianity, your Christian character, is not the result of lots of dramatic crises and breakthroughs. That's not how growth happens. Growth is actually, let me make the case here, something you can measure, but it's actually imperceptible. It's so mysterious and so gradual that you can never see things grow. You can compare them with yesterday. You can compare your tomatoes with yesterday, but you can't see them. You can sit and watch your tomatoes all day and all night and actually see them grow. You can compare the pictures from yesterday to today. Oh, we have time-lapse photography, which actually enables you to see growth. But there is no time-lapse photography that will enable you to see spiritual growth. And it's the same thing. We have to calm ourselves because instead of dramatic breakthroughs everywhere, which is what Americans want, because Americans are the most impatient of all people in the world, we have to calm ourselves. And it leads us into tremendous superficiality. And though there's many teachers and there's even parties in the church and books that will tell you that your holiness and your godliness comes in one, you know, fell swoop, if you really tarry for it and if you really do these things and you ask for it, that does violence to this characterization by Peter of the Christian life. You make progress through all sorts of actually imperceptible little advances. And, you know, trees grow in the winter even. And sometimes when you think, I'm not growing, better ask a friend because there is wintertime growth for a tree as well as springtime growth for a tree. So calm yourself. But, and don't give up. You know, it's typical of an eight-year-old to say, I'm not growing any taller. So what do you say? You say, eat your vegetables. Then you'll grow. A month later, he says, you know, I've been eating my vegetables for a month and it hasn't done a thing. And you say, be patient. Well, are you being like that? I'm not growing. Eat your vegetables. There's Bible study and there's worship and there's prayer and there's fellowship and there's the disciplines of simplicity and of purity and of service and reconciliation. Eat your vegetables. Growth and grace is gradual. Now, last of all, we said growth and grace is possible. We said, secondly, growth and grace is gradual. But last of all, very important, growth and grace is gracious. If it's going to be vital, it's gracious. Because it doesn't just say grow. It says grow in grace. And let me just summarize the actual dynamic to show you that growth, Christian growth, is so different than mere volitional behavior. Christian growth has an inner organic dynamic to it. That's the reason why we said in the very beginning to simply command someone to be decent is not the same as actually saying grow in grace. Whenever the Bible says love your neighbor as yourself because you have been born again, it's saying something much more complex. It's saying nurture the dynamic that will make you grow. Well, what is that dynamic? It's the dynamic of grace. Listen, look at it this way. The word grace in the Bible is used in two related but distinguishable ways. And it can be a little bit confusing. If you're a good Bible student, you begin to realize sometimes the word grace seems to be something that cannot increase. Sometimes it's used as something that can increase. You see, the word grace always means God's unmerited favor for us. God's undeserved love. And the doctrine of grace is this. Because Jesus died for us, because Jesus rose for us, because Jesus passed through the heavens and is now seated at the right hand of the Father, because Jesus did everything that we needed to have done. He lived the perfect life. He died, took our punishment, because he did it all for us. He fulfilled all the requirements that we would need to fulfill in order to be welcomed into God's presence. If we believe in him, immediately and instantly, the moment we believe and rest in him, God completely, he accepts us, both legally and personally. Legally is the doctrine of justification by faith, the Bible calls it. It means legally our sins are pardoned and we are legally blameless. Personally is the doctrine of adoption. That God, even though we were strangers, even though we were aliens, even though we were foreigners, God brings us into his own family, adopts us, makes us his sons and daughters. So legally he pardons us and personally he adopts us. And he completely welcomes us in. Now you see, those are legal statuses and they are wonderful things and they are very life, but they cannot increase

because you can't get more pardoned. You're either pardoned or you're not, you know? You can't get more pardoned. You're either adopted or you're not. You can't get more adopted. And so one of the great teachings of Christianity is that you are as accepted by God the first moment you believe as you will be a billion years from now. In his very presence in his heavenly courts. But there are other places like Hebrews 4 where it says when you've got problem, go to the throne of grace and get more grace. There's other places where it talks about grace increasing. Here's why. Your actual standing can't increase. Your rights and privileges, your acceptance can't increase, but the influence of that doctrine in your life can increase. Your power and experience, of these great privileges can increase. And when that happens, and only when that happens, do you have an engine that really makes you become a better person along the lines of this dynamic. If the main engine in your life, if the reason you're trying to be a better person is faith and duty and fear, just fear and duty, if that's your engine, you will have a mechanical growth. You will grow in busyness. You will grow in meetings. You will grow in merits and good deeds, but you will not grow in grace. You will not grow organically on the inside. Only if the reason you're growing and your main engine for growing is the sweetness of God's grace and a growth in the understanding and experience of that welcome. You know, there's certain kinds of food that you can't just take a bite of. It's so sweet, it electrifies your mouth. You remember the commercial years ago that said, I bet you can't, you can't just eat one, but you can't eat just one. Remember that? Grace is the same way. If you've tasted grace, it electrifies your whole soul and you've got to have more. But it's grace and only grace that leads to actual change of character. Let me just close here with this example because I used it last week in the prep time, but I can use it now to illustrate this principle in, I think, a really important way. Some of you remember this then. When we were on vacation and we were in a fast food place, our family found that there was a woman who was botching every order. She was behind the counter and when we got up to her, she botched our orders too and she was very defensive. And just as my blood was about to boil, I noticed that she didn't speak English very well at all and that was the reason she was botching the orders. She was a new immigrant. And I suddenly remembered a verse from my quiet time that morning that said this,

don't be kind to the immigrants among you for you once were exiles in Egypt and I brought you out. Now, see, there's two ways to use that verse. The one way is a mechanical way. The one way is to say, oh, God says be kind to immigrants. Well, I have to. Stuff your anger. That's not growth in grace. The other way is to concentrate on that second clause. This is the way the Bible works. The Bible doesn't just say be kind to immigrants. That would be great if we, if all, right now, if all the countries in the world were kind to immigrants, we'd have a much better world, a lot less explosive world. But the Bible never just says be kind to immigrants. It says be kind to immigrants because I took you out of Egypt. You were exiles and I received you. Don't you see? The only way that you're going to be able to really be kind to immigrants from your heart is if you remember and I remember thinking, oh, that's right. I was a foreigner and he brought me in. I was an alien and God adopted me into his family. And when that happens, your heart melts and it stirs up the new nature inside you. And even though we still had to insist that there'd been an injustice done here, this is not our order. There's a whole new attitude. And you know why? Because I was sitting there thinking, Lord Jesus, this injustice that looks so big to me a minute ago because I'm so busy and I've got such a schedule here in my vacation. I suddenly realized this injustice is so tiny compared to the injustices that you received on the cross so I wouldn't be an alien. Don't you see? When you think of grace, when you understand grace, it begins to change your heart and it begins to nurture that nature within you and then the result is real patience, is real kindness, real behavior change. You don't just grow, you grow in grace. You can grow in grace. You can grow out of duty but you're growing mechanically. You're just building up. You can grow a stack of stones by throwing stones on the pile and the pile grows and you can grow your busyness and you can grow your perfect attendance pins and you can grow all sorts of things in Christian circles but that's not the same thing as growing wiser and deeper. It's not the same thing as growing more loving and more honest. It's not the same thing as growing more peaceful and more courageous because through the disciplines of the Bible study, and prayer and fellowship, and simplicity and purity and the sacraments, but through all those disciplines, the hard work, gradually, you work into your life your understanding of grace which taps the potential of this incredible new nature inside you and the result is vital behavior change, visible behavior change. Is that happening to you? Some of you are very busy in moral and religious activities. Are you growing like a pile of stones? Are you growing like a child growing into a mature adult? Growth is possible. Growth is gradual. Growth always must be gracious. Don't you see what's possible? The sweetness of grace, the partakers of the divine nature come to the table. Taste His grace today and grow. Who knows what's possible? Let's pray. Our Father, we do come to your table now and we want more than anything else to taste your grace, help us to see that we can grow in grace. Today, we pray that everyone here will receive that new life and nurture that new life unto eternity to the day that we cast our crowns before you lost in wonder, love, and praise. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
