If you have Bibles with you, it might be better for you to take a look at the passages that's given in the bulletin because from the last two chapters I pulled out a couple of verses of each chapter because I think it gives you two sides of a whole. And I'm going to read the passage and then we'll talk about it here. It's from Galatians 5, 10-13 and Galatians 6, 14-16. And this is Paul writing, I am confident in the Lord that you will take no other view. The one who is throwing you into confusion will pay the penalty, whoever he may be. Brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been abolished. As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves. You, my brothers, are called to be free. But do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather, serve one another in love. May I never boast, except in the cross, of our Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. Neither circumcision nor uncircumcision means anything. What counts is a new creation. Peace and mercy to all who follow this rule, even to the Israel of God. This is God's word.

And by the way, in the King James Version, the old King James Version, verse 14, which is printed here, is saying, may I never boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. In the old King James Version, it goes, Paul says, it's translated, God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And you're going to find today, because I remember, since I learned that verse in the old King James, that you'll find me at certain points going back and quoting it that way. May I never boast, except in the cross. God forbid that I should glory, except in the cross. Same thing.

From now until the end of the, until Easter, from now all the way through Lent, which begins in a little while, we're going to be talking each week about the cross and how the cross deals with all the important dimensions of our lives. This week we're going to talk about the cross and freedom. Next week the cross and forgiveness and so on. I was listening to, I got out my old Jesus Christ Superstar record, very old record, and in the theme song, there's a place where Judas sings, did you mean to die like that? Was that a mistake? Or did you know your messy death would be a record breaker? Remember? Did you mean to die like that? Was that a mistake? Or did you know your messy death would be a record breaker? And we're talking about the messy death, the record breaking messy death of Jesus for the next few weeks. I'd like to talk about the record breaking messy death of Jesus for the next few weeks. I'd like to talk about freedom and how the cross gives us the most nuanced and sophisticated answer to the problem, the modern problem of freedom. And take notes, or I know that when I get through here, I'm not going to deal with everything that I should. I'm not going to answer all the questions. I'm not going to handle all the passage that you have written in front of you. And the advantage you have over the other services, though you are the least of the services, you are the greatest of the services. Because, you have, you can do, we do questions and answers downstairs afterwards in the East Lounge, and you can go down and say, what does this verse mean? Why didn't you talk about that? And so on. Now, the modern problem of freedom, the way modern people define freedom, is self-determination without limits. Freedom is never having, always doing what you want, and never having to sacrifice what you want, because someone on the outside is forcing you to. Freedom is doing whatever you want. And the problem with that modern definition of freedom is that it doesn't really work out very well. If you want the quintessential example of it, is the interview with the French novelist, Francoise Sagan, some years ago, when she turned 50, somebody interviewed her. And of course, like most novelists, most people that live in, you know, Manhattan, or London, or Paris, and so on, she's obsessed with freedom. She's obsessed with freedom. The important thing is that you do what you want to do, and that you mustn't let others limit what you want to do. You see, that's what freedom is. And at one point, she was asked, did you have, or have you had, the freedom that you've wanted? And she thought about it, and she says, yes. Well, she says, of course, you're not free when you're in love, but fortunately, you can't be in love all the time. So, apart from when I'm in love, yes, I've been free.

Man, yikes. You see, the modern definition of freedom, if you're free by the modern definition, you cannot be in a love relationship without tension. You see what she means? If somebody, if somebodies say they love you, but they are not willing to sacrifice their desires for you, then you know they're not, they don't really love you. If they're not willing to sacrifice their love for you, they don't love you, in spite of what they might say. But, if the definition of freedom is to be able to do what you want without sacrifice, don't you see? She's right. By my definition of freedom, she says, you can't really be in love. And I imagine you certainly couldn't be married, because that wouldn't work. This is a tremendous problem, a huge difficulty. And the Bible gives the best answer the most sophisticated, I think, the most wise, the most brilliant answer to the modern problem by giving us a definition of freedom that is unique. It talks about it here. The Galatians, the book of the Galatians, Paul's book of the Galatians, is the number one book in the whole Bible on the subject of Christian freedom. See, he says, brothers, you're called to be free. And he's talking about what he calls the circumcision party, who are trying to, to limit the Galatians and have them lose their freedom. Now, the circumcision party was a group of people that came in after Paul. Paul had planted the Galatian church. It was his church. He had started it. But after Paul left, in came another party of teachers. They were called the circumcision party because they taught that the entire Old Testament set of regulations plus circumcision was necessary in order to be saved, in order to be accepted to God. And Paul writes the book of Galatians back, and in it you can see, you can summarize the two different positions, the circumcision party and Paul, like this. The circumcision party said, you must give to God a record of righteousness to be saved. You must give to God a record of righteousness to be saved. But Paul said, uh-uh, on the contrary, you have to receive from God a record of righteousness in order to be saved. What is the essence? To give a record of righteousness or to receive? Or we'll put it one more way. The circumcision party said, number one, believe in Christ, and number two, obey the law, and then, number three, you'll be accepted by God. But Paul said, uh-uh, number one, believe in Christ, and number two, be accepted by God, and number three, then, you'll obey the law. See, two radically different approaches. And Paul says, not just that the other approach is wrong, he says if you follow that other approach, you have lost your freedom. My gospel, which is his way of talking about his message, my gospel, if you don't keep hold of my gospel, you will lose the radical freedom that comes. From the gospel. Yeah. Now, how do you get that radical freedom? Paul says that there's two things you've got to do. If you want to get that radical freedom, if you want to keep that radical freedom that you get only in the gospel, you have to, number one, let the cross offend you. You have to feel the offense of the cross, and then, number two, you have to boast in the cross. And then, if you do that, you'll be free. If you see the offense of the cross, which is very important, and then, number two, if you accept the offensive message of the cross and embrace it and boast in it and glory in it, then you'll be free. Very important. Let me show you. Number one, first of all, Paul says that the circumcision party, the whole purpose of the circumcision teaching, was to get out from under the offense of the cross, to try to get out from under what the cross really teaches, which is deeply offensive. It was a way of trying to abolish the offense of the cross. You notice, by the way, he does not say that the circumcision party was trying to abolish the cross. They wanted the symbol. They wanted the cross. They said, yes, Jesus died for you. But they were abolishing the offense of the cross. They were trying to mute or trying to hide its main message. The main message of the cross is deeply offensive, says Paul. Now, why? What is that offensive message? Let me delineate it here. In 1 Corinthians 2,

Paul says that he found that many of the Jews were offended by the cross because they wanted power. And many of the Greeks were offended by the cross because they wanted wisdom. But he says to those who believe, both Jew and Greek, the cross is the power and the wisdom of God. But now that's interesting. What Paul is saying here is he says, you know, some people are offended one way, some people are offended another way. And if you look at the two ways that people were offended in Paul's time, you see the same kinds of people today. Here's what I mean. First of all, there's still the people who are offended by the cross because what they really think the world needs is wisdom. These are the intellectuals. Just like back in those days, that's who the Greeks were. That's who, at least the Greeks that Paul was talking about. The intellectuals and the educated classes have always found, I don't mean everybody, but I'm saying as a general rule, the educated and intellectual classes, have found the cross offensive. There's a visceral hostility, not to Jesus Christ, but to Jesus Christ crucified. The hostility on the part of educated people has not been to Jesus, oh no, but to Jesus Christ crucified. For example, Alfred Jules Eyre, one of the leading British philosophers of the early part of the 20th century, said this about the atonement. Now the atonement is the doctrine of the cross, how Christ made atonement for our sins on the cross. This is what he said. He says, the doctrines of sin and atonement are intellectually contemptible and morally outrageous.

Intellectually contemptible and morally outrageous. Bertrand Russell said about the doctrines of sin and atonement, he says, no one who is profoundly human can really believe God would punish sin like that. Now you know what you see, what do you see there? They're offended. They're threatened. They're visceral. You notice they're not saying you're wrong, they're saying, what? They're saying you're intellectually contemptible. You're morally outrageous. More than that, you're not profoundly human. Now there's a couple of guys that are not up for a nice conversation. How's that for kind of a conversation starter? You know, you sit down for a discussion and you say, well, Dr. Eyre, what do you think about the atonement? What do you think about the cross? And they say, well, I think that anybody who believes in the doctrine of the cross is intellectually contemptible and morally out, you know, morally reprehensible. What do you think? You know, that's not a very good way to start a conversation, is it? You know, Bertrand Russell says, yes, here's what I think about the people who believe in the cross. I believe that you're not really a human being if you believe in it. What do you think? See, these guys are not just saying, well, I think you're wrong. Let's talk about it. They're offended.

They're visceral. They hate the idea. Now, they don't hate the idea of Jesus. Oh, no. The idea of Jesus as a wise man. The idea of Jesus as a wise teacher. They've never minded that. As I mentioned before, when I got my Jesus Christ Superstar album out, I was listening to some of it, and I realized what they really had done is they have given us a picture of a Jesus who was a good man and a good teacher, but he started to believe his own press notices. He got too big for his britches, you see. And as a result, people started to call him a great, you know, savior. And that's the whole idea of Jesus Christ Superstar is if he'd just stayed a good teacher, everything would have been fine. Because in the beginning, the very first song Judas sings, and all the good you've done will soon be swept away. You've begun to matter more. You've become more than the things you say. See, that's the intellectual's view. The things Jesus says are important, but as soon as you talk about him being savior, as soon as you talk about him dying on the cross, that's, you see, intellectually contemptible. And here's the reason why. Because the educated intellectual classes think that the real problem is a lack of wisdom. We don't have the right political philosophy. We don't have the right educational philosophy. See, we don't... What we really need is wisdom. And so they love the idea of Jesus as a teacher. Oh, yes, the intellectuals have always said, look at Jesus' Sermon on the Mount. He says, make peace, be a peacemaker. He says, turn the other cheek. He says, you know, forgive everybody. And they say, if we could only just follow his teaching, then the world would be fine. Then the world would be fine. That's what we need. We need wisdom. And that's the reason they hate the cross. They're not offended by Jesus Christ, but by Jesus Christ crucified, because he's crucified. Because what the cross says is this. The cross says the problem's not wisdom, it's your wicked heart. If Jesus had just come telling us how to live, that would have been a compliment. That would have been Jesus' way of saying, aha, you see, your problem is you're basically good people, but you just don't see the way to live. I'm here to tell you the way to live. See, that's not insulting, and therefore there's nothing offensive about that. But if Jesus came to die, what he's really saying is the wisdom's not the problem. It's your evil, wicked, corrupt nature. And that's offensive. The cross is there to say that wisdom's not enough. Intellect's not enough. Being smart's not enough. And listen, friends, who's right here? Are the intellectuals right, or is the gospel right? It's so obvious. Want me to prove it to you? It's easy to prove. Look at all this debate in the 20th century, the great debate has been, is capitalism the right economic system for a country, or is socialism? Or is there something in between, some kind of compound in between? And you know what the answer is? If the human heart wasn't selfish, if the human heart wasn't full of self-interest, if the human heart was totally honest, if the human heart never exploited anybody else, it wouldn't matter what the system was. It would work fine. I'm not saying one system is bad. One system is as good as the other. I'm not trying to say that. I'm just trying to say they would all work. The problem's not a lack of wisdom. The problem is our hearts. The problem is sin. The problem is the radical selfishness of the human heart. And the cross offends people because it says, that's the problem. In fact, you know, you didn't, frankly, I hope nobody misunderstands me, you didn't even need Jesus to give us wisdom. Frankly, read Confucius, read Buddha, read them all. They basically say the same thing as the Ten Commandments. They say live honorably. They say be honest. They say honor your family. They say love your neighbor. They all say it. The problem is not wisdom. The Greeks wanted wisdom. The Greeks think that that's the way the wisdom comes. The intellectuals say if we can just get a plan, can we just get the wisdom, if we can just get the right philosophy, if we can just get the right economic system, that's not the problem, says the cross. If your hearts were okay, all the systems would work. See?

And we're offended by that because that's an insult. What the cross says is our hearts are so wicked and so selfish that nothing less than the death of the Son of God could save us and pay the penalty and deal with it.

The very presence of the Son of God on earth is an indictment of every one of us.

So you see, there's one group of people, the intellectuals, the educated people, the Greeks of Paul's day, who are offended because they think the problem is wisdom. Let me tell you somebody else who's offended. Paul says the Jews wanted a miracle. The Jews wanted power. And you see, these people really are represented not by our intellectual elites. There's another kind of person who's offended by the cross. It's the common man, the common person.

Now, the common person is not into expertise. The common person does not think that the world will be saved through the right philosophies. They're pretty cynical about the intellectuals. But what they do believe is some people are good and some people are bad. That's what the common person says. Some people are good and some are bad. Some are just no good. You've got to work hard. You've got to be a good father, be a good mother. You've got to be a good citizen. You've got to keep your nose clean. You've got to be a decent chap. That's what it means, you see. That's what will save us. That's what will make the world a better place. The real problem is all these bad people out here who are selfish, these bad people who are criminals, the violent, that's the problem. That's what the common person thinks. And Paul says, therefore, the cross is foolishness to them. And here's, I'll tell you why. You know what the cross says? If you hear it, the cross says there's no difference between the good and the bad. You who are really living a very nice moral life and this person over here who's down in the gutter, down in the depths, a person in prison, a person who's done terrible deeds, when it comes to your relationship with God, there's no difference. You all need the cross. It says in Romans chapter 3, great place, where it says, the righteousness of God, which comes by faith in Jesus Christ, to all who believe through his blood, for there is no difference. Right there. We all need the blood. We all need the death of Christ. We all need the cross. There is no difference. And the average common person says, that's reprehensible to talk like that. Well, see what the message of the cross is? Here's what it is. It's like this. Let's take three people and put them out on Montauk Point and say, swim to France. And one of the persons can't swim at all. One of the persons is just a normal swimmer and the other person is an Olympic gold medal swimmer. One of them will probably drown within 50 feet if you don't get them a rescue boat. Another one will drown within two miles if you don't get them a rescue boat. The other one will go 150 miles before he'll need a rescue boat, but they're all going to drown without a rescue boat. And therefore, there's a sense in which one is 150 times better of a swimmer than the other. But in another sense, they're all doomed. They're all the same. There is no difference. And the cross comes and says, some of you are much better than others. That's good. Be a good father. Be a good mother. Control your appetites. Be a scout leader. Be a good citizen. But when it comes to seeking to reach God, when it comes to seeking just to be good, when it comes to actually living an unselfish life and loving your neighbor as yourself and loving God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, you're all in the same boat. You're all going to need the cross to rescue you. Some of you will get 150 times further along, but you're all never going to come even close to it. That's the message of the cross. And the average common person says, forget it. Forget it. That's reprehensible. I want nothing to do with such a religion. You're telling me that in the end, some murder on death row, all he has to do is receive Christ through the cross and be accepted, and he'll be in the same boat as me? He's in the same situation as I am before God? And the cross says yes. And people say, well, you can stuff it then.

Don't you see? The cross is so democratic. It offends everybody. It doesn't just offend the elites. It offends the common person. It doesn't just offend the pagans. It offends the prudes. It doesn't just offend the left. It offends the right. It doesn't just offend the young. It offends the old. It offends everybody. For there is no difference. You can't put Christianity in these stupid categories, say it's traditional, it's not modern, it's conservative, it's not liberal. It offends everybody. And Paul says, here we come to it. If you want to be free, you have to see the offensiveness of the cross. You have to recognize what it says. Here's what's offensive, and here's why the circumcision party tried to abolish, not the cross, but the offensiveness of the cross. The cross says you've got to be saved by grace alone.

Grace. It doesn't matter what your situation is. For God to save you, it's an absolute mercy. It's complete charity. You can do nothing to merit it.

The gospel says no matter who you are or where you are,

some people are offended by the exclusiveness of the cross. They say, ah, what I hate about the cross is it sets off people who aren't Christians. Oh, no. Think of it this way. Somebody says, ah, what I don't like is the exclusiveness of the cross. I believe that all good people should be able to connect to God. But don't you see? You've set up an exclusivity. Because you're saying good people. What's great about the cross, there's a kind of exclusivity. Yes, you have to go to God through the cross, but don't you see how radically inclusive it is? When you say, I don't believe you need the cross, any good person can come to God. Yeah. What about the rest of us who aren't good? What about those of us who are failures? What about those of us who are hopeless? What about those of us who know how flawed we are? Don't you see the cross is not really fundamentally exclusive? It's so inclusive it says, no matter who you are, you can come. Your sins can be covered. You can be accepted. But in order to do that, you have to admit that you need it. You need that kind of radical provision. And that's deeply offensive. Not wisdom. Not moral achievement. Grace alone.

Now, the second thing you have to do is once you realize the offensiveness of the cross, you have to accept the offensive message and receive it and begin to boast in it. And let me just stop here at the hinge between the two points and show you now that the cross stands in utter judgment over every human being. Here's why. No one can stay neutral at the foot of the cross unless you don't understand it. In other words, the cross will either offend you deeply or transform you. Paul is saying you will either be offended by it or you will glory in it. You will boast in it. It will become the transforming center of your universe. But nothing in between is possible. Because its message is so radical, you'll either hate it or it will change your life. Well, somebody says, that's interesting. That's God though because that's not true of me. I mean, on the one hand, I'm not offended by the cross. Why? I think it's a beautiful symbol. I've always believed it was a beautiful, inspiring symbol. But I don't glory in the cross. I'm not transformed by the cross. Listen to me. If it's really true, you're not offended nor do you boast in the cross. You're not deeply offended nor do you glory in the cross. That only can mean that you don't get it. You don't get it. You don't see what it's really teaching. And as you value your soul and as you value your life, please find out what it really says.

By today, but not just today, don't stop until you understand it.

I talked to a woman today who said she cried all through the 11 o'clock service, the sermon, because she was deeply offended by the cross and she was so glad to be told that that's the step in the right direction.

You see, Peter thought he was serving God, but he was wrong. He was serving Jesus Christ. If you go through the first half of the book of Mark, you will see that Peter thought he was serving Jesus. He thought what it took to be a Christian was you just serve Jesus and you do what he says. And then Jesus starts in chapter 9, verse 1. He says, I want you to know, Peter, that I have to die. I have to be tortured and suffered and die. And what happens to Peter? Right away, he rebukes Jesus. He's offended by the cross. That's a step in the right direction. See? The point is, he thought just being good and serving Jesus was enough. And Jesus says, no. You have to, I have to die. Well, that's a tremendous insult. Peter didn't understand it. He didn't understand that salvation has to be purely and surely by grace. And until he was offended by the cross and saw the offensiveness of it, he couldn't start to boast. Now, what does it mean to boast in the cross? And here's what it means. Once you see that salvation is radically by grace, and totally and completely by grace, instead of being offended by that, though it is insulting, you decide, I accept that, and it changes everything. Paul says, I boast. Now, that word boast literally means what it says. It means to boast. What do you boast in? If something great happens to you, if you get the job of your dreams, if you get a letter from somebody who says, you are the very best I've ever seen at what you do, if you get some kind of compliment or some kind of award or some kind of accomplishment, you boast in it. Now, that doesn't mean you brag about it to other people. You're not so, hopefully, you're not so stupid as to not realize that there's nothing that people hate more than braggers. You know why people hate you to brag? Because they want to brag. I mean, you know, you only hate a boaster if you want to be the one who everybody's centering on. You know, the more self-centered you are, the more you hate self-centered people. The more proud you are, the more you hate proud people. The more of a bragger you really are in your own heart, the more you absolutely can't stand other people who brag. But you're not so stupid, you know that you can't. People won't like you. But you still boast. Oh, yes, you do. You boast in your heart.

Because what you boast in is what gives you this emotional strength to face the world. You say, this is what makes me special. This is what makes me great. This is what makes me, this is what makes me stick out. This is what makes me powerful. This is what makes me confident. What is Jesus, what is Paul saying? Paul is telling us that here's how you can find out what a real Christian is. A real Christian doesn't just believe in the cross in a general way. A real Christian doesn't just enjoy the cross or even just think it's inspiring. A Christian boasts in the cross. When Paul says, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of Christ, what he means is that there is nothing else, that he is obsessed with as a source of his own meaning. The cross is the fountain of everything he is, everything he's become, and everything he hopes for. It's the center of his universe. It's the thing that he pours over and thinks over. That makes it possible for him to do anything and to face anybody or anything. But here's what's so great about it. Why is it better? He says, I won't boast about anything else. Because if you boast in anything else, if you make anything else the thing you boast in, the thing that gives you power, the thing that gives you hope, and the thing that gives you confidence, if you boast in anything else, you're not free. If you boast in circumcision, if you boast in the law, if you boast in your pedigree, you're not free. Why not? Because you're in a fragile condition. You can boast in your figure, and some of you do, and I can see why. There's a lot to boast in, but it's on the way out. It's going to go. And there's always somebody with a better one. And if you boast in your accomplishments, you might fail next week, or somebody might come along that looks better than you. Don't you see? God forbid that I should boast in anything but this. A Christian is not just somebody who says, oh, I believe in the cross, or I like the cross. The Christian is somebody who goes crazy thinking about it, boasts in it. I was reading about a philosopher. I was reading an autobiography of this philosopher, and he obsessed with mountains for a number of years. He just absolutely loved mountains. He lived in Grand Rapids, Michigan, where there were no mountains, nothing bigger than the trash heap on the outskirts of town was the biggest mountain around. And every summer he would go to the mountains, he'd go to the Rockies, go to the Canadian Rockies, wherever. And he said he was obsessed with mountains. He gloried in mountains. He would not only go look at them, but he climbed them. He mastered them. He gazed at them. You know what it means to boast in the cross? Not, oh, I believe in it. To climb it. To master it. To think about it. Look, number one, a Christian is somebody who boasts in the cross intellectually. You see, a Christian goes intellectually crazy when he looks at the cross. When you look at the cross, you see on the cross, look, a Christian says, if it wasn't for the cross, the wisdom of the cross, I would either have a God who just overlooked evil, a God of love, or a God of holiness and absolute standards who was harsh and crushed people. But on the cross, the love and the holiness of God brilliantly fulfill each other. Now a Christian goes berserk thinking about that, how great that is, how unbelievable it is. On the cross, God gives us a gift that reminds us of God. The irreconcilable. Love and the law. You know, you have that, a Christian glories in the cross, especially when you see it formulated like John Newton in his great hymn, where he says, you know, John Newton in the hymn is looking at the cross, and he says, to see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. To see the law by love fulfilled, law, love, aren't they work against each other? That's the reason that Christians, you see, follow Christ, because they can absolutely love a sinful person and still absolutely hate the sin. Why? Because on the cross, they come together. The law is fulfilled by Jesus dying. The justice of God is fulfilled. The payment is made. Justice demands that obligations are paid, and we owe God, and there's a debt to be paid. Sin is a debt. It's paid. But at the same time, the love of God on the cross is absolutely fulfilled. And to see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. And a Christian goes crazy. Do you? Do you boast in the cross? Do you let it sink in? And then a Christian goes, personally boasts in the cross. Let me show you exactly how it happens. Let me give you a very practical example. Christian friends, your problems would not be over if you were boasting in the cross, but your problems would all be under control.

The next time you get scared or the next time you get afraid, I mean, I did say that, scared, the next time you get depressed, the next time you get angry, really scared, really depressed, really angry, ask yourself something and tell yourself something. First ask, what is it that I'm so afraid of losing? What is it? What is it that I'm so afraid of losing? That's why I'm afraid. That's why I'm angry. That's why I'm depressed. What is it that I'm so afraid of losing? And then look at it and say, God forbid that I should glory in this. The reason I'm not free is because I'm boasting in this. God forbid that I should boast in anything except the cross because this I will not boast in. It does not save me.

And I can tell you if you're a Christian, if you can say that, if you can think that, if you can work that through, you'll start to feel a freedom, you'll start to feel a joy, and you'll be boasting in the cross and you're capable of it and that proves you're a Christian.

That's the reason why we're free. That's the reason why Paul's able to say in the very verse after that, God forbid that I should boast, that I may never boast except in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ, through which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. There's your freedom. There's your freedom. Don't you see? Because the world doesn't have anything that I absolutely need, I'm free to confront it. Think of your cowardice. What makes you do things that are cowardly? Always something you've really got to have. See, a Christian is different. You may want professional success, you may want material comfort, you may want approval, but you don't boast in those things. And because you don't boast in those things, the world has nothing that you've got to have and you are free to confront it. There's courage there and there's compassion there. You're free to confront, you're free to love. A Christian who understands the cross looks at people out there and can't ever feel superior to anybody. There is no difference. The cross has sunk into your heart. There is no difference. You look at somebody, no matter how bad they seem to be, and you say, we're in the same boat. See, a Christian is, the world is crucified to you and you to the world. You don't think in worldly categories anymore. The world can't jerk you around anymore. Oh my.

Do you see the freedom that comes?

God forbid that any of us should glory except in the cross of Christ our God by which the world is crucified to us and we to the world. Let's pray. Father, as we receive the bread and the cup, help us to see we're receiving your broken son, your son on the cross, and help us to see we're receiving our freedom. Help us to boast in what he's done for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.