We want to continue our series on psalms. I have a cold and therefore I'm almost certain that I'm going to sound more lethargic than I should because the subject is so intensely important to me. Using the psalms in my prayer life has been one of the main ways in which God has helped me grow in the last five to ten years. And I want to talk to you about it, okay? So in the middle of the first page where it says, Praying the Psalms, notice three books that I think would be really important if you're going to carry out anything close to the program I'm going to admonish you to take up tonight. And one is Eugene Peterson's book, Answering God, the Psalms as Tools for Prayer. Secondly is Tremper Longman's book, How to Read the Psalms. And thirdly is Derek Kidner's two-volume, they're little volumes, they're inexpensive and small, they're paperbacks, his two-volume commentary on Psalms, an introduction and commentary. And if you have those four books, you should be able to do what I'm suggesting you do tonight. Here, let me set this up a little bit. If you don't grasp the gospel the way we talk about it all the time at Redeemer, If you don't really grasp the gospel of grace, this is what your prayer life looks like. First of all, the object or purpose of praying is to win God's favor and get the things in life you want. That's the reason you pray. You need to pray. You need to pray faithfully in order to get God to smile on you and give you the things that you want. So prayer is a kind of performance, a way of getting God to hear you. Secondly, the form of that kind of prayer is mainly petition, mainly crying out to God to give you the things that you think you need, mainly. You do repentance sometimes. You do praise, but it's all ways of leveraging the petition. And then lastly, the main stimulus or trigger to this kind of prayer is your problems. So look at the end of that first paragraph. In other words, in non-gospel-oriented prayer, in a prayer that is not really coming out of the confidence and a recognition of who we are in Christ, prayer is our needs set the agenda, our prayers are mainly responses to how we're feeling, and we tend to pray much more when we're in trouble than we're not. When bad things happen, you really pray a lot, and when things go well and you get busy, you don't pray that much. That's the mark of a prayer that's not coming out of the Okay, if the shoe fits. Now, if you do grasp, or to the degree you grasp the gospel of grace, that's all changed. The purpose and object of prayer, the primary purpose of prayer is fellowship. It's to go higher up and deeper into God. Just like any relationship, you just want to be with him. You want to know him more. Being with him and sensing his presence is an end in itself. Secondly, the basic form of this kind of prayer, gospel-oriented prayer, is more multifarious. In other words, it consists of adoration and repentance, confession and petition, and they interact. Adoration means, and we're going to look at these in the next few months, means enjoying God for who he is in himself. Repentance means a passion to see God's character revealed in yourself and in you. is wanting to see God's glory worked out in the needs of you and your friends and the city. But here's the most important thing. In gospel-oriented prayer, the purpose is fellowship. The form is multidimensional. But the main thing that stimulates prayer should be, real prayer should be God's Word. It shouldn't be your troubles and your needs and your problems is the main thing that triggers prayer. It should be God's word. Now, Eugene Peterson, I want you, I'm going to read this because it's so important and so interesting. Eugene Peterson says that if you pray to God, mainly in response to your problems, you haven't really learned the language of prayer the way you learned your original language. And you certainly aren't learning the language of prayer the way we're supposed to learn the language of prayer. Because we learn the language of prayer primarily not in response to our needs or problems, but in response to the revealed Word of God. Let me read you this passage. Essential to the practice of prayer is to fully realize the secondary quality. The first word is God's Word. We are never first, never primary. This massive previousness of God's speech to our prayers, however obvious it is in Scripture, is not immediately obvious to us simply because we are so much more aware of ourselves than we are of God. This is maybe a little opaque, but you'll see what I mean here. Our personal experience in acquiring language is congruent with the biblical witness and provides an accessible lab for verifying this. We learned language so early in our lives we have no memory of the process and generally would remember that we took the initiative in beginning to speak. But when you observe children, you confirm the obvious. Language is spoken into us. We learn language only as we're spoken to. We are plunged at birth into a sea of language, slowly, syllable by syllable, we acquired the capacity to answer. Mama, papa, bottle, blanket, yes, no. Except not my kids. They started with no, by the way. Okay. Mama and papa did not come before. No. Not one of these words was a first word. Question. Where then can we go to learn our language as it develops into maturity and answers God. Answer the Psalms. The great and sprawling university that Hebrews and Christians have attended to learn to pray the Psalms. Now, do you see what he's saying, first of all? He says, if you want to be sure you're learning to pray, you're learning to talk to God. You're learning how to communicate with God. You need to learn how to communicate with God and to learn how to pray the same way you learned your original language. And that is in response to God speaking to you. And the primary place historically in the Bible, doesn't mean the whole Bible is impossible. The entire Bible, of course, is a school of prayer, but in particular, the Psalms has been. Historically, the Psalms has been the main way, the main place that Christians and Jews over the years have learned how to pray. Look at this next paragraph. Let me just give you a couple of ideas. First of all, Psalms was Jesus' prayer book. The Psalms were the Jews' prayer book. And that is to say, this is the book of prayers. This is what they used in their worship. This is what they used in their personal devotion. The Psalms. It was Jesus' prayer book. Jesus learned to pray by using the Psalms. And we know that because he was constantly quoting them all the time. In fact, virtually his last words were a quote. He quoted from the Psalm 22 when he was dying on the cross. My God, my God, God, why hast thou forsaken me? Notice that? It was a prayer, but it was taken from the Psalms. He let the Scripture, even Jesus let the Scripture form him. He didn't just make it up. Secondly, do you know the whole monastic order, the whole monasteries, you probably don't have as, as Protestants, most of you have a rather dim view of monks and nuns and things like that perhaps, but let me just say that the monastic order, which is a very, very important and crucial movement of God in the history of the church, Psalms, the rule of St. Benedict, which is the main monastic rule of order, is based on the idea that you will sing, hear, or pray all 150 Psalms every week. Every week. You've got morning prayer and mid-morning prayer and noon, and, you know, there's...it depends on the version of the monastic order, but, of course, the monks work and they serve, but they get together and they have their There are prayers all during the day. And you get through all 150 prayer psalms a week. The Book of Common Prayer, the famous Book of Common Prayer of the Episcopal Church, gets you through the psalms every month. You have a certain number of psalms every morning and a certain number of psalms every night. And I'm going to tell you, I actually have that laid out for you here later in this handout. That has been something that I've been doing now for a number of years. And it's changed my life. That is to say, you get through the entire book of psalms every month. And John Calvin, the actual Presbyterian big daddy, did not come up with a rule for private worship going through the Psalms. But when he was reforming worship according to the word of God, corporate singing was completely dominated in his church by the Psalms. He believed that all the Psalms should be sung through by Christians all the time. There are a number of reasons why we don't use the psalms like that anymore. Here's four of them. First of all, there are, you know this, do you not? It is hard to find a psalm. There are a few. There's Psalm 23, you know. It's hard to find a psalm that as you're reading through, you don't come upon some verse that suddenly just grates on you, you know. You're moving along, long, like Psalm 139, you know. It says, oh, you know, you're everywhere, and if I make my bed in the farthest over across the sea, you are still there, and your knowledge is too wonderful for me, and you knit me together in my mother's wounds. And all of a sudden it says, oh, I hate your enemies with a perfect hatred, you see. I want to dash their teeth upon the ground. You know, you have the beautiful, you know, Psalm 137. On the willows there we hung up our liars, for our captors required. And then at the very end it says, Oh Babylon, blessed is he who dashes the heads of your little ones upon the rocks. Which is the way they, you did it to our kids, you took them by their feet, our infants, and you dashed their brains open upon the rocks, I'm going to do it to you. So you're moving through the Psalms, trying to have your quiet time, and you come upon these places like that, or Psalm 58 where it says, I'm going to bathe my feet, I'll be happy when I bathe my feet in the blood of my enemies. it's a problem. Another reason why we don't use the Psalms is because we don't know how, though Francis just actually gave you a very good example of how to do it, we don't know how to always read the Psalms and pray the Psalms in light of Christ. An awful lot of the joy of the Psalter and the ability to use the Psalter in your life spiritually is learning how to read the Psalms and pray the Psalms in light of Jesus. Thirdly, in general, we just aren't as biblically literate as we used to be, and the Psalms are just a kind of jungle out there. But last of all, Psalms are poetry. And I'll tell you, we do not know what to do with poetry. Proverbs are poetry too, though. It's different. But poetry takes reflection. You can't get poems the way you get other kinds of language. You have to sit and think and listen and think, and we're in a hurry. For all these reasons, we're not using the Psalms. But here's some reasons why we have to. First of all, and we already mentioned this, but this is very important. We do not choose God. God chooses us. That's what the Bible says, John 15, 16. Everything we do toward God is a response to God's initiative. Prayer, therefore, is primarily answering God. That's what Eugene Peterson says. You are learning to pray when, in response to a passage of Scripture in front of you, you pray. When you pray in response to something God says to you, you are learning prayer. You are learning to really communicate with God. Notice, for example, Psalm of 2 Samuel 7, God sends David a prophetic word, and then David responds with a prayer, and this is what he says, literally. He says, O Lord, you have spoken, and therefore I have found this prayer in my heart. See, that's how it's supposed to work. When you find prayer welling up inside of you in response to something you're reading in his word, then you know you're learning to pray. Then you are praying indeed, okay? Then you're praying to making up. So the Psalms, because they're both prayer and revelation, are the perfect ideal place to learn prayer. Secondly, the Psalms take you into your own heart a thousand times faster than we would ever go if we left to ourselves. And I don't know if I need to unpack this. Well, look up here. Let me just tell you what this paragraph is saying rather than trying to read it. Religious people are moralistic about their feelings. That is to say, there's all kinds feelings that you've got that you don't even admit. We don't want to admit the darkness of our feelings. We don't want to admit our anger. We don't want to admit our fear. We don't want to admit our cowardice. We don't want to admit our feelings. Because we're good Christians. We're not supposed to have feelings like that. So religious people tend to deny their feelings. Whereas secular people tend to love their feelings and see the expression of feelings as a means to, as an end in itself. Self-expression of feelings is an end in itself. When you come to the Psalms, you've got neither. Because when you come to the Psalms, you've got an incredible range of every feeling under the sun. And the psalmists are not in any way repressing their feelings. They are not in denial. Their feelings are out there for you. And they're amazing at how candid they are and how they blurt it out. In fact, it makes you cringe. That's the reason why when they say, I want to bathe my feet in the blood of my enemies. You say, oh, how awful. You don't admit it. That's how you feel. You don't let yourself feel that way. The psalmists, on the one hand, unlike religious people, are very open about their feelings. On the other hand, unlike secular people, they do not express. They don't just ventilate their feelings. They take them to God. pour their feelings out before God till they change or till they understand them. And that's what the Psalms will teach you how to do. And here's what's interesting about the Psalms. If you, in a regimented way, go through the Psalms regularly, you will go to Psalms of thanksgiving and praise when you feel like spit. And you will go to Psalms of repentance and lamentations when you're feeling good. The Psalms will discipline you. The psalms will take you through an emotional range, the human emotional range, and teach you and get you ready for it. It's tremendously helpful to read a psalm about thanksgiving and praise when you don't feel any kind of thanksgiving in your heart at all. It's tremendously good to see a lament and to see a person whose life is absolutely shattered when you feel like your life is going pretty well. You see, it lifts up the people who are too deflated, it pulls down and deflates the people who are too inflated. Psalms will take you deep into your own heart, take you deep into the human heart, and most of all, the Psalms will give you the real God, not a God that you make up, but the real God, a real God who is... Boy, when you read the Psalms, you realize, you know, what Mr. Beaver said, not in the movie, but in the book, about Jesus. Safe? Who said anything about him being safe? Of course he's not safe, is good. I mean, what a summary of the Psalms. We think if you're safe, you're good. If you're good, you're safe. If you're not good, you're not safe. But that's not God. Now, how do we actually get to it? And in seven minutes, I'll give you some ideas. One thing you're going to have to learn to do, and this is where both Tremper's book

and the Derek Kidner little commentary will help you enormously. One is if you're going to get and you're going to pray in response to the Psalms, you're going to have to deal with those, what's called the imprecatory Psalms. You're going to have to deal with all those sections where the Psalmist is talking about how angry he is at his enemies and injustice and how he wants to, you know, basically he wants them to be, you know, to be like a stillborn baby and a slug that is a... How do I know the imprecatory Psalms so well? I don't know. But they're very, very vivid. then what are you going to do about it? Derek Kidner helps a lot, and so does Tremper, but let me just, this is important for you to realize. On the one hand, to say how terrible these people are, how they're crying out, you know, for vengeance, they're not crying out for vengeance, they're crying out for justice. And if we get to the place where we're such namby-pamby modern people that we don't care about the cries for justice and the anger at injustice and something's wrong, These cries for justice are important, and there's nothing wrong with them. But we just have to remember something, and that is that the psalmists live on the other side, you know, on the far side away from the cross. They have not understood what we understand about what God is doing about justice. First of all, they didn't understand as well as we do that if God brought justice down into the world, we'd all be dead. And rather, justice came down in Jesus. God let Jesus, his little one, was dashed upon the rocks for us so that at the end of time, Jesus will make everything straight. Meanwhile, we pray for our enemies now. We don't ask for God to dash them on the rocks. And you have to understand how to do that. It can be done. Secondly, there are despondent psalms and laments. There are places where the psalmist says things that just seem awful. Like if you get to the end of Psalm 39 and the end of Psalm 88 and there's no ever. And here's a great little talk. Derek Kidner says, the prayer, when you get to these despondent psalms, I love this last line. Look at the last sentence, Derek Kidner under number two. Derek Kidner says, the very presence of such despondent prayers in Scripture is a witness to God's understanding. He knows how men speak when they're desperate. That has been a tremendous comfort to me. When I see some of the psalms in which, you know, they don't end the right way. wait a minute, they're not supposed to end like that. Why are you so despondent to the very end? Why are you in despair? And why is this even in the Bible? Derek Kidner says, isn't it wonderful that God shows that he understands? He knows how we feel when we're desperate. And he recognizes the difference between Peter saying, depart from me in Luke 5, and the townspeople after, after, you know, the casting out of the Gadarene demoniac, the townspeople trying to tell Jesus to please leave them in Matthew 8. There's a number of places where the psalmist says, get away from me, God, like at the end of Psalm 39. He just says, get away from me, God. And that's how the psalm ends. It's a helpful psalm. Every month I get past that psalm, and I look at that, and I say, here's God who's willing to have it in the Psalter. He knows that sometimes we just lose it. And he also knows, we also know what? end, God will not turn his face away from us, Psalm 39, because he turned his face away from Jesus. So he doesn't have to, even when we yell at him like that. Now, when it comes to learning how to look at Christ in the Psalms, I'll just suggest that you read this paragraph and read Tremper and even read Derek Kidner. Francis did a pretty good job of it there. But for example, when you get to a Psalm of Lament, just remember, don't just look at it personally and say, oh yes, have a problem too. Say, Jesus suffered for me. When you say a psalm of refuge, where the psalm is saying, I take refuge in you, say, yes, and Jesus is my ultimate refuge. In other words, there's always a way of making sure that you think about how that psalm works in light of Jesus. And it's crucial to do that, otherwise you're not going to pray it properly. But finally, finally please turn over to page five and here's my here's my practicals because I actually want to do some of this tonight with you here's two ways to use the psalms to uh as a leverage for prayer number one it's what's been called by some people stream prayer and stream prayer means generally it means you have to study a psalm to make sure that you don't if you read a Psalm through and you find a verse or two that you don't understand at all, or it's very difficult to understand, you can either leave it out or you get out your commentary and check it out until you think you understand what the Psalm's about. But either or, at some point, you can try praying the whole Psalm through. Now, I don't do this with all the Psalms every day. I don't want you to think that. I'll tell you what I do in a minute. But stream prayer works like this. One is you can either pray some of the petitions right to God because they are petitions. So, for example, in Psalm 116, in Psalm 116, verses 17 and 18, this is what we read. Psalm 116, it says, I will sacrifice a thank offering to you and call on the name of the Lord. I will fulfill my vows to you, O Lord, in the presence of his people. Well, you can just pray can say, Lord, I am thankful. And I have taken promises. And I'm going to fulfill my promises. Help me because I haven't done like I wanted to do. So in other words, sometimes you can take some of the petitions and just pray them. But in many other cases, you have to take the statements that are there and turn them into petitions. So for example, verse 1, it says, I love the Lord for he heard my voice and heard my cry for mercy. And what do you do there? You say, I love you because so many times you have heard my voice. Think about the last three or four times he answered a prayer that you didn't think he would answer. And off you are, see? So stream prayer is either taking a petition and praying it to God or taking something in the psalm, a verse in the psalm, and turning it into a prayer. In other words, petition or adore or repent on the basis of that. And that's what I would like to suggest doing tonight. Remember how I said before, there's basically three kinds of prayer. Call it four if you break adoration out, if you break thanksgiving out of adoration. But generally speaking, like for example, Pam. Pam was going to Africa. And I'd like us all to pray together Psalm 16 in about five minutes. I'm going to turn around and have you. The first petition in Psalm 16 is, keep me safe, O Lord. Okay. Keep me safe, O God, for in you I take refuge. that. Well, one is you can start with adoration and say, Lord, I praise you that you alone are our refuge. And then you can also confess and say, Lord, I take refuge in other things. There's other things I look to more than you to keep me safe, but only in you am I safe. And then another thing you can say is, you know, Lord, though we're asking that in a particular case, you would keep me safe. I have a financial problem or I've got a physical problem or, you know, they found a tumor, and I don't know whether it's malignant or not. Oh, please keep me safe, oh, Lord. At a certain point, you may want to also pray it like this. Lord, I know that if I am taking refuge in you, I am ultimately safe no matter what happens. Only when you're my refuge will I be safe whether this tumor kills me or not. So now, what have you just done? You just prayed through the verse 1. Now go to verse 2. And if you find yourself praying in response to the Psalms, you will find that you're learning how to pray indeed. Now, besides stream prayer, here's the last thing. This is what I do every day. I have here the schedule that you find in the Book of Common Prayer for praying all the Psalms, for looking through all the Psalms. In the morning of the first day of the month, read one to four. One to five. Oh my gosh, I can't believe it. I know, I just did this, of course. It's one to five, that's a mistake. And in the evening, it's six to eight. If you find any other mistakes, tell me about it. Or you can get out a book of common prayer someplace and check me. What do I do ordinarily is I certainly don't try to pray. By the way, that takes a long time. If you would try to stream prayer by praying all the way through all the verses of all those psalms, well, maybe you should go into a monastery, okay? However, what I usually do is I read them. And month, it becomes easier and easier to remember the basic point of the Psalms, and you've worked through your problems with various verses. And what I usually do is, as I read through, I wait for one verse someplace to strike me. I take that verse when I'm done reading it, and I adore God, I confess to God, and I petition to God, and I give you ways to do that in here. I'll write it down. I take five minutes to meditate on the verse. How can I adore God for what this verse says. How can I confess a sin to God on the basis of what this verse says? How can I petition God on the basis of what this verse says? How can I thank God for how Jesus in some ways sheds light on this verse or fulfills this verse? So I take five minutes. I write out my meditations. And then I pray them. And as I pray through them very often, you really sense God coming near. And that's what we do. Morning and evening. And I told you last time we met. it's important to have a time of evening prayer. And I wouldn't even be able to get to my evening prayers because I tend to be tired at night, except I don't want to miss my three or two psalms I'm supposed to read. And when I read through those things rather quickly, then at least it brings me up short and makes me reflect on my day. So evening, about 15 minutes. Morning, about a half an hour. And you can do this. Here's what I suggest doing tonight. Right now, I mean. Right, right now. Psalm 16. I want everybody to turn around. like we've been doing every other month, into groups of three or four, and I would like you to read, one person, read the psalm through. And then, and this will be a little harder than you've done, what we've done in the past, but so let's see how it goes. What I'd like you to do is, very spontaneously, no one leading, no one saying, okay, let's move to verse three now, but very spontaneously, pray through the psalm. So somebody can, you know, I already told you how to pray, keep me safe, O God, for in you I take refuge. But I'm sure there's about a hundred other ways to do it. I said, O Lord, you are my Lord. Apart from you, I have no good thing. That is to say, O Lord, you know, you've got to be the number one thing in my life, and I know that you're only number three. Okay? As for the saints who are in the land, they are the glorious ones in whom is all my delight. You can either just spend some time thanking God for the friends that God's given you, the Christian friends, and the people without whom you never would have made it, Christian brothers and sisters. Or you might actually confess and say, you know, I hardly, you know, I've been too busy to really go deeper into my spiritual friendships here in the city. Four, the sorrows of those who increase, who run after God, other gods, you know, in other words, idols drive us. If you go to Redeemer, you certainly know a little bit about idolatry. You shouldn't have problem praying Psalm verse 4, and on you go. By the way, the only thing that might come up is verse 6. The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Surely I have a delightful inheritance. Probably what that means is because when Israel came together, everybody got an allotment of land. Remember, when Israel got to the promised land, every family, every tribe, every clan got an allotment of land. And what regardless of how much money I've made, how little money I've made, how well things are going in the farm, regardless of that, God is my wealth. So what I'd like you to do now is consider at least using this psalm as a way of booting off and praying together for about 25 minutes. Okay? Do what we always do. Find three, two or three other people, so your groups of three or four. One person read the psalm through carefully and then out loud, I mean, and then pray. Thank you.