Exactly a year ago, almost to the day, I think it was the 25th of June last year, not the 24th, that would figure, wouldn't it? Exactly a year ago, when we had a fairly small number of folks, maybe 60, 70 people coming out to evening services here in this church, while I was still commuting, but I had just gotten here and just moved here, we had a communion service, the first one we'd ever had. And when we had that communion service, which really touched a lot of people and made a lot of major changes in people's lives, we looked at this same passage. Now, why would I come back to it? Part of it because it's interesting to come back after a year and look at something after so much water's been under the bridge, but also because what I like about this passage is it shows that everything, basically, in the Bible, even a passage like this, which doesn't seem to be about him, everything in the Bible is about Jesus. Everything. And that's what we're here to talk about. In fact, in some ways, that's what the church is about. Here at the church, we're not out to bring you to a church. We're not out to bring you to a minister. We're not out to bring you to a philosophy or a style or a kind of music or anything like that, though obviously there's a lot of things that we're not out to bring you to. There's a lot of things about Redeemer that might be distinctive to you. We're out to bring you to Jesus. Everything is about him. The music's about him. The preaching's supposed to be about him. The church is supposed to be about him. It's all about him. It would be good for us to revisit this passage. Certainly a lot of you weren't here. In fact, what's really exciting is a lot of you were not believers this time last year. And we're going to look at this again. And let me just read this passage. Just the verses 1 to 7. A weird, unusual... An extremely important passage in the history of our salvation. Chapter 17, 1 to 7. The whole Israelite community set out from the desert of sin, traveling from place to place as the Lord commanded. They camped at Rephidim, but there was no water for the people to drink. So they quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses replied, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? But the people were thirsty for water there, and they grumbled against Moses, and they said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to make us and our children and livestock die of thirst? And then Moses cried out to the Lord, What am I to do with these people? They are almost ready to stone me. The Lord answered Moses, Well, walk on ahead of the people. Take with you some of the elders of Israel and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile and go. I will stand there before you by the rock at Horeb. Strike the rock, and water will come out of it for the people to drink. So Moses did this in the sight of the elders of Israel, and he called the place Massah and Meribah because the Israelites quarreled and because they tested the Lord, saying, Is the Lord among us or not? And in 1 Corinthians 10, it says, They were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and they all drank the same spiritual food, ate the same spiritual food, and drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. These things happened to them as examples and were written down as warnings for us on whom the end of the ages have come. You see, Paul very specifically says, If you want to understand the Bible, everything's about Jesus. It's written not just for them, but it's written for us, on whom the ends of the ages have come. The rock was Christ. Now, as I go on, I want you to know two other things. There's two things. The insights on this passage I'm deeply indebted to two people about. One is C.S. Lewis, who wrote a little essay called God and the Dock. And the other one is Edmund Clowney, who's written a book called The Unfolding Mystery. And if anybody wants to know more about this, tell me afterwards, and I'll tell you where to find those things. God, in this passage, is teaching something to us. Paul says so. These things were written for us, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. So, what does he say? He is teaching us three things I want here. Three things. Number one, that the world is a wilderness. God often, in the New Testament, talks about the world, the entire world, and our existence as Christians in this world, as a wilderness experience. That's something that the New Testament picks up on, and it is clear as can be. The world's a wilderness. You know, our friends that went to central Russia and saw what kind of lives those folks have lived there. There's a lot of talk about how the Baltic states are coming into freedom, and that's great, but you know, these are people that have lived virtually in slavery for ages and ages. In fact, as you look around the world and you read history, you realize, where have people been run? Where have people been relatively free of oppression and tyranny? Where have people been relatively comfortable? Where have people been relatively free of wars and plagues and pestilence? You begin to realize that we actually, those of us here, in this country living at this time, live almost in a bubble. We live in the easiest time and place in the history of the world. And yet, even though that we don't worry about bubonic plague, and we don't worry that much, much about oppressive totalitarian governments, and even though we don't worry about these things, even though we live in some ways in the most comfortable place and time in history, and yet, we're all terribly unhappy, aren't we? Just about all of us. An awful lot of us are deeply unhappy, too. Even in this place, in this time, the world's a wilderness. And God recognizes that. He sent His children of Israel through the wilderness, and the New Testament constantly says, that is an example for us. That's the way we live. That is you. And I recognize that. Secondly, God has opened a fountain for people in the wilderness. There is a fountain open. He knows that we will die in the wilderness unless He opens a fountain. A fountain of joy, a fountain of strength, a fountain of life. So first, the world's a wilderness. Secondly, God's opened a fountain in that wilderness. And thirdly, this fountain is only available because God Himself entered the wilderness and received our punishment. Or, better put, that He absorbed the suffering Himself. He absorbed the judgment that evil deserved. Those are the three things. You see them at the top of your sheet, right? Now, if we want to understand more about these three principles, we have to take a look at this fascinating passage. It is a juridical passage. It shows us, first of all, that there's a lawsuit lodged, and that there's a trial, and that then there's an execution. Verse 1 and 3 talks about the lawsuit. Verse 4 and 5 talks about the trial. Verse 6 and 7 talks about the execution. It's all there. Some of you who were here last year remember that. It's an incredible passage. Let's take a look at it. First, because Moses has been following the Lord's commands, they've come to a place where nobody has any water, and they're upset. They're hungry. Some of them feel like they're facing death. And, because of that, they begin to rail against Moses. They're suffering, and they can't understand why they're suffering. I have a little quote down here from Dorothy Sayers in Letters to a Post-Christian World, a great quote. She says, It seems to me quite disastrous that the idea should have gotten about that Christianity is an otherworldly, unreal, idealistic kind of religion. On the contrary, it is fiercely and harshly realistic. Put another way, no other religion, no man-made religion, and all religions but Christianity are essentially man-made, no man-made religion can figure out suffering. None of them. No man-made religion can integrate it coherently into its understanding of the world. No one. Christianity is actually the only realistic religion. And if you study other religions, you realize that other religions do not know what to do with suffering. They have got an absolutely totally, a totally inadequate theologies of suffering, because they just don't hold up to reality. If you go over to Buddhism, if you go to the East, you will see that they will tell you that suffering is an illusion. The reason you suffer is you think that you're an individual. The reason you suffer is because you don't see that you're one with the One, you're one with all of reality, and because you think you're an individual and you think of individual needs, you suffer, but your suffering is an illusion. And so what you have to do is go to the East, you get one with the One, and through meditation you get over suffering. Suffering is an illusion. Now, I don't think that's the way to deal with suffering. I don't think the way, by the way, counselors will tell you that the worst thing you can do to deal with a problem is to deny that it's there. It's an illusion. That's one of the ways in marriage that people deal with conflicts. One of the ways is just to clam up and to refuse to talk about it. But the other way is to absolutely deny it, and say, there's no problem. He's not really... I mean, he'll get over it. There's no sweat. And they won't talk to their spouse in a realistic way. That's not the way to deal with that, a problem. It's not the way to deal with suffering. It's the ostrich approach to suffering. If I stick my head in the sand, it's gone. It's not. I mean, in some cases it's pretty ludicrous. Mark Twain used to make fun of Christian scientists. Christian science actually has an awful lot of Eastern understanding of suffering. And they say, you know, suffering is a matter of your thinking and mental attitude. And Mark Twain says... Oh, I forget where we were. I was reading one of his poems. He says, you know, I have a good friend, a Christian scientist. Every time I went over to see him last week, he said, I'm sorry I can't come out to see you because my wife thinks she's sick. And then I would go by on Monday and on Tuesday, he'd say, I'm sorry, my wife thinks she's sicker. He says, finally on Wednesday, he said, I'm sorry, I can't come out today. My wife thinks she's dead. And he would make a lot of fun of that. And of course, you know, it is something you can make fun of. But... He caught up with you. Mark Twain was a humorist. It's supposed to be fun. But of course, it was rather black humor. That's not the way to deal with suffering. Now, there's another way to deal with it. And Western religions, including Islam, by and large, deal with it this way. They deal... It's the religion... And I'd say a majority, almost, of Christians that I know deal with it like this too. It's the theology of Job's friends. Job's friends said, suffering is really not a mystery. Good people, God gives good lives to. Bad people, God sends suffering to. If you're suffering, you must be bad. If you're not suffering, it means you're pleasing God. And that's why we have little jokes about it. Right? So, if, for example, something goes well, or you win the lottery, or something goes your way, you say what? I must be living right. That's the theology of Job's friends. And it doesn't work. It doesn't work. I mean, at least it acknowledges the reality of suffering, but it doesn't work. I went to a place... I forget when this was. Last spring, I heard a very, very wealthy man, who's a fine Christian fellow, get up and give what I consider a fairly misleading illustration. He told a true story about himself. When he was just a young buck still coming up, and he wasn't a triple billionaire the way he is now, and when he was coming up in life, at one point, he was with the boss, and the boss told him a dirty joke. And as a good Christian, this man sat there and refused to crack a smile. And the boss, who was a very bawdy person anyway, said, What's the matter? Don't like that joke? Don't think it's funny? And he says, No, sir, I don't think it's funny. I think it's a dirty joke, and I don't think it's funny at all. And so the guy sort of chewed on a cigar. You can see this story. And he says, You got guts. And within a month, he had a major promotion on his hand, and off he went. And he says, You see? You know, you see? Just stick to your guns and do the right thing, and God will take care of you. And I know for a fact that there are people who have tried that, and that month, they lost their job. Every bit as godly as that fellow. The theology of Job's friends does that. It doesn't work. And Christianity alone understands the wilderness. Christianity alone not only acknowledges that good people suffer, not only acknowledges that here's Peter in prison, and he prays, you know, his friends pray, and he's sprung by angels. Hey, that's the way it's supposed to be. Here's John the Baptist in prison, and probably his followers pray for him, and he's beheaded. Wait a minute. Huh? Wait. But you see, Christianity doesn't have to be like that. You don't have to have a problem with that, because at the very heart of it, not at the periphery, it's not something in your little theology books that say, Oh, yeah, here's a couple ideas on why the good suffer. At the heart of Christianity is the best man, in fact, the only good man in history, suffered undeservedly. And through it, God brought forth the kingdom of God. I mean, you know, the idea of good people experiencing undeserved suffering is downtown Christianity. It's right in the center. It's not at the periphery. It's at the heart of it. And therefore, suffering that comes into our lives does not just come into the lives of bad people, but it comes into the lives of all kinds of people. And it doesn't come necessarily with rhyme or reason, except that we know that when it comes, it's because God is trying to do something redemptive in us, just like he did with God, with Jesus. Same thing. And that's why, for example, God says to the Israelites, his treasured possession, the people he loves the most, he says, Remember how the Lord your God led you all the way in the desert these forty years? To humble you and to test you and to know what was in your heart. To teach you, man does not live by bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. What's that mean? It means that when suffering comes into your life, it can have a wonderful effect on you, but it doesn't have to. In fact, suffering will polarize you. That means that when suffering comes into your life, or any suffering, a big one or a little one, there's a crossroads there, and it will either make you a harder, nastier person, a more bitter, sad person, or it will make you a godlier, greater, more loving, more tender-hearted, more compassionate person, but it will not leave you where you were. You cannot stay where you were. No way. Put it another way. When suffering comes into your life, either you use it to make God look big in your eyes, and you become small, so you depend on him and love him and serve him. In other words, either suffering will lead you to stand before God, and stand before him humbly, or your suffering will turn you into someone quite proud and hard. In other words, suffering could make you big in your eyes, make you self-absorbed, make you full of self-pity, and next thing you know, instead of it magnifying God in your eyes and you standing humbly before him, you have magnified yourself in your eyes, and you are summoning God to stand before you. And you are saying, I want an explanation. One way or the other, suffering will either make God big, and you stand before him, or make you big in your own eyes, and you will have him stand before you, and demand an explanation. And that's the way things are. You know, the sun, the same sun

that softens wax, hardens clay. It all depends on what kind of heart you've got. Is it clay or is it wax? Is it essentially out for you, or is it essentially out for him? Suffering will push you one way or the other. And I put down here, I'll just read the underlining, so we see where we are. Either you will become smaller in your eyes, and he larger, and you stand before him, or you will make God stand before you, and you will accuse him, sue him, put him in the dock as a defendant. Now, we see which way the Israelites went. They were suffering their lives. They were in the wilderness, like all of us are, and they came to a particularly narrow squeeze. And they didn't see a way out, like some of you tonight, perhaps. What did they do? Which way did they let their suffering push them? It wasn't the right way. No, you're right. It almost never is. And it says here, they picked a quarrel with Moses. See what it says here in verse 2? It says, so they quarreled with Moses and said, give us water to drink. Now, this word quarrel is a very critical word to understand. It's a word that really means a lot more than just nagging, or a lot more than just arguing. Instead, it is a word that means to lodge a complaint or to make a charge. It's used a number of places in the Scripture to mean that. To lodge a complaint or to make a charge. And it was a serious charge, because Moses comes to God and says, they want to stone me. Now, you see, that means the charge was a capital offense. Now, the only capital, there's a number of capital offenses, but probably this is before the giving of the Mosaic Law, in which there were a number of capital offenses. So probably it was either they were accusing him of blasphemy against God, which I doubt, or they were accusing him of treason. In other words, that he had betrayed the nation. And so that's how they were going about it. They were saying, look, you killed us. Our bones are going to bleach in the sun. We're all going to die here because of your criminal stupidity. You have destroyed us. You have betrayed the nation. You're guilty of treason. And if we're all going to die anyway, we might as well start with you. It would be the first bones that are bleaching out here. And they lodge a complaint. They're suing him. But Moses knows that they're not really suing him. Moses knows that they're really angry at somebody higher up. And that's why he says, why do you put the Lord to the test? Now, what Moses means is simply this, that underneath all of our complaining about our circumstances or our superiors or whatever, underneath there's a subtle kind of subconscious suing of God going on. Because we're just like they are. See, they came and they decided our exodus is not going right. And we believe we know how it ought to go. And we want to be in charge. That's treason. It wasn't Moses that was doing treason. They were being treasonous. They were saying we want to be in charge of our nation again. Whereas the king of the nation, God, is the only one that can make those decisions. Now, we ourselves do something very similar. Don't we do it? Aren't we unhappy with our pilgrimage? Aren't we unhappy, a lot of us, very unhappy with the way in which the pilgrimage is going? Aren't some of us thinking, by this time in my life, I should know what I want to do. By this time in my life, I shouldn't be alone. You see, hasn't there been an awful lot of subtle suing of God going on? Because it's subtle because most of us intellectually know how silly it is to get into the car of our lives and to kick God out of the driver's seat saying, get out of here. Give me the wheel. You're making a mess of everything. You're going to wreck the car. Get in the back seat. Well, you can't say, wait a minute, this is the Lord of the cosmos who stretches out the earth as a canopy. To whom will you compare me? He says. And of course, ah, intellectually we know that, but that's not how we operate. At a very, very deep level, we're quarreling. At a very deep level, we are lodging a suit. And people do that. Now, even Christians do it, but plenty of people do it. You know, I was watching the old movie Shenandoah where Jimmy Stewart, you know, the proverbial American farmer, is being told by someone, some woman person, you know, in those movies, the women are religious, you know, and that's fine for them, you see. Poor people are religious, that's fine for them. But if you're a man and if you are smart, you're not religious. That's the way the media basically, it's very patronizing toward both women and poor people, by the way. But in this particular movie, at some point, some woman folk person says to Jimmy Stewart, well, you got to thank God for the grub. Oh, well, so any of you remember this? He gets down and says, well, Lord, we planted this and we fertilized this and we watered this and we broke our backs harvesting this and then we cooked it, but I guess we have to thank you for it anyway, so amen. And you know, that's a subtle, that's suing God. That's saying, why do we have to be listening to you when actually, how stupid that is. Where do you get the hands to do that? Where do you get the eyes to do that? Where do you get the brains to do all that harvesting? Did he earn that? Of course not. But we have a tendency to blame our problems on the man up, oh yeah, in fact, there's a great, on the top of the, on the back, there's a man named Gunther Rutenborn who did a play, wrote a play at the end of World War II called The Sign of Jonah. And in that play, the German people are being confronted with the reality and the horror of the Holocaust. And somebody says, who's responsible for this? So what happens is the housewives say, well, I was just listening, I was obeying orders. My husband, blame my husband. And the husband said, I was just listening to the soldiers. Blame the soldiers. And the soldiers saying, I was just listening to the sergeant. Blame the sergeant. And the sergeants start blaming the, you know, the lower grade officers. And everybody starts blaming the higher ups and the higher ups and the higher ups. And suddenly in the play, suddenly everybody realizes the real answer. They keep going up, it must be up, it must be up, it must be up. And finally, suddenly they say, wait a minute, we know who's to blame for this messed up world and the suffering in it. It's God. It's got to be God. We're just doing things the way he said they should be done. We're just doing things the way he set things up. Underneath our suits of our bosses and our superiors. In fact, in many cases, even those of us who tend to get down on ourselves and recriminate ourselves, we're actually mad at him. We're suing him. What does that mean? That means there's got to be a trial. Hey, if there's a charge, there's got to be a trial. And what Moses is told to do by God is to do it. He's told Moses to take two things to the trial. Elders and a staff. Now the staff or the rod that Moses was told to take is a unique symbol. Not only was it a general symbol in ancient times of authority. In fact, you know, the Romans had a symbol of authority in which a lot of rods were all tied together in bundles. And a bundle of rods was called a fascist, from which we get our word fascist. It means power and authority. But more than that, this rod was what God told Moses to strike Egypt with in order to throw his judgmental plagues on Egypt. In other words, it was a symbol of God's judicial authority and power. So God has told Moses to take the rod. That means somebody is going to get it. That's a symbol of execution. And he takes the elders, and the elders are at court. You only get the elders together when they're going to make some kind of decision. And so it's very clear that God is saying in response to these very serious charges, there's going to be a trial. But whose? You know, the people of God, the people of Israel, are guilty of treason. And they justly deserve to be cut off at this point. But they are accusing Moses and, subtly, God of treason. So somebody deserves a trial. But who? And here's the thing. Here's the incredible answer. In the most astonishing statement in this passage, and one of the most astonishing statements in the Bible, God says in verse 6, Take with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff which you struck the Nile with, and go, and I will stand there before you by the rock of Horeb. Now, this translation says by the rock. Some of your translations will say on the rock. I think that on the rock is probably better. It doesn't matter. The key thing is, nowhere else anywhere in the Bible, is God ever said to stand before somebody. To stand before someone means that you are coming before a superior. One Hebrew scholar that I read in studying for this says that the word usually means, almost always means, a servant standing before his master, waiting either for a command or a sentence of judgment. This is absolutely astonishing and unbelievable. It is unprecedented that God would say, I will go and stand before you. In other words, there is a prisoner's dock in every courtroom. There is a defendant's dock, you see, in every courtroom. And God says, I will stand in the dock. And then he says to Moses, Raise the rod and strike the rock, the rock of God. And I want to know this. On the one hand, I know Moses knew, and I know the elders knew, that nobody can hit God. Nobody could possibly, physically, reach into the center of his Shekinah glory, into his essence, and somehow strike a blow. And yet, the rock at which God is standing, the rock of God, can you imagine the amazement of Moses when God says, Hit the rock. You know, you are not supposed to touch something that God is on. Do you remember what happened? If people, or even animals, touched Mount Sinai, when God was on Mount Sinai, do you remember what the penalty was? Death. And here, here is God saying, I will stand there, and I want you to bring down the rod. So up goes the rod of God, the rod of his judicial wrath. Down it comes onto the rock of God. And what does it mean? What does it mean? Right here, smack in the middle of your, the back page. I will just read it. It is only centuries later that God makes clear the meaning of this. The rock was Christ. That is what Paul says. Yeah, we should be on trial. But God himself puts himself on trial. We should be guilty of cosmic treason. But God stands into the dock. And if we are to be spared for putting God in the dock, he has got to stand in the dock himself and take the blow that we deserved. And he does it. My dear friends, there have been many times in which we have cried out, like Job in his agony, in which we have accused God of things. We have said, I don't think you know what you are doing. We haven't said that usually out loud. Those of us who have got any kind of Christian training, we are not allowed to say that out loud. But we felt that. And we have said some awful things, and we have felt some awful things. And awful things have been said. But the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of men. And that God actually goes further than the blasphemy of our demand. He goes further. He actually comes on in and takes the blow himself. In that Gunther Rutenborn play, at the end of the play, the people decide, yes, God is guilty for all of this. In their self-pity, refusing to see their own, their own problem. And that is how we all are. The big difference between, the reason that Christianity can never become an ideology is, every ideology sees everybody else as evil but me. The Marxists say the trouble is, it is the capitalists that are evil, not me. And the capitalists say, it is the Marxists that are evil, not me. And the Christian says, every individual is radically exalted and radically fallen at the same time. And therefore, I also am guilty. But you see, we don't think like that. And we say, it is not my fault. And at the end of the Gunther Rutenborn play, they sentence God. And this is what they say, quote, God is sentenced, quote, to become a human being, a wanderer on earth, deprived of his rights, homeless, hungry, thirsty. He himself shall die and lose his son and suffer the agonies of fatherhood. And when at last he dies, he shall be disgraced and ridiculed. Guess what? He already served his sentence. Guess what? We have no right to demand such a thing of God. As Richard Baxter says, will a dunghill call the sun dark and try to light the world? We have no right to say anything like that. Isn't it astonishing that God not only doesn't punish us for what we do, but He comes and He actually fulfills our demand, the demand that we made in our blasphemous self-pity. He says, the only way that I can forgive you for asking me to do this is to do it myself. So He comes in. He takes the blow and out comes the water. And that's the message for tonight. The message for tonight is, you must drink from the rock. How do you drink from the rock? The whole point is that because Jesus Christ took the blow on the cross, not that day, nothing happened that day, it was all symbolic, but one day God did take the rod right in the heart. And because of that, Jesus Christ says, anyone who comes to me he will never thirst again. In fact, out of him will flow streams of water out from his insides. That's in John chapter 7. Do you want to have that kind of drink? Do you want to drink from this rock? The kind of drink that will completely change your life, that will completely satisfy you, that will cleanse you every time you drink of it, that will enliven you and invigorate you, just like a thirsty person finally gets some liquid in them, or a dehydrated person finally gets some liquid in them. You know what it's like to be dehydrated? Has that ever happened to you? To have all the liquid out of you, you go crazy. You get delirious. You lose your judgment. Your vision is clouded. You can't stand up. I've been through that. Do you know what spiritual hydration is like? Same thing. All the same thing. You can drink from the rock if you're willing to say, Lord, I'll stand in the dock. I refuse to put you in the dock. That means you have to say, Lord, I stop demanding an explanation. I stop insisting that things be my way. I stop putting you in the dock and demanding that you tell me how my life should be run instead of me coming to you and saying, Lord, whatever you want is right with me. In fact, C.S. Lewis, in his article, God in the Dock, says it's incredibly modern. He says, ancient man approached God or the gods as the accused person approaches his judge. For the modern person, the rules are reversed. Man is the judge. God is in the dock. Now, man often styles himself a kindly judge. If God should have a reasonable defense for permitting war, poverty, and troubles in my personal life, I'm ready to listen. The trial might even end in God's acquittal. But we believe we have the right to ask the question. We stay on the bench. God stays in the dock. You want to drink from the rock of Christ? You have got to reverse that. You've got to go back to the old way. Even the pagans understood. God is your judge. You deserve the blow. And when you finally see that, stop making excuses, stop demanding because of the suffering of your life that God owes you something. When you finally stop making yourself big in your eyes and making God stand before you, but rather reverse those rules and stand before Jesus Christ and say, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I cling, you can start to drink. And not before. Now listen, tonight, we're doing the Lord's Supper. What that means is I ask that first of all, those of you who realize you haven't been drinking like you should drink tonight, remind yourself that he took the blow. Drop all of your angry demands to God and conditions. Stop saying, I'll obey you if you get me that job. I'll obey you if you finally work these things out of my life. Drop those conditions and say, you took my blow for me. I give you everything. You do that tonight, you'll drink. On the other hand, there may be some people here tonight who know, they know that they have never actually received Christ as Savior. You've never come to him and actually said, hmm, I see that nothing that I have done can possibly merit acceptance with you. Only Jesus Christ, Christ can save me. You've never done that. If you haven't, don't take the bread, get the rock. Don't take the Lord's Supper, get Christ. And in your heart, go to him, lay yourself before him and you can drink too. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask now that you simply will enable us to experience your reality as we are now going into this time of the Lord's Supper. As we eat and as we drink, enable us to perceive the great blow that you took in your heart that we can drink the water of life. We pray this now in Jesus' name. Amen.