This is the most comprehensive and complete chapter in the Bible on the subject of the new birth, what it means to be born again. It's ironic that of all the theological terms that Christians use that come from the Scripture, this is the one that's come down into modern jargon. What does the word born-again Christian mean to the average person in New York? What's it mean when it's used in the media? It basically means, first of all, it means someone who's had an emotional religious experience, usually, something fairly cathartic, maybe a crisis. And secondly, it also refers to a kind of Christianity, a narrow kind, a dogmatic kind, a conservative kind, and in some cases a cultic fringe kind in people's minds, but a kind of Christianity. Now, we're going to look this week and next week at what Jesus says in this passage about the new birth, but right away we're struck by the fact that Jesus meets these commonly held conceptions of the new birth. He takes them on in a head-on collision. Right off the bat, he says, you must be born again. It is not an option. Therefore, he's saying, to talk about a born-again Christian is a redundancy. it's not possible to be any other kind. If you're born again, you are a Christian. If you're a Christian, you are born again. There's no other kind. He not only says that, but he also shows us here that the nature to be born again of the new birth is not necessarily emotional. We can't say that the new birth is an emotional experience. It has deep emotional ramifications. But it's not. It's a radical and personal experience. experience, and Jesus defines the new birth right here, so we have to look at it. But as we get started, here's something we've got to start with. I've got to lay a foundation before we go any further. There's a lot of folks that will say the concept of the new birth and to insist that every person who has any claim to Christianity must be born again, to consider that a kind of conservative, conservative dogmatic approach to Christianity, to consider it a kind of Christianity, a kind of new loony fringe cultic kind of Christianity, you know what the loony fringe is? Okay,

is absolutely fallacious. And I, and you know, there's a lot of things I say that I hope are right, but here's one of these places where I can speak without any fear of contradiction. The new birth and the necessity of the new birth is in the original articles and the original constitution of every single Protestant church. Not only that, it's embedded. It's embedded in all the historic creeds that the Protestant churches and the Catholic church and the Orthodox church all hold together. It's there. Many of you have spent years in pews and right at your little knee were hymn books and prayer books and various other books that clearly spelled out and contained and taught the doctrine of the new birth. It was right there. Right there. Right at your knee. And it was dynamite. You see, this doctrine is a dynamite. And there it was all of your life. And today you may be listening to me talk about the new birth and think, this is weird. This is strange. That's utterly untrue. At the heart of every single constitution of every Christian church is the doctrine of the new birth. You must be born again. And what's really tragic, it's not just imbecilic to talk about it and say, well, this is a new idea, this is a loony fringe idea, but it's tragic. Look at Augustine. St. Augustine? What turned St. Augustine from a codependent womanizer Tremendous theologian and one of the greatest doctors in the history of the Catholic Church who kept the Catholic Church together at a time of great need. What took Luther, who was a neurotic, somebody who was two or three times a day running off to the confessional until the priests in the confessional started to say, oh my gosh, here comes Martin again. What turned him into someone so bold that he could face down the entire church and the entire world and bring about the reformation of the church. What about John Wesley, an Anglican priest? What caused him to go out into the streets and to begin to preach in the early 18th century in England so that almost a quarter of the population was converted, so that there were sweeping social changes, so that everybody acknowledges because of that particular ministry, a bloody revolution in England was averted the way it was not in France. the great leaders of the Catholic Church, the great leaders of the Episcopal Church, of the Methodist Church, go to them, go to Augustine and Luther and Wesley and millions more, really, and go to them and say, what changed you? What possibly turned you into the kind of persons that made you what you were? And they'd all look at you like this. They'd say, we were born again. What else? On what other basis could we possibly operate? I mean, what is Christianity after all? Every one of them would say that. And it's all right to say, look, that's the way the church used to operate. That's the way all people used to operate. That was the founding basis for all churches. And we can't believe that anymore. We can't believe in a God who breaks into people's lives. We can't believe in that. That's all right. Then say we're setting up a new religion. Then it's all right to say that. You have a right. This is a free country. But don't say that to teach the necessity of a new birth is a strange, new, dogmatic, narrow, cultic kind of thing. It is not. It's not only historically imbecilic to say that, but it's a tragedy because there at your knees for years has been this undetonated dynamite power that could have been detonated against the log jams in your personal and our social lives. But instead, that power lays there dormant, undetonated, because of an unreflective prejudice. You're going to let the popular culture make you believe that the doctrine of the new birth is only for dogmatic, crazy people, only for only a new kind of strange teaching? Don't you dare. Jesus Christ himself says you must be born again. He tells you right here why you have to be born again, and then he tells you what it means to be born again, and then he gives us a couple of tests to tell whether we are or not. Listen, his teaching, why you have to be born again, what it means to be born again, and how you know if you are, his teaching is so simple, it's extremely hard. It will get you in a corner. Do you dare listen to it? It will get you in a corner. And even those of us who have been through that experience, just the mere going through the teaching and looking at the doctrine will show you that you haven't been living your life on the basis of the glorious truth that lives inside of you. Why, what, and how? Number one, Jesus tells you why you have to be born again. He says three times. He says, unless you're born again, you cannot see the kingdom. Unless you're born again, you cannot enter the kingdom. And then he says, that's in verse 3 and 5. And then in verse 7, he says, you must be born again. Why is he so emphatic? First of all, notice this. Who he's talking to. Who is Nicodemus? Nicodemus was a Pharisee. The Pharisees were Bible scholars. They scrupulously studied the Word of God and obeyed the Word of God. So you say, well, that's nice, but I always thought the Pharisees were the bad guys. Weren't they? They were negative and narrow and dogmatic and hostile. And the answer is yes, most of them were. But look, Nicodemus is different. He combines the moral rectitude and the intellectual depth of the Pharisee with openness. Because he comes to Jesus. He's teachable. He's compassionate. I would like to learn from you. You're a wonderful person. Tell me more. So here's a man that's got it all together. Not only that, he's a member of the court, it says, the council, the Sanhedrin, which means that he was a man of tremendous wealth and power. He's got it all together. Biblical knowledge, religious understanding, intellectual depth and power, civic-minded. You know, he's a member of the council. Wise, open. wealthy. He's got it all together. And Jesus specifically comes after him and says, you, Nicodemus, you, a one who's got it all together, you need to be born again. All of your accomplishments, in other words, add up to zero for coming into God's presence. If you want to know God, if you want to have any relationship to him, you have to start over. You have to be completely new. None of the things you've accomplished work. And that's the reason why Jesus is saying, a born-again Christian, is a redundancy. The word unless is categorical. That's the thing we most hate about this. Unless. Unless there's air, there's no fire. There can be no fire. Unless there's rain, there can be no crops. Unless you're born again, there can be no Christianity. You hear that? Unless. And Jesus keeps saying it. Why? He says, unless in verse 3, unless in verse 5 and in verse 7 it says, and you must be born again. You know what Jesus is saying? He's saying, hear me? Did you get it straight? I know I said it twice, but I know that it's going to be hard for you to understand this. Let me say it one more time so I can make myself absolutely clear. You must be born again. And this means if there's anyone who says to push upon people the necessity of the new birth is narrow-minded, you have a right to that opinion. You just have to realize you're putting yourself complete opposition to the clearest and the most assured and the most emphasized teaching of Jesus Christ himself. The new birth is the sine qua non of Christianity. Anybody who tries to sell you a Christianity without this as the centerpiece or one of the centerpieces is selling you a false spill of goods. Now, that is good news. It's not bad news. It's good news. Some of you, if you've lived in New York a long time, you've done a lot of experimenting, because that's the main thing that New York gives you. It's like a big chemistry set. And there are just all sorts of little test tubes, and there's all sorts of little concoctions. And the culture of New York says, experiment. Explore. Don't narrow yourself. Don't eliminate any options. You've got to keep your options open. That's New York, isn't it? Keep your options open. Do not, under any circumstance, bind yourself and limit yourself to just this one or this one. Keep your options open. So you, like kids, have been playing with a chemistry set for a while and a lot of your concoctions have exploded in your hand and some of them have eaten through the bottom of the test tube and right into your leg. And some of you are saying, how in the world could I come to God the way you're talking about and live a life like you're talking about? How in the world could I be accepted into his family? You know, you don't see what I've been through. Well, listen. You know what? This is the good news. What if you were Nicodemus? What if you were the goody two-shoes of all? What if you were the wise and humble and wonderful and knowledgeable and a pillar of the community? What if you had it all together like Nicodemus? behind him and he's not in front of you, that you stand the same spot. The only way Jesus says that you can have any relationship with God is if you start over. If you're pulled up by the roots and replanted, it's good news. You must be born again. That's why. Now, what is it? What does Jesus say it is to be born again? And here again, the answer might surprise you. Jesus tells us that this is a The word birth really means to start as a seed. The word radical comes from the Latin word radix, which means your root. And therefore, Jesus is talking about something extremely radical. In verse 2, Nicodemus starts right in saying this. Master, or he says, Rabbi, you're a teacher sent from God. You bring us all sorts of wonderful teachings, and Jesus is very abrupt. You know the reason why he's so abrupt with Nicodemus? He kind of interrupts him. He says, you must be born again. You know, what's wrong with Jesus? The answer is he sees where Nicodemus is going. Nicodemus thinks that Jesus mainly came as a teacher. And some of you may too. That what it means to be a Christian, what it means to get anything out of Jesus is to follow his teachings. And Jesus says, I think you've got the wrong, you're barking up the wrong part of my nature. You're barking up the wrong office. I've got many offices. I've done many things. I come to do many things. But I do not come simply to reform you. Every other founder of every other religion came as a teacher. Every other founder says, here is the way to God. Follow it. But Jesus comes and says, no, no, no, no. You can't be improved. You can't be reformed. You can't follow it. You have to be born again to even see the kingdom. You have to be born again to even enter it. You have to be completely redone and renewed. You can't be reformed. You have to be transformed. formed. Imagine you had a peach orchard and you decide you wanted to go into the applesauce business. So how are you going to get peaches? How are you going to get apples out of your peach orchard? Well, somebody says, why don't you prune it? So you go ahead, prune. Cut back the trees. Go ahead. Prune them back as far as you can. You're going to get a lot more fruit, but it'll be peach fruit. Well, somebody says, maybe what we ought to do is we ought to paste the apples on there. That'll sort of prime the pump. You know. In other words, you know, just like with a lot of you never used pumps. Back in the old days, you had a pump. And sometimes nothing would come up. So you'd take some water out of the basin. You'd pour the water into the pump. And that would prime the pump and bring the rest of it up. You remember that. Maybe that's how our peach trees will work. What we do is we tie apples onto them. You know, tie them on with wire. And that'll kind of get things going. And then the rest of the peach trees will start to bring in apples. will come in up under the apples. It'll knock the apples off. If you want apples, you have to completely dig up the peach orchard and replant it. If you want new fruit, you've got to have new roots, a new radix. There's plenty of folks, I'm sure, just because I know folks, there's plenty of people in this room that have been trying that very thing. We can laugh at the poor stoop who wants to try to get apples out of his peach orchard without digging up his trees, but what do you think you're doing? Whenever you have gotten a little bit of a sense that you need God,

and you realize, well, I've got, I really need some help or I need some strength. I need to pray to Him. Maybe I need a little bit more religion. You know, whenever you've gotten a sense that you need God, what do you do? You say, well, I'll read the Bible more. I'll come to church more. I better stop that particular practice. You know, what are you doing? You're cutting back your tree. You're cutting back life. That's not enough. That won't do it. Some of you have been spending all of your life doing this in spurts. So you do this, you try to reform for a while, you prune back. That doesn't do it. Moral reformation won't do it at all. Not a bit. Instead, the new birth is an action of God in which His Holy Spirit, that means His very life and strength and power, is implanted in the base so that the root of your heart is transformed, and there that seed germinates, and it produces fruit, and it produces blossoms and flowers that only a supernatural seed can do. Now, that means there is a complete change even from the beginning. Now, what is that change? You'll see, it's a hard thing to describe, is it not? I just said it's not a reformation. That doesn't mean, by the way, that a person who's born again doesn't drop certain habits at church and doesn't read the Bible. But that's not the issue. That's the accident. It's not the essence. That's the periphery. That's not the heart of things. What's happened is that there has been a complete change at the root or at the base. I'll give you an example. In fact, some of you who've been through the experience, you know where I speak. For example, some of you, who knows why, way back, you came to believe. It was implanted at the root of your heart. You're nobody

Remember that song? You're nobody till somebody loves you. And somehow you believe that. I don't know why. Who knows why. But you believe that. And so you spend an awful lot of your time. Going through mood swings. Because. Depending on who likes you. And who likes you when. And you stayed in a relationship. Way too long. Much longer than you really needed to. And you were. You know. And you were very depressed. Because you were constantly. Feeling like a nobody. And then one of your friends. Comes along. And says. Wait a minute. You don't need all those guys. You don't need all those women. You're somebody because you're a sharp young professional. Don't worry about what other people think about you. You're a sharp young professional. Oh. Okay. I'm a sharp young professional. So you throw yourself into your career. Until you find out. You know what. There are sharper young professionals. And now you feel like a nobody. And then another friend comes along. And says. You know. no, don't be depressed because those five other people were promoted ahead of you in your department. Don't let that bother you. That's not important. What makes you special is you're a caring, loving, warm person. It doesn't matter about how you're doing in the career. It doesn't matter whether the fact that you're not having any dates. You're a caring, loving person. You say, ah, now I know I'm a caring, loving person. So you kind of go into it, become an informal helper. And you really reach out to people and you really listen to their problems and so on. And it won't be long before you start to realize how impatient you are, how little you really like people, especially certain kinds of people. You'll find yourself after going over the very same territory with a person for the hundredth time, you're ready to say, well, go ahead, jump. What you say here at that point is, I'm nobody again. And a lot of you have been through that until you were born again. what happens? You see, all those changes weren't really changes. You were cutting back. Lots and lots of efforts at reformation. Instead, you need to be taken out of that realm into another whole realm. Your root has to be pulled out and put into an entirely different soil. And when that happens, the Bible here tells us what happens. The difference between a person who's born again and who's not is that a person who's born again sees the kingdom, kingdom sees the king. What happened to Nicodemus? In the beginning here, he doesn't see the kingdom, but by the end of the book of John, when all of his disciples deserted him and he was being cut down off of the cross and nobody wanted to get near him because at this point, anybody who said, I'm a follower of Christ, his life was in danger. Nicodemus gets up, takes the body and buries it in a beautiful tomb, gives the body of Jesus Christ a king's burial. What happened to Nicodemus? What brought him to the place where he didn't mind imperiling his own life and his own reputation and his money? Here's what happened. Here's what happens to you when you're born again. This is what makes the difference. This is the change. You see the king. You understand? You see the king. For example, the king was more real to Nicodemus than his money, risking his money if he could honor the king. To Nicodemus, his safety was no longer as real as the king. The king was more real than his safety. A person who's not born again looks at a person who is born again and can't figure him or her out. Why are you so generous with your money? How can you do that? Shouldn't you be saving for a rainy day? What is so important about this particular principle that you'll stand up to it, stand up for it, even though it might cost you your job, cost you significant friends. They can't understand that because they don't see the king. Their safety, their money is more important to them. When you see the king, you can take criticism. Why? In the past, what people thought of you was everything. And now the king says, this is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. And you can take criticism. Before, the world looked crazy. All sorts of random chance things happening. And now you realize the king's got a plan. Don't you see the change? It goes way beyond changing your attitude here or there, coming to church, stopping this or that behavior. You see the king. It's an entirely different orientation. I'm an early boomer. You know what the early boomers are? We went to college at the end of the 60s, right? And we were taught there to take care of the poor and to forget about don't get involved in fraternities and sororities. And certainly don't go to any kind of graduate schools. Major in English and then drop out and help the poor. Don't get an MBA. Don't get a law degree. Don't do that. That's what we were told. And we did that. And we got out there. We started helping the poor. And we found out a lot of them weren't very grateful. We found a lot of them seemed to not want to get better. We saw a lot of them seemed to have self-inflicted problems. A lot of them were hostile. And after a while, you start to say, I'm going off to law school. Except, listen, except if you're born again, here's what happens. You see the king. And when you look at a person in rags, you say, yeah, I'm looking at myself. You see, the king, when he sees me, I look like that spiritually. All of my problems are self-inflicted too. I'm just as ungrateful, if not worse. I am just as hostile. I'm just as is unwilling to work, and yet my king saw my poverty and gave up his riches so that by his poverty I might become rich. I can't stop. I see the king. Do you see what happens? And therefore, you're going to find that the early boomers, who still are just as crazy for out to change the world, are the ones who went through the born-again experience. They're the ones who are still radical. I know that. I keep touch with these folks. I see what's going on. Listen, friends, when Scrooge, who's a perfect parable, you remember Dickens, A Christmas Carol? When Scrooge looked out on that Sunday morning, on Christmas morning, he was a parable of what it meant to be reborn. You know why? Same eyes, looking out of the same window, onto the same street, in the same town, and yet everything was different. He had a new perspective. new motives. He had a whole new governing principle to his life. And that is something that only the Spirit of God can do. You see the King. It's more real to you than anything else. And therefore, there's a courage. That's where Luther got it. There's a generosity. There's a love. There's a power. There's a self-control that you just never could get in touch with before. That which is born of the Spirit of Spirit, you cannot do this through willpower. You cannot do grease, moral and spiritual elbow grease. You can't do it. That which is born of the Spirit is Spirit. Unless you're born of the Spirit of God, you cannot see the kingdom. Well, now listen, let me finish this way. I told you we're going to complete this next week, but let me close with this thought to you. How do you know if you really are born again? How do you know? How can you tell? No. Jesus says, the spirit is like the wind. You can't see it, and yet you can feel it. In other words, the wind is invisible, but you can see its effects. If I said to you, there's a tremendous wind coming through this sanctuary right now, you'd say, no, there isn't. I'll say, well, how do you know? After all, I mean, the wind's invisible. You say, yeah, but of course the wind's invisible, but I would see some effect. My hair would be blowing around. The bulletins would be blowing. Maybe the lights would be swinging. If there's really wind here, you see the effects. Some of you, my dear friends, may have years ago made some kind of commitment to a church, or you might have walked an aisle or even signed a little statement, a sinner's prayer, something like that. And the years have gone by, and you're holding on to your little born-again certificates, and nothing has happened in your life. And you say, well, I know that I'm a Christian. You do, huh? How is it possible that the omnipotent power of God himself could come into your life a hair on your head. How is that possible? Nothing's blowing around. The power of God is aggressive. It's like acid. Is there dishonesty in your life? Is there cowardice and fear in your life? Is there anxiety in your life? Is there an unreliability in your life? Is there depression? The fruit of the Spirit is joy. Is there selfishness and fear and self-protection? The fruit of the Spirit is love. The fruit of the Spirit is integrity. Is there pride in self-centeredness? The fruit of the Spirit is humility. My friends, the Spirit of God can't live with those things. Those things that are making your life miserable, the Spirit of God has got to do something about them. And if it's in your life, if He's in your life, things are happening. Let's be bottom line about this. Are you growing? The only sign of life is growth. Do you see yourself becoming more patient? Do you see yourself becoming more unselfish? More able to love, difficult to love people? Are you seeing yourself becoming more honest? Do you find your conscience getting clearer? Do you find your poise and your confidence getting greater? Are these things changing? They will if you see the king. If you see the king. And here's the last test. The one test is growth. Here's the other test. It's very possible to believe in God and do a lot of things toward God

The difference between a born-again Christian and just somebody else who's religious is you can be religious and ask God for help and ask God for power and love him and pray to him and ask for all kinds of things in your lives, right? But here's the difference. Romans 8, 7, the natural mind is enmity toward God. It cannot submit to the law of God, but the spiritual mind is set on God. If you're born again, you know that the one thing you always hated about God was you didn't like him to tell you how to change. The difference between a religious person and a born-again person is the born-again person says, God, I want to obey you in every area of my life. Show me what you want me to change. You see, without being born again, you can be quite religious. You can ask God for things. You can pray. You can ask for forgiveness. You can ask for help. You can ask for power. But only with a new birth will you ever say, Lord, command me. I delight in your law. My hatred of giving my life to somebody else is over. I now want you to be my master. Show me what to do. That's the difference. Has that happened to you? Look, if you now realize this is not something that's happened to you, there's no real secret. It says in John 1, 12 exactly what you have to do. Go read it. Meditate on it. It says, As many as received him who believed on his name, that means believed that he died on the cross, that he covered your sins for you. As many as those who received him who believed in his name, he gave power to become children of God who are born, not of the will of man, not after natural descent, but are born of God. There it is. You say, I see what you've done for me, and I rest completely in that. You don't have to understand much more than that. The Bible says here, Jesus says here, you have to be born again to even see the kingdom. If you say, well, I'm kind of confused. Of course you are. You have to be born again to even see clearly. If you know what you need, if you know you need it, then receive him. Trust in him. Go to him. All you need is need. My professor used to say, all you need is nothing, but most people don't have it. And secondly, if you're a Christian here and you say, hey, I know I've been through this experience, but you're discouraged because there's things in your life that just don't seem like they can change, and you've given up on part of your life, or you've given up on yourself, you do not know what's inside, do you? You have stopped practicing it. Not only that, if you've got a Christian brother or sister that you see stagnate or sort of sliding around or slipping back, and they need some kind of help, and you say, well, I wouldn't know what to say. That's a pretty big problem. You don't have to start the fire in them. It's already in there. You have to stir it up. Hebrews 10.25, stir one another up to love and good works. If you really believe, if you're practicing the glory of what's inside of you, you'll be very confident to reach out and stir each other up. And you'll be very confident that whatever it is between you, whatever obstacles before you, it can come down by the power of God. Unless there's air, there can be no fire. Unless there's rain, there can be no crop. Unless you be born again. There's no Christianity. Come to him. Let's pray. All we ask now, Father, is that you'll be present with us as we come to your table. We ask that you'll mediate your very presence to us through the Holy Spirit that's in our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.