Let's read the passage that we come to and we're looking at right now. It's 1 John chapter 3, verses 1 to 10. How great is the love the Father has lavished on us that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God and what we will be has not yet been made known. Know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure. Everyone who sins breaks the law, in fact. Sin is lawlessness. But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins, and in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Dear children, do not let anyone lead you astray. He who does what is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. He who does what is sinful is of the devil, because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work. No one who is born of God will continue to sin, because God's seed remains in him. He cannot go on sinning, because he has been born of God. who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God, nor is anyone who does not love his brother. And this is God's word. The subject of the passage is doing the right thing. Now, you know, the Spike Lee movie called Do the Right Thing was about a number of things. Well, one of the things it was about was how hard is to do the right thing. Paul in Romans 7 says, I see the good thing that I want to do, but I don't find it within me the power to do it. And I mean, if Spike Lee and St. Paul agree here, there's something to that. And I think if there's anybody here who says, ah, ah, you know, I basically know the kind of life that a person should live, and I live it. I know what is right, and I do it. I know what is right to do and how it is to live, and it's really no problem. I'm doing it. I don't think you know yourself. And you know what? Statistically, there are a lot of people who say that. And it very often comes out extremely comic. in, when the social scientists do surveys like they say, what is wrong with the world? And 98% say things like, they'll check off things like, people do not show enough love. And then the second question is, do you show the kind of love that if everyone in the world showed, the world would make, it would make the world a great, greatly different place, a better place. And 95% of everyone who answers the question says, yes, of course. In other words, almost everybody says that I am doing that thing which the world most needs, but if they were all right, if even the majority were right, in fact, if even a simple minority of them were all right, the world would be very different. We delude ourselves unless we get to the place where we say, doing the right thing is very, very hard. I can't do the right thing. I see what is right to do, and I can't do it. now what's interesting is that almost across the spectrum now whether you are politically ideologically liberal or conservative now there seems to be a growing consensus that we need virtue that there's a lot wrong with our society that the social fabric's unraveling that under the uh under radical individualism and relativism and all our social fabrics unraveling and we need somehow to find a way to make people more moral, more responsible, more self-control, more integrity, more honesty, and so on. Really, you can find books and articles and calls from the president of Harvard for this sort of thing. And on the other hand, you have the Book of Virtues selling a gazillion copies. And there's coming to be more and more of a consensus saying, you know, we need people to be religious. Religion is good. It'll keep it'll keep people virtuous. It'll keep people doing the right thing. But it's not as simple as that. Not as simple. There's a lot of ways in which religion in general can move you to do the right thing and yet bring about a populace that's moral and yet oppressive and harsh and cold. Now, you know, it was interesting when the Brady Bunch movie came out a month or two ago. I read some reviews. I didn't go see the movie, but you know what? If I had gone to see the movie, do you think I'd admit it in public? Well, anyway. But I didn't go see the movie, but what the reviewer said is the gag was that here's the Brady Bunch, this sort of sappy, early 70s American family with no problems. Absolutely straight-laced, you know. Absolutely squeaky clean. And evidently the gag was that they move on 90s as if there's really been no change. They move right on clueless, squeaky clean, straight laces, and they don't even realize it's the 90s. And so you've got all these issues. You've got, here's Marsha, and she's talking with her best friend. Her best friend has a lesbian crush on Marsha. Marsha, totally clueless. The concept of homosexuality just doesn't even show up on her radar. You have Jan Brady. She goes into the counselor. She's ready to talk about the big problem of her life. And of course, in the 90s, the guidance counselor is dealing with, you know, with the students and AIDS and unwanted pregnancies and all that. And she comes in and she says, I've got to wear glasses and my little sister makes fun of me. Which is the kind of crisis that you used to build Leave it to Beaver episodes around back then. I mean, that was the kind of crises that we had. So they just move right on. I read a review of the Brady Bunch movie. And at the end, it sort of moved away from the movie itself and says, you know, there's something very troubling. We're talking about the fact we want more values. We want people of purity. We want people of responsibility. We want people of integrity. People of hard work and thrift. We're saying that we really need that. This is what the reviewer said. He says, all across the spectrum, everybody's saying, we've got to find a way to get back to these virtues. But here's a perfect example of a family with all of them, and it's absolutely unappealing and absolutely uncompelling. They're one-dimensional. They're clueless. They're uncomprehending. unattractive. In a sense, they're very cold. They're kind of unfeeling. They can't relate to people who are broken. Look down their nose at anybody who's got anything worse than a problem with their contact lenses and so forth. And the reviewer says, we got a problem here. Everybody knows that we need these kinds of virtues. When you actually see a family that depicts the family values that a lot of people are calling us back to, who in the world would want to have anything to do with them? And here's what's going on. See, it's true that religion in general can make you moral, can make you do the right thing. But notice that verse 10 says there's something different about the way, the kind of moral virtue that Christianity grows. In verse 10 it says, this is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God, but it doesn't stop there. Or is anyone who does not love his brother? There is an ungraciousness about Brady Bunch type of virtue. There's an uncomprehended, they don't understand people who are troubled. They don't know how to forgive people who have failed. They just look down their nose at people who haven't pulled it all together. There's no grace. There's no graciousness about their virtue. They don't know that they're sinners. They don't think of themselves that way. to people who are falling. They have nothing to say to people who have failed. You see, there is a kind of virtue that religion in general and self-effort can create. And I don't know if it's better than what we've got now or not. And that's what the reviewer was saying. He says, you know, maybe it's not any better. But where are we going to go? Well, that's because, you see, unless you understand the gospel, you've got, you know, you basically have, I mean, just this is the way it You can either have truth without grace, the conservative end of the spectrum, or you can have grace without truth, the liberal end of the spectrum. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, one of my favorite preachers, and I've read a lot of his stuff and listened to a lot of his stuff, mid-20th century, early 20th century preacher, told about an unbelieving person, a skeptic, a man that he used to spend a lot of time talking to about Christianity. And this man had a father and a mother who were utterly different. boyfriend, and he said he had a father who really was quite irresponsible. He spent most of his life when he was growing up, his father spent a lot of time living on the street, having problem with alcohol, and sometimes getting on top of it, sometimes not, sometimes running away with some woman and living with her, and then sometimes coming back. And the man said, yeah, on the one hand, I had a father who really was quite irresponsible. I could not trust him. He couldn't tell when he was telling the truth. And then he had a mother who was absolutely the opposite, completely self-controlled, highly moral, civically minded, involved with the needs of the community. And he's the one, and you may have heard me allude to this before, he said her morality was like the beauty of a snowflake, perfect, symmetrical, flawless,

detailed, and freezing. You've probably heard me refer to that before. I've never forgotten that account. And he says to Lloyd-Jones, he says, you know what, if I'd ever come back to a religion, I don't know what I would do. I said, I am utterly more attracted to my own father. In spite of, he's a gracious man. He listens to you. He's not condemning of you. He makes you feel like you can go and talk about your problems. There's a graciousness about it, but there's no truth. And there's truth about my mother, but there's no grace. And he says, if I'm going to choose, I'm going to choose my father. And actually, that's really what the modern society has done, friends. They've looked at the two, and they say, if I've got to choose, I don't want the Brady Bunch. I don't want the Brady Bunch. The Bible says you don't have to choose. If you understand the gospel, here's how you know what a child of God is. Truth and love. Doing the right thing and yet, melt in your mouth sweet. Here's Jesus. And he comes to the woman caught in adultery. Remember that? And they're about to stone her. And he throws all the self-righteous people a bunch of curves. I won't go into that. And gets them all embarrassed and they all walk away. Then he turns to her and what does he do? to choose grace without truth or truth without grace because you know, truth without grace really isn't truth. And grace without truth really isn't grace. It's easy for that man's father to look gracious because it's a way for him to deal with his own conscience. He likes to see another person who's messed up. He's not that gracious. It just makes him feel less guilty. And truth without grace really isn't truth. That mother who says she stands for truth, she sure doesn't stand for the real truth. She might go to church. she's very religious. She might know the Bible inside out, but she doesn't know the real truth. Want to see the real truth? Jesus looks at this woman and says,

neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Now, do you notice why he does not choose? He doesn't say, I don't condemn you. You know why? Who's to say what sin is? Everybody has to work out their sexual morality their own way. Everybody has to decide what's right for them, you see? You see, I can be gracious because who's to say what the truth is? Neither do I condemn thee. Go thy way. He doesn't say that. On the other hand, he does not say, this is a sin, and therefore I condemn thee. Don't you know that you have disobeyed the law of the great God? Don't you know that you've transgressed the law of the one who thunders from Mount Sinai? I will in no way clear the guilty. God has to be perfect. If he wasn't perfect, there'd be no hope. He has to be a judge. If he's a judge, there has to be perfection. You violated his law. Therefore, I condemn thee. Oh no. He doesn't do that. He doesn't say, this is a sin, therefore I condemn thee. He doesn't say, I don't condemn thee because this is the sin. He says, this is a sin and I don't condemn thee. Well, how does he do that? It's the gospel. It says right here, look, you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sin. Verse 5. See, this is amazing. Here it is. Why did Jesus appear? He appeared, first of all, because there is such a thing as sin, and because sin is so, so serious that nothing less than the entrance into the world of the Son of God could deal with it. Nothing less than the death of God could deal with it. There is nothing more insulting. There has never been a more insulting statement made to you or to me than this. Jesus died for your sins. You know why? What this is saying is, you are so bad. You are so hopeless. Your situation is so dire that there is nothing less than this that could deal with it. Do you really think if there was anything short of this, you'd have the incarnation? I mean, no other religion even believes it's possible. for God to become flesh. And those that even might consider the possibility of God becoming flesh, the idea of him becoming a weak human being and torn to pieces. He came because sin is sin. He came because there really is something wrong with us. That there is a moral law. And God is perfect and he is holy. But he came to take away the sin. he died to take away our sins. So you see, when he said to that woman, neither do I condemn thee,

I wonder what went through his mind. I'll tell you what should be going through our mind. Do you know what it cost him to say, though this is a sin, you do not have to be condemned. Do you know what it cost him to say that? God made him sin who knew no sin. that we might become the righteousness of God in him. God condemned him who deserved no condemnation that we could hear Jesus Christ say through Paul, Romans 8.1, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You see? Now, what does that do? That creates someone. Well, it tells you in verse 10. In a sense, it does three things. first, it revolutionizes and changes your whole life. It says, anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God. Notice it doesn't say anyone who's a child of God,

it's saying being a child of God, the sign of that is doing right. It doesn't say doing right will lead to being a child of God. It doesn't say if you do right, the sign that you've done right is you become a child of God. No, it says if you're a child of God, the sign of being a child of God is that you do right. Every other religion says the welcome of God into his family

is based on you doing right. It comes from you doing right. But Christianity says doing right is based on being welcomed into the family of God. Being welcomed causes doing right. Not doing right causes being welcomed. See that? The first thing that happens is nine. No one who is born of God. The first thing that happens when you realize what he has done, that he came to deal with sin, that he says, this is a sin, but I don't condemn you, and what it cost him to say that. First thing is that changes your life. It revolutionizes your life. Being a Christian is someone who, when you take that knowledge in, you see it as miraculous. Up here at verse one, this is the way a Christian heart works, and we talked about this over a month go back over it, but look, the way you can tell you're born of God, the way you can tell you're a child of God, the way you can tell you know the radical difference between truth without grace, grace without truth, and you see that Jesus Christ has come full of grace and truth, see. We beheld his glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Now, a Christian knows how radical that is, and therefore, when you consider your situation, reconciliation, a sinner but not condemned, simultaneously just in a sinner. You talk like this, how great is the love of the Father that he has lavished on us, that we should be called children of God and that is what we are. Remember we said a month ago or so, we said, if you say, of course I'm a Christian, I go to church, I believe all the truths, I believe the Apostles Creed, I try my best to live according to the Ten Commandments, of course. If there's any of coarseness about your attitude toward yourself as a Christian, if you shrug and say, of course, if you don't think it's an absolute miracle, then you either have, and many people do this, you either have a counterfeit Christianity that is really truth without grace, like the mother of that guy, hmm? She thought she was a Christian because she was doing so well. So, she's not going to be amazed. She's not going to say, behold, how great is the love of the to say it. But let's assume, and I don't know this is true, but let's assume there's another kind of Christianity, a counterfeit kind, which is grace without truth. That's the kind that says, maybe the father would have had it, who says, well, you know, I believe in a loving God who doesn't punish people, that he supports us no matter what we do. If you have a religion of grace without truth, and a lot of people in New York have this, whether they think they're Christians or not, they work it out, a God who supports them, condemn thee, because who knows what sin is. After all, we all have to decide that there's no amazement, there's no wonder, and you will not be born again. That means there'll never be a revelation in your life or a revolution in your life. There'll never be this amazing thing happen. And if, on the other hand, you have truth without grace. Now, there's not as many of those people in New York, frankly, but you may be from somewhere else, and you're living in New York, and you've brought You brought that legalistic kind of religion with you. Brady Bunch, maybe, kind of religion. You see? In other words, I'm not condemned because I don't sin much. I do really well. You're not going to be amazed either. Truth without grace, grace without truth, it's not going to create the revolution, the radical change within that the Bible calls, for lack of a better term, born again. So the first thing that happens when you realize what Jesus meant when he said, this is a sin, but you're not condemned, is the knowledge of that, the amazing knowledge of that changes you. You're born again. That comes before you do the right thing. That comes before virtue. Virtue flows out of that. Otherwise, it'll be beautiful, detailed, perfect, and freezing. Secondly, I said there are three things that come from knowing this gospel. The first thing is you're born again. And the second thing is you, look it says, this is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God. In other words, you do what is right. Now I have to say something. This is the second fruit of understanding the gospel. The second fruit of it is it creates real virtues. Let's get to this now. There really is virtue that flows out. You really do change. Now, some people over the years have been very puzzled and troubled. In fact, last month somebody came to me, I guess it was after question and answer time, and really was troubled about verse 6 and 9. Now, let me tell you why it's so troubling. In this translation, they do a little better job, but in the old authorized translation, the old King James translation, This is what it actually reads. It says in verse 6, Whoever abides in him sinneth not. Whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him. That's verse 6. And verse 9, Whoever is born of God doth not commit sin. He cannot sin, for he is born of God. You wonder why I've been troubling to people over the years? If you're a Christian, it says you don't sin. If you're born again, you don't sin. You don't know him. Now, that's softened here, and rightly so. But look, it's still, it's still going to be pretty troubling. Did anybody kind of go, when you came upon it? No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Verse 9, no one who is born of God will continue to sin. Now, I have talked to people who are extremely troubled by this verse, and over the years I've talked many times to people who usually have said something said, I've done something very bad. I've embezzled funds, and I've been caught. I'm going to jail. I cheated on my spouse. They come to me over the years, and they'll say, and I can't be a Christian. I can't be a Christian. I have no hope. I can't believe I've done this, and I couldn't even be a Christian. And I'll say, why? And they'll say, well, someone showed me this, or I saw it, and they'll take me to these verses. Look, real Christians don't sin. Real Christians don't do things like this. I'm without hope. So I usually say something like this. I say, well, let me ask Why has it taken you so long to be so hopeless? You know what it says in Philippians 4 and Matthew 6 about how intense worry is a sin, a lack of faith in God? Intense worry, yes, okay. So when you're worried, I mean, you've been worrying probably for a long time, and you may be committing adultery, which is a terrible thing, happened recently, but you've been worrying for a long time. Why weren't you afraid for your salvation then? Because if you're right, and this really means that if you're a Christian, you never do any individual acts of sin, you should have been worried a long time ago. This is saying that anybody who worries isn't a Christian. I mean, if you're a Christian, you don't sin at all, if that's what it means. If that's what it means, that can't be what it means. Because in 1 John 1.8, just two chapters earlier, he says if anyone says they have no sin, they're a liar. And it says when you do sin, Jesus Christ the righteous one. It doesn't say when you do sin, that shows you're not a Christian. It says when we do sin, it assumes we're going to sin. So now what does this mean? Well, what it means is not what the poor person was doing, beating himself with it. But I'll tell you what it does mean, and it's still very convicting. It says, this is talking about your prevailing habit. The NIV translation gets at this because the verb forms are progressive and continuous. And what this means is, if you're born of God, the prevailing habit patterns of your life do not go on unchanged. They change. They don't go unabated, you see. A change is made. And if you want to understand what this change meant, this is trying to say crisis is not the way to tell whether you're a Christian. Often, when I was a new minister, I made a terrible mistake. When I was a new minister, there was a whole rash of marriages in my church that would break up or on the verge of breaking up. And it used to go like this. I'd get a phone call from the husband. Husband says, she's leaving me or she's about to leave me or her bags are packed. But she said she'll talk to the preacher. And I was 25 years old. I'm really, okay, put her on. And I'll say, could you guys, could you two please come in to see me? So we'd sit down and I would say, okay, what's the problem? And she would make out a list of all the grievances, you know, why she was leaving. heard you say it before. I didn't realize how much it hurt you. I will make all those changes. And she looks at him. She says, yes, I'll do this and this. And she says, well, you've never agreed to that. Well, I never understood before. I understand now. You see, I see it all. I'm going to make all those changes. And he does for a while. Crisis, but not permanent. And usually six months later, she goes anyway. Now, you see, what is John saying? John is saying, if you really understand the gospel, and if it's really come in, if you're born again, don't tell me crisis. Don't say, you know, I've sworn off this and that. Is the prevailing habit patterns of your character changed long-term and permanently? In the long run, and the reason we know that he's talking about the long run is this incredibly wonderful and yet convicting statement in verse 9. No one is born of God will continue to sin,

God's seed remains in him. When you understand the gospel, and when you say, Lord Jesus, I receive you as Savior, what comes in? Not God's tidal wave, but God's seed. God's seed, we're told elsewhere. We're told in 1 Peter. We're told in 2 Peter. This is the Holy Spirit. This is God's nature. Now, you know what's brilliant about this? On the one hand, this is a comfort and a conviction. The comfort is that God's seed comes in. And we all know that at first, that doesn't mean there's a whole lot necessarily of change. When you plant a seed, immediately, one minute after you planted a seed, there's no difference at all. You can't tell anything's changed. And this is a way of saying God's, the Holy Spirit have to come in. Sometimes it does, but that's not the essential thing. It does not come in like a tidal wave necessarily. It comes in like a seed. But, so on the one hand, that's gradual. Seeds grow gradually. It may take weeks, months, years, you see. And John here is talking about the seed comes in. And on the one hand, it's encouraging because it's hard to see seeds grow. They go very gradually. And some of you who especially are new Christians and feel like, boy, why hasn't there been more changes in my life? You ought to say, this is God's seed that's come into you. And you know, a lot of biological growth, since John here uses the metaphor, a lot of biological growth is really very mysterious and hard to see. Trees, for example, continue to grow in winter. It just doesn't look to us. You might be going through some very hard times right now and you don't feel like, well, there's no fruit. There's no blossoms. There's

on. See, so it's very encouraging because it's gradual. But you know what's in a poppy seed? A poppy, I guess. You know what's in a tree seed? A tree. You know what's in an apple seed? An apple. You know what's in a God's seed? The glory of God. That means that though it may start small, Do you know what kind of power you've got inside you? And John says, therefore, there is no way that a person who's born of God, who understands the gospel, should dare put up with abiding and prevailing habits of sin,

bad habits, flaws in your character. You're lousy gardeners, and you have settled for far too little. If you've been a Christian for years, and there are things, anxious. You're still lazy in this or that way. You see those things and you say, I guess you can't teach an old dog new tricks. Do you know what's in you? John says, it's the seed of God. The glory of God is in there. If you put a daffodil seed underneath a sidewalk, a slab of concrete in a sidewalk, nothing will, it will, you know, it'll never be able to come up. But if you put an oak tree seed, you know what's going to happen? It's going to crack that sidewalk. Because the, it's, small as it is, as gradual as that is, it's an oak tree in there, what have you got over the seed of God in your life? Have you got fears? Have you got anger? Have you got a terrible past? Have you got entrenched and deep habit patterns and flaws and fears and envy and bitterness and anger, it can smash anything. It's the seed of God. Especially for long-term Christians, before I make my last point, just quickly, long-term Christians, are you still changing? Do you see yourself changing? And can somebody who knows you well say, you are so much less irritable than you were last year? You are so much less anxious than you were last year. so much straighter than they were last. I mean, are you changing? He says a person who is born of God cannot continue in the same sins. Do you see that? Because you've got the seed of God in you. It comes in with a new birth. It comes in with a reception of the gospel. So the gospel, you're born again, the gospel changes you. It really brings you to the place where you do more and more right. But look, lastly, anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God, nor is anyone who does not love his brother. You see, the difference between, well, the mother, remember the mother kind of Christianity, Brady Bunch kind of Christianity? If you feel like I am right with God because I've pulled myself together, you have nothing to say to failures. And actually, the father kind of Christianity, you know, Grace without truth is not really grace. He doesn't really have anything to say to you either because he says, yeah, I know. Life stinks, doesn't it? You're out on the street. Me too. That's why we can sort of love each other and sort of support each other. There's no hope there, and there's no hope there. There's no hope anywhere unless you understand what a Christian is. A Christian is someone who says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. I've changed. I've got the seat of God in me. That's the only reason. You could too. when you're around a person who's truly the product of grace, he or she does not make you feel small, makes you feel big, makes you feel hopeful, makes you feel like there's no reason why I cannot change. But at the same time, that person is very forgiving. Why? Because if you're a Christian, you've heard this great voice. In a sense, the voice that created you, recreate you. and he says, neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. And that's what you'll say to everybody else. You see that? That attitude. Unique. Anyone who does not do what is right is not a child of God nor is anyone who does not love his brother. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us a way to virtue which is not cold and one-dimensional. Thank you for showing us how it operates, how it works. Would we have the spirit of the one who said, neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more. Help us to be so filled with the knowledge of what it cost him to say that and to teach that, that we would find our hearts changed into his likeness of righteousness and also into his likeness of compassion. We pray in Jesus' name, amen.
