When evil men advance against me to devour my flesh, when my enemies and my foes attack me, though an army besiege me, my heart will not fear. Though war break out against me, I will be confident. Psalm 27, Scott has read it. One thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, to seek him in his temple. he will keep me safe. He will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle. Then my head will be exalted above the enemies who surround me. In his tabernacle I will sacrifice with shouts of joy. To you of my heart he has said, seek my face. Your face, Lord, I will seek. David gives you a strategy for living, a strategic model for life in this psalm, Psalm 27. I'd like to prepare you for the Lord's table by outlining it. David, unlike, now I know this is New York, so maybe I shouldn't say unlike all of you, but most of you probably are not continually fighting off assassination attempts. Most of you are probably not continually having to hide out for your life, having people show up at your door and, you know, pepper your front door with machine gun fire. Like I said, this is New York, but most of you probably don't go through that kind of stress.

David went through that kind of stress all the time as the king, and he tells us in verse 3 he's arrived at the place in his life where that constant danger and the constant battling of his life is something that no longer gets him down. He can face it with complete joyful power. Though an army besiege me and make war against me, I will not fear. Now the fact is that most of us feel life is a battle. Most of us feel life is a continual fight. And the fact that David's battle was far worse than my battle and your battle, far more dire and far more dangerous, makes the psalm more practical. Because if David, in his situation, has found a way to face the worst kind of battles in life and the worst kind of danger without a fear, then whatever way he has discovered must work for us. You see, this is a very practical psalm. He says, I have discovered a way.

And I want you to look at the psalm, and I don't want to lead you to believe that I can give you a thoroughgoing look at it in the next few moments. But I would like you to consider this psalm because it is a strategic model for living. Some people go into battle without a strategy. Some people go into life without a strategy. I read these little articles all the time in newspapers and magazines on how to deal with stress and anxiety and discouragement. And they usually say something like this. You've got negative, self-defeating thoughts that you're harboring. Learn to replace those negative, self-defeating thoughts with positive thoughts. but that's that's tactics without a strategy how can something be self-defeating how can you even identify a thought as self-defeating unless you already decide what victory in life is huh and how do you know what victory in life is unless you ask yourself these questions am I an accident or have I been designed by a divine creator am I an accident of nature or have I been designed is this life time space history all there is? Or actually, is it kind of a vestibule or an entryway into something bigger? After death, is there a bigger reality? Or is this life all there is? Is there a right and wrong that is something higher than us that we have to submit to, something outside of us? Or is the only right and wrong whatever our heart tells us? Don't you see that you can't live a moment without making

strategic questions. You can't decide how to deal with stress unless you decide what life's about. You can't decide that's a self-defeating thought unless you decide what victory is. And I propose to you that most of us do not actually ever sit down and think out a strategy of life at all. David has. I'd like you to look at his strategy for life and I'd like you to compare it with whatever you've got. We've all got working strategies, but what are they? Here's David. The first thing he tells us is, I have learned that life is not just, life does not just contain battles, life is a battlefield. Now what is a battlefield? Let me explain this. A battlefield is a place where you can never let down your guard. A battle is a place where you're always in conflict. A battlefield is where you where you can never let down your guard. You have to always be on. You have to always be on guard. A battlefield is the opposite of a home. What's a home? A home is a place of safety. A battlefield is a place of danger. A home is a place where you can come be completely accepted. A battlefield is a place where you are being tested. A home is a place where you can just let down your guard. A battlefield is a place where you have to always have up your shields. A home is a place that always takes you in, that always accepts you, where you just can be yourself, where you can relax, where you don't have to be on or on guard. And a battlefield is a place where you can never relax. You're always being tested. You're always battling. You're never acceptable. inevitable. You can never say, I've arrived. David says, life does not just contain battles. Life is a battlefield. And therefore, he says, there is no place in this world that's not part of that battlefield. The places you think will be safe, the places you think will be home, the places you think will be a refuge, there's nothing out there. He says, you see, in the first three verses, is he talks about evil men. Men will devour me, making war against me. And he tells you something that I think we all know, and that is, everybody's out to get you. If you're paranoid, you're probably just being realistic.

David says, people will get you. People will step on you on their way up the ladder. People will take advantage of you. They'll use you in relationships. relationships. People will do all these things. But then he says, it's not just that, because most of us know that life is full of battles. He says, I want you to see that there really isn't a safe place in the world. And then in verse 10, now Scott read it, and it's a pretty shocking verse. He says, though my mother and father forsake me. What's he getting at? What he's trying to say is, of us feel that life is a battle, and so we go out of our way to create ourselves places that are safe. Safe places. Homes. Places where we can really be ourselves. Places where we can relax, let down our hair if we have it, and be ourselves. Let down your guard. Don't have to be on. Where are those places? When you're a child, home is that place. A place where you always have to be taken in, where the people there will always love you. They'll never forsake you. But as you get older and as you go on, you begin to find out that the beds and the fireplaces that used to mean home to you get sold to other people. They get wallpapered over. They get torn down. That mothers and fathers do forsake. What do you think you do when you get married? You know when you get as you're saying, finally I want to create a place where I'll be completely accepted. I want somebody else with whom I never have to be on guard. Somebody who I don't always have to be on with. Somebody who will not test me. Somebody who will not always be battling me. I want a respite from the battlefield. So we get married.

So we build beautiful homes. So we strive for professional success. You know, I know I'm going to have to work 120 hours a week on Wall Street until I'm 40, but then I'll be able to do what I want.

Life is a battlefield. We're going to try to find places where it's safe. Try to find people who will never forsake me. Try to find spots where there's no battle. David says they're not there. You know, even if you happen to have a great mother or father, even if you have a great mother and father,

they will forsake you know even if you marry somebody really great the battle will follow you David says there is no safe place David says the world is life is not just containing battles it is a battlefield now what does he do about that the Bible is unbelievably realistic politicians will tell you your troubles will be over if you follow me. People who want you to get married, they'll say your troubles will be over if you marry me.

People who are trying to sell you things, say if you can just make it here, if you can just do this, this is a safe place. There won't be a battle here. David says, the Bible says, the Bible is fiercely realistic. Do you have a strategy of living that takes into consideration that your mother and father will forsake you?

do you have a strategy of life that takes into consideration that life is a battlefield or are you hopelessly and futilely spending your life preparing a little nest, a little haven, a little home, a place where you know I can get away from the battles of life there is no such place he says by the way now once you finally figure that out many of us don't when we finally figure that out it's called a midlife crisis

Some of you have had a midlife crisis at the age of 15.

Some of you may never really wake up to that and spend all of your life sure that this next spouse, this next job, this next place is finally going to be my respite from the battle, a place I don't have to be on, a place I can be safe, a place that I can finally be myself.

And it's never true. Now, once you finally figure that out, Some of you who already hear it are just happy to hear somebody actually say it out loud. You already know it. Some of you maybe don't know it. I'm just trying to convince you. Once you realize that not only is life a constant battle, but eventually you discover that even the so-called safe places or the places you hope that will be safe are not, what do you do? I'd say there's actually only four things. One strategy of life is, I call it the bloodthirsty strategy of life. And that's a person who says, life's a battle?

and there are people who do pretty well that way. Some of them are, you know, decorated war heroes and when they come home they can't stop battling. Some people do very well in business that way. They're bloodthirsty. They like the crisis. They like the conflict. They orient their whole personality around the idea of battle. Eventually it exhausts you. Eventually it isolates you, of course. A second strategy is the strategy of cynicism What you do is this. Life is a battle. Life is a constant battle, so I'm going to surrender.

So I won't be constantly fighting. I'm just going to give in. I'm going to destroy my expectations of life. I'm going to bring them down to zero, and I'm going to get totally cynical. And my attitude toward life is don't trust anybody, don't care about anything, make a joke about everything. And that is one way to have a fairly placid life. That's one way to, in a sense, get rid of the battle.

care. A third way is the way a lot of you are, I know, because I talk to you, and that is you're completely defeated by it. You're overwhelmed by it. You say, I can't believe it. What kind of life is this? And so you're just defeated. And the fourth way is David's way. And David obviously is not a bloodthirsty person. He's not somebody who likes it. Do you see that? He doesn't say, though an army besiege me, I will win. He doesn't say that. See, that's the way the bloodthirsty type says, I can handle the battle of life because I'm going to get them. Get them before they get you. That's not what David says. He doesn't say that at all. And secondly, he's no cynic. He doesn't say, I don't care. Nor is he defeated. What is he saying? He's saying, nothing can defeat me. He's a spirit of exaltation. He says, I rejoice over my enemies. Here's why. His strategy of life is this. He's answered the big questions. The big questions. What is life about? Have I really been created or am I an accident? Is there a right and wrong or is it just a matter of my feelings? Is this life all there is or is there a bigger life? He has answered all those questions in one thing, in one way. He says, I know what life's all about. Life is meant to be lived in the presence of God, before the face of God. In chapter, in this chapter, in verse 4, he says, the reason I've got defeat, the reason I've defeated my fears, the reason I'm living in joy, the reason I'm not a cynic, I'm not a bloodthirsty Rambo-type person, I'm not defeated, it's because I sought one thing and I got it. Do you see what it is? He mentions it several different ways. He says it several different ways, but it's all one thing. Verse 4, one thing I ask of the Lord, this is what I seek, but now he says it several ways, but don't be fooled, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. What's that mean? I'll show you here in a second. Nobody was allowed to live in the temple of the Lord. When David was alive, there was a temple, and the temple was the place where God's royal presence, his panim, the Hebrew word for face, his Shekinah glory, dwelled in the Holy of Holies. Nobody lived in there. Nobody could dwell there. You could visit, could live there.

That is what he seeks, though. And he says, to gaze on the beauty of the Lord and to seek him in his temple.

And then down in verse 8, he says, to you, O my heart, he has said, seek my face. By face, Lord, I will seek. It's all the same thing, and this is what he's saying. Here's a strategy for life. God's home is the home

God's face is the face I've been looking for in every encounter and relationship I've ever had. This is what life's about.

I found it. If you have this, you've really got the only home possible. If I have this, I've got the only safety possible. Do you see? He says, I'm going into the house of the Lord. Now, take a minute. I'll show you how he does it. But you see, I'm going into the house of the Lord. I'm going to gaze on his beauty. for in the day of trouble he will keep me safe in his dwelling, the only home there is. He will hide me in the shelter of his tabernacle, the only hiding place there really is. And all other hiding places and all other shelters and all other efforts to get away from the battles of life are futile.

So, another way to put it is this. Have you ever had a horrible itch on your back? Now, I've been trying to figure out just what an itch really is. From what I can tell, an itch, and I know this sounds like a sort of philosophical and not a biological or medical definition, an itch is a sudden lust that a part of your skin has for touch. It's a sudden deep lust that your skin has for touch. Somehow, those terrible itches are things that, all I know is that part of the skin The disequilibrium that can only be rectified by a direct touch.

And one of the first things you do, in most cases, since most of the time itches come up. You know, you're wearing a lot of clothes. As you try to, you try to deal with the disequilibrium through your clothes. You know, so suddenly you're going like this. One of the worst things about really bad itch is that if you actually try to deal with it without a direct touch. If you try to deal with it through the layers of clothing, it makes it worse. It's very, very awful. You're on the subway or on the bus or something like that and you go like this and it's worse. There's a part of your skin that absolutely lusts for touch. A disequilibrium that only can be rectified by a direct touch. What do you do? Well, it's very, very difficult but what you've really got to do if you're not going to go absolutely mad is you've got to tear your clothes off and you've got to rip down through and you've got to make a direct hit.

And David says that there is a deep lust in our hearts for a touch from God. And by looking at other beauty and by building other homes and by working on developing great marriages, what we're actually doing is we're trying to scratch the itch through a lot of layers of clothes.

And sometimes, by the way, I mean, let's face it, sometimes if you really push and you really press, you can, through the clothes, it's not very satisfying, but you can at least get it to stop itching for a while.

But you can't wait to get home, because at home you can take your clothes off. And at home you can really get at it, and you go, what is this? But once you do this, it's finally gone. on. And David says, sometimes, you know, the other homes and the professional success and all the ways in which we try to find home and we try to deal with that deep itch of the soul, in a sense, that deep need to be touched. Sometimes it works for a while, but sometimes it makes it worse. I found the one thing that satisfies. I found the one robe that will get

the soul to stop shivering in the cold of life. It's the face of God. Now, some people say, what is the face of God? I don't get this. They said, I thought God's presence is everywhere. He's everywhere. I've had somebody once say, you know, when I see the Grand Canyon, I really sense the presence of God. I just sense how great a God he is to have created all that. Well, listen, God is both a spirit, which means he is everywhere, but he's also a person.

And, you know, if I sit down with a great computer program and I find how powerful it is, I have an experience of the intelligence of the programmer. I'm saying, boy, whoever did this is really a brain, is really great. That doesn't mean I've met the person.

Instead, the face is the relational gate. For a person. Right now, all of you, just about, I can't look real carefully, I see one or two. Of all of you, your face is facing my face. And that is why. Why? Because your face and my face is the place in which you take in and give out information. In other words, truth comes in, truth comes out. Communication in, communication comes out through the face.

If I turn my face away from you, you turn your face away from me, we can't say that we've had any communication. much here, not very well. However, if you come right up into my face after the service, you can say your relation, that there's a, there's been a heightening of the relationship. Your face is the relational gate into your being. If you come up and talk, you know, to the back of my leg, we won't have a very good conversation. When the Bible talks about the face of God, what is it saying? It's saying he's not just a force, he's a person, and it's possible to have an intimate relationship him. Now, through the history of the Old Testament, the question is, how can anyone come up to the face of God? You know, in Genesis 3 and 4, when Adam and Eve and Cain sin and become their own masters, the face of God becomes a terrifying thing. There's this tremendously interesting place in Genesis 4 where Cain says to God, you have sent me away from your face, therefore I will be a wanderer and a homeless wanderer on the earth. Do you see that? Cain instantly realizes that the only place that a human being feels at home is before the face of God. That's the one place. That's the one spot where you're safe. The one spot where you can be accepted, the one spot where you feel home. But he's cast out. In Exodus 33,

Moses realizes that God's nearby, and he says, show me your glory. And God says, I can't show you my face. Moses knows instinctively that the only way he'll be fully human, fully home, fully at rest, is to see the face of God. And God says, you can't. It would destroy you. You know

Because the face is a relational gate. And if you offend someone, their face is a source of terror to you. It's a possibility. I hope it's not true. But it's a possibility that you're in the same room with somebody that you've upset or offended. You feel guilty about it. And they're in the same room with you. How will you leave? You'll get up and instantly you'll want to know where that person's face is. You don't want to have to look at them. to look at you. And so what you do is, if they're back there, you'll hang up here until you see the person leave because you don't want to have to face them. And it's the same thing with God. God says, because you've decided that you're going to be your own masters, because you've decided that you are going to be your own bosses, your own little kings, because you rebelled against me, our faces cannot meet.

And then, the most important, maybe, story in the Old Testament that would help you understand what David is going through here is the story of the vision of Zechariah in chapter 3 of his book. Zechariah is one of the minor prophets in the Old Testament. Zechariah had this amazing vision that God showed him of the high priest standing before the face of God. now the temple was a place that no one was allowed to live except for one man for one week the week before the day of Yom Kippur the day of atonement the high priest who represented all the people came and lived right in he dwelled in the temple courts and all of that week he prepared for that one day in which he walked back into the Holy of Holies, into the inner sanctum of the temple where God's Shekinah glory, his face, was. He spent all week preparing for it, all week. Every day he read scripture and he prayed and he bathed, ritually he bathed to stay pure and clean. And on the night before the great day, he stayed up all night with all of his friends around and praying for him and reading scripture to him and on the day of the great atonement he would dress in the most beautiful clothes and he ritually bathed himself ten times that day why? because the whole point is he took a basin of blood animals were sacrificed and he took a basin of blood back into the Holy of Holies to try to atone for the sins of the people the whole idea behind Yom Kippur How can we really experience the kind of safety and the kind of homeness that only the face of God can give when we know we've offended him and we want him to leave by another door? And in that tremendous vision of Zechariah 3, God showed Zechariah, the high priest, standing before the face of God on Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement, in filthy garments, smeared with excrement.

and Zechariah is astonished, and in that moment, he suddenly realizes that all of that frantic effort by the high priest to make himself acceptable before the face of God, to make him holy for the holy face, to make him pure for the pure face, to make him beautiful for the beautiful face of God, was all for naught. And in that moment, Zechariah also realized something that I hope everybody in this room realizes, But a lot of the franticness in our life is because we're trying to get in, we're trying to find a way home, we're trying to get away from the battle. Some of the reasons some of you are working 120 hours a week on Wall Street for 10 years is you say, if only I can just finally make seven figures. I know it's going to be 15 years, but then I'll be home. The battles will be over. Some of you are dieting because you say, if only I can get down to the place where somebody notices me and marries me, then I'll be home. Some of you are working on professional success, some of you, you know, the frantic efforts of the high priest to be acceptable before the face of God coincides, is analogous to the frantic work we all have trying to find a home, trying to find a way away from the battle, trying to say if only, if only, if only, and all of us fail, we never get

seed. We never come home. And yet Zechariah, looking at that high priest, smear with excrement, suddenly hears the voice of the Lord saying, but I will send my righteous branch, and he will take away the sins of the people in a single day, and I will put on clean garments on him, and I'll put a clean turban on him, and he will enter the presence of the Lord. And Zechariah got to realize

Zechariah didn't know that Jesus Christ actually did become our high priest, and he went before the face of God, only he didn't take a basin of blood to atone. He took his blood, and he did atone. He didn't stay up all night the night before with friends around him, reading him scripture and praying for him. He was alone. He didn't go in dressed in beautiful robes. ripped naked, and his back was even flogged so his skin was hanging off of his bones. He didn't have beautiful baths and bubble baths. Instead, the only thing he bathed in was spit.

And he went, and the minute he died on the cross and poured his blood out, immediately the veil in the temple was ripped from top to bottom, the veil that separated the face of God from the people. And that was God's way of saying, do you want to know what the cross is about? what the gospel's about? Do you want to know what the Christian faith is about? Do you want to know what life is about? My son died so that you could see me face to face, so that you could know me personally, so the barrier could be gone, so instead of me just being a boss, I could be your father.

You know how, here let me give you a real case study of how that happened. Charles Spurgeon, the Baptist preacher, the great Baptist preacher who lived in Britain in the 19th century, heard it as a teenager. He was trying to get to a Baptist church because he was a Baptist, but he got, there was such a terrible snowstorm, he had to go on Sunday morning to a small little Methodist church right near where he lived. And he went in there and it was such a bad snowstorm, there was only three or four other people there and the preacher couldn't get to it. So a deacon got up, a very uneducated man, and decided to preach. So he opened the scripture to a place in Isaiah which said, look to me all ye ends of the earth and be saved.

and the poor man wasn't a preacher so he just kept repeating his text. He says, look to me and be saved all the ends of the earth. Look to me and be saved. Then he looked up and he said, all it says is to look. Looking doesn't take any work. It doesn't mean lifting a foot. It doesn't even mean lifting a finger. Look to me and be saved. But it doesn't say look to yourself, look to your feelings, look to your faith, look to your religion, look to your good works. It says, He says, look to me. Look to me and be saved all the ends of the earth. And then the deacon looked over his pulpit, and there was only three people there, and he'd never met Spurgeon. So he looked and he says, young man, you're miserable. You look miserable, and you're going to stay miserable until you obey my text. And in an instant, Spurgeon says, he had been living a life in which he was always feeling like, like, how am I ever going to please this terrifying God? I can never obey the Ten Commandments. He was trying to do a lot of preaching, but he never was able to really feel good about it because he never felt he was good enough. He was a driven person. Suddenly he saw what Zechariah saw. In that moment, he suddenly realized Jesus had done it for him. All he had to do was look. He had to look away from himself. He had to look away from his efforts. And the only thing he had to do in him alone for salvation and he said in a minute suddenly my whole relationship with God was totally transformed they suddenly I realized that he had done everything for me my heart was melted I sensed that the father's arms were around me and he says I went home and I opened the Bible and I started to read and for the first time the truth stopped being letters on the page and they started to thrill me and touch me and overwhelm me he had access. He was feeling the presence of God. He was seeking the face of God. You know, David didn't even know what he was talking about when he said, I'm going to dwell in the house of the Lord forever. In his day, as an Israelite, that was impossible. Nobody could dwell in the house of the Lord forever, but if you believe in Jesus, he's your high priest. He stands before the Father, and you have access to the face of God.

Now, practically, you know how that works out? Just these three things. Number one, David says to his own heart in verse 7, O heart, he has said to you, seek my face, therefore I will seek it. What this means is that God comes to you and tells you to seek him. some of you may be having tremendous troubles in your life right now some of you may be feeling very let down by a parent or by a spouse or by a job or by a career some of you may be finally realizing that life is a battlefield and there's no safe place and as a result of that you're feeling very discouraged would you realize it's a summons? it's God saying to you, seek my face it's not an accident incident? Secondly, it says here in verse 13, I believe I will see the goodness of the Lord. If you want to seek his face, you've got to believe. Remember those questions I listed in the beginning of this, of the service, in the beginning of the sermon? I said, do you believe there's a right and wrong or everything is just a matter of your feelings? Do you believe that life, There's a life after death and there's a bigger world by which this world is going to be judged. Do you believe you're an accident or created by God? I want you to know there's nobody in this room who can even move or make a decision or live a day without making decisions about those things. There are some of you who have never really looked at Christianity hard. Think of how much you studied to get into the right graduate school. Think of how much you studied and thought and reflected and interviewed and saw people and maybe spent money on where to decide on where to go into. Think of how much time and effort you put into figuring out what you were going do on those areas because you knew the consequences of the wrong choice. How much time really do you really spend on really looking on the Christian faith? Studying on what do you really believe on the Bible? on what do you really believe on Jesus?.. on where do you really How much time have you spent on it? Have you really looked into the basis for the Christian faith?

Don't you see that the consequences of a wrong choice here are far, far greater than a wrong choice of graduate school or a wrong choice of career, and yet you haven't put anything like the time into knowing the basis of the Christian faith as you have into those things. Christianity is a tremendously no-nonsense religion. religion. Do you want hope? Do you want to be able to face the battles of life? Well, do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God? He was born for you. He died on the cross for sinners. He rose from over the grave. He's passed through the heavens. He's seated at the right hand of the Father now as your high priest, and he's coming back to judge the living and the dead. Do you believe that? Then there's all the hope in the world. Then you can face anything. Do you not believe that, then there's no hope. The only health you've got, the only wealth you've got, the only love you've got is the love and health and wealth you can find these eighty years. And if anything goes wrong with it, you're dead. You're gone. Because this is the only life you've got. Do you believe there's all the hope in the world? Do you not believe there's no hope? Don't you see? There's no trick to this. Do you believe the Christian faith? Do you believe the doctrines of the Christian faith? Have you studied them? Have you looked to see

something about right and wrong. You've got to believe something about God. You've got to believe something about sin. You all do, but have you thought it through? Have you really spent the time? Lastly, there's a lot of Christians here that I know believe what I just said, and they also understand what Spurgeon understood, and they understand what Zechariah understood. They understood that only through what Jesus Christ has done can I come into the presence of the Father and see him face to face. And yet you don't have the confidence that David has. Look at David. He's not afraid of anything. David says, I'm not even defeated by defeat. And you're scared of Monday. Why is the difference? Why the difference? You don't have an army coming at you. You don't have assassins coming at you on Monday. He does. And he is confident. You know what the difference is? discipline. Number one, he continually reminds himself, though he doesn't understand as well as you do, that he can dwell in the house of the Lord. You understand it. He didn't even understand it. And yet he continually reminded himself of that. If you're afraid of criticism, if you're afraid of being rejected this week, if you're afraid of that, it's because you're not dwelling in the house of the Lord. It's because you're not reminding yourself, the Father I stand before the Father in Jesus Christ. His accolade, his verdict, his approval is the one that matters. That's one of the reasons why David was fearless. But here's the other thing. David goes into the house of the Lord to pray, and what does he want more than anything else? You notice he doesn't get down on his knees and say, Lord, on Tuesday I've got an army coming. You've got to help me. I've got a lieutenant that I'm afraid doesn't know the battle plan. Could you please send a rainstorm to Assyria on Monday so they might not be able to bring their chariots? That's not what he says. He gets in there and he wants to deal with fear and he wants to have a victorious life. What does he say? He says, I only want one thing. I want to see you. I want to gaze on your beauty. I want to praise you for who you are. Is that the way you pray? Do you start with his beauty? Do you start with the reality of what he's done for you? Do you discipline yourself to trace all the great things that he's done in your life so far? To look at the beauty and say, the one thing I want more than anything else is to see your gorgeousness, your beauty, your holiness, to praise you and adore you. That's all I want. You are your own happy ending. If I've got you, I've got the happy ending. what happens Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday is really fairly trivial I've got real home, I've got real beauty I've got your face do you want power like that? gaze on his beauty come home this is a table this is a family meal come home let's pray now Father as we do open this time to receive you at this table. We pray that you would help us to recognize and actually sense your face and your presence with us through Jesus. And it is his name we pray. Amen.
