The passage to which we're going to be calling our attention tonight is printed in your bulletin. It's 1 John chapter 2. And we're doing the Lord's Supper tonight, and therefore my remarks are going to have to be a lot briefer than usual. But as I read it to you, listen, and then we'll point out some things that will help us meet God better as we go to his table. example in 1 John chapter 2, 18 to 27. Dear children, this is the last hour. And as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now many Antichrists have come. This is how we know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us. For if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belong to us. But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth. I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie comes from the truth. Who is the liar? It's the man who denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a man is the Antichrist. He denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father, and whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also. See that what you have heard from the beginning remains in you. If it does, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father. And this is what he promised us, even eternal life. I'm writing these things to you about those who are trying to lead you astray. As for you, the anointing you received from him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things, and as that anointing is real, not counterfeit, remain in him. This is God's word. We can only look at this one more time, and there's a lot more here than I'd like, than I'll have a chance to say, but what you actually have here is, in this passage, is a Christian doctrine of doctrine. You've got the Christian doctrine of doctrine. I mean, doctrine ought to have a doctrine, and it does. And it tells us four things, and I'm going to touch fairly briefly on three of them, but I'd like to draw one out, the third point. This is teaching us four things about doctrine, that doctrine exists, that doctrine is prior, that doctrine is repressed, and that doctrine is alive. It exists, it's prior, it's repressed, it's alive. Now, let me get you through the first two rather quickly. First of all, this passage teaches us that doctrine exists, that because, and we talked about this last week, there is an irreducible core body of truth. That's what the writer is saying. There's an irreducible body core of truth that you have to believe to be a Christian. In verse 19, it says, there was a group of people who left us, but they didn't belong to us. If they belonged to us, they would have remained with us, but they went out. They didn't belong to us, but you know And that truth is that Jesus is the Christ. Now, what's being said? There were a group of people who left. They claimed to be Christians. They were part of the church, but they left. And he says there's a way to tell whether a person's really a Christian or not. And they failed the test. What is that test? They failed to hold on to a truth. That truth is that Jesus is the Christ. Now, John comes back to this doctrine in a couple chapters. And he puts it a little bit more specifically. he says, the truth that Jesus is the Son of God incarnate, that Jesus is God become flesh, God breaking into history, God, the real God becoming a real human being. He says, if you don't believe that, you're not a Christian. You're not of us. And I'm just going to say it rather than try to defend it. But what he's saying is that it does matter what you believe. believe. People say today, well, what really matters is how you live. And a couple nights ago here, we talked about how that's not really the case. When somebody says, ah, it doesn't really matter what you believe as long as you're a good person and you're compassionate and you care for the people who are weaker and who are needy. And as soon as somebody says that, you're in a non sequitur anyway to say, it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you're good to people. But how do you define good unless you have a belief? belief. What makes you say that it's good to take care of the needy and the weak? Why shouldn't I just trample them under my boots? And as soon as you say, oh, that would be wrong. It would be wrong. That's a belief. It's so silly. It doesn't matter what you believe. As long as you're good, you can't be good unless you have belief. What you are depends and it flows out of your belief to say, ah, it's silly. Belief isn't important. It's how you live. It's just simply a lack of reflectiveness. And John is saying that there is an irreducible core of belief that you have to be a Christian. Doctrine exists. Second point, doctrine is prior. Now, when he says doctrine is prior, here's what I mean. He sees that the people are leaving this church. This is not a growing church. Look, they went out from us, but they didn't belong to us. There's been a controversy, and evidently there's a group of people in this church who said, now we spoke about this too last week. Probably the thing that the teaching that John was confronting was what's called today Gnosticism. And that is a teaching that was very rampant and it got into the Christian church. And that is that the Christ was a divine being who descended on the human man Jesus at his baptism and fled before the crucifixion. And what the Gnostics were saying was Jesus, the human Jesus was a great guy, but he wasn't the son of God. He wasn't God come in the flesh. Now, the point is that they wanted to stay inside the church and still have that belief. And clearly, John is saying, no, they can't. And evidently, he stood for it or some leaders stood for it. And as a result, a number of people left. This is not a growing church. And it doesn't seem to bother John. In other words, John is saying it is more important that the truth be maintained contained, and that the truth be professed, and the truth be held up in its purity and integrity, then let a church grow. I ought to say that. There's a lot of, especially in a place like New York, if your church is growing, and New York has such a success orientation, people say, oh, that must be, that's great. Something great must be happening there because it's growing. And John is saying, not necessarily. In fact, let's put it this way. You know, there's an old saying that me say, aim at heaven and you'll get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you'll get neither. That's a Christian teaching. That's very close to what Jesus, when he was saying, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these other things will be added to you. If you decide to put earth above heaven, if you make your decisions saying, the important, I will harm my interest in heaven to get things on earth. To put earth prior to That's what the Bible says. To put heaven prior to earth means you'll get both. Well, in a sense, John is saying that here too. He is saying if you decide to put growth above truth, if you say the important thing is to get people on the doors, the important thing is to revise the truth and fudge on the truth and hide the truth so that people will consider you, so you'll be popular and people will come. If you put growth over truth, you'll get neither. either. And that is true, by the way. In the early 20th century, the Protestant church, at least the intelligentsia, the top of the Protestant church has said something like this. Modern people can't believe in miracle anymore. Modern people can't believe in the supernatural. We're going to have to completely revise our doctrine. We have to completely revise our Christian doctrine so that we get the supernatural out. Otherwise, we won't have influence anymore. more. People won't come. Proves what John is saying here. If you put growth over truth, you'll end up getting neither. And they have neither. But if you put truth over growth, you'll end up getting both. Why? Well, in the short run, you might have one of these. But in the long run, oh, if you really care about truth, there'll be a kind of growth. You know why? If you are a group of people, if there's a group of Christians who really put truth first, they have a passion for the truth, embody it in their lives. They live consistently with it. But not only that, they weep and they sweat over thinking, how can I get this truth out? How can the people around me know the liberating experience that I've had through it? If you're weeping and sweating over how to get the truth out, if you're embodying it, if you really put truth first, you'll get growth. Put growth ahead of truth, you'll get neither. Put truth ahead of growth, eventually, maybe not in the short run, but in the long run, you get both. Doctrine is prior. Third, doctrine is repressed. Now, what do I mean by that? He is telling us that this particular doctrine, the doctrinal core, that Jesus is God come in the flesh, Jesus Christ is the Son of God, the creator God, who's come down and become a weak human being and lived and died and rescued us beyond hope, returning from beyond the grave.

he says if you deny the gospel he doesn't say ah you're just mistaken sincerely mistaken he says who is the liar the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ such a man is the antichrist he denies the father and the son I've been meditating on this thing for three weeks now this is a very strong thing to say and be you know most of the people that I know who have listened to Christian doctrine and heard the gospel and who say, I can't believe that Jesus is actually the Son of God come to earth. I can't believe that he's God incarnate. See, a liar is somebody who knows the truth but denies it. But people that I know like that, they're not sitting there consciously saying, well, I know that Jesus is actually going to come to judge the living and the dead. We're going to be in trouble, but I'm going to mislead people anyway. No, that's not what happens. Consciously, they don't believe it's there. They don't believe it's true. John calls them liars. And what he means is a liar is somebody who knows the truth but won't admit it at some level. John is actually saying that this particular doctrine, not all doctrines, he's not talking about baptism. He's not talking about doctrines of free will and regeneration and sanctification. He's not talking about everything. He's talking about this doctrine. Jesus is God come in the flesh. Jesus is the God who has come to rescue us from beyond hope. He says that if you hear that doctrine and then you just deny it, you're lying especially to yourself. You know it's true. Yes, you do. Now you say, how in the world can that be defended? There's one guy I know who in this century has defended it very eloquently. I continually allude to him, but let me give you his defense. It's J.R.R. Tolkien, the guy who wrote Lord of the Rings, The Hobbit books, and so on. Maybe some of you who know about him wouldn't take very seriously as a theologian, and he wasn't a theologian, but let me tell you, in his book on fairy stories, it's called. And if there's one person who knew how to write a good story, you might as well listen to him. He knew how to write a good story. And in that book on how to write stories, in that chapter, he says, the gospel The gospel is the eucatastrophe behind all stories. Where does he get the word eucatastrophe? Well, eu means good, right? Catastrophe means bad, right? The world is a eucatastrophe. The answer is the eucatastrophe is a story in which good comes out of evil. Life comes out of death. Triumph comes out of defeat. feet. And he says that beneath all the stories that we love, that all stories are an echo of the great eucatastrophe, and that this is the story that we all know is true. Now, if you want to understand his argument, I have to also turn to my wife, who has an illustration from her many, many years of hard parenting that helps us understand this. She says, you know, kids hate medicine. They don't want to take medicine. So what the smart marketers and the people who manufacture medicine have done is they've created antibiotics that taste like candy. So you give the kid a piece of candy. And in the consciousness, the child tastes the candy, and it seems like candy, but the body's not fooled. Consciously, it's candy. But the body knows that it's medicine. and the body responds to it as medicine and the body draws the truth out.

Now, whenever,

this is what Tolkien is saying, whenever any great story comes along that is a shadow of the gospel, any great story, even though up here you may skeptic, in your human skepticism, you may have written off the whole idea of God or the supernatural or a moral order of heaven or hell or of miracles, but the stories about those things, your mind thinks it's candy, but your soul knows it's the truth. Here's some examples. Basically, J.R.R. Tolkien won C.S. Lewis to Christ. One day they were walking on Addison's Walk in Oxford, and Tolkien was a Christian, and C.S. Lewis, his friend was an atheist. And Lewis said, you know what, when you read the old myths, the old stories, it almost makes you feel like there really is truth. There really is a right and a wrong. There really is a heaven and a hell. And then he said, but myths are lies, though breathed through silver. And Tolkien said, no, they are not. And he explained the gospel at that spot. And Lewis became a Christian during that time, really. wrote a chapter that explained the basic premise that Tolkien unveiled to him that day. And the name of it is Myth Became Fact. And in that chapter, Lewis explained how Christians look at stories. And Lewis says this. He says, the old myths, while not factually true, were all about reality. He says, the old myths, though they weren't factually true, were telling you truths. this. There was no such thing as a real Hercules. Historically, there was no Hercules. Factually, there was no Hercules or an Oedipus or any of these kinds of people. There was no Helen of Troy. But the myths tell you something about underlying reality. They tell you that there is a love that overcomes death, that character is more important than money. And so you respond to them. But then he says, the heart of Christianity is the teaching that myth became a historical fact. The reality to which all myths point came down from the heaven of legend and imagination into the earth of history. It happens at a particular date in a particular place. You know what he's saying? Look, you see beauty in the beast. Beauty kisses the beast. And suddenly his ugliness falls away and he's transformed. Is that historically true? No, but it points to an awesome reality. in it, huh? We don't believe in it. We might go to college, right? We go to Columbia Bernard and we're taught deconstruction. We're taught there is no such thing as a metanarrative. There's no such thing as truth. We believe it. Everything is relative. I can live my life the way I want. You go see Beauty and the Beast and something gets you. What's going on? Your mind says it's candy, but your soul knows it's true. There is a love that can cut through all the prisons and all the dungeons that sin has created. Peter Pan. What's it about? It's about never growing old. It's about flying. It's about a golden age. Well, we don't believe in that. We don't believe in eternity. We don't believe there's ever a time like that. We don't believe in flying. We don't believe that there'll ever be a time like that. And there never was a time when everybody was perfect and nobody ever got old? Your mind tells you that. Your mind says it's candy, but your soul knows. Sleeping Beauty, that death is not the end. The Lion King, when the true king is in charge, everything is in harmony. When the true king is not in charge, nothing is in harmony. What are these? These are myths, and they're not historically true, but they point to underlying awesome realities, eternity, moral order, absolutes, heaven, hell, God, the supernatural. Why do they stir us? You know why they stir us. Even though you don't believe it because you know, you don't believe it intellectually, but your soul knows. There is, we are bewitched under sin. There is an evil sorcerer. There is a supernatural. There is a prince who can kiss us and wake us up from the dead. There is a beauty that can love us and break us out of our prison house of sin. And you know, when Christians read those stories, they know that the one thing you have in the gospel is not one more story pointing to the awesome realities. The claim of the gospel is that when Jesus was born in that manger, that's not one more story pointing to awesome reality. Jesus Christ is the awesome reality to which all the stories point. This is the truth. This is the truth we all know. We respond to it. So when you deny the doctrine that the myth became a fact, that Jesus actually became a person, he happened, you're denying what you know to be true. You're lying to yourself. self. And when Christians, I've got to stop right here, when Christians, especially when Christian parents are sitting with their kids and they hear the kids saying, I wish there was a Superman. I wish we could fly. I wish we would never grow old. I wish there were white knights that slew dragons. I wish these things, and we know, and it's really hard to say this to a seven-year-old,

there is. All these things are real. I mean, in a sense. I mean, we are going to fly. I mean, we aren't going to grow old. I mean, these aren't, and we know when Maggie Smith in Hook, remember, she plays old Wendy and she's talking to Peter Pan, Robin Williams, but he's got amnesia, and she says the stories are true.

Christians get a chill. Why? If you don't believe that Jesus is the Son of God, come to earth to rescue you, to give you eternal life, and have you rule and reign with him forever, you are Peter Pan with amnesia too.

You're skeptical. You're sitting there saying, what's the gospel say? The stories are true. You're lying to yourself. you see that Jesus is the Son of God. You know the truth. And only if you accept the truth will the truth set you free. Christ the Savior is born. You know what the last point was? The last point was simple. Truth is alive. The Holy Spirit, it says you have an anointing. You see what it says? You have an anointing if you're a Christian that helps you recognize the truth, which means to understand these truths that I'm talking about is not simply an intellectual action. The Spirit of God has to come and make you feel the power of the truth. The way you know that the anointing of the Holy Spirit is working on you is that you don't just say, oh, this is interesting. What the preacher said was interesting. You know that the anointing of the Spirit is working. When you find that these truths disturb you, they grab hold of you. They start to work on you. You feel like something's got a hold of your center. You say, say, yes, this is true. This is the only hope. You feel the power of the truth. Is that how you feel now? Are you sensing that if this is true, it changes the way everything in my life should operate? If you are sensing that, if you feel like something has grabbed hold of you, not just tickled your intellect, but grabbed your heart, the anointing of the Holy Spirit is working on you to show you the truth. Listen to everything he says. Write it all down. Listen to him. Let's we ask that you would enable us to see that truth is life. Let the truths about your son's death really sink into us tonight. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.

Please take a look in your bulletin.

let's begin by confessing our sin

in a moment of silence read down that list which is one of the ways in which you look and see here's the kind of life that the Lord wants you to lead you may just take a time of silence to simply confess your sins in a for a moment or you might want to take the inventory there and take a look at those and use that. But in a moment of silence, either reading the material or just going to him with your eyes closed, confess your sins. And then when I begin to read the prayer of confession, where it says minister in people, we will confess our sins in unison. Right now, go to him in silence.

Pray with me, please. Almighty and most merciful Father, we have erred and strayed from your ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and desires of our own hearts. We have left undone those things which we ought to have done. We have done those things which we ought not to have done. And there is no health in us. But you, O Lord, have mercy upon us and grant a most merciful Father for his sake that we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and joyful life. To the glory of your holy name. Amen.
