Would you please turn to the scripture passage on which the teaching is based? It's printed in your bulletin.

What I am going to do this month is, after having looked at Elijah narratives from the Old Testament in September, we're going to look at his successor, Elisha. Why? Just as a kind of running introduction to the fall, all, we are living now in a more and more, in a post-secular society, a multi-religious society, a society in which there's multiple spiritualities and all the different faiths, major and minor, all around us. And increasingly, we're going to have to ask ourselves the question, how do you decide between all the spiritual claims, the competing spiritual claims, all the different religions, all the different faiths. We go back into the Old Testament because suddenly, well, not that it was ever really out of date, but suddenly the Old Testament is particularly up to date because you have prophets who are spiritual guides to people during a time of polytheism, during a time in which there are many gods. And every week we look at a narrative or a teaching out of the life of Elijah and Elisha, and we learn something thing about how do you know you've met the real God? How do you know you've met the real God? Now, let's take a look at this. It's kind of a long, but I'll be brief in the applications because there's many. 2 Kings chapter 6, starting in verse 8. Now, the king of Aram, that's Syria, by the way, was at war with Israel. And after conferring with his officers, he said,

there so the king of Israel checked on the place indicated by the man of God time and time again Elijah warned the king so that he was on his guard in such places this enraged the king of Aram he summoned his officers and demanded to them will you not tell me which of us is on the side of the king of Israel none of us none of us my lord the king said one of his officers but Elijah the prophet who is in Israel tells the king of Israel the very words you speak in your bedroom room. Go, find out where he is, the king ordered, so I can send men and capture him. The report came back. He is in Dothan. Then he sent horses and chariots and a strong force there. They went by night and surrounded the city. When the servant of the man of God got up and went out early the next morning, an army with horses and chariots had surrounded the city. Oh my lord, what shall we do, the servant asked. Don't be afraid, the prophet answered. Those who are with us are more than

And Elisha prayed, city, Elisha said, Lord, open the eyes of these men so they can see. Then the Lord opened their eyes and they looked and there they were inside Samaria. When the king of Israel saw them, he asked Elisha, shall I kill them, my father? Shall I kill them? Do not kill them, he answered. Would you kill men you have captured with your own sword and bow? Set food and water before them so that they may eat and drink and go back to their master. So he prepared a great feast for them. And after they had finished eating and drinking, he sent them away, and they returned to their master. So the bands from Aram stopped raiding Israel's territory. That's the story. What's it mean? Three things. First of all, we're taught here, everybody suffers from spiritual blindness. Everybody suffers from spiritual blindness. Notice, two very different parties. Syrians. Now, who are the Syrians? The Arameans, but they're Syrians. And if you look at the very last verse, and we'll actually get back to this next week when we talk about another incident. At this time, the Syrians were continually going into Israel and raiding them. And they would come and they would burn villages, and they would kill people, and they would enslave, they'd pull, take the children, the women and the children away as slaves. It was terrible. They murdered, and they pillaged and they killed and they looted and they enslaved.

They were bad guys. Bad guys. And now they believe the way to get this God of Israel, who does keep thwarting them at certain points, is to get his prophet. So they surround the little town. It's a city, but it was a small city of Dothan. It was at the top of a valley, and there were mountains all around. And they surround it during the night, and they're just waiting for the sun to come up so they can go in and attack. and they say, if we can get this prophet, this guy who keeps thwarting us, we can defeat this God of Israel and defeat Israel and take it over. These are bad guys. On the other hand, here you have the servant of Elisha. Now, the servant of Elisha would be a ministry student, probably. Just as Elisha was the servant of Elijah, this fellow is the servant of Elisha. He's probably training to be a prophet, training to be a minister, very religious, very upstanding. So here we have the baddest of the bad, you know, know? Murderers, pillagers, rapers, rapists and looters and slave masters. And on the other hand, you have the nicest, sweetest, most wonderful, and they're both spiritually blind. That's one of the points. Elisha has to pray for both of them. They have physical sight, but they don't have spiritual sight. They don't understand. They don't see spiritual reality. And that means, very important that everyone from the good guys to the bad guys from the nice people to the nasty people everybody's spiritual blindness and you see even the term Jesus talked about it the Bible continually says everyone is spiritually blind now you realize what that means the Bible saying about the magnificence and the radical nature of what it means to become a Christian this proves to us that being a Christian is not the same as getting religious. Imagine a young woman, for example, and I just read about one. Imagine a young woman who has been born blind. Therefore, she's never seen color. She's never seen light. And she says, is light... She asks you, is red... She's blind now. She says, is red like the sound of a saxophone? Is red like the feel of a marble? And what are you going to say? You're going to say, you're going to say, sight is not an extension of touch or feel, sight is a whole new sense, and when you finally, if you could come to see, you would, you would become, even the things that you thought you knew would be totally different, I mean, it's one thing to feel the face of someone who you love, it's another thing to see the smile, and what you have to say to her is, not only would you, if you got your sight, would you become aware of all sorts of reality that you're not aware of at all now, but even the you would experience in a whole new way. And of course, you know, we know that this does sometimes happen. That people who are born blind have an operation, sometimes, depending on the, obviously, on the nature of the blindness. And when they get their sight, always they're overwhelmed. They're amazed. It's beyond anything they could imagine. Or sometimes they're traumatized. But it's the one thing they never, never, ever say is, oh, this is good. I like this. This is good. I'm glad I did this, I'm glad I did this, now, what am I getting at, what is Jesus getting at when he says that he brings sight for the blind, religion is basically an extension of what you already know about the world, what you already know about spiritual reality, and the way you know it, you follow me, so in religion you say, well, I know I should be a better person, I know I should obey the ten commandments, I know I should pray, I know I should go to church. Or I know I should get more out of the Bible. I know I should do these things. So you just turn over a new leaf and you say, I'm doing it. This is good. I feel better about myself. I have more inspiration. My conscience is better. I'm glad I did this. That's not Christianity.

Christianity is not just a matter of turning over a new leaf. I mean, a woman who suddenly gets sight after being born blind, she doesn't say, yes, this is good. I'm glad I did this. No. Why do you think so many of the hymns go, amazing grace. amazing love. The mark of spiritual sight is stuff you may have believed in intellectually suddenly becomes real. Stuff that was theoretical now dazzles and affects you. And so there's an amazement, there's a newness, and it goes like this. Let me give you an acid test. If you believe in God's forgiveness, you believe God is a forgiving God, but what if you're guilty about something? failed in some way? What if you start to get downcast? And I can't tell you how many times as a pastor over the years I've heard people say, oh, I believe in a forgiving God. But you know, the trouble is, I can't forgive myself. And what they mean is, the forgiveness of God is an abstraction to them. It's theoretical. They don't see it. It doesn't dazzle them. It doesn't lift them up. It doesn't take them to the heavens. It doesn't, you see? In other words, how does a person who's born blind, who's never seen anything, how does a person who's born blind conceive of the stars and the moon and the sun? Well, they probably can't. But when they see it, they're amazed. You can know God is forgiving, you can know about it, you can know that God is holy, you can know God is loving, but if it doesn't overwhelm you, if it doesn't strike you, if it doesn't get you, if it doesn't grab you, if it doesn't change you. And if it's not more important, if God's forgiveness is more important than your forgiveness, if it doesn't really heal you, you're still blind. Okay? So the first thing you learn is everybody's spiritually blind. That's what it's saying. Everybody, no matter who you are, nice guys, bad guys, they're all blind. And it means to become a Christian. It means to really meet God. It's not just a turnover new leaf. It's not like just an extension. It's a new sense. It's as It's as discontinuous, it's as revolutionary as being born blind and getting your sight. Has that happened to you?

Have you ever had a time in which you said, how could I have been so stupid? Stuff I've heard all my life, suddenly it's all coming to light. It's astounding me, it's dazzling me, it's lifting me up. These were theoretical things and now I feel them really weighing on the retinas of my soul. Has that happened to you? Have you had that kind of experience?

Okay, the second thing we learn, not only is that we learn here that everyone is spiritually blind, the second thing we learn is that there are a couple of things, there are actually three things, that we're particularly blind to, a couple things that we're really, really blind to spiritually. The first thing here is we're blind to our blindness. In fact, I can go this far, because Jesus says this at the end of John chapter 9, Jesus says to the Pharisees, if you claim to see, it proves you're blind. If you would admit that you're blind, then you'd be seeing. And that's the point. You see, a person who absolutely sees nothing, in a sense, doesn't even know what she's missing. But when the light begins to happen, you begin to say, oh, I can see, but I can't see. I can see, but I can't quite see. In the same way, the way you know you're spiritually blind is that you don't think you are. The way you know you're beginning to spiritually see is you think that you're blind. If somebody comes up to me as a pastor and says, listen, I just want to see him, and I just don't feel like, I can't reach him, I can't get to him, I just want to know him, I know a little bit but not enough, I feel like I'm spiritually blind. Well, you see that you're spiritually blind, so you're beginning to see. tonight and you're saying, well, you know, I think he's exaggerating. I don't know why I came tonight. I wish that my friend hadn't dragged me. I'll be nice to him. I'll be nice to her. But here I am and I'm hearing this sort of primitive kind of thing. And this is, I mean, I'm a good person, I think. Maybe not as good as I should be, but I'm not spiritually blind. That is a sign that you are blind. Why? These, look, I won't go into it. Number one. Number two, the second thing, go into it the second thing we're spiritually blind to is not just our blindness but we're spiritually blind to the real nature of sin because the real nature of sin is not breaking rules it's not trusting the goodness of God what are these two people what are these two parties have in common here you have these really wicked people and here you have this really nice guy what do they have in common well we've already said they're both spiritually blind God needs to intervene but what do they have in common here's the answer look at the servant he says God has abandoned us we're surrounded he's not here he's not for us he's not with us but now look at the Syrians what they think is if we can defeat this God then we'll be free if we can capture the prophet of this God then we'll be free then we'll be able to go forth from victory unto victory and we'll be able to enlarge our country and we'll have all that the economic status of a colonial empire. In other words, so what are they doing? They also believe God's an enemy.

Now, before you have spiritual sight, you know how you think of sin? You define sin as breaking rules. And that is, that's certainly true. If the rule, don't lie, and you lie, you sin. The rule is don't break a promise, and you break a promise, you sin, of course. Why do you lie, though? think about it for a minute why do you break your promises think about it because you're just bad that's bad but why do you do it I can tell you in my life whenever I've been tempted to do something bad it's because I think I've got to get this I can't miss this I can't let him or her see this in other words I've got to get this approval, I've got to get this power I've got to get this control, I've got to get this security I've got to, but why

Because God's not enough. You see, the root of sin is I mistrust the goodness of God. The very first original sin, which is in the Garden of Eden. Remember that? God says, don't eat the tree. The serpent comes to Adam and Eve and said, if you don't eat the tree, if you obey him, you'll miss out. He doesn't have your best interest in mind. You see that? that? When a person starts to say, I realize that before I even break rules, I've got a problem in my heart, which is, I don't believe in the grace of God, I don't believe in the goodness of God, I don't believe I can trust him, I don't believe if I can, let me ask you a question, don't you see deep in your heart that you feel that if I really obeyed him utterly, utterly, utterly, he might abuse me, he might use me, he might take advantage of me?

there's two ways you know to be in an adversarial relationship with god there's two ways not to trust him the one way is to be irreligious and break all the rules the other is to be super religious and keep all the rules and they're both adversarial relationships the super religious person says i will make him bless me he's got his clammy hands on all those blessings up and i'm going to be so doggone good i'm going to make it he's going to have to bless me he's going to have to answer my prayers i'm going to be so good that's an adversarial a relationship. It's the reason you're anxious. It's the reason why you condemn other people all the time in order to boast your sense of righteousness, which you need in order to get the things out of God. See, sin is a theme before it's an action. It's an attitude of the heart before it ever becomes breaking of rules. In fact, a lot of sin expresses itself and keeps its grip on you by keeping the rules, not by breaking the rules. Because there's more than one way to mistrust God, to not rest in him, not to really believe in his goodness, not to really believe in his love for you, and that is the original sin in the garden, that's the original sin at the bottom, and when you start to really see that as your sin, when you begin to see how pervasive it is, when you begin to see that kind of mistrust in the goodness of God beneath so much of what you do, your eyes are being opened, so first of all, you're spiritually blind to your own blindness, and when you realize you're blind, you're seeing. Secondly, you're spiritually blind to the depth and the real nature of your sin. And when you begin to see it, you're beginning to see. And lastly, though, we are particularly, particularly blind to the man we really need to see. Notice in verse 19, the enemy comes down toward him. Elisha prays to the Lord, strike these people with blindness. He strikes them with blindness, as Elisha had asked. podcast, and then Elisha told them, this is not the road, and this is not the city, follow me, and I will lead you to the man you are looking for, and let's analyze this for a second,

many commentators have shown me something I didn't notice at first, and I'll bet you, you didn't, I'll bet you, I'll bet you, you didn't notice, when you think they were struck blind, you think they were going, oh my gosh, I can't see, well, if that's the case, why would Elisha come up and say, follow me, how could they follow him, not only that, why would Elisha feel For this argument, why would he say this is not the road and this is not the city follow me but more than that Why would they believe him? Why would they believe him? Hey, there's only one Dothan I mean, you know, there's this valley there's these mountains around how could this be the wrong city? How can you miss a city? How can you mean this is the head of the josery or the this is the valley goes in the jos real plain? Samarias at the end, I mean, how can this be the wrong city? What the commentators are saying here's what's so interesting these folks could not tell what they were looking at if they had really known they were blind if they really thought oh my goodness I'm blind what's going on they would have been seen with a distortion

of perception so they could not see what they were really what was in front of them and Elisha comes up and says follow me you know, here's what's so interesting, because they did not know that they didn't see clearly, they were unbelievably vulnerable, they were absolutely docile, he marched them right into the middle of Samaria, where they were outnumbered by the superior force of Israel, if they had known they couldn't see, if they had been willing to admit, if they, they would never have been able to just be walked nice and, you know, docilely right down the 14 miles to Samaria, they would never have done it, and that's what we were saying before, the greatest blindness of all

But when he says, and I will lead you to the man you're looking for, boy, some people say, that's that, that's it, that's a lie.

They're looking for Elisha, that's why they're charging. Elisha comes out and says, I will take you to the one you're looking for. Isn't that a lie? Well, now, from one vantage point, certainly it is, though nobody's ever gotten very upset about it, because, I mean, if somebody's coming after you in battle, you know, if they're coming after you, about to kill you, you're allowed to fake left and go right. You're allowed, you know, the army that wants to kill, you're allowed to try to fool them into thinking you've gone up into the hills while you're actually going down to the sea to get in the boat. That's all right. Nobody gets upset. I mean, in other words, if you fake left and go right, you know, and you get them off your trail, nobody says, that's a lie. Nobody does that. That's all right. But let me tell you something really interesting. In a sense, it's a lie, but in another sense, it's not.

You guys are looking for someone, says Elisha. You're not going to find him here, I'll show you. Who are they looking for? They were looking for the one who was going to liberate them, who was going to bring them into, go from victory to victory. They were looking for the one that was going to end the war, because they figured once we get this guy, then we're able to march right on through. They were looking for a savior, they were looking for a liberator, they were looking for someone who was going to bring them in to their own. And what he says is absolutely right. right, he says, I will show you the man you're looking for, at least the one you should be looking for, at least the one that you will only see when I get you to Samaria, at least the one you would be asking for if you knew everything God knows. And he takes him to Samaria, and when their eyes are open, only in Samaria is he able to show him what? What is he able to show him? The gospel. Why? Only in Samaria do they finally realize that this is a God who can never be defeated. This is a God who is so great, so powerful, so majestic. On the other hand, he's also able to show them only in Samaria as the king of Israel comes out and they dig out. When he says, can I kill them, Father? Can I kill them? You can see he's got one of them by the hair. He's got his head back. He's got his sword out. May I kill them? And Elisha says, no. You didn't capture them with your sword and bow. The Lord has captured them. and I'm going to show you what happens when the Lord captures you. And he changes their heart by shocking them with grace. He feasts them. He doesn't just give them a little bit of food and water. He gives them a feast in the Near East, and hospitality means so much back then. Surely the Israelites were astounded when Elisha says, give them a feast. Treat them as brothers. Treat them as people we love. And what is he showing them? He says, I'm going to show you how to really get liberation. not by capturing God, but by letting God capture you. I'm going to show you the God

who is far greater than you ever thought. He can't be defeated, so you're really much more sinful than you ever dared believe, and far more gracious, and far more merciful than you ever dared hope. And they went out, and look at the last line. The word so means therefore. Therefore. You see, there's two ways to end this war. One is to slaughter them. The other one was to change their hearts with grace. Why would they ever come back? They didn't come back. Not those soldiers. Never again, they experienced grace. And therefore, in a sense, Elisha's saying, yeah, you're looking for me, but I can't show you who I really am here. You're looking for liberation, but I can't show it to you here. Come with me, and I'll show you the gospel, and I'll show you the liberation. But surely, friends, as they were leaving, as these guys were walking out, some of the Israelites were saying, wait a minute, these guys deserved execution. I know some of these Syrians. I know some people who they've killed. I know some villages that they've burned. I know some families where they killed the father before the eyes of the children and the mother. These men deserved it. How dare you, Elisha, send them out forgiven? How dare you? They deserve the sword. So here's the question, how can Elisha be their liberator? How can Elisha be their savior?

Because many centuries later, there was someone a lot like Elisha. He was a prophet. And one night he was surrounded by his enemies, and they came after him. And one of his servants freaked out too. And drew a sword and began to wield it. And Jesus said to him, to his servant Peter, he says, put away your sword. Don't you know, now get this. he says, don't you know that if I wanted them I could have twelve legions of angels I could have the chariots of fire I could have the angelic hosts he's thinking of the angelic hosts, why? how could Jesus be thinking of that at that time? here's why because every other prophet who ever lived always was surrounded see, look at it, it says Elijah was surrounded by the angelic hosts the chariots of fire, but here's what Jesus is saying to Peter, Peter, I did not come to be saved by the chariots of fire I came to be abandoned by them

the only reason that you and I can be sure that the chariots of fire will never abandon us, the only reason we can be sure that God will be with us, the only reason that we know that God will feast us and not give us what we deserve is because there was one who took what we deserve. The reason you and I can have the chariots of fire around us is because there was one who came and had the chariots of fire abandon him.

when his opponents were coming after him they weren't struck blind rather darkness came down on him there was darkness at the sixth hour in other words Jesus is the true Elisha Jesus is really the man you're looking for he's the one who can show you that you're never going to have liberation by trying to have an adversary relationship with God you've got to let him capture you if you surrender to him it's the only way of liberation and he will not punish you because he punished one who came and took your punishment voluntarily, and to the degree that you look at that, to you look at Jesus Christ being abandoned by the chariots of fire for your sake, when you let that melt you, when you let that change you, then and only then are you going to really be able to know the chariots of fire will never abandon you. They can't. They're not going to abandon you no matter what kind of week you had because Jesus was punished for you, and you can live with the same kind of poise, the same kind of steadiness You can know that even if you can't actually physically see that those chariots are around you. Why? Only because they abandoned Jesus. Only because. If you forget that, in other words, if you just try to emulate Elisha, instead of really putting your heart in the hands of the greater Elisha, being melted by him, then you're never going to be able to be like Elisha by trying. You can only be like Elisha through faith in the one who died for you.

Look at that until that dazzles you. did. Look at him actually saying, I could have the chariots, Peter. That's not why I came. I came to be abandoned by them so that you could forever, all the rest of your life, be surrounded by them. Okay, application. What do we learn? How do we apply this to our lives practically? Boy, you realize there's tons of them. Can I just run through a couple? For example, For example, look how we're supposed to embrace people that are our enemies. Look at how we're supposed to forgive people who are coming after us. Look at how we're supposed to feast and embrace people who don't believe. How are you and I going to get like that? Look at Elisha. The Israelites are amazed. They've never seen anything like this. The Assyrians have never seen anything like this. You and I are Christians. Christians, do we love and embrace people with whom we deeply differ? Do we accept and embrace and lavish all sorts of mercy and justice and joy and acceptance on people that we really differ with, who are very different from us religiously and spiritually and culturally, and maybe even people that actually historically have been our enemies? me. Are we like that? We can be like that if we remember what Jesus did for us. Because you see, if you know you're a sinner saved by grace, not by your good deeds, but by grace, then when you meet a non-Christian, A, you'll respect that person because you'll say, hey, I'm saved by grace. This person could be and probably is a better husband, a better wife, a better person than me. See, a Christian can respect a non-Christian in a way that nobody else can and because you know you're a Christian, not because you're a better person, but because you're saved sharily by grace, you deserve the sword, and he got the sword, you deserve to be killed, not feasted, but he was killed so you can feast, do you know that, then you're going to respect the people, that aren't Christians, number one, number two, you're going to have courage, you're going to speak up, why, because it doesn't matter what they think, you get your acceptance from what Jesus has done, not from what people think, And thirdly, you're going to have hope. You're never going to look at a non-Christian and say, that person would never become a Christian. Who do you think you are? You don't think it was a miracle for you? When you understand that you are a sinner saved by grace, you will treat every non-Christian person with respect, with courage, with hope, and they're going to be amazed. Are you like Elisha? Do you embrace the outsider? Secondly, notice something else. Do not, do not, do not bellyache when people who have not had their eyes open

ats, don't you? Oh, people are being so bad to Christians, and people are beating up on Christians, and people are, you know, people are criticizing Christians, and so, yes, of course, they're going to, look, two people, look at a room, here's a Christian, here's a non-Christian, okay, the Christian looks out and sees 100 people standing in there, and the non-Christian sees 25, you're going to walk into that room differently, you know, the Christian's going to be going like this, and like this, like this, and the non-Christian's, what are you doing?

they're going to think you're nuts. I remember some years ago, I had to talk to an IRS person because there was a woman in our church that made very little money, but she was giving 30% of it to the church. She'd become a Christian to the church. Her life had been changed. And she said, I just, I don't really need anything, but just a little bit. Well, of course the IRS audited her. They audited her. They didn't believe it. This guy had to come and talk to me and make sure he had, I had to show them the records. We had to show everything. It was back in the day when I knew, you know, it was a little church, and I ran everything, and I get out the receipts, and I get everything out, I can't get out your receipts, I don't know what you give, just to let you know so anyway, the we did all that you know what the problem was, the auditor saw only the chariots on the ground she saw the chariots in the sky she said, I'm not my own I'm bought with a price, this isn't my money, he couldn't get it, now, he's going to think she's crazy he can't help but think she's crazy he can't help but think she's a fanatic, and you better really nice to people because, you see, better be nice to people in the world because they have a right to think you're nuts. I mean, from their standpoint, of course they're gonna think you're nuts. I mean, why are you so upset when people misunderstand you? Thirdly, notice that Elisha is not politically aligned. In the very beginning, it looks like he's on the Israelite side. He's on the Israelite side and he's sort of fighting for the Syrians. But at the end, oh my goodness, Goodness, if you're an Israelite partisan, you think this guy is nuts. We have a quarter, a third, or a big part of the army. Why in the world are you letting him go? If you're a Christian, sometimes you're going to look like a Democrat, sometimes you're going to look like a Republican.

poor, actually all the time, sometimes you can beat for sexual integrity, all the time, sometimes you can look like a liberal, sometimes you can look like a conservative, just like Elisha, don't sell your soul to any particular party, I'm not saying you can't belong, I'm not saying you can't align, but just realize, you know the place in Joshua chapter 5, where Joshua goes out before the walls of Jericho the night before the big battle, and he sees this armed man, and he goes up to him and he says, whose side are you on, mine or theirs? And the guy said, no. That's not all he says. He says, no, for as the captain of the Lord's hosts have I come. And what he's really saying is, I'm sorry, I'm God. I'm not on anybody's side. You can get on my side if you'd like.

Fourthly, holistic ministry. On a night like this, a holistic ministry. What do we mean?

If you have spiritual sight and not physical sight, you'll eventually have both. If you have physical sight and not spiritual sight, you'll eventually have neither. So obviously spiritual sight's the more important, thing you learn in this passage and everywhere through the Bible is God wants you to have both. God doesn't just want your heart to be open to the grace of God. He also wants your body to be okay. I mean, Jesus' resurrection means he's going to redeem soul and body, and it's our job not only to try to win people to Christ, but also to do everything we possibly can to patch up and help and give them whole bodies. We're supposed to help people materially and physically, right? Got that? Lastly, embrace the outsider. Don't be surprised the world thinks you're a nut. Don't be ideologically, politically too closely aligned. Do holistic ministry. Here's the last thing. Realize, no matter how slow they are, that when you're in trouble, the chariots are coming. There were two people that were in trouble in Dothan. Here's Elisha, and he's about to be killed, but he cries out to God. You know, he prays. Do you know that several centuries before that, Joseph was in Dothan? Now, there wasn't a city back then, but what happened was his brothers put him into a pit in Dothan and then sold him into slavery. And he cried out and he prayed to God. And he was sold into slavery anyway. So you say, well, now that's awful. The chariots came for Elisha, but they didn't come for Joseph. Oh, really? Really? You know now, when you read the whole story, that if Joseph had his prayers answered, all of his family would have perished in a famine, and probably, not only would they have perished physically, they would have perished spiritually, because Joseph himself was on the road for spiritual destruction, he was incredibly proud, he was being ruined by his father's favoritism, if he hadn't been sold to slavery, he wouldn't have become a great man spiritually, he never would have been able to save his family from famine physically, got that? The point is the chariots were around Joseph. It's just that they had their silencers on.

The chariots are always around you. And even when you've been struck, even when it looks like you're being led through the wilderness, it's always because God is simply trying to change your heart through grace. You can trust him in trouble. You can trust him in the darkest place of all. Let's pray. pray, our Father, help us to see we all are spiritually blind. Help us to see that we're blind, especially to our blindness, especially to how much we distrust you, and especially, oh, especially, we're blind to how much we're really looking for you as our Savior. Help us to see it's only by being captured by you that we're liberated. Help us to see it's Jesus was abandoned by the chariots, that we can be sure, sure to live with poise, knowing that even in trouble, you're around us. We ask, Father, you would give us the poise of Elisha, give us the embrace and forgiveness of Elisha, give us the political independence of Elisha, give us the concern for holistic ministry of Elisha, give us all these great things only because and through a spiritual illumination of our heart by your Holy Spirit to the glory of what Jesus did for us, confidence in that. Dazzle us with that until we're like Elisha, like your son, in whose name we pray. Amen.
