Good morning. Our teaching is taken this morning from John 21, verses 4 through 22. Early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize that it was Jesus. He called out to them, Friends, haven't you any fish? No, they answered. He said, Throw your net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. When they did, they were unable to haul the net in because of all the large number of fish. Then the disciple, whom Jesus loved, said to Peter, It is the Lord. As soon as Simon Peter heard him say, It is the Lord, he wrapped his outer garment around him. For he had taken it off, and he jumped into the water. The other disciples followed in the boat, towing the net full of fish, for they were not far from shore, about a hundred yards. When they landed, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it and some bread. Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish you have just caught. Simon Peter climbed aboard and dragged the nets ashore. It was full of large fish, 153, but even with so many, the net was not torn. Jesus said to them, Come and have breakfast. None of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? They knew it was the Lord. Jesus came, took the bread, and gave it to them, and did the same with the fish. This was now the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than these? Yes, Lord, he said. You know that I love you. Jesus said, feed my lambs. Again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me? He answered, yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said, feed my sheep. I tell you the truth. When you were younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go. Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. he said to him, follow me. Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. This was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper and had said, Lord, who is going to betray you? When Peter saw him, he asked, Lord, what about him? Jesus answered, if I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? you must follow me. This is God's word. It's an extremely interesting passage. I think I mentioned a couple of weeks ago that Anne Rice, who wrote Interview with a Vampire, recently made a fairly well-publicized change. She converted to historic Christianity, and a lot of people wanted to know what in the world would lead you to do that. And she said to Charlie Rose, she said, one of the main reasons was I read a book by N.T. Wright called Resurrection of the Son of God. In that book, which is an

890-page thick scholarly book, and there's got to be easier ways to get salvation than that, but some people do things the hard way. But in that book, one of the things I remember very, very clearly, Wright makes a remarkably strong case and says other historians recognize this too, that these narratives, these passages in Matthew and Luke and John that talk about meetings with the risen Jesus just in no way, in no way,

fit myth or legend. They don't fit the form of myth or legend. So, for example, quick example, notice it says that when they brought in the fish, there were 153. now why are there 153 fish many people have said well since this is a legend that would have to be symbolic this is a wonderful but made up story so whoever was making it up must have meant must have said 153 in order to be symbolic but nobody we've we've tried people have been trying for centuries on this one you know 12 7 10 100 there's a lot of symbolic numbers but nobody thinks 153 is a symbolic number. So people said, well, maybe it was put in there just to be realistic. But the problem with that theory is modern realistic fiction, where you create a fictional piece but you put in little details to make it seem more realistic, is something that didn't happen for the last couple hundred years. Back then, you would not put a detail like that in a narrative unless it was something that actually happened. This is an eyewitness memory. This actually happened. there's no other reason to have 153 fish. Or if you're making it up, by the way, when people jump out of the boat into the water to swim to shore, you don't put on your coat. You take things off, but you don't put things on. But here's Peter putting on a coat and jumping into the boat. Why? Because somebody remembered that's what he did. So this happened. But what does it mean? Why did John put it here? What is John trying to teach? At the end of the book of John, he actually says, There's tons and tons and tons of things that Jesus did I can tell you about, but I can't fit into the book. All right, well, then why does he put the things in the book that he puts? Always because he's trying to teach. What is he trying to teach? The great Christmas hymn, Hark the Herald Angels Sing, has got a line in it, God and sinners reconciled. That's what Christmas is about. God and sinners reconciled. We're going to sing it at the end of the service. But that's just an abstraction unless somehow we make it concrete, and that's what this passage does. This passage shows that the coming of Jesus means we can be reconciled to others, we can be reconciled to ourselves, who we really are, and we can be reconciled to God. In fact, each one is based on the next one. We can be reconciled to others because we are reconciled to who we are ourselves because we are reconciled to God. reconciled to others. Verse 4, early in the morning, Jesus stood on the shore, but the disciples did not realize it was Jesus. Who are the disciples? Seven disciples. After Jesus died, seven disciples had gone to Galilee, and they were out fishing in a boat. They'd been fishing all night. We didn't read who they were because it's in verses 1, 2, and 3 of chapter 21, but here's who they were. Simon Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, the two sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples were together. They went out to fish. They'd fished all night, and they hadn't caught anything. Jesus speaks to them and says, try one more time. Throw the net in. They cast the net in. There's an enormous number of fish that come in, and this has happened before. You know, in Luke chapter 5, earlier in their relationship to Jesus, before the death and resurrection of Jesus, the same thing had happened. They've been fishing all night. Jesus said, try it one more time. An enormous number of fish came in the net, and John says, he figures it out, this is the Lord. And so they meet him. Now, the first point, though, before moving on, what do we learn here? Look at all these people in the boat, John, Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, and remember with me, through the narratives of the Gospels, how incredibly different these people were from each other. Nathaniel was a credulous person. He was a person who was too easily believed. He was too easily taken in. He was almost superstitious. So, for example, when he first meets Jesus, Jesus says, Nathaniel, I saw you under the fig tree. Now, we don't know what Nathaniel was doing under the fig tree, but as far as he was concerned, it was absolutely secret. Nobody knew what he was doing under the fig tree. Nobody could have known. And when Jesus says he does, Nathaniel immediately realizes this is some kind of supernatural knowledge. And he turns to Jesus and says, Rabbi, you are the king of Israel. And Jesus says, you already think I'm the king of Israel? That's all you saw. He says, boy, you are easily impressed. I haven't done any miracles yet. He says, you will see greater things than this. But Nathaniel is too quick to believe, actually. Very, very fast. Too credulous, almost superstitious. Thomas is the opposite. Thomas is absolutely the opposite. Thomas is skeptical. He under-believes. He's too hard-headed. He's too doubtful. I always thought it's amazing how lucky Thomas was. You know, Thomas says, I'm not going to believe that Jesus is raised from the dead unless I actually see his hands with the nail prints still in them. The holes should still be there. Now, you know, think about it. I mean, not that I'm an people from the dead, but you would think that if someone's risen from the dead, it would be perfectly reasonable to imagine, if it really happened, that the wounds would be gone. So it's very, very possible that Jesus could have been raised from the dead and his wounds be gone, and Thomas, ah! It's a hoax. Thomas was awfully lucky. He could have missed the Savior of the Universe. He just happened to be asking for something that was true of Jesus. He's too cynical. He's too hard-headed. He's too doubtful. But they're in the boat together because Nathaniel's and Thomases ordinarily can't get along. See, the blue states are filled with Thomases that think the red states are filled with Nathanials who are credulous and they believe anything. They'll believe anything. And then Nathanials think of the secular skeptical Thomases that you're ruining the culture but here they are in the boat together. And then there's John and Peter. John's a rationalist. See, he's the first one to crunch all the data and said, this is Jesus. he's the first one to think, but he doesn't do anything about it. Peter, who, by the way, is not at all good at thinking things out, is the first one to act. He's the first one to do something about it. Now, he jumps out of the boat before they're even into shore, and he swims or runs or wades or whatever into the shore. Now, Peters and Johns don't get along. Peters think Johns are cowards, always wanting to form another committee to study the issue longer before we do anything about it, and John's think that Peter's are impetuous and hotheads and so on, but here they are in the boat together. The Bible over and over says, and a lot more strongly than this actually in many places like Ephesians 2, Jesus Christ can and will bring people together across racial, temperamental divides, across class divides, gender divides, across every possible divide. Jesus Christ can bring people together who otherwise would despise each other, would not with each other at all. Jesus can bring them together into a unity that creates wisdom, where we enrich one another. Jesus Christ will do that. Jesus Christ can do that. There's a human unity across these great divides possible in Christ that's available nowhere else. That's what the Bible says. We can be reconciled to each other. Before leaving that, let me just tell you something that I think has impressed me of late. When you recite the Apostles' Creed, it starts off, I believe in God the Father. And that makes sense to us all. If you want to relate to God, you have to have faith. And if you... What does it mean to have faith? Well, it means if you act as if what the Bible says about God is true,

you will find it to be true. But it takes faith out and risk, it's hard at first, but if you act as if what the Bible says about God is true, you will find it to be true. But do you realize that near the end of the Apostles' Creed, there's something else you're called to believe in? I believe in the holy Catholic, holy universal church, and the communion of saints. And actually, it wasn't until recently I realized that the Apostles' Creed says you have to believe to be in the church. That is, you have to believe in the church, it takes a tremendous amount of faith to relate to the church. What does that mean? It means, and this isn't easy, you have to begin to act as if what the Bible says about the church is true, that it's a supernatural thing, that unity is possible there. Across all those divides is possible there. And if you act as if it's true, if you trust God to do those kinds of amazing, supernatural community, he will. Americans have a lot of trouble with that part of the Christian faith. Do you know that? You know when Americans say, and this is, pollsters and sociologists say, this is very, very typical. Americans say, I'm spiritual, but I'm not religious. You know what that actually means? I can believe in God, but I refuse to believe in the church. And yet, they go together. They're somehow together. Believe. Do you believe that the church is a supernatural thing, a supernatural community, believe it. And it's a scary thing to believe, but believe it. So Christ can reconcile us to each other. Secondly though, Jesus reconciles us to ourselves. Now the reason we don't see that kind of supernatural community, the reason we don't see people reconciled is because, to a great degree, we're not reconciled to who we actually are in ourselves. We're not reconciled to our own reality, the reality of who we are. James chapter 4 says, fighting's outside comes from fighting's inside. Very profound. If you can't be transparent with yourself, if you can't admit who you are, how can you be transparent to others? And I propose, the Bible says here, that all of us without God's help live lives of illusion. We spend almost all of our lives trying to prove to other people and to ourselves that we're something other than what we really are. We cannot admit our flaws. We cannot admit our weakness. We can't admit our brokenness to one another or to ourselves. And therefore, because you can't be transparent to ourselves, we can't be transparent to others. Unless we're reconciled to the reality of who we really are. See ourselves for who we really are. We can't be reconciled to others. But Jesus can change that. And the case study is Peter. And before we take a look at how Jesus heals Peter and helps get him reconciled to his own reality, let's remember what happened. At the end of Jesus' life, all the disciples let Jesus down, all of them. But Peter's betrayal of Jesus was particularly grievous for several reasons. One was Peter was in the inner circle. He was one of the three, Peter, James, and John. who were Jesus' closest confidants. Jesus gave him the most input. But secondly, Peter was the only one who was so out of touch with his own reality, so unable to know who he really was, so needing to keep up an image of himself as a strong person, he was the only one that absolutely insisted that if Jesus was taken, he wouldn't fall away. There's one place where Jesus is trying to say, I'm going to be arrested, I'm going to be taken, and you're going to fall away,

Peter said, Even if all the rest fall away on account of you, I never will. Even if all the rest fall away on account of you, I never will. I am ready to go with you to prison or even to death. Now, you know, the other disciples weren't so hot, you know, spiritually, emotionally. They weren't the greatest. But at least they weren't so stupid as to say something like that. They weren't so out of touch with who they were that they would say, oh, I don't care if they come. I don't care if they come with their swords. I don't care what they're going to do. I will go with you to prison. I will go with you to death. And notice what he says is, I alone. If all the rest fall away, I won't. And what is he saying? He says, Jesus, I've been hanging out with these other 11. None of them love you like I do. None of them will give you the allegiance I will. I love you more than these. But as we all know, Peter very publicly denied Jesus. He was in a courtyard when Jesus was on trial, and he was with a group of people, soldiers and servants, around a fire. And three times they asked, aren't you a follower of Jesus? And three times, not once, which could just be a kind of slip up, but twice, three times, very loudly says, I don't know him. You know, unfortunately, it's showing my age horribly. You know, when I was becoming a Christian, Jesus Christ Superstar was very hot. And I must say that there's, you know, some of it's silly and some of it I don't believe is a very good representation. But Peter's denial is actually something that has been burned into my head in Jesus Christ Superstar. And the way it works, of course, is that he's out there and the people are asking him, and finally Peter says, I don't know him. And then Mary Magdalene comes alongside and says, Peter, don't you know what you have said? You've gone and cut him dead. And Peter says, I had to do it, don't you see? Or else they'd go for me. And she says, it's what he told us you would do. I wonder how he knew. It was very grievous. How do you live with yourself after that. Here's how. Look at what Jesus does. Verse 9, when they landed, it's on the second page, they saw a fire of burning coals there with fish on it. Jesus brings Peter back to a fire, which is a pointed reminder of the setting of the original betrayal. That's not all. Down to verse 15, and when they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Peter, Simon, son of Jonah, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than all of them? Now, Jesus is giving a very pointed reminder of the content of the betrayal. When Peter had said, oh, everyone else will fall away, I love you more than everyone else. I love you more than these. And then, instead of Jesus just asking him once, he asks him three times. Three times. Simon, you failed me. Peter says, I know. Simon, you failed me. Peter says, I know. Simon, you failed me. So he recounts the form, he recounts the content, the three-fold form, he recounts the content, and he recounts the setting. Jesus Christ wants absolute psychological, emotional reality. End of denial. Look at who you are. Look at what you've done. Oh my goodness, you say, wow, he's twisting the knife. Absolutely. But it's the knife of a surgeon, not the knife of a thief, not the knife of a cutthroat. Because every single time Jesus says, you failed me, and Peter, instead of making excuses, says, but I know, but I do love you, and I want to love relationship. Every time he says, you failed me, and Peter says, I know, Jesus says, feed my sheep, feed my lambs, take care of my flock, and these verbs are, the verb poeminous, the word for pastor, for shepherd, for leader. Do you know what he's saying? Incredible affirmation. It's like every time Jesus says, I want you to see the brokenness of what you are, and the minute Peter opens up even a little bit, Jesus drives down into the heart of his heart the most incredible love and affirmation. Jesus says, you failed me. Peter says, I know. And Jesus says, okay, now take charge. You're a leader. Take over. There's seven disciples, and Peter is the most broken. He's the one who was the most out of touch with who he was. He was the one who most needed to keep up the image. His failure was the greatest, and yet Jesus says, of the seven of you, because your failure is the greatest, the leader. Do you know what Jesus is saying? Plunge your failure into my grace, and it'll make you greater than you were before. It'll make you...and a greater failure plunged into my grace makes you a greater leader, a greater shepherd. Now, we don't understand this in New York City, because in New York City, when you blow it, you don't get second chances. You haven't gotten to that school, therefore, you're never going to get that kind of job, or you didn't get that kind of job. You're never going to be able to get that kind of job. Jesus says with me, it's totally different. In fact, it's the reverse. If you've been forgiven much, he says in Luke 7, you love much. The more you see your brokenness and the more you plunge yourself into my grace, the more you'll understand other people, the more you'll understand how the human heart works, the more reliant you'll be on me, the less surprised you're going to be about how life goes, the more wise you're going to be you are in charge why? because you're the biggest failure

Dick Lucas is an Anglican minister who now retired British and he had a church in London for many years and I listened to a tape a tape of a sermon a teaching on John 21 that was pretty interesting he said that years ago came to Stony Brook School, which is a boarding school on Long Island, and he was supposed to do a kind of Christian life conference. He was speaking in chapel once or twice a day for a whole week, sort of like the Christian life speaker. And to his dismay, early in the week, the headmaster got up and said, and if any of you young students want to personally counsel with Reverend Lucas and go and talk to him about personal issues or spiritual issues and all that, you can have a personal conference and you'll be able to get out of class. Now, Dick Lucas is a lifetime bachelor, a very old-fashioned Englishman in many ways. If you ever hear him on a tape and you just listen to that incredibly plummy Oxbridge accent, it's astounding how old-fashioned he sounds. And as a result of that, being an old Englishman and being a lifetime bachelor, the way he put it on the tape was, to put it mildly, I have always found children to be a trial. and after one day of hour after hour listening to kids especially if i remember correctly 12 13 14 year old girls talking about a particular boy in a class and saying over and over again and he doesn't even know i exist and if you know dick luke is sitting there going oh my word and wanting to just say you little twit you're going to forget about him in six months you know end of the world. What's the matter with you? And trying so hard to be compassionate and having so much trouble being compassionate. Oh, Lord, why can't you bring me somebody I can go to see a play with or go to a pub with? Why am I listening to these people? So after one particularly frustrating time where he was getting very upset with himself and with the situation, he turned to the Bible for strength. And he turned to John 21 and he read, Feed My Lambs. And he said it just knocked him flat because this is what he realized. He says, you know, Even when you feed a cat, you get something out of it. It nuzzles you. You feed a cat, it purrs and it nuzzles you. You get something out of it. Feeding a lamb, you get nothing out of it. And he realized what we're being called to do here. Feed my lambs means love and care and serve people from whom relating gives you no intellectual, emotional, psychological, or social benefit at all. You're getting nothing out of it. They're getting something out of it. it. How could you have that kind of shepherd heart? How could you be that loving, that patient a kind of person? You don't move out into relationships to say, will this person make me, hang out with this person will make me feel good about myself? Will I enjoy it? Will this bring intellectual, emotional, social, psychological benefit to me or not? No, no. How would you like to become the kind of person that's so filled in your own self, so unneedy, that you're that tender, You have that kind of shepherd's heart. And he realized what Jesus was saying to Peter, what Jesus was saying to Dick, and what Jesus was saying to us is that it'll only happen when you understand yourself to be a moral failure plunged into the grace of Jesus Christ. How can we be reconciled to others, to lambs, to people who are very different than us, very weak than us, people we would never really want to spend any time with? How can we be reconciled to others is only when you reconcile to the reality of your own weakness who you really are. Now, lastly, though, how do you really get that? What does it mean to be plunged into the grace of Jesus Christ? Sounds like wonderful rhetoric, but here it means to be reconciled to God. And the last thing that Jesus says to Peter is very cryptic and takes a little bit of thinking, because he says, verse 18, Peter, I tell you the truth, and I think that's amen, amen. That's his is verily, verily. That's Jesus' way of saying, I solemnly tell you, when you're younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted, but when you're older, you will stretch out your hands. Someone else will take you where you don't want to go. And Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God and follow me and follow Jesus. Now, this is what's being said. You can't hug somebody without stretching out your arms. But in order to have physical closeness, that entails physical vulnerability. If you stretch out your hands, you can be punched. You can be stabbed. If you want to make sure you're physically not vulnerable and safe, keep your hands together. Keep your hands right here. But then you can't embrace. Physical closeness always entails physical vulnerability. Well, so does moral, spiritual, emotional closeness. If you want to have personal closeness with someone else, you've got to become vulnerable. You've got to stretch out your arms as it were. You've got to be willing to be seen for who you are. You've got to be willing to be hurt. You've got to be willing to be open to criticism. There is no such thing as relationship, closeness, without vulnerability. But when Jesus Christ says, you are going to be following me by stretching out your arms, what is he saying? saying, there's a double entendre here. And usually when we think of double entendre, we think of something kind of negative. That's not quite what we're talking about. On the one hand, to stretch out your arms is vulnerability and embrace. But the Greek scholars will also tell you it was an idiom or a metaphor for crucifixion. And here's what Jesus is saying. I'll tell you, Peter, how I'm going to give you a shepherd heart. I'm going to tell you how I'm going to give you the kind of heart that is so willing to other people, that you're willing to even die for other people. You are going to build the rest of your life on the pattern of my death. As I open my arms for you, that will enable you to open your arms to others. What? Well, here's what. Crucifixion. On the cross, Jesus became the ultimate shepherd, the ultimate friend, giving himself for people from whom he was going to get absolutely no benefit it. Because how much more vulnerable can you be to have your arms nailed open? He was that vulnerable for us. Why? He paid for our sins. You know what that means? On the one hand, it humbles you into the dust because Jesus, the great shepherd, treated us, the little lambs, like that. So we'll never look at lambs the same way again. And he affirms us. He loves us. We're accepted in him. That fills up that infinite depth of love need in your heart that will enable you to move on out. In other words, what Jesus is saying is, as I had my hands and arms open for you, to the degree you understand that and grasp that and have your life changed by that, to that degree you'll be able to walk out into the world with your arms open to other people. And he says, Peter, you're going to be so good at this that ultimately you're going to actually have to literally die for your sheep the way I died for mine. ministry the way I died for mine, and you're going to do it. And did he? Yes, he did. History tells us he did. Though, you know, Tertullian says that when it came to Peter being crucified under Nero in 65 AD, they say, they just say, that Peter says, sure, I have no problem with being crucified as long as you do it upside down, because I don't feel worthy to be crucified the way my Savior was for me. See? In Luke chapter 5, when Peter first saw all those fish come in and realized he was in the presence of greatness, and he felt small, what did he say to Jesus? Depart from me! That is the old personality structure we're all born into. I don't like to see my flaws, flaws because my whole self-image is based on my idea of being a good person or a cool person or an achieving person or something, a sensitive person or a humble person or something. And when I get into the presence of something that shows me to be small and flawed, it's psychological death. But this time, same thing, all these fish come in and this time Peter doesn't say, depart from me. This time Peter runs like a madman to get as close to Jesus as he can. Why? Because his personality has been restructured by grace. If you are a sinner saved by grace, now failure is not a means of psychological death, but a means of spiritual and personal growth. You plunge your failure into his grace. You become a more effective person, a smarter person, a wiser person, a more loving person. You get a shepherd heart. Would you please fly to him the way Peter did? stop him. The fact that the boat hadn't come in yet, Peter just went. And keep your eyes on him. Isn't this, at the very end, this is the most comic spot in all the Bible, perhaps, one of the most comic places. Do you see what it says here? It says, Peter turned and saw that the disciple whom Jesus loved was following them. When Peter saw him, he said, Lord, what about him? Now, you know, in other words, Jesus has just said, Peter, you're going to be killed. and Peter says, oh, what about him? What about him? And what does Jesus say? Peter, for the last time, will you stop comparing yourself to everybody else? I've got a plan for him and you don't know it and you're never going to know it. As Aslan keeps saying through the Narnia Chronicles, I never tell you the other person's story. I only tell you your own. You have no idea what is fair or what I don't know what it's like to live in their lives. Stop looking at them. Look at me. What is that to you? Follow me. Fly to him. Go to him. In New York City, if you fail, you know, there's no second chances. But with Jesus, it's different. Jesus Christ became the renewer of the world and the resurrected Savior, not in spite of weakness and death, but because of it. And if you come to him, all of your deaths will lead to resurrections. Let us pray. We thank you, Father, for giving us the kind of encouragement that you have given us. Because Jesus Christ has come, we can live lives of reconciliation. Help us to apply what you've shown us here to our lives by your Holy Spirit. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
