In your bulletin you have one more scripture reading on which the teaching is based this morning. We're going to read 1 John 1, 1 to 4, not considered a classic Christmas text, but it ought to be. Maybe it's rehabilitation as the Christmas text begins here and you can say 50 years from now, I was there when it happened. 1 John 1, 1 to 4.

that which was from the beginning which we have heard which we have seen with our eyes which we have looked at and our hands have touched this we proclaim concerning the word of life the life appeared we have seen it and testify to it and we proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and has appeared to us we proclaim to you what we have seen and heard so that you also may have fellowship with us

and with his son, Jesus Christ. We write this to make our joy complete. This is God's word. What we've been doing actually every week anyway is we've been taking a look at a vocabulary word in the area of faith and spirituality. And when it comes to Christmas, Christmas is about a word, and it's what we used to call when I was a kid, a big word. It's the word incarnation. Incarnation. Christmas is about the faith vocabulary word incarnation.

We sing it every year in your Christmas carol, especially in Hark the Herald Angels Sing, Charles Wesley wrote that, and there's one line that you've sung or heard sung if you've been in America for any period of time at all over Christmas, veiled in flesh the Godhead see, hail incarnate deity. I was in Macy's this week and it came over the speaker. Incarnate. So it has to be important. They wouldn't be telling it they wouldn't be pumping it to people in Macy's if it wasn't important. It's very important. And if you understand the word incarnation you'll understand what Christmas is about. The Apostles' Creed doesn't use the word incarnation but it teaches the doctrine of the incarnation when it says Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary. Now, where do we go to understand, therefore, what Christmas is? Actually, this text. The first two verses give us the teaching of Christmas. The declaration, you see, this is what we proclaim. See, Christmas proclaims something. So first, it gives us the teaching of Christmas. Then secondly, the purpose of Christmas. What difference does it make? If we grasp the teaching, how would it change us? So verses one and two is the teaching of Christmas. And verses three and four is the purpose, the practical purpose, the difference Christmas makes in our lives. Now, let's take a look at the first two verses. And what we see here is the teaching of Christmas is the teaching of Christmas is two things. It's frankly doctrinal. And it's boldly historical. Frankly doctrinal, boldly historical. We have to grasp this before we move on to how it changes our lives. Now, what do I mean by frankly doctrinal? For one second, I'm going to have to defend the word. I used it on purpose. I know it's a negative word. It's part of a family of words that now have negative connotations for us all. Doctrine or dogma. This whole family of words connotes being narrow, being rigid, being closed. And, you know, the word doctrinaire, you know, it gets that across very well. And let me just go on record as saying doctrinaire is bad. Let me just go on. It is bad to be narrow. It is bad to be closed. It's bad to be haughty. It's bad to be not open to reason. It's bad not to listen to others. But in our fear of being doctrinaire, we are not frank. We are not honest about the fact that we are all actually doctrinal. all. That means a doctrine is a belief that we base our lives on. It's a faith position that we base our lives on. And it's something that we contend for, we insist on. So, in other words, a doctrine is, first of all, it's a faith position. It's not something you can prove scientifically. It's not something you prove empirically. Secondly, it's something you live on, you commit yourself to, you base your life on, you bet your life on. And then thirdly, it's something you push, you contend with other people over. That's a doctrine. And I just wanted you to see that even though we shouldn't be doctrinaire, we are all doctrinal. Let me give you an example. Mr. A is a Christian. His friend, Mr. B, is not. So Mr. A one day sits down with Mr. B and says, you know, I wish you could believe that Jesus is Savior and Lord. Let me try to convince you? Mr. B says, and Mr. B, of course, is a typical New Yorker. Mr. B says, nobody can really know anything about God. Don't give me this. Nobody can know anything about God, definite. Nobody can know anything definite about God. And secondly, you should not try to persuade other people to see things your way. Don't do that. That's not right. Ah, but here's the difference. First of all, Mr. B, when he says,

you can't know anything about God definite, that's, what is that? When he says you can't know anything definite about God, that's a faith position. That's not scientific. That's not empirical.

That's a faith position. It's a belief. And secondly, when he says, and you mustn't try to convince other people, you mustn't try to persuade other people that your take on spiritual reality is the right one, he at that moment is trying to say to Mr. A, ought to see it my way. My take on spirituality. See, in other words, he's saying, I have a relativistic take on spiritual reality and you ought to take it. In other words, he's doing the very thing he's forbidding as he's forbidding it. Now, what this means is this. Both Mr. A and Mr. B are being doctrinal. They have a non-empirical faith position. They've bet their lives on it. Mr. B has bet his life on the idea. He's bet his eternal destiny on the idea that nobody can know about God. And they're both contending for it. Here's the difference. Mr. A is being openly doctrinal. He's being frank about his doctrinal. Mr. B is not. Mr. B is in denial. He's in denial of his doctrinal. And you see, Christmas, for us to even say it's doctrinal, I've got to do that. I just had to take those three minutes out of your life. Because you live in New York, you're going to say, doctrine, a bad idea. What I'm trying to say is, you should not be doctrinaire. Let's try But you cannot avoid being doctrinal. Everybody has got faith assumptions about God, about eternity, about human nature, about moral truth. And we've bet our lives on them and we press for them and there's no way that we avoid being doctrinal. Now, having said that, what's the doctrine of Christmas? It is frankly doctrinal because look what it says. It says the eternal, it says the word of life, the invisible has become visible.

eternal, the incorporeal has become corporal. In other words, God has become human. The absolute has become particular. The ideal has become real. God has become human. The divine has taken up a divine nature, taken up a human nature. And you see, this is not only a very, very specific doctrine, but it's also unique. And the doctrine always distinguishes you. One of the reasons we're afraid of talking about doctrine is because it distinguishes us from others, but we can't help that. And here's why it's unique. On the one hand, you've got religions that say God is so imminent in all things that incarnation is normal. In other words, if you're a Buddhist or Hindu, but on the other hand, a lot of other religions, I just mentioned them because they're very famous and very well known, there's a whole family of religions that say God is in everything. God is imminent in everything. God is the divine spark in everything, and therefore, incarnation is normal. God is incarnate in all sorts of people and things. You know, Christians say, Jesus is the God-man, and people from that family say, sure, okay. Incarnation is normal. On the other hand, you've got a family of religions like Islam and Judaism that say God is so transcendent over all things that incarnation is impossible. God, man,

blasphemous. But Christianity is unique. It doesn't say incarnation is normal, but it doesn't say it's impossible. It says God is so imminent that it is possible, but he is so transcendent that the incarnation of God in the person of Jesus Christ is a universe sundering, history altering, life transforming, paradigm shattering, gotta say that or event. Unbelievable, revolutionary, universe sundering, history altering, life transforming event. It's unique, therefore. Christianity has an absolutely unique view on this. Sets it apart from everybody else. Now before we get on and say, well, what difference does it make? There's one other thing you have to see here. is not just, frankly, doctrinal, but it's also boldly historical. Look at what John says. Now, this is the same man, and all scholars, and scholars disagree a little bit about who this John was, but virtually all the scholars agree that the guy who wrote 1 John also wrote the Gospel of John, which we've been looking at every week. And look what he says about the word of life, life, Jesus. Here's what he says. We saw it. We heard it. Own eyes, own ears. We felt it. This eternal life. Now, here's what he's saying. Very simple. He says, when we give you these accounts of Jesus walking on the water, of Jesus rise from the dead, of Jesus speaking in these words, these are not legends. These are not things we made up. These are not wonderful spiritual parables. These are things we saw. We saw it. We saw him do this. We heard him do this. We felt him do this. In other words, this man is saying, you see the story of the walking on the water, which we looked at last week? We were there. We saw it. We heard him. Or, you know, the story of the resurrection. Ah, many people say, what's a wonderful story. And it's a great legend. And it tells us that good will triumph over evil, and that spring always comes after is saying, no, no, no, no. I felt him. We touched him. Resurrected flesh. I saw him eat the fish. I saw him come through the doors. I saw Thomas put his fingers in the holes in his hands. We saw it. In other words, the doctrine of Christmas is that God became historical, that what happened to Jesus Christ are not wonderful events. The manger, the resurrection, direction, the story of Jesus is not just a story. It's a history. It's true. It actually happened in history. Now, this goes completely against what the average New Yorker believes. What the average New Yorker says is this. When you read the New Testament, these are wonderful stories, but they're like parables. They're like legends. They didn't really happen. And now here's the one thing Christmas presses us on. And in this verse here, particular, particular, 1 John 1, 1 and 2. This verse is telling you this. These are either lies you're reading in the New Testament or they're eyewitness accounts, but they can't be legends. They're either lies or they're eyewitness accounts. They can't be legends. What do I mean? Well, look, many, many scholars of ancient literature have told us this, and that is that today, Today, modern novels, modern fiction throws in all kinds of details that give it a realistic sense, give it a realistic feel. But legends, ancient legends were never written like that. So, for example, last week when we were reading the story of Jesus walking on the water, some of you remember this from last week. John chapter 6, it says that it was the middle of the storm and it says they rode out into the lake three or three and a half miles. and they saw Jesus approaching, walking on the water. Remember that? They rode out on the lake three or three and a half miles and they saw Jesus approaching, walking on the water.

Now, you know, you may not be an expert in ancient literature, but remember the Iliad or the Odyssey? Think of Homer. Can you imagine Homer saying, and Achilles met Hector, one on one combat, and they were either three or three and a half miles from the wall of Troy. Troy? No, he wouldn't say that. Why not? Because you see, in ancient legends, you don't put in details that don't help the plot, don't develop the character. You say, well, modern novels do that. Yes, but they didn't do it back then. And therefore, when a man back then was writing a legend, you wouldn't say they were three or three and a half miles out. Why would you say it was three and a half miles? It wouldn't even occur to you unless you were writing down an eyewitness says, I think we were three or maybe three and a half miles out. Or maybe there were two eyewitnesses. And one said, I think we were three miles. The other said, I think it was three and a half miles. So, okay, three or three and a half miles out. That's the only reason you put that down there. And what this comes to is this. When John says, I saw him. I felt him. I heard him. Own ears. I saw him. My own eyes. What John is trying to say is what any reader, back in the beginning, 2,000 years ago, anybody getting a hold of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and seeing how it was written, they would know immediately that the writers were claiming to be eyewitnesses or that they were eyewitness accounts. The writers were saying, we saw him, we heard him, we felt him. It really happened. And therefore, every reader of the New Testament knew that either these were deliberately fabricated lies or else they were true eyewitness accounts, but they couldn't be legends. They aren't legends. They don't allow you that option. You have no intellectual integrity if you keep it or try to stand there. And if they are lies, they're some of the stupidest lies that have ever been made, and here's the reason why. These lies are written down, if they were lies, within the lifetime of the people who were there. So, for example, if you're going to write that 500 people saw Jesus risen from the dead in the Kidron Valley, you don't write it 40 years later, like the gospels were written, or 50 years later. You write 100 years later when everybody who lives in the Kidron Valley is dead. Because if you actually write a lie, if you write, oh, 500 people saw him in the Kidron Valley and lots of people are still living in the Kidron Valley who were there at that time, you're never going to have a religion that gets off the ground. But it did get off the ground because they wrote these accounts and they weren't contradicted. and so to see the point of Christmas is Jesus Christ really lived, really died. It happened in history. He did these things. He said these things. We heard, we saw. Now somebody says, well, what's the big deal? You're being doctrinaire here. You're being doctrinaire. No. When a person says, and this again is so typical, when a person in New York says, you know, I like the teaching of Jesus. I like the meaning of these stories. The meaning of these stories is love one another, serve one another. I like that. But, you know, it doesn't matter that these things really happened. Very often, here's what people will say. They say doctrine doesn't matter. What matters is you're a good person. It doesn't matter whether you believe the doctrine of the atonement, the virgin birth. It doesn't matter. What matters is you be a good person. You know what the great irony is? That is a doctrine. And you're not being frank about it. It's called the doctrine of justification by works. When somebody says, I don't believe in doctrine. I don't like even talking about doctrine of justification by works. What really matters is you're a good person. What you're saying is, it doesn't matter that Jesus actually lived the life we should have lived and died the death we should have died. All that matters is, I can follow his teaching. That is a doctrine. You're not being frank about it. That's a doctrine that says, I'm not so bad that I need someone to come and actually be good for me. I can be good. I'm not so cut off from God or God is not so holy that there has to be some kind of punishment for sin. That doesn't matter. The gospel is not that Jesus Christ comes to earth, tells us how to live. We live a good life and give that record to God. And then he owes us blessing. The gospel is that Jesus Christ came to earth and lived the life we should have lived and died the death we should have died. So that when I believe in him, I am accepted. And I live a life of grateful joy for him. if these things didn't happen, if these things didn't happen, you can't be saved utterly by grace. If these things didn't happen, if they're just parables, what you really are saying is, I believe the doctrine of salvation by works, that if I try hard enough, God will accept me. So you cannot avoid doctrine. Don't be doctrinaire, but you can't avoid being doctrinal. The doctrine of Christmas is that Jesus really came. If he didn't really come, is one more moral paradigm to crush you. If Jesus didn't really come, I wouldn't want to be anywhere around Christmas. I wouldn't want to be around any of these stories that make me say, you need to be as sacrificing, you need to be as humble, you need to be as loving. All that'll do is crush you into the ground because you know yourself.

If it isn't true that John saw him, heard him, felt him, to do these things. And Christmas is depressing. It's very depressing. Every year I see people, I see all these stories in newspapers saying Christmas is the time of year for depression. It is. But not if you believe these first two verses. Not if you understand that Christmas is not just an inspiring story that we can live up to, but it's frankly doctrinal and it's boldly historical. Now, if you grasp that and you get a hold of that, then what difference does it make to you? well, you're in luck because I've got too much to say to say it all. I'd like to say there's four things that verses three and four tell us that if you really grasp this idea, not that Christmas is a sweet story, but it really means that Jesus Christ came to earth, God became flesh, and lived a life you should have lived, died a death you should have died as a savior, not just as a teacher as an example. You believe that? Four things. Christmas will do four things to you. It'll make mystical, happily material, deeply mystical, happily material, fiercely relational, and free to be emotional. So you say, oh my gosh, I told you, I told you, you're lucky. I have so much to say, I'm going to have to be brief. First of all, deeply mystical. It says, look carefully, it says our fellowship is with the Father and the Son. Now this word fellowship, this word koinonia, word simply means that if Jesus Christ has really come, if he really became physical, if he really came, if Christmas is true, then we've got a basis for a personal relationship with God that we've never had before. Personal. Oh, absolutely. You know, there's two ways in which, there's two ways in which, in other words, God is no longer just a remote idea or even just a force that we cower hour before, but I can know him personally. He's become graspable. He's become someone I can know personally. You know, first of all, it gives you so much more information, so much more. Let me give you a quick example. Scholar A and Scholar B. They're not Mr. A and Mr. B. Don't get these people confused. Scholar A and Scholar B are both trying to write a biography of Sir John Doe. Sir John Doe died. He lived in East Anglia and died 1721. Now, so we're trying to get his source of his life together. And both Scholar A and Scholar B believe that Sir John Doe wrote five letters to his wife, and they have come down to us. And so they say, okay, we got that. And there's a lot you can learn. But then there's this autobiography, 500-page autobiography.

And it says it's written by Sir John Doe. And Scholar A says, I believe that's genuine. one. And Scholar B says, I don't. So they can't agree. And so they sit down and write their biographies. Those biographies are going to be very different. If that really is Sir John Doe's autobiography, then Scholar Ray's biography of him is going to be so much more detailed, so much more personal, right? When you're done reading it, you're going to feel, I really know this guy. But on the other hand, Scholar B, you see, his biography is going to be much more remote, much more general, much more speculative. You're going to hardly feel you know him at all. It all comes down to, is that the autobiography? Now, here's the point. If Jesus Christ is actually God come in the flesh,

you're going to know so much more about God. So much more personal stuff. So much more detailed stuff. So much more specific stuff. He's going to be graspable. He's going to be somebody you can relate to. You're seeing him weep. You're seeing him cry. You're seeing him upset. upset. You're seeing him cast down. You're seeing him exalting. You see all of these things. If Jesus is who he says he is, we have a 500-page autobiography from God, in a sense, and our understanding will be vastly, vastly more personal or specific than any philosophy any other religion could possibly give you. On the other hand, if he's not who he says he is, then our view is utterly distorted. But you can't say that they're all the same. Absolutely not. If Jesus Christ has come, then we have a lot more detailed knowledge, so our relationship can be more personal. But look at what he did to get to us. Look at what he did to come to us. Now here's how I'm going to end this one. The incarnation means look at what God has done to get you to know him personally. What are you doing about it? In other words, at Christmas, Or are you saying, look, if I sit down and pray, if I go after, if I say I'm going to obey you, I'm going to give myself to you, I'm going to dedicate myself to really knowing you personally in prayer, not just sitting down and making statements about bless mommy and daddy, but really get to know you. Here's what I want to know. If the Son would do all of this, this enormous thing, incarnation, come all this way to become a real person to you, You don't think the Holy Spirit will do anything in his power to make him a real person to you in your heart? See, if he did all this incarnation to become a real person to you in history, how much more would we expect the Holy Spirit to make him a real person to you in your heart? Christmas means, Christmas is an invitation to become mystical. Christmas is an invitation to know him personally. Christmas is an invitation by God to say, look at what I've done to come near. Now draw near to me. me. I don't want to be a concept. I want to be a friend. I'm not saying I want to be a lover. He is saying that. So first of all, Christmas, if you take it seriously, means become deeply mystical. Secondly, become happily material. Now, Jeff White referred to it. And if you were here, I can't go into detail on this one because when we did our sermon on creation, we talked about that, but here's the point. Greek and Roman readers of this verse that we are reading right here would have been absolutely astonished when John said, we felt the eternal. We saw the eternal. Because you see, Greek and Roman, and even today, traditional religious people believe that matter is bad. The divine is good. The divine would not come down. But you see, traditional religion says salvation is escaping out of this world into the kingdom of God. The gospel of Christmas is that salvation is the kingdom of God coming into this world. You see that? See, traditional religion says, oh, the world is bad. Let's just hopefully God will save us out of it. Let's get away from cancer. Let's get away from inner city poverty. Let's get away from these things. God will save us out of it. No, no, no, no. The gospel is that coming down into this world. In other words, the body's important. Matter's important. This world is important. He took on physical flesh. And therefore, Christians know, in the name of Christ, we share our faith. But in the name of Christ, we help a poor person get a decent house. And it's all part of testifying to the gospel of Christmas. The kingdom of God is here to rehabilitate this world, not to save us out into some kind of paradise. See, the future of traditional religion is paradise. The future of the gospel is new heavens, new earth. Thirdly, not only does the gospel of Christmas make us deeply mystical and happily material, it makes us fiercely relational. The incarnation imprints an attitude toward relationships on us. Take a look and see. It says, what is the point of these four verses? you. John says the incarnation and my fellowship with God means I want fellowship with you. The test that you know what Christmas is all about is that you become far more desirous of intimate personal relationships with other people and a whole lot better at getting them. Because the incarnation is actually a secret of good personal relationships. Now look carefully. Here's two people and they're different culturally, maybe even different linguistically. How are they going to have a relationship? Well, you can either wait for the other person to come to you. Learn your language. Become vulnerable and weak. Learn your language. Speak in a broken dialect. Come to you and say, is this the right word? In other words, if you enter into the other person's world, you become weak. The other person keeps the power. But then you have a relationship. Let me give you a better example. In the first five years I was a marriage counselor as a young pastor, I ran into something over and over again in the South. And I wasn't a very good marriage counselor, but I got this one right. I remember there were four or five couples in a row that came in, and they were having terrible fights over child care. The wife, the young wife, this was the first kid, said, I really need help with the child care from the husband. And the husband said, this is beneath me.

And generally, if I pushed in, I found out that it went like this. Usually the wife said, I came from a home in which the father loved the mother so much. The father loved the mother so much that he just helped. And the husband would say, but I came from a home in which the mother loved the father so much that she never asked. But you see, what was going on is, in the family world the wife came from, husband child care meant love and respect. family world where the husband came from, husband child care meant disrespect, lack of love. And here's one thing I got right. I didn't do very good in generally marriage counseling, but here's one thing I got right. I will look at the couples and said, who's going to follow Jesus? Who's going to do the way of incarnation? Who is going to get into the other person's world? Which of you, if you both sit here waiting saying, come into my world, change your love language. You see, who knows what's going to happen. Bad things are going to happen. But if even one of you or certainly if both of you fall away of Jesus and say I will not work so much on being understood but on understanding. I will work not so much on getting my needs met but meeting needs. I'll work not so much on that person understanding my love language as entering into her world or entering into his world and giving that person what they consider love not what I consider love. love language. See, incarnation, if it's imprinted in you, if you see what Jesus Christ has done, it's going to make you unbelievably good at personal relationships.

Lastly, the doctrine of Christmas makes you free to be emotional. What do I mean? Look at the last verse, verse four. I think this is very interesting. He says, I want you to have fellowship with us. I want you to believe what we are saying. I want you to understand the doctrine of Christmas. want us to be united in a community. I want us to be united in belief. And then he says, I'm doing all this, why? So that my joy will be complete. I was thinking about that this week and I said, wow. First of all, he doesn't say, I need for your lives to be okay so that I can have any joy at all. No, no, no. He says, all I need is have, he's already got joy. He doesn't say, you need to get your act together in order for me to get joy. He's got joy. He says, you need to get your act together in order for my joy to be complete. And there's a balance there. On the one hand, what that means is he's got a joy no matter what they do. See, one thing Christmas does is it gives you a subterranean joy. Kathy and I used to own a house in Philadelphia and we were at the top of a hill. And why in the world we always had water in the basement, I do not know. Until just near the end, I came to find out from some other homeowners Now, we weren't at the bottom of the hill. It was always damp in that basement. Always kind of mucky in the backyard. And somebody said, you didn't know before they sold you the house? There's a subterranean river that goes right underneath all the homes on this street. And it's always flowing, even in a drought. Now, you see, first of all, Christmas on the one hand, you never ever look at anybody else and say to your family, say to your friends, or say to the world, I need you to be okay, to have joy. I need the world to go right, to have joy. I need my children all believe the gospel to have joy. You don't say that. Because, see, on the one hand, Christmas gives you a subterranean river of joy that no matter how bad it is on the surface, no matter how bad circumstances are, it's always there. It keeps you green. It keeps you fresh. It's always, always, always there. After all, Jesus Christ has landed. God has landed. The Lord has opened a cleft in the pitiless walls of the world, and the kingdom of God is coming, come hell or high water. So you know what? That's subterranean joy. But on the other hand, here's what's so fascinating. He says, however, I can't have complete joy unless you're happy. I can't have complete joy unless you believe. I can't have complete joy, which means this. So many of us are afraid to enmesh ourselves in the lives of other people because we can't stand the idea of tying our hearts to other people. If they're unhappy, we're unhappy. So what we do is we pull back. We withdraw. We don't get involved in the lives of people. But the incarnation means that Jesus Christ, God himself, got enmeshed in our brokenness. He got involved in a major way. So he was weeping. God, why would God weep? But he came in and he's weeping and he's falling down. He's got nails in his hands. But here's what's great. It's the subterranean joy. It's the joy that cannot go out that will give you the freedom to get involved in Christmas makes you free to be emotional. Makes you realize the emotional, the emotion of hurt, the emotion of grief is not going to take me all the way down because I got a subterranean joy. If you believe the doctrine of Christmas that makes you deeply mystical, it makes you happily material, it makes you fiercely relational, it makes you free to be emotional. What else could you want?

Think about all that next time you say to somebody else, have a Merry Christmas.

Let's pray. Father, we do want the joy that comes from the doctrine of Christmas. That's not a sentimental joy. It's not a giddy joy.

It's not a general feeling of inspiration. It's certainly not just another story that we have to live up to. this is a boldly historical statement that Jesus Christ has come to be Savior. Christ the Savior is born, not Christ the teacher. And we ask, Lord, therefore, that all the great theology of the doctrine of Christmas that we sing about all the time, every year, and all these Christmas carols would come home to us so that we would wrestle like crazy to get near you, so that we would be deeply engage the needs of poverty and the needs of the sick and the needs of the dying, so that we would pattern our own relationships after the incarnation and find ourselves breaking through and forming friendships that we never had before, and so that we can be free to be so emotionally involved, because underneath it all, we have nothing to fear. We ask that we would be totally changed by the great doctrine of Christmas. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
