The teaching is based this morning on the passage which is printed in your bulletin, Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 to 4.

Colossians 3, 1 to 4.

Since then, you have been raised with Christ. Set your heart on things above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things above, not on earthly things, for you died, and your life is now hidden with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory.

Now, this is an aspect of Christianity that's not only not well known, but it's often sneered at. Two times, Paul says, we're supposed to be heavenly-minded. Two times, he says it right away. He says it, set your hearts on things which are above. Set your mind on things which are above, not on earthly things. Set your mind, set your heart. Those are interchangeable terms for Paul. Generally, they're interchangeable terms in the Bible. Set your heart, set your mind, you see, set your focus on heaven. Be heavenly-minded. Now, you know, in the way we use language, the whole idea of heavenly-mindedness is pretty unattractive. Almost every phrase that we use in our modern language usage that has to do with getting down to earth, being down to earth, having your feet on the ground, you know, it's all positive, right? To have your feet on the ground, to be a down-to-earth person. Everybody says, that's a great, good person, down-to-earth person. Feet on the ground. Hmm? What does it mean to have your feet on the ground? You're in touch. You know about reality. You understand, you know, how things really work. What does it mean to be heavenly-minded? Well, we don't even use the term, but there is a phrase, that group of people is so heavenly-minded, they're no earthly good. Have you not heard that? So, in our modern parlance, we think of heavenly-minded as people out of touch, you know? People who, because their minds are on esoteric and things like that, they really aren't able to live life as it is. But that's not true of what Paul is talking about. That's not true of what he calls true heavenly-mindedness. Not at all. Because if you were to go on, and I didn't, if you were to read on in chapter 3 from verse 5 and on, you will see that he says, once he tells you to be heavenly-minded in the way that he describes here, he says, therefore, you'll be able to, and he says, you'll be able to put off greed. You'll be able to put off lying. You'll be able to put off anxiety. You'll be able to put off anger and bitterness. You'll be able to put off worry about material things. In other words, Paul says, those who are most heavenly-minded, truly understood now, those who are most heavenly-minded are the most earthly good. They're the people who are able to live life with the most freedom. They don't get bitter, even though things happen to them. They don't get worried, even though things happen to them. They move about in the world with freedom and power. Therefore, we better find a way to live life with freedom and power. We better find out what this is. We better figure it out. And let me just look at what Paul says here under three headings. Let's talk about the need, the nature, and the practice of heavenly-mindedness. Okay? The need, the nature, and the practice. Need, why it's important. The nature, what it really is. And the practice, how you do it. Why we need it, what it is, how you do it. First of all, the need. You know, in so many of the old myths, and old legends, and old adventures, and old epics, and even in the new myths, and legends, you know, and epics, and adventures, whether they're movies or science fiction, in all these great stories, the stories that capture people's imagination, the stories that when you make them into moving pictures, you know, they make millions of dollars, hundreds of millions of dollars, and so on. They all have, I think, the stories have a very similar line, usually. It starts this way. The heroes are ordinary people. Ordinary types. And they live in an ordinary place. But then something whisks them away. Maybe back in time, or forward in time, you know. Or to another planet. Or to another dimension. Or to some faraway land. It doesn't matter. But this place that they go to is larger than life. And in this place, you know, they've come from an ordinary place where everything is sort of gray. You know, shades of gray. But in this place, everything is good or evil. And they meet good kings and queens, and heroes and heroines. And on the other hand, they meet terrible villains, and terrible wicked people. And they meet these towers of evil strength. And there's great battle, and there's great conflict. And always in these stories, in spite of the overwhelming odds, there's redemption.

Victory is always snatched out of the jaws of defeat. And then when these ordinary people come back to their own time, or their own land, or to their own dimension, or to their own planet, or wherever, there's something different about them. They're larger than life now. They've been somewhere else. And they've had these great adventures. And they come back, and now they're larger than life. And they move about with a freedom, and they move about with a power. Why? Why? Here's why. Because as they move about in their ordinary life, and as they move about in their ordinary world, they're always remembering, in a sense, they're seeing behind their ordinary world, that ultimate world. You see, that beyond world, that other world. So, for example, the reason that they're moving about with such freedom and power, you know, they laugh more. They laugh louder. They cry more easily. They're tougher. They're more tender. They're more sweet. They're more courageous. You see, there's a royalty about them. Why? Okay, first of all, in their ordinary world, whenever they come up against evil or danger, they laugh at it. Why? Because in that other world, they saw far greater evil, far greater danger, and they saw it dealt with, and they faced it down. So why would they be scared about this? Hmm? You see? Or, another thing, in this ordinary world, they have a certain amount of, they have a tremendous amount of self-control. They're far more good and honest and brave and virtuous. You know why? Because in that other world, they saw kings and queens and heroes, beautiful beyond bearing, virtuous, noble, wise, honest, and the very memory of their faces, stays with you. And even though you're here in this ordinary world, you want to be true to their memory. Hmm? Another thing.

Generally, these people who've come back from this other world are always so heroic and tender and self-sacrificing themselves. You know why? Because always in these epics, always in these adventures, in these great conflicts in this other world, you know what? There was always somebody who died to save them. It wouldn't be a good story, unless somebody died to save them. Would it? All the great stories. Somebody has to die. That's the ultimate. And they saw that, and they remember the one who died for them. And that makes them very tender and sacrificial and noble and unselfish with the people around them. In other words, and they have buoyancy. You know why? Because in this little shrunken world, they remember that outside of this world, there are sources of power and of grace, of beauty and of truth that are so strong that nothing in this world will ever overcome them. They know that evil, in the end, is a passing thing. And there's truth and there's right that will overcome it. In other words, because they've come back into this ordinary world, from that ultimate world, they move through the problems. Nothing phases them. They move through life like a red hot knife moves through butter.

Why? Why? You know why. Because they've seen the great fire quenched. So why are they going to be worried about a little fire here? They've seen the great disease, you see, healed. So why are they going to worry about illnesses here? They've seen the great battles fought and won. And why are they going to bother with little conflicts here? Nothing phases them anymore. That's where their royalty comes from. What do you think I'm talking about? You know what I'm talking about. Paul says, that is how Christians ought to be. And that is possible for Christians. It is possible for Christians. Christians should live as if they died and gone to heaven and come back.

Christians are people who live with their mind, when they're here, with their mind seeing the great things. Christians are people who, to some degree, by faith, get their imaginations captured. And to the degree that your imaginations are captured by that greater world. What do you mean? Oh, I mean this. To the degree that you as Christians, get your imaginations captured by the one who is beautiful beyond bearing.

By the one who did die for you. By those incredible realities. To that degree, you will move about with freedom and power. Who cares about this? Who cares about that? Who cares about that? You see? And we were talking about it earlier. You know, Elisha says, if God is for you, what can be against you? A Christian is somebody whose imagination is captured. Your eyes are opened. You see all of reality, not just a little part of it. Do you understand that? You know, only if you can see that other world, can you live with greatness in this world. As Paul has said, those who are the most heavenly minded, are the most earthly good. Can live with the most freedom and power. It wasn't that long ago, a couple years ago, I saw that some localities, a local humanist association in New York, had a half an hour show on one of the cable stations in New York City here. And the basic, I remember that the theme of that half hour was this. They said, one of the worst things for society has been the belief in heaven and an afterlife. That's been terrible for us. They said, until we see that this world is the only world we have, and until we see that this life is the only life that we have, we're never going to make this world the place it should be. We're never going to take care of it. Now, I have to agree in this sense, that there are certain kinds of religions that certainly make you bad citizens. There are certain kinds of religious beliefs that would make you a bad citizen, of course. But the logic is deeply flawed. I'm afraid I would take Dostoevsky over the New York Humanist Association anyway. And it's Dostoevsky who said, if God is dead, if there is no bigger world than this, everything is permitted. Don't you see? You know, they say, until you see that this world is the only world there is, you're never going to act right toward each other, and you're never going to treat the world right. Really? My dear friends, if this world is all there is, so that when we die, we rot. If this world is all there is, therefore, eventually, it burns up in the sun. And nobody will even be around to remember what happened. If this world is all there is, that means that ultimately, in the end, it doesn't make any difference how I live at all, whether I live a life of compassion or a life of terrible cruelty, right? And if this life is all there is, why shouldn't I rape the environment in order to make a million dollars? Who's to say what is right and wrong? Who's to say anything? How in the world could you possibly even know what greatness is, let alone to say you can live a life of greatness only if you see that this world is all there is? Oh, no. Only those who are the most heavenly minded, says Paul, can be the most earthly good. We need it.

Do you live life like that?

Do you move through the circumstances of this life like a red hot knife through butter? You will, as a Christian, to the degree

that the one who died for you, the one who lived for you, that beauty beyond bearing, to the degree that these things capture imagination, to the degree that your minds and hearts are set on heavenly things, eternal things. That's your need. Number two, what is it exactly now? Okay, so what is this exactly? What does it mean to set your mind on heavenly things? Does it mean you're supposed to be constantly thinking about what great parties we're going to have in heaven? And the food evidently will be wonderful. And you say, what do you mean food? Well, you know, Jesus showed us, this is one of the most wonderful verses in the Bible, where it says, Jesus, after his resurrection, he ate a fish. For those of us who like food, this has been one of the most wonderful verses in the Bible, one of the most wonderful promises in the gospel, that in the eternal state, there will be food. And by the way, I mean it. Not only that, there'll be great concerts. I often think about that. Think of the concerts in heaven. Just imagine, right? It's going to be astonishing. Is that what it means to be heavenly minded? To think about life of heaven? To think about what that's going to be like? That's fine, but that's not the main thing at all that Paul's talking about. What does it mean to set your mind on heavenly things, things which are above? Well, take a look carefully and you'll see. Verse one, it says, since you have been raised with Christ, set your mind. Since you're there, what? What? Think of yourself as there. Now, what does this mean? Since you've been raised with Christ, and in verse four, verse two, then it goes on and says, for, which is the same as since. So verse one says, since you've been raised with Christ, and verse two says, since you've died with Christ, that's what it means, past tense. Now, we have to stop there. You know why? Paul is showing us that you cannot have this wonderful life, this wonderful life of freedom and power. You cannot have your mindset on heavenly things. Until you first believe and know something. There is a doctrinal content here. There is something you have to believe and know, or you can't do this. This is not first, it's not first of all a spiritual exercise. First of all, you're going to have to think. And what is he talking about? You have to understand and know and believe that you have already been raised with Christ, if you're a Christian, and you've already died with Christ, if you're a Christian. That's what Paul's saying. You have to believe that. You have to see that. You have to see that. Since, you know, you can only move on to this great state if you see that you've been raised and you died and were raised with Christ. Well, somebody says, raised? Past tense? Died? Past tense? What is this referring to?

Oh, what it's referring to is the greatest truth that ever was. This is saying that the essence of being a Christian is not that I'm emulating Christ. I'm emulating Christ. Though I am, if a Christian, but that's not the main thing. And the essence of being a Christian is not that I'm listening to Christ or that I'm obeying Christ or that I'm admiring Christ or even that I'm loving Christ, even though all those things would be true of a Christian. That's not the main thing. The essence of being a Christian is that I'm in Christ. My life is in Christ.

What does that mean? I'll say it twice and then explain it. This is something that Paul's actually gone into in chapter one. There's one and two of Colossians, so I'll make a mention of it. Paul is saying that the heart of the gospel is that everything that is actually true of Christ is legally true of you if you're a Christian. That the wonder of the gospel is that everything that is true of Christ, God says is true of us. That when I unite with Christ by faith, I'm in him. Everything that's true of him is true of me. That's the reason why, first of all, I can say you died. What could that mean? It means God treats you as free from the guilt of your sins as if you had died on the cross and paid for it in torment yourself. Why? Because you did. Why? Because he did it. And to believe in Christ is to say, Lord, receive me for Christ's sake.

As the essence of sin is me substituting myself for God and doing things that only God has a right for to do, which is to run my life, so the essence of salvation, is God substituting himself for me and putting himself where only I deserve to be, on the cross. But it's happened.

You died, but not only that, you were raised. What does that mean? Look, you see where it says Christ is at the right hand of the Father? See that at the end of verse 1? What does it mean to be at the right hand of somebody? Well, this is an old idea, but boy, when kings asked you to sit at your right hand, at his right hand, you know, and a queen asked you to sit at her right hand, what did that mean? First of all, to sit at your right hand meant you were up on the same level. You know, the throne wasn't, the throne was up. Sit at my right hand means I'm bringing you to the place of ultimate honor in this kingdom and the place of intimacy, not only of honor. To sit at the right hand of the king meant not only you were up where with the king, but it also meant that you were in fellowship with the king, that you were in intimacy with the king, that you had the ear of the king.

Why is it that when Christ was raised from the dead, he went to the right hand of God? Why is it? You know why. When the father saw the son, his heart burst with love for him. Why? Because look at what the son did. The son emptied himself out of love to go to earth, emptied himself of all of his glory, and he lived this perfect life, a life of love, a life of humility, a life of nobility, a life of courage, a life of wisdom, a life of purity, a life of honesty, a life of truth. He is beautiful beyond bearing, and he comes back up, and he's made the ultimate sacrifice, and now the father's heart bursts with love for his son. I guess if it's possible, and this is very dangerous to speak of theologically, he was even more beautiful than when he left. It's hard to say these things because how can God change, but there's some way in which surely,

the perfection of God somehow was enhanced because of what he did, and now the father's heart bursts with love for his son, and he embraces him, and he says, sit at my right hand, and he welcomes him, and he lavishes his love on him. Now hold onto your seat. You've been raised. What does that mean? It means the father treats you as if you had lived the life the son had lived, as if you had died the death the son had died, as if you had made the sacrifices, as if you were every bit as beautiful and as holy as he is. You're raised. You're seated. You're dead. You see, everything that's true of Jesus is true of you. Now, if you're the kind of person who says, Lord Jesus, I'm a Christian, and please answer this prayer because I'm trying my very, very best to live a life like you've asked me. I'm trying my very best to ask you to forgive my sins. I'm really trying my best. You haven't gotten it.

To be a Christian is to say, Lord Jesus, accept me, hear my prayer, whatever, because of what you did. To be a Christian, you have to humble yourself to recognize that you need that, but you have to open your heart to the joy. It is the only legitimate reason I've ever heard from anybody for why they can't receive Christ as Lord and Savior is when they say, this is too good to be true. That's a point. That's a point. You've got to open yourself to the joy. Some people just won't do it. They say, I'm sorry. I can't believe anything that good about myself. Well, that's a problem. Try. Oh, try. You know? You have to humble yourself, but you have to open your heart to the joy. Is there anybody here who's getting tired of hearing this? If so, and I'm serious, if so, you don't get it. This is the article on which the church stands or falls. This is the article on which every human being stands or falls. Anybody who understands it would take a bullet for this. Anybody who understands it never gets tired of it. Now, what does it mean to set your mind on things which are above? Not just to think about the parties of heaven and not to think just about the wonderful aspects of heaven and the concerts and so on. No, it's to think that your life is hid there. That means you think about your raisedness. You set your mind there. You say, I'm in Christ. I'm hidden in him. That means I'm in solidarity with him. I think of myself as loved by God as he is. I think of myself as there in that sense, you see. I relish that. I rejoice in that. I treat myself in that way. I never stop reflecting on it. You see, I work it in. I set it in. I put it in. And I think about it every day and I have to remind myself. Otherwise, I forget the greatness and the honor that I have had bestowed on me. And that's what it means to live your life every day, your mind set on things that you're above, where Christ, who is your life, is seated. Ah, before I just go on to the last point, the practical point, let me point this out to you. Do you see, though, friends,

before you can have the kind of quality of life that Paul's talking about, you have to already know and understand and believe that Jesus Christ really was the Son of God, really died, really passed through the heavens and is now seated up there. It is not good enough for you to come to a church and say, I need some spiritual power, but I can't believe what the New Testament says. I can't believe that Jesus was the Son of God. I can't believe in the physical resurrection. I believe that the Spirit of Jesus lives on in his teachings. My dear friends, you've got nothing in your hands then. You've got to think to be a Christian. You've got to work those things out. You've got to explore them. You've got to reflect on them. You've got to study them if you don't believe them yet. There's lots of evidence. You've got to come to grips with it. You can't just, Christianity is not a spirit to catch, you know? Catch the spirit. That's not it. You have to take hold because of the word since. You have to get yourself to the place where you can say, since this is true, therefore I can do this. Since this is true, then I can move on. But if you can't say since this is true, since I have died with Christ, since I've been raised with Christ, since Christ is who he said he is, if you can't say since, then you can't move on to setting your mind, to setting your heart on things which are above. Okay, lastly, how do you do it? The practice of it. Well, in some ways I can be pretty brief because I should, this takes either three minutes or it takes three years to, you know, this point, and hardly anything in between. It can always come to the question and answer time that we at least have 30 minutes on this. But if you look carefully, the practice of setting your mind on things which are above, I think has a negative and a positive because it's very important. You can't do it unless you do both the negative and the positive. Verse two, first of all, says not on earthly things. Now, if you don't understand the negative, you'll never get the positive. See what the negative thing is? Paul is saying you must stop putting your heart and mind on earthly things. This whole concept of setting your mind on things which are above is nebulous until you realize what Paul's saying. He's saying you're already doing this, setting your mind and heart on things, but they're down here. Well, what are they? And how do I do that, you say? Well, if you look carefully, look at verse two, where it says don't set your mind on earthly things. It says set your mind on heavenly things. And then in verse four it says set your mind on Christ who is your life. And so if you look at the parallel, you'll see what this means. To set your mind on things, to set your mind or heart on something is to make it your life.

It's saying don't make anything here on earth your life, make him your life. Now, we have some diagnostic questions now. Can I give them to you? It's very easy. Some diagnostic questions. What things in, what circumstances, what things, what objects, what people, what relationships, what conditions, what things in your life, if you were to lose them, would make you feel like you're dead? Would make you feel like you didn't have a life left?

What things in your life, if you were to lose them, would make you feel like you didn't even have a life left? You wouldn't even want to go on? What things do you turn to when things get difficult? What is it that drives you? What do you really rely on? Now, you have to look at those things and you have to know what they are or you can't do the positive. Now, what's the positive? First of all, you have to do that. That's a lot of thinking. So, you know, do it, but not this very second because then there's the positive and the positive is set your mind on things which are above. Set your mind on Christ who is your life.

Now, I'll tell you how that works for me. I can only do this setting my mind on Christ and setting my mind on who I am in Christ. I can only do that when one of three things is happening. When I'm experiencing a negative emotion like anger, despondency, or fright. If I'm angry, you know, really angry. If I'm despondent, really down. If I'm scared, kind of petrified. Now, there's one approach that people typically take to, there's two approaches that people typically take to these emotions. The one is what I call the moralistic one. And the moralistic one is to just get down on yourself saying, I shouldn't feel like this or I must have done something wrong. It's my fault. So, you knock yourself, you knock yourself down. Now, the other approach is the self-esteemistic one. There's the moralistic and now there's what I call the self-esteemistic one. And the self-esteemistic one is where you say, you know, the moralistic one, you say, must be my fault. I'm sinning somehow. The self-esteemistic one says, the reason I'm angry, the reason I'm petrified, the reason I'm despondent is because

somebody is not meeting my needs. I've got to get out of this situation. I have needs. I've got to have them met. Now, the reason both of those are so often used is because they're all, they're both usually partly true. You are being sinned against and you are sinning. But that doesn't get at the nub. That doesn't get down to the nub of it. It doesn't get down to the root. It doesn't get laid down. This is what you're supposed to do. When you experience anger, despondency, or fright,

you say, something has become my life and I'm losing it. And the reason it's having this terrible effect on me is because it's become my life. It's become something, a good thing, but it's become something that I think will really make my life. And that's the reason why I'm just, I'm being controlled by it. And so the only way that I'm able to really do this in a way that gets at things, see, it's one thing. To be concerned is fine, but to be petrified? To be angry is okay, frankly, but to be bitter? To be disappointed is okay, but to be despondent? It means something which is a good thing has become the best thing in your life, better than God, better than that. And now it's got this, got you by the heart. And so the only way to do it is you look at the thing that you fear like you're losing and you say, you're not my life.

Christ is my life. You're a good thing and I'm glad to have you. And I'm glad you're there and I'd like to get you if I can, but I don't need you to have life and light Christ is my life and light. I don't need you to have a life and joy. Christ is my life and joy. You are not my life. And when you do that, you're shooting an arrow right into the heart of your negative emotion. And that arrow says, I am his beloved child and whom he is well pleased. What else do I really want? And that arrow goes in there and it knocks down. It doesn't get rid. It takes despondency into disappointment. It gets it manageable. It takes petrification. And to just worry, it gets it manageable.

Don't you see the gospel? The gospel. What Jesus is, you are. This is the only way to understand yourself. When you look at the Himalayas, you just know no human being raised them. When you look at the Grand Canyon, you just know no human being dug it. And when you look at the gospel, you just know no human being thought it up. Friends, do you see what your problem is? You can always understand it and best understand it in terms of the gospel.

When Christ, who is your life, appears, you will appear with him in glory. Look at him and say, Oh Lord, you're my life. Let nothing else be my life. And to the degree you know that, to the degree you say that, to the degree you understand that and walk with that, to that degree, you will walk through this world with freedom and power. You know, maybe those who are the most truly heavenly minded really are the most earthly good. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us this small, compact, and yet absolutely comprehensive way of understanding everything about our lives. It's called the gospel. It comes in so many forms. We thank you for the form in these four verses. Help us to be able to set our hearts and minds on things we don't know. So that when Christ, who is our life, appears, we will be nothing but glorious. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.