In this service every week, pardon me, every year, the Easter service, I don't try to do anything to top what you just heard. It's great music, and the testimonies, if you were listening carefully to them, they're really incredibly understated. Those of you who know any of the folks know, in many cases, that the details are much more, in some ways, dramatic, much more remarkable. There was an amazing diversity, almost no matter who you are here tonight, you've got to look at somebody and you've got to say, yes, I understand that. I mean, there's a great diversity. It was very remarkable. A lot of dramatic stuff that was played down. And one of the reasons why we do that is because it's very important for you to know that ultimately Jesus Christ is not true because he changes lives. He changes lives because he's true. true. Nobody has said it better than the one writer who put it this way. He says, one of the great dangers on a night like this, one of the great dangers is for you to misunderstand something. Jesus Christ, you shouldn't come to Jesus Christ because He's relevant, although He is. You shouldn't come to Jesus Christ because He's exciting, oh, but my, He certainly is, though He is. You shouldn't come to Him because He'll heal your brokenness, though He certainly will. He shouldn't come to Christ because he's tremendously transforming, though he certainly is. He should come to Christ because he's true. And there's always a danger in the testimonies. One of the reasons why we make sure that in some ways the dramatic details are played down, the emotional manipulation is played down, you need to see what Jesus Christ can do when he comes on into a life. But you have to understand he doesn't, he's not true because he changes us. just because he's true. So what we heard tonight was what we sang about. He speaks in listening to his voice, new life the dead receive. The mournful broken hearts rejoice. The humble poor believe. Hear him you deaf, his praise you dumb. Your loosened tongues employ. You blind behold your savior come and leap ye lame for joy. What you heard tonight are accounts of spiritual resurrection. resurrection, spiritual resurrection. And I never try to top this, and I never have the time, by the way, to top this on, you know, one of the main things I remember about the Easter Sunday night that Steve Sachs says he gave his life to Christ is, wasn't that service two and a half hours long, Steve, or something like that? Yeah. Every year the testimonies get better, the service gets shorter, and the sermon gets worse. And, well, yeah, but I don't try to top Here's what I want you to see. We want to become a church in which spiritual resurrections happen even more. You see, we want to be a community in which what you heard here tonight becomes even more routine. Because the ministry of a Christian church is not reformation, but resurrection. We're not in the business of reformation. We're in the business of resurrection.

I've been meditating on a little passage simply to give us some pointers on how we can better be a church, better, how we can have more of what you heard tonight happening routinely. And actually, it's a place, it's a relatively obscure passage in the Old Testament. It's about Elijah. Let me just read it to you, and let me just extract a few principles on how Redeemer can get better at this, how any church can find that more and more they're a ministry not of reformation, but of transformation, of resurrection. It's in 1 Kings 17, verses 17 to 24. Let me just read it to you. It's about Elijah who was living with a poor widow woman, the widow of Zarephath. Sometime later, the son of the woman who owned the house became ill. He grew worse and worse and finally stopped breathing. She said to Elijah, what do you have against me, man of God? God, did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son? Give me your son, Elijah replied. He took him from her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying and laid him on his bed. And then he cried out to the Lord, O Lord, my God, have you brought tragedy also upon this widow that I am staying with by causing her son to die? And then he stretched himself out on the boy three times and cried to the Lord, O Lord my God, let this boy's life return to him. And the Lord heard Elijah's cry, and the boy's life returned to him, and he lived. And Elijah picked up the child and carried him down from the room into the house, and he gave him to his mother and said, Look, your son is alive. And then the woman said to Elijah, Elijah, now I know that you are a man of God and the word of the Lord from your mouth is the truth. Now, this would be a wonderful full-blown sermon, but instead it has to be a rather brief meditation, but it tells us something. Elijah's ministry, Elijah brought resurrection to this house. How can we be agents of resurrection in the lives of the people who come here? Notice a couple things. First of all, let me just show you a little bit about the ministry and then we'll draw some lessons. Elijah was a man who, unfortunately, though he was a sensitive man, had a ministry, a prophetic, a preaching ministry during a time of great moral and political corruption. So he was always having to denounce. And everywhere he went to preach, he would denounce the sin around him. For example, at the beginning of the chapter, he says there's going to be a drought, and God is going to judge Israel for their sin, and he brings a drought. Now, the problem with, uh, for Elijah was that he was always on the run because the, uh, because they have the King and the leaders were always out to get him. They were always mad at him because they thought that he was the source of all these terrible things, all these terrible strokes. He was always having to call people to show them their sin. And then to bring great strokes of judgment down on people. He goes to stay with this widow. She's the widow of Zarephath. She lived, she was a Gentile and she lived outside of Israel. And God sends Elijah to her, and she takes care of him. And then we read, one day suddenly, the only thing the widow has in the world, a little boy, the only thing she has, she's very poor, she has no other children, she just has the widow. She's a widow, and she just has the little boy. And he dies. And she turns to him, and she says, so that's it. Everywhere you go? You denounce people for their sin and you bring the judgment of God down. Is that what you've done to me? What's interesting is Elijah isn't sure. Elijah takes the little boy. He's in tremendous, tremendous pain. He takes the little boy, it says, up to the upper room where he was staying and laid him on his bed and he said, oh Lord, my God, have you brought tragedy? Is this from you? Now, the reason he's asking the question is fairly simple. In this world, the natural order of things, because this world is separated from God, the natural order of things is things fall apart. Everything falls apart. Everything's going to dust. You know, what is dust? Very, very, very tiny, tiny parts.

Eventually, these incredible buildings, this building right here is going to be dust. The world goes on and on. It's going to be dust. dust. Every building in these incredible buildings in New York City are all going to be dust. And everybody in this room eventually will be dust much, much sooner. I mean, we're all going to pieces. Everything falls apart. And because everything is going from wholeness to brokenness, everything is automatically, inevitably going from life to death. The problem is that when you see something fall apart, Elijah himself wasn't sure if this was God's hand. He wasn't sure. a pastor, I spent a great deal of time over the years sitting down with people who were sick or who were dying and assuring them that this isn't necessarily the judgment of God because everything falls apart. And so Elijah himself didn't know. So he stretches himself out and he prays, and we're told the Lord hears. And you can just imagine when the little boy came to life, we're told here, it says, the boy's life returned to him and he lived. And Elijah picked up the child and carried him down. Imagine it. And he says, look, look, look, your son is alive. And then the widow says, now I know. You know, every place in the Bible where someone says, now I know, it's a wonderful place. Like when God says to Abraham, now I know that you love me because you didn't withhold your little son from me. Or like when Naaman, after he's cleansed from his leprosy, says, now I know that there is no God except in Israel. I mean, now I, and she says, now I know that your words are the truth. And you know why she knew? Degeneration is never necessarily a sign of God's presence or judgment, but regeneration always is. Moving from life to death, who knows? That's the way things are all the time. Who knows if this is a stroke from God? But whenever you move from death to life, whenever there's resurrection, everything, you see, your hearts get harder and harder. Haven't you seen that? As you get older, your hearts get harder. You don't care. You ever notice, for example, it's very hard to keep making new friends. Have you noticed that? You get older and you lose your friends. Then new people come in and you say, I don't even want to go through all this. You get lonelier and lonelier. As very often as you get older, you don't. You don't want to make new friends. You're getting harder. murder. You're getting number. You're getting deader. That's the way we go unless God intervenes and resurrection is the sign. See, when you go from death to life, now I know. Now, here's what we can learn from this. How can we have this great ministry of resurrection? Number one, the first thing we have to learn is that what happened to the little boy and what happened to Lazarus and what happened to Jairus' daughter and all the places where you had miraculous raisings from the dead, we've got something better. This is nothing but a sign of what we can do and what we can do is better. Huh? You want to know why I say that? You know, in Jesus' first sermon in Nazareth, in Luke chapter 4, verse 26, go look at it. He starts preaching and it's a great sermon and everybody loves it. And I always get scared, by the way, the beginning, everybody says, what a great sermon. And at the end of the sermon, they want to kill him. I've always wondered about that. The first point you like, the second point you like, will they like the third point? And he gets to the third point and he says, he says, you'll be upset with me when I make my last point.

He says, there were many widows in the time of Elijah during the drought when it didn't rain for three and a half years, but Elijah was only sent to the widow of Zarephath. And there were Elisha's time, but Elisha was only sent to Naaman the Syrian. Now, I'll get back to that in just a second. But the first point he's trying to say is his ministry is just being foretold by Elijah's ministry. The ministry of Jesus to you and me and then our ministry to the world, you see, this is just a shadow of that. And this might sound very strange to you. The ministry of Lazarus and even the ministry of this child is only actually a picture of the resurrection. It's Oh no. Those are resuscitations. What if Redeemer began to have the ministry of resuscitation? What if we began to go into the hospitals, you know, and a number of you are doctors and med students. What if every time a minister went to the hospital to visit somebody on laid hands, a person had just died, medically proven, just died. They were all in there. Everybody in there with the little cards. They knew they were dead. And I would go in there, or Jeff White would go in there, or the deaconesses would go in there. They'd lay hands on the, and the person would come back to life. We'd get, you know, we'd probably get a cover story somewhere. There's no doubt about it. And everybody would say, how wonderful. We've got something that we're doing that won't get a cover story, but it's far better than this. Resurrection. Whenever Jesus Christ explains the ministry of the resurrection, he always says there's two parts to it. He tells Martha, remember when Martha says, says, if Lazarus wasn't, if you had been here, Lazarus wouldn't have died. Remember? And in Luke, and pardon me, in John chapter 11, he says, Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. And then he says, he who believes in me, though he dies, yet shall he live. And he who lives and believes in me will never die. Two things. They seem to contradict, unless you think about them. First of all, he says, if you believe in me, when you die, later on you'll live. And if you believe in me, you'll never die. Now that seems to be a contradiction, but here's what he's saying. If you become a Christian, eventually you will be spiritually resurrected. You'll get a new body. You'll live in a new dimension. You'll be able to eat fish and go through doors. That's what Jesus did. New dimension. Not an ethereal one. We can't get into this now. Not an ethereal. You're going to be able to eat. You're going to be able to drink. You're going to be able to still make music, Steve. I mean, you're going to still be physical, but a new kind of body, spiritual, you see, a new spiritual reality, spiritual body. But then he says, and he who lives and believes in me will never die. Well, that seems to contradict, but no, it doesn't. What he says is, on the other hand, the moment you believe, there's a spiritual resurrection, the deadness inside, guilt-free living, hopeful living, new moral courage, courage, new freedom from all the things that used to enslave you, spiritual resurrection, new ability to see all sorts of realities you couldn't see before. You know? You're moving from death to life. There's a spiritual resurrection and that part of you that is being regenerated by Jesus Christ will go on forever. It is infallible. It is invulnerable. You see? It cannot be stopped. If you die and when you die physically, that will just make you spiritually stronger than ever. In other words, the minute you become a Christian, you're spiritually resurrected, and eventually you'll be physically resurrected. And Lazarus and this boy, as wonderful as this is, weren't getting either of those. They were just resuscitated. They're wonderful signs, but we've got something better. And yet they're signs, and therefore, what do we have to see? If we're going to be getting spiritual resurrections, we've got to do a number of things. Number one, there's a dynamic here. You notice when she sees that Elijah has resurrected her son, what does she say? Wow, this is great. Let's do this all over. No, what she says, now I know that your message is the truth. Ah, see, even there, even in the Old Testament, even in this sort of symbol, it's the message. The Message. See, Steve gave an example of this. Sorry to go back to Steve, but I know him really well. I don't want to embarrass him. Steve came and he saw spiritually resurrected people. So that night he didn't listen to The Message. And yet, it was The Resurrected people that says, maybe there's something to this. And because of The Resurrected people, you see, because of The Resurrected Boy, The Woman turned to The Message. The Message is that's the source. And therefore, the resurrected people lead you to look to the message, which is what resurrects. And that's the dynamic. We have to have changed lives. And the more changed lives we have, the more people will listen to the message. The more they listen to the message, the more changed lives they'll be. That's the dynamic. That has to be here. On the one hand, you can't just have people talking about the great miracles in their lives without saying, but it's the message. It's believing a body of content. It's something as prosaic as that. It's not a matter of, I don't have some kind of power that now because God has transformed me, now I can lay hands and it sort of jumps on to you. It's the message. So on the one hand, it's as prosaic as the message. On the other hand, it's got to be fleshed out in the lives of people. If there's nothing remarkable about you, you say you're a Christian, but there's nothing remarkable about you. The people who know you best will be surprised if they hear you're a Christian. You're not more loving. You're not more wonderful. You're not more interesting. You're not more sensitive. You're not more humble than anybody else. You don't show any signs of resurrection. Why should they listen to the message?

We have to be a church of resurrected people. Then they'll listen to the message. Secondly, we've got to be a church of praying people. You notice what Elijah does? He prays. You know, he prays so incredibly. I would love to do a sermon on prayer from this. Because on the one hand, and this is the thing that we have a lot of trouble, there's a balance and a fervor to this prayer. He does not say, and even the woman doesn't say, this isn't fair. Do you notice that? She didn't say, why do bad things happen to good people? She didn't say that. She says, are you here to remind me of my sin? She knows she's a sinner. And see, Elijah also doesn't say, this isn't fair. This isn't right. He doesn't say to God, you're unwise. He doesn't say you're unjust. He doesn't say you're not in control. He is completely respectful. And yet he goes after God. God. It's very interesting. On the one hand, he sees the holiness of God, and he sees the sovereignty of God, and he respects that. There is not a word of complaint, and yet he's suing God. Oh, I don't mean suing against him, but I mean suing for the boy. He's like a lawyer. He's like a defense attorney. He's like a rabid defense attorney. He's in there saying, Lord, he's praying. praying. He's praying for the resurrection of a particular boy. And you know what? Nobody gets resurrected unless there's a bunch of people around praying for them. Okay, so first of all, you've got to have a bunch of resurrected people. Secondly, you've also got to be a praying church. Okay? Thirdly, and I don't think I'm reading too much into this, Elijah stretches himself out on the boy. Is that magic? Look, we know enough about the miracles. We know enough about the miracles to know that there's no magic stuff. You know, God does not need to have you, you know, put wiffle dust on somebody's head in five places and then, you know, and turn around four times, you know, and blow smoke. You know, he doesn't need any of that. Well, what does Elijah mean? When I was a new Christian, I was involved with a youth ministry, and they had a single policy, which summed up their entire ministry philosophy, and they said, life on a life. Life on a life. You heard here tonight, I mean, people would, I'm the artillery. I'm just the artillery. They come and they say, well, that was interesting. That was helpful. But you see, first of all, you've got to see resurrected lives walking around. You've got to have people praying for these folks. But the third thing is, you've got to have people who are willing to go out for Chinese and talk incessantly about Christianity, you see? By the way, other kinds of food work, evidently. I've heard that people have been saved after Thai food, even French food. I've heard that, you know. And so, but you know, life on a life, he stretches out on the boat. We have to have a church of people that are willing to put their lives on other people's lives. It's just, It's not enough just to say, oh, listen to a tape, read a book. Life on a life. They've got to look into your life. They've got to see it. You've got to lay yourself out for them. Okay? You've got to lay yourself out for them. One last thing.

We have to have a church with resurrected people walking around. We've got to have a church that's praying in this kind of fervency. You've got to have a church in which you're willing to lay your lives on other people's lives. lives. But last of all, we've got to have our arms as open, as wide as the world. The reason the people got upset with Jesus when he mentioned the widow of Zarephath was, he says, the message of the resurrection goes to all people. And you see, when he says, you know what, there was an awful lot of widows during the drought, but God only sent Elijah to the Gentile, the outsider. cider. One of the things that I loved about the text that I was preaching on this morning in Luke chapter 24, which there wasn't really time or even cause to mention it, but we're told that the women who were united through the ministry of Jesus Christ, that they went around, they were part of Jesus' ministry team. They included two women that I always love to see their names next to each other, Joanna. Now we're told in Luke chapter 8 verse 3, Joanna, who was at the tomb, was the wife of Herod's administrator. She was married to a very wealthy man. She was an aristocrat. She was a Fifth Avenue matron. And Mary Magdalene, she was the product of the prostitution's ministry. She was a prostitute. And they were sisters. Now, you know, America is about as classless a society as there has ever been, ever in history. You can make a good case for that. And even in America and even in New York, which is probably as much mixing as any place you've Prostitutes don't hang out with Park Avenue matrons. They don't get to know each other. They're not best friends. They're not on ministry teams together. But in the church, they have to be. When you first come to Redeemer, as David pointed out, you may come because it's a great place to meet girls. When you first walk in, you're going to look around. You're going to say, are these the level of people I want to be part of? I know you're doing it. You look around and say, are these people as accomplished as I would like to be? Are they accomplished as I would like to be associated with? Huh? Are they sophisticated? You don't want to be around a bunch of losers, do you? Look, when you first come, that's okay. Because when you first come, you probably think Christianity is a blueprint for success or maybe even a medicine chest for your hurts. But when you become to understand that Christianity is not about reformation, it's about resurrection. When you come to understand the gospel, there's no excuse for that anymore. No excuse at all. And we have to have a church and with the Mary Magdalene's, our best friends with the Joanna's, or we will not show people the resurrection power. See, the resurrection power, the remarkable resurrection power can't just be seen in the individual lives but in the corporate life. Are we a church like that? Resurrected individuals, resurrected community, see? Fervent prayer, life on a life to the degree that we are. We'll see this resurrection too, here and saying, now I know. Now I know, like we heard tonight. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would grant that we could be a church in which the ministry of resurrection happens all the time. For a lot of us, Lord, it means stretching ourselves out on people that really don't even care, are indifferent, they don't even know about their own brokenness, putting our lives on them, being exposed to them, making ourselves vulnerable to them, looking at our own lives and getting rid of all the deadness in it, praying with tremendous respect and yet complete fervency. We need to become people like that because we want to hear more and more in our church and in all the churches of this country and the world, more and more people who can come and say, say, now I know. Now I know. So, Father, we ask that it would be so. Make it so. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
