In your bulletin you have the passage from which we're taking our teaching tonight.

Each week, for a series of weeks, we've been looking at the Ten Commandments. And I don't know if any of you have been able to tell a pattern, but in the morning we tend to lay out more principles, in the evening we tend to lay out more practical applications. And that works whether you come to one or the other or both. and tonight we're looking at an application of the eighth commandment, thou shalt not steal. You know, it's great the way the Ten Commandments get down to the basics, you know. The last three commandments, you know, you have thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal. That's power, sex, and money. It gets down to the bottom lines, does it not? not. In some ways, what the Bible has to say about money is a lot more offensive than what it has to say about sex. Just to give you an example of this, last week at the end of the four o'clock service, I said to everybody, we're preaching today on what God says about sexual fulfillment and what God wants you to do with sex. And so meet me afterwards for questions and answers, and the place was packed. And this week I said, now this week, today we're talking about what God, not God says you should do with sex, what God says you should do with your money, how you should use your money, what he wants you to do with your money. Come on down for questions and answers. And it wasn't nearly as filled. I don't know why. Especially in light of the fact, well, it's a hot day. But no, that's not it. I really do think that in many ways what God has to say about money is more threatening and in some ways more offensive. And Jesus certainly speaks 10 times, 15 times, than he does about sex. He talks an enormous amount about money. So does Paul. The Bible is constantly talking about our attitudes toward our possessions and money. And in this particular passage, we see many of the principles laid out. Let me read you the passage, lay out the principles, and see how they lay. See how they lay. This is 1 Timothy 6, and I've chosen just verses 6 to 10, and then 17 to 19 in the same chapter. But godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into the world and we can take nothing out of it. But if we have food and clothing, we shall be content with that. People who want to get rich fall into temptation and a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. That's a better translation than maybe what you've heard. The love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. Some people, eager for money, have wandered from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and willing to share. For in this way they will lay up treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. This is God's Word.

Well, there's three principles at least that we can see here in this passage about what it says about Christians and money, Christians and material things. The first thing is that Christians are called here to what I guess we'll call a simpler lifestyle. Christians are called to a simpler lifestyle. Secondly, Christians are called to what I guess we'll call for the moment deed ministry. They're called to not just ministry of word, which is what so many Christians think about when they think of ministry, but they're also called to ministry of deed, material ministry. ministry. And then thirdly, this completely new Christian attitude toward money and material things flows out of a change of heart, the gospel heart from godliness. Now, so number one, Christians are called to simpler living. Two, this isn't very parallel. I'm just drawing out these things. Christians are called to deed ministry. And three, this calling flows out of a changed heart. Let's look at what it says. On the one hand, now, this is a very interesting and maybe the best of all the passages to give us guidance on what it means, what it means to live a simpler lifestyle, how Christians are supposed to live in relationship to material possessions. Now, I'm looking at the clock. Without taking too much time, it's important to understand the

passage. When Paul was writing to Timothy, he was concerned about a particular kind of heresy, a particular kind of false teaching. At the time that Paul was writing, it didn't have this name yet, I don't think, but it was sort of a proto version of it. It was a kind of early version of what was later called Gnosticism, G-N-O-S-T-I-C-I-S-M, Gnosticism. Now Gnosticism wasn't a brand new thing. Almost every religion, not everyone, but almost every religion outside of biblical religion, outside of the Old and New Testament, is negative about matter, negative about the physical, negative about the body, negative about the material. material. Eastern religions tend to see matter and, you know, the body as an illusion, just an illusion, not reality. Reality is spirit. This is passing away. The Greek, a lot of the Greek and Hellenistic thought saw matter and the physical as bad. Now, we had to talk about this when it came to a discussion of the command, thou shalt not commit adultery, but we have to talk about it again. And that's the background of 1 Timothy, because what was arising at the time was a number of people who were teaching that the physical was unimportant, that the body and the physical and material things were unimportant or bad. So, for example, earlier on in the past, earlier on, now we didn't read it, but over in chapter 4, Paul writes this to Timothy. He says, It says, some will abandon the faith and follow deceiving spirits. Such teaching comes from hypocrites. They forbid people to marry and order them to abstain from certain foods, which God created to be received with thanksgiving, for everything God created is good, and nothing is to be rejected if it's received with thanksgiving. And then in verse 17, in the passage we're looking at right now, it says, God richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Now, Gnosticism actually was teaching just what Paul said. Some people are coming along and saying, don't marry, don't eat certain foods, but he says everything created is good. Everything God's created is good. What's going on here? Just for a moment, the Gnostics taught that God didn't actually create the world. God didn't create the world because the world was bad, matter was evil. God was the supreme God, and He was perfect spirit. But from God emanated thirty beings, divine beings called eons. And one of those divine beings created the world. The Gnostics called it the Demiurge. One of the divine beings created the world. And that was a bad idea, by the way, the creation of the world. But when the Demiurge was creating the world, He put into all of us sparks of the divine life. All of us, we have a yearning for union with the true God, the supreme Spirit, but we're trapped in the body, we're trapped in the world, we're trapped in the physical, we're trapped… and we need liberation from cosmic structures. We need liberation from the physical in the world. That was the idea of Gnosticism. Now, if I was trying to go in another direction, it would be fun to play out how much Gnosticism is like New Age mysticism. The Gnostics, for example, taught that since the body was unimportant, that the important thing was your feelings. For example, the Gnostics taught that you could leave your body. You could get out of it. The Gnostics taught that you could create your own reality. Don't let your body stop you. See, you can decide what is real. It all has to do with the inside. The spirit is good. The body is illusory. The body is unreal. The body is bad. The physical is bad. that. Another thing the Gnostics taught was your gender and your sex preference should not have anything to do with your body. Your body shouldn't have any influence on it because what was important was your feelings. Gnostics taught that you couldn't know God through the Bible, through arguments. You could only know God by going inside and finding a divine spark of God in you. You could only find God by realizing that you were divine. You could only find God by looking into yourself and recognizing your own divinity and getting in touch with that. Sound familiar? In other words, the body is unimportant. And the Gnostics basically taught, because the body was unimportant, they broke into two kinds. The Gnostics either taught that if you wanted to be spiritual, if you wanted to have a relationship with the infinite, you needed to be totally detached from the world. Go into a monastery, you see. Live in poverty. Physical pleasure, physical comfort is bad. Other Gnostics taught, because the body was unimportant, they went to the other extreme for the same reason. They said, well, if the body's unimportant, then just satisfy your appetites. Do anything you want. Live a self-indulgent life. It doesn't make any difference. Paul says this isn't the case. Paul says the body is good. Everything God created is Now, just for a moment, the Gnostics hated and always have hated, just like the people today who are Gnostics, and it's a growing number of people who are into the same basic understanding. It's very, very popular today. A lot of Gnosticism goes under the rubric of what's called the New Age, but they have always hated the doctrine of the resurrection. The doctrine of the resurrection teaches that God likes the body and that liberation means not just liberation of the soul, but liberation of the soul and the body. The physical is good. Jesus, in his resurrection body, ate a fish. He had a good meal. In his resurrection body. Jesus has a body now. You sing about it when you sing the hymn, Rich wounds yet visible above in beauty glorified. You know, when he appeared to Thomas, he could put his fingers through his palms. Remember that? What does that mean? It means that our future is not some esoteric future. Do you ever, let me ask you this, do you ever praise God? Well, I don't know, do you ever sit down and you think, and do you ever praise God that our future is not an ethereal, esoteric, disembodied future, where we just are some kind of disembodied consciousness floating through space in some kind of way. You know what the Bible says? You can see it in Jesus. My feet will march in the kingdom of God. They won't float over the street. I will eat in the kingdom of God. You will learn in the kingdom of God. You will eat and drink in the kingdom of God. You'll make music. You'll sing in the kingdom of God with your voices, which will be perfect. You see, do you ever praise God, how do I put this, for a familiar salvation? Do you ever praise God for that? There is no other religion that has it. You know that. Every other religion says either you sort of go back into the all soul, or even Islam sees a disembodied paradise. Only the Bible says matter is good. The body is good. God created the body and the spirit, and even though sin has polluted both the body and the spirit, God will redeem both the body and the spirit. There's never been a more world-affirming material, matter-affirming religion than biblical religion. Now, when I say biblical, I mean Judaism and Christianity, which come from those same roots there. World-affirming. Now, the reason you have to bring this out is because this is the background to everything else that Paul's trying to say. Because on the one hand, this proves that Christians are not to be influenced by a kind of semi-gnostic mindset that says, if you're a real Christian, you should live in poverty. If you're a real Christian, you should never enjoy physical comfort. See, because we believe in the goodness of matter, first of all, it turns Christians into fighting people when it comes to matter. When we see people too cold and they need warmth, when we see people naked and they need clothes, when we see people sick and they need to be healed, what do Christians do? We know it's God's program, it's God's will, it's God's kingdom program to see all of that healed. If you come out of any other mindset, if you come out of any other religion, you come to these things and you say, these aren't important. The Gnostics said, oh, well, yes, you're sick. Oh, well, yes, you're broken. Ah, but don't you realize, you see, you need liberation from this bodily thing anywhere. Reflect, meditate, create your own reality. Eastern philosophies have always created a kind of, of, you know, a certain lethargy when it comes to curing social ills, not Christianity. Christianity says God's program is to get rid of sickness. God's program is to get rid of disease, to get rid of poverty, to get rid of hunger, to get rid of homelessness. And I'm going to do what I can to be part of that program now. Christianity is a fighting religion when it comes to matter. It opens us to the idea that we cannot simply minister in word, but we have to minister in deed. Why do you have all these places, 1 John 3, 16 and 17, and James 2, they all go like this. They say, if you see a person without food, without clothing, and you say, go be warmed and filled, how is the love of God expressed in you? Let us, says John, not love in word only, but in deed and in truth. Now, that is an amazing You see it right here. It says, if you've got money, you have to be rich in good deeds. See that?

Because Christianity believes in the goodness of matter, because Christianity is an earthy religion like no other, we fight about deed ministry. Look at all the spiritual gifts that are listed in 1 Corinthians 12, 1 Corinthians 14, Ephesians 4, Romans 12. What do you see? Break them down into a category sometime, and you'll see what we're told in 1 Peter 4, verse 10, and that is there's two kinds of gifts. There's speaking gifts, and there's serving gifts. There's word gifts, and there's deed gifts, because God wants the church to be just as good at giving people practical material help as giving them verbal spiritual help. And take a look at the officers of the church. When you read Acts 6, you will see why, well, you'll see that God had originally just elders in a church. And one day they began to realize the elders were having trouble, Acts 6 tells us, because the church supported the widows of their congregation. Now, you must realize that older women in those days who had lost their husbands had essentially no means of support because of the social structures, because of, you know, obviously no such thing as pension, retirement, stuff like that. Unless they had children, they were destitute. And so it was the job of the church to not just minister in word to those women, but to minister in deed. Every day, they gave those women what they needed to live. They supported them. And the elders at one point said, we can't do all this work together. And so what they did was the Lord directed them to set apart another whole set of officers called deacons. And so why? The elders said, we have to concentrate on the Word. You concentrate on deed. So here you have Jesus, mighty in word and deed. Here you have the church being given spiritual gifts that are both word and deed gifts. Here you have the church. Go to 1 Timothy 3 in the same passage, the same book, and you'll see that Jesus, that Paul says to Timothy, now, Timothy, when you plant a church, in every town where you plant a church, appoint both elders and deacons. Why? Because churches have got to be just as involved with word gifts as deed gifts. Word ministry and deed ministry. Why? Because the program of the kingdom of God is to renovate every part of reality, not just the spiritual, but the physical. Okay, but then there's one other very, very important implication of this idea, this concept, that everything God makes is good. God has given us everything richly to enjoy. The first is that we're called to deed ministry, not just word ministry. But the second is that we can enjoy the things of this world. We do not have to live in a kind of voluntary poverty. We do not have to be afraid of physical comfort. And there have always been strains in the Christian church, legalistic strains, that have said, yes, to be a real Christian, you must essentially live in poverty. You must give all of your money away. Now, what's interesting about this passage is there's a tremendous balance here, and I'm going to call it God's call simpler living, to simpler living. Look at what's going on. If you look at the bottom, it almost looks like the two paragraphs almost seem like they contradict each other, don't they? Because at verse 17, it says, command those who are rich in this present world. Now, wait for a minute. Just remember this. This word rich is relative. In this room, plenty of you would say, I'm not rich. And you'd be right, at least in your context. You have to realize, if we stand back far enough and look at everybody in the world, by the standards of the entire world, many, many of you are rich. You know, we're just, you know, we're talking about everybody in the and the living standards of everybody in the world. So it's all relative, but see what Paul says. He says, I command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant, nor to put their hope in wealth, which is so uncertain, but to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. Command them to do good, to be rich in good deeds, and to be generous and willing to share. In this way they will lay treasure for themselves as a firm foundation for the coming age, so that they may take hold of the life that is truly life. Now, this is very be saying to people who have wealth, you don't have to give it all away. And I think that is what it's saying. It does not say, you who are rich in the present world, what does it tell them to do? It doesn't say, give it all away, but it says, use your wealth strategically. It says, you have got to see that your wealth is a tremendous gift. If you don't use your wealth to do all kinds of tremendous work, then you are missing your calling. See, command the rich in this present world to be rich in good deeds. It means, you see, I think what it's saying is, Paul is saying on the one hand, if you've got capital, there's three things you can do with it. You can spend the capital on yourself. Now, if you just put it in an account, if you just put it in some place and invest and just let it build up, you're still spending it on yourself. You can spend on yourself. You can give it all away in one swoop, or you can invest it in such a way that it continues to bear tremendous good deed fruit, not for you, but for the people around you, for the kingdom of God, for the poor, for many years. In other words, Paul's not calling the rich to no longer be rich, but he's calling the rich to no longer live rich, but to be rich in good deeds. He even says God gives us all things richly to enjoy, so he kind of gets away from a kind of legalism that happens in some Christian communities, which says it's a bad idea to ever enjoy any kind of physical comfort. But having said that, look at the first paragraph. Now, this first paragraph cuts against it, and we have to see these are all in one letter, all one chapter, and we have to read it together. Then it says, but godliness with contentment is great gain, for we brought nothing into the world and we can take nothing out of it. But if we have food and clothing, we will be content with that. People who want to get rich fall into a trap and into many foolish and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. Now, what is he saying there? Something extremely important. First of all, he is saying, be content with a decent lifestyle. Figure out what food and shelter means. Figure out what it to live decently. And he's really telling, he says, then a few verses later, though he says, be content with a certain lifestyle, a few verses later he says to the rich, be rich in good deeds. I think what he's saying is something like what John Newton said. John Newton was the guy who wrote Amazing Grace. He was the guy who wrote Glorious Things of the Earth Spoken, a number of the hymns that we sing. John Newton wrote a man years ago, obviously, because he lived years ago, and I have a book of his letters, and in it, a young man was saying, how much of my money should I be giving away to the church and to the poor? That was, and in that letter, John Newton says some fascinating things, and this is what he says. He says, you have to work this out in your own conscience, but here's what I suggest to you. He says, divide the things in your life into three categories. He says, you've got necessities, then you've got what he called conveniences, and then you've got luxuries. Necessities, conveniences, and luxuries. He says, figure out what your necessities are. How you have to live in order to be safe. How you have to live in order to stay healthy. How you have to live in order to have your gifts used properly in the world. You know, figure out what your necessities are. And then he said, when it comes to conveniences and luxuries, for every cent you spend on yourself, spend a cent on the poor. In other words, he says,

income. Now, that's a good question. He says, and give away half of it. And the young man wrote back and said, well, now that's like 25% of my income, something like that. You know, how, you know, is that safe? I mean, shouldn't I be saving up for the future? And John Newton wrote back and said, if I can find it, I think the young man, yeah, wrote back and said,

well, is it really a good idea that I give that much away? I mean, shouldn't I be saving up for my friends and so on? And who knows what John Newton said because we'll never find out. Ah, here he goes. But, yes, here's Newton. He says, but it may be asked,

would you show no regard for the possibility

children, an inheritance. Quite the reverse. I would have you attend to it very much, but the scriptures show you a more excellent way. If you had a little money to spare, would you not lend it to me? If I assured you I would repay it whenever you wanted it? Well, read Proverbs 19, 17. It says, he that hath pity upon the poor lendeth to the Lord, and that which he hath given, the Lord will repay him again. So Newton goes on and says, says, what do you think of this text? Is this the word of God or not? I dare stake all my interest in your friendship that if you act upon this principle in a spirit of prayer and faith with a single eye to his glory, you will not be disappointed. He says, when you give your money away in eye-popping proportions to the Lord's work, when you give it away to charity, when you give your money away, the Bible says you're lending it to God. He says, now, if you gave me some money, If I said, lend me some money, but I promised that I'd give it back the minute you needed it, wouldn't you give it to me? And that's what God's saying to you. He's saying, if you're generous, you've lent to me, and I'll come through for you. That's what Newton said. That was the normal way that Christians have thought through the years, and that is to find a simpler lifestyle than the one you're at now. Bring yourself down a notch or two. When it comes to conveniences and luxuries, to spend much less on yourself than your culture tells you need in order to be happy. And to give yourself, give the money away in eye-popping proportions. This does not mean, if you've got a lot of capital, that you have to just beggar yourself, just throw it away. Instead, you should invest it, but make sure that though there may be rich Christians, there mustn't be rich living Christians, but people who bring themselves down several notches. You know, actually, the more wealthy you are, the more notches you need to bring yourself down in the way you live, in the options you use, in where you eat, in where you live. And this is exactly what's being said. You are not, on the one hand, being called into a kind of ascetic monastic, let's get away and detach from the world, but on the other hand, you're being called to radical rethinking of your standard of living so that you can give to the Lord as you give away. But John Newton says that is a retirement account. John Newton says that is a savings account. Is this the word of God or not? He says, I stake my friendship on it. He said, if you live your life on this principle, you won't be disappointed. disappointed. Now, lastly, we also see here that this is not, this is a frightening thing. When Paul says, find a basic level, you know, food and shelter and your basics, and he says beyond that, he doesn't say give it all away, oh no, he basically says beyond that, be rich, rich in good deeds. What he's calling us to is a pretty difficult thing for us to hear. So where are we going to get the power to do it? This morning I read from a particular sermon by a Scotsman named Robert Marie McShane, and I read one section. I'm going to read another section now. And it's not in that page, so I don't need to get down and get it. McShane points out that you can never get people, nor can you get yourself, To live more simply and to give more generously through guilt. I've read a lot of books, and you've probably read a lot of books. I've heard a lot of people say, and you've probably heard a lot of people say, The reason we ought to give our money away is because we have so much. And we've been told, do you realize when you eat steak that there's people in so many other parts of the world that never eat meat at all? Don't you realize because you own a car and most people in other parts of the world can't even own a car, don't you see how much you have? You need to give because you've got so much and they've got so little. that kind of, that's guilt. And does that get you to give? For a little while. And then after a while you sit there and say, you know, if I eat this steak, is anybody going to drop dead if I don't eat this steak? You know, can I help that I'm living in this country? Can I help it if I'm living in this culture? What's wrong with it? In other words, the guilt only lasts so long. The Bible, however, doesn't use guilt. The Bible says, you know the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, who though he was rich became poor so that through his poverty you might become rich mcshane said any person who understands what jesus has done for them the more you understand the more generous you get it pushes your button if you think about what he's done and it loosens your fears about money because you realize if he loves me this much, why in the world would he die for me? Why would he send his son? Why would he be torn to pieces on the cross and then let me go begging? In other words, first of all, a knowledge of his grace makes you more generous because you start to realize, I don't have to worry so much. A knowledge of his grace also makes you generous because you also realize what it cost him and how little it will really cost you to be generous. His generosity cost him everything. Your generosity won't cost you nearly as much. So McShane ends his sermon this way, and I'm sure some years ago I've read this before, so it's good to get it back on the record again. So he goes at it this way. He says, now, dear Christians, some of you pray day and night to be branches of the true vine. You pray to be made all over in the image of Christ. If so, you must also become like him in giving. Though he was rich, yet for our sakes he became poor. Ah, someone objects. Preacher, my money is my own. Answer? Well, Christ might have said, my blood is my own, my life is my own, and then where would you be? Objection number two. You asked me to give to churches. You asked me to give to the poor. But many of these churches will not use my money properly. Many of the poor are undeserving. Answer. Christ might have said the same. Christ might have looked down over the lip of heaven and seen you and said, These are just wicked rebels. Shall I lay down my life for these? No, I will give to the good angels, not to the undeserving poor. but no, he left the 99 and he came after the lost. Objection number three, all right, but the poor that I give to or the people I give it to might abuse it. Answer, Christ might have said the same thing, yea, with far greater truth. Christ knew that thousands would trample his blood under their feet, that most would despise it, and that many people would make it an excuse for sinning more, and yet he gave his own blood. My dear Christians, if you want to be like Christ, give much, give often, give freely to the vile and even the poor, to the thankless and even the undeserving. Christ is glorious and happy and so will you be. It's not your money I want, but it's your happiness because remember what the Lord himself said, it's more blessed to give than to receive. receive. Doesn't that push your button? You see, every excuse you can come up with, if you're saying, well, I can't afford it. Every excuse you can come up with saying, ah, you know, there's a lot of people take the money and you don't know where it goes. Every excuse you come up with, Jesus had a hundred more. If Jesus used any of the excuses on you that you're using on him, him, we'd all be lost. The preacher at the end says, it's not your money I want. Now, that's true. That's what I'm saying. When I say you need to be giving, I'm not saying an owl has to come to my church. Plenty of you don't even go to this church. Maybe this isn't the place you should be giving at all. I am not calling you to give money to this particular place at this point because I'm talking to a variety of people. People are going to be listening to this on tape later on. I don't know where your money should be going. What I am trying to say is you have a lot of things in your wallet that belong somewhere else. You may have clothes in your closet that belong someplace else. You might have food in your pantry if you've got a pantry that belongs someplace else. Because if you see what Jesus did and you begin to live your life in the same way, it'll make you radically generous. It pushes the button to see what he did. and it opens your hand so you're not scared about money anymore and you have a whole different attitude toward what it can do.

It's more blessed to give than to receive. Do you want blessedness? There it is. Let's pray. Father, as we go to your table, we simply ask that you'd make your son's death such a reality. Make your son's death such a reality more generous. Father, we have an awful lot of reasons, and so many of them are excuses. A lot of us have used for quite a while on why we are not more generous with our money. And while we're not more simple in our lifestyle, we ask that you would, if any of these excuses in anybody's heart here tonight are illegitimate, I pray that you just blow them out. Blow them away way, in light of the cross, in light of what your son did for us. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
