I'd like to call your attention to the book of Hosea, and I'm going to read from two sections in it. This book is a book that's really incomprehensible unless you understand the whole framework, the story that the whole book tells. So I'm going to read to you two sections out of it that we're going to look at in some detail, and then I will, in the process of teaching and expounding the passages, give you an overview of the book so that these particular passages are understandable. For now, listen as I read, first of all, chapter 3, verses 1 to 15, then chapter 11, 1 to 11. Chapter 3, the Lord said to me, go, show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. Love her as the Lord loves the Israelites, though they turn to other gods and love the sacred raisin cakes. So I bought her for 15 shekels and about a homer and a letheck of barley. Then I told her, you are to live with me many days. You must not be a prostitute or be intimate with any man, and I will live with you. For the Israelites will live many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or sacred stones, without effort or idol. Afterward, the Israelites will return and seek the Lord their God and David their king. They will come trembling to the Lord and to his blessings in the last days. In chapter 11, we read God saying, When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. But the more I called Israel, the further they went from me. They sacrificed to the Baals, they burned incense to images. It was I who taught Ephraim to walk, taking them by the arms. But they did not realize it was I who healed them. I led them with cords of human kindness, with ties of love. I lifted the yoke from their necks and bent down to feed them. Will they not return to Egypt, and will not Assyria rule over them because they refuse to repent? Swords will flash in their cities and will destroy the bars of their gates and put an end to their plans. My people are determined to turn from me. Even if they call to the Most High, he will by no means exalt them. How can I give you up, Ephraim? hand you over Israel? How can I treat you like Adma? How can I make you like Zeboim? My heart is changed within me and all my compassion is aroused. I will not carry out my fierce anger, nor will I turn and devastate Ephraim, for I am God and not man. The Holy One among you, I will not come in wrath. They will follow the Lord. He will roar like a lion, and When he roars, his children will come trembling from the west. They will come trembling like birds from Egypt, like doves from Assyria. I will settle them in their homes, declares the Lord.

God's word.

We're looking this fall at the attributes of God, and today we come to the love of God. And a lot of people say, finally, you know, the holiness of God, the power of God, the wrath of God, all these things. I've been waiting for this one. I believe in a loving God. C.S. Lewis writes, though, You ask for a loving God? Well, you have one. The great spirit you have so lightly invoked, the Lord is present. Not a senile benevolence that drowsily wishes you to be happy in your own way. old philanthropy of a conscientious magistrate, but the consuming fire himself, the love that made the worlds as persistent as the artist's love for his or her work, as venerable as the father's love for a child, as inexorable, exacting as love between the sexes. The consuming fire, the love that made the worlds, this love is different. This is the love that made the world. I submit to you that one of the great riddles of human existence and the riddles of our condition is why we absolutely must have a love from others that they cannot give us. And others must have a love from you that you cannot give them.

I think I mentioned a couple of weeks ago in an evening service that one of the things that frightens me about my children when I look at them that they seem to be bottomless pits when it comes to love. No matter how much you love, you throw in there, they soak it in, they suck it in, they gobble it up, and they're always ready for more. And I begin to realize I cannot possibly give them love

in the quality of purity that they want or the greatness of quantity that they need. I was at a soccer game the other day, and my littlest one, every single time he kicked the ball, looked at me to make sure I was looking at him. He'd wave. He'd make sure. For an hour and a half, I had to never take my eyes off of him. I didn't think. And yet, in spite of all that, when it was over and we were walking home, he said, Dad, you didn't watch the whole game. And I said, what do you mean? He says, twice I kicked the ball and you weren't even looking.

thinking. We demand a love from each other that we can't give. We can't give each other the love in the degree of purity, the quality of purity that we need, in the quantity that we need. There are a lot of pop psychologists, John Bradshaw and a number of those people, who say that 95% of all United States families are dysfunctional. They cannot give their children the unconditional love they need. And the critics of those pop psychologists and other psychologists say how ridiculous that is from a biblical point of view, though. When I look at my kids, very often I say to myself, am I really any different? Or am I just a lot smarter at hiding it from other people and myself? Am I really any different? No. you know why the love that created the world is the furnace in which you were forged it was the consuming fire the eternal and infinite fire of the love of god the bible says that's where you were created and therefore because you were created in that kind of fire there is no other kind of love that can warm your heart there is no other kind of love that can melt and keep you soft. I submit that the love of God is the thing that you need. It's the fireplace that you've got to camp near or you're lost. His infinite eternal love is the only thing that you can have that you need. Otherwise you're shivering in the cold. This particular book of the Bible shows us three aspects of God's love in an amazing way. God, in this book, the prophecy of Hosea, he actually takes, God actually takes Hosea and turns Hosea into a living parable. And then from the parable, we learn at least three things about God's love that we actually have to understand and we have to incorporate and appropriate into our lives to even live. We'll spend all of our lives and maybe all of eternity shivering in the cold. now here's where the parable goes I read you two sections out of it that are probably hard to understand I would say is one of those books that unless you read the whole book and understand the whole book in the background of the whole book any one particular text or passage is incomprehensible here's why Hosea was called by God to be a prophet and to be called to be a prophet meant that you were being called into the role of being a communicator of the nature and character of God. And very often it says in the first verse of chapter one, which we didn't read, it says typically, and the word of the Lord came to Hosea. Now that's how God called Isaiah and Jeremiah and Obadiah and all of the various prophets. But there's a difference about this call. This is maybe the most stunning and startling of all the calls. God says, Hosea, I want you to be

go and marry a whore and get children by a whore. That's what it says in chapter 1, verse 2. See that? If you ever get a chance at some point to read the whole thing, right in the beginning, the word of the Lord came to Hosea. And the Lord began to speak through Hosea. And the Lord said to him, go, take to yourself an adulterous wife and children of unfaithfulness, because the land is guilty of adultery and departing from the Lord. And Hosea sat there, we think, and said, what?

Probably the first response, you want me to marry what? And this is what God is saying.

Hosea, you and I are both going to completely give our hearts and lives to people who will utterly reject us. And we are going to spend our money and our time and our heart and our energy in going after those people. I am a husband whose wife is unfaithful to him. I am a father whose children have rejected him and are now destroying themselves before his very eyes.

And unless you are part of that, unless you experience that too, you will never understand how my heart works. come in and understand this, you will be able to model and proclaim my love to the world. And here's how the story goes. We're told in chapter three, God takes him to a woman named Gomer of Deblayim. This is a woman who's like a city without walls. She's defenseless against her own passions. And as a result, she has continually been unfaithful to whoever she's And she's left an entire history behind her of broken hearts and people aggrieved and betrayed and bereft. And God takes Hosea to her when she's in this condition and says, marry her. And so he does. And she immediately begins to become unfaithful to him. She bears three children, but at least the last one isn't even his. is because he names the last child Lo-Ami, which means not mine.

It gets worse.

She leaves him. In chapter 2, we read this. In chapter 2, he says, their mother has played the harlot. She has said, I will go after my lovers who give me bread, water, wool, and flax, and did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, the oil, her silver, and her gold. This is an amazing picture too. Evidently, Gomer leaves and goes to live with a man who's abusive to her and goes to live with a man who is not providing for her at all. So she doesn't even have the basic necessities. Hosea's efforts at trying to bring her back, trying to have her leave, she does not respond to. She's not willing to admit the seriousness of her condition. So one day, Hosea himself comes to the door and knocks, and out comes the man. Hosea says, are you the man living with Gomer, the daughter of Deblime? He says, yes. Well, says Hosea, I'm her husband. The man immediately expects he's about to be hit. Instead, Hosea gives him some money. He says, for. I know you don't have the money. I don't want her to starve. Here, take this. And so, according to that verse, the man does, closes the door and says, what a fool, and uses that money to help and provide for her, and she doesn't even know where it's from. She assumes it's not from Hosea. She's forgotten him completely, and yet he is keeping her from death. Finally, we get to the place that we just read, chapter three. And what do we read there? thing. God comes to Hosea and says, go show your love to your wife again, though she is loved by another and is an adulteress. And so it says, I bought her for 15 shekels, a homer and a left deck of barley. Now a homer and a left deck of barley are nine bushels, which is another 15 shekels. And so basically she was bought for 30 shekels. What does this mean? All we know is this 30 shekels is how much it cost to buy a slave in Israel in those days. And that must mean that she had sunk down to the place where maybe her lovers were just sending her around. Maybe they were pimping for her. Finally, she comes into this situation. She is up for sale. She's in the marketplace. We know what a terrible thing that was. We know that she was probably standing there stripped naked because the people who were about to buy wanted to see what their merchandise looked like. and so at the very, very depth of degradation, at the very bottom of her life, at the time of her life in which she felt the most worthless and in the most despair, she sits there, she stands there, people begin to bid on her, and to her amazement, one of the voices is a familiar one. It's her husband's. Somebody says, 14 shekels. Hosea says, 15. Somebody says, 14 and six bushels 15 and 9 bushels of barley.

And he gets her. What does he do? We can tell from the text. He must have walked up, and instead of treating her as a slave, he covers her nakedness. He puts the veil on her. He gives her back her dignity as a woman, takes her by the hand and leads her away. Imagine what she's thinking. Imagine how she looks at him as he approaches her. Imagine her saying, how could he love me? He couldn't love me. He's bought me as a slave. He's now going to tyrannize me. He's going to get revenge, and yet he leads her to a place of privacy, and he turns to her and he says, I don't just want you as a slave. Do you see what he says? I don't even want you back in the house just to be back in the house. He says, if you come back, I want you to be my wife. I don't want you to sleep with other men, and I will not sleep with other women. We're not for sharing, Gomer.

You are not for sharing. We are to belong to each other exclusively. I want you to be my wife. And what does she do? We don't know. It ends. The story about Hosea and Gomer ends right there. We never know. Was she transformed? Was she melted by his love? Did she get changed? Did she become a city with walls? Did she get back her dignity and her self-control? Or did she laugh in his face? We don't know, and I'll tell you why in a minute, but not now. We never find out. Never. Now, how's that for a good story?

But in chapter 11, we pick up with the children, and we know that both, see, Hosea's household and God's household, Hosea's relationship with his wife and children and God's relationship with his people are running parallel. And so it's not surprising we find in chapter 11 that after all of this is going on, his children are quite the wrecks. They're messed up. We're told in chapter 11 how God looks at us. He says, Israel was my son. I called him out of Egypt. I taught him to walk. I drew him by the arms. And now he turns from me and he doesn't know who's incredible picture this is, God says, I found a little boy once in a foster home, and I brought him home, and I gave him everything, and I loved him, and I taught him how to walk, and when he was toddling along, I was there, and when he fell down and cried, I picked him up, and I held him, and I wiped his tears, and I gave him everything, and now he rejects me, and now my children turn away from me, and now they're going on to a destructive path, and they don't listen to and you get down to verse 8 of chapter 11 and suddenly we hear the most amazing noise in the Bible. God crying. He said, how can I give you up, Ephraim, which is the name of his son? How can I give you up? And then he says, my heart is changed within me. All my compassion is aroused. That word changed is one of the strongest words the guy could possibly use to describe his inner emotional state. This is God talking about his insides. The word change is a word in the Bible that's used to refer to the overthrow and the destruction of a city by an enemy. God says, I'm torn to pieces. God, I am torn to pieces. How can I give you up, O Ephraim? You remember Jesus looking at Jerusalem in Luke 13 and crying and saying, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem,

longed to gather your children together and like a hen, bring all your chicks underneath my wings. You who have stoned the prophets, you who have murdered those who have been sent to you, but now you were not willing and now they're hid from your eyes.

Here's God saying, I am all shattered inside. And he says, I can't give you up. And finally, what does he say in verse nine and 10? He says, I am not going to give you up. what I will do? He says, I will roar, but I won't roar in a way that destroys you. I will roar and you will be, you will come trembling and trembling is a good word in Hebrew. It means you will come melted. You will come softened. I will make you my lovers again. I will make you my children again. You will return to me. That's the parable. An amazing story. God says,

There's three things that we learn now from this parable that you have got to appropriate, you've got to understand about his love. His love is not just any kind of love. His love is not mere affection. It's not mere sentimentality. forged the worlds, and this is what it's like. Three things. Let's look at each one of them and just apply them briefly to our own lives and hearts. Number one, we learn the sophistication of his love. The sophistication of his love. Children don't understand an adult's love for them because children are simplistic. They're one-dimensional. When an adult loves a child, the love of that adult for the child is always too sophisticated for the child to understand, too multidimensional. Here's how a child looks at the way parents love him or her. Here's how a child does it. A child says, boy, they wouldn't pay a mere $80 for this game that I wanted to buy, and yet they go out and spend hundreds of dollars for a new refrigerator.

They always have enough money for what they want. And look at the privilege I got. Look at the privilege they give to my older sister. They won't give me anything like that. They've got the power. They've got the money. They've got the freedom. They lavish it on themselves and everybody else except me. They don't love me.

Their love, in other words, is too sophisticated for the child to understand. Why? Children can't understand adult love. First of all, because children don't have a horizon. Children live in the now. Adult love is too farsighted for them. For a child, you know, a summer is an eternity. They can't look down the line. They have no idea what they're going to be like later. They can't see what's really of value. They can't tell these things. Secondly, a child also has no real self-knowledge. A child does not understand his or her own limitations. They don't know that the freedom they want will choke them. They don't know that the freedom they want will drown them. But in general, a child just doesn't have the depth. A child doesn't understand nuances. The child doesn't understand balances, timing, values, none of these things. And therefore, an adult love is too sophisticated for a child to understand. Now, fortunately, through natural processes, children grow. And almost all of us who have reached normalcy have stopped being children psychologically. and we can laugh when we think of how angry we got because our parents wouldn't give us this or this, which now we look at was completely stupid and completely foolish and almost suicidal. We can laugh about it. There's a few of us that never outgrow psychological childhood,

and they end up in institutions.

The Bible says, however, that you will not, you do not outgrow spiritual childhood

Accept through the power of the spirit, revealing to you your childishness through the word of God. Spiritual childishness is something that every one of us deals with. Spiritual, a child sized view of God is one of our biggest problems. And it's one of the biggest problems you have today. God's love is too sophisticated for us. How do you look at things? How do you look at things right now? When you think about God and how he loves you, if somebody says to you right now, you know, God loves you. What do you say? Huh? He wouldn't do this and this, and he's got all the power. He did this for my sister. He did this for my brother. He did this for this and that person. They don't deserve it like I do. He's got all the power. He's got all the money. He's got all these things. He doesn't lavish them on other people and on himself. He doesn't love me.

His love is too sophisticated for you. See here, in this parable, this living parable, says, you will always be looking at it, at me, the way an immature, dysfunctional person looks at the only sane member of a family. That's the natural perspective that you have. When the Bible says repent and rejoice, do you know why he's saying repent and rejoice? The word repent in this context can be paraphrased. There's another way to say repent here. Grow up. What does it mean to repent see that you're a child see that you're looking at life childishly you can tell a child's growing up you can begin to give a child more privileges you can begin to see a child outgrowing childhood when only when they realize their children only when they begin to act like their children only when they begin to depend on you and realize that your love is more sophisticated than they can quite handle and they begin to trust you my dear friends until you begin to grow up I say this to myself, when God is not doing the right thing in my life that I think, when I begin to think he doesn't love me, the only thing I can possibly do to break through my alienation and my anger and my anxiety is to say to myself, grow up. You don't have the horizon God has. Grow up. You don't understand yourself like God does. He created you. Grow up. His love must be far more sophisticated than your ability to understand an even greater discrepancy between him and you. than there was between your parents and you when you were a child. Grow up. Repent or you'll never, ever, ever be able to handle life. You're always going to feel like a child. You're always going to be a child. A brooding, bitter child. I don't understand cooking. You know why? Here's eight ingredients. Every one of which, when I taste them, are unbelievably bitter. Now, it doesn't make much sense to imagine that you take eight ingredients and stick them into one pie or cake or something like that. You know, you would think that eight bitter things into one, you know, casserole would be eight times more bitter than any of the ingredients were. And, of course, when I try to cook them up, that's exactly what happens. but in those bitter ingredients under the wisdom of a good cook who doesn't put one ounce too much or too little of any ingredient, who doesn't heat the oven one degree too hot or too cold, who doesn't leave it in the oven one minute too long or one minute too short, when all those balances are struck, when all that wisdom is brought to bear on that set of bitter ingredients, out comes something that will just delight you.

God, the multidimensionality and the wisdom of his love is such that the bitter things that are happening to you in your life, he is preparing. He is working on them. He is mixing them together. You may not know how in the world could God be doing this and still love me. Grow up and realize that you're in the hands of the greatest culinary artiste there's ever been. He loves you. sophistication of his love, you're not going to be able to handle this world or the troubles of this life. Secondly, we also learn from here the involvement of his love, not just the sophistication, but the involvement he identifies with us. He makes himself vulnerable. When God says, my heart is overthrown, I am coming apart inside because of you, God says one of the most astonishing things right there that you can find anywhere in the Bible one of the most astonishing things anywhere

the reason that God had to make Hosea marry Gomer to understand God's love for us is this if you just try to befriend somebody like Gomer if you just try to befriend you know most of us in this room if we identified a Gomer type we wouldn't even want to befriend her How vulnerable that would make us. But if she's your friend, you know, if you've talked to her for three nights in a row until 2 a.m. about her troubles, and you've had all you can take, what do you do the fourth night? Just put your answering machine on. Her troubles are not yet really your troubles. Her problems are not really your problems. Her wounds are not really your wounds. But if you're married to her,

your heart is so bound up with her, so strongly, so closely, become your wounds. Her happiness becomes your happiness. Her despair becomes your despair. God says, unless you're married to a completely broken and messed up person, you will never, ever, ever understand what it's like for me to relate to you. Never. But what's amazing, this is a God who the Bible tells us has measured the universe with the breadth of his hand. This is a God that the Bible tells us that the planets are like specks of dust on the scales. And yet God has done something so that the brokenness of one tiny little creature here on earth, on this tiny little speck of dust, can go into the heart of God like a shaft. How could that be? I wouldn't dare to say it unless I had other theologians who have said the same thing. he sets his love on us and when he does that he has voluntarily bound up his joy with our joy or i'll put it another way god has so bound his hearts to us that he will not experience unmixed joy again until we stand before him pure and happy and joyful and glorious ourselves. His joy is bound up with our joy. He has become that vulnerable to us. He has identified himself with us to that degree. Now listen, if the little wheels in your brain are not overheating at this point, you still don't get it. At the end of the book of Jude, at the end of the book of Jude, there's this wonderful, wonderful benediction I like to use in the evening service sometimes. In it he says, Now to him who is able to keep you from falling and to present you before the glory of his presence without fault and with the greatest of joy. Whose joy? The grammar tells you it's God's. This book tells us, the Bible tells us, that God will not experience unmixed joy until the day that you are completely holy and happy. And on that day, he's going to present you glorious and perfect before his throne and before the universe. And the Bible tells us on that day, his joy and his laughter will rock the universe. And on that day, the prophet Zephaniah says he will rejoice over you with singing. That means on that day, he will sing a song over us that will be the greatest song that has ever, ever, ever been heard. it'll be a greater song than the song that the morning stars sang at the birth of time. It's the song that everybody in this room wants and reaches out for in every song. Every fiber of your being, whether you know it or not, needs that song. Every musician has ever composed a song. Every singer has ever sung a song. Whether you know it or not, you're reaching out and you're trying to hear it, but you won't until that day. you will never be whole until those notes fall into your heart and the beauty of that thing sinks on you and into you and the joy of God rocks the universe around you because he has bound up his joy with yours.

Apply this. If this is true, how does this change us? This is another truth you've got to appropriate. Number one, there is no way to relate to this God without making yourself completely vulnerable to him. You can look at other religious commodities on the market. Go to some other new age religion derivative and you'll see that they'll say, well, you need to do this. You need this meditation technique and you need to cleanse yourself and you need to do all these things. But they're never going to say, come to God and submit to him completely. Obey him utterly and unconditionally. yourself totally vulnerable, take your hands off your life, you're no longer in charge. That's what God says. That's what the Bible says. Why? How can you come to grips with someone who has made himself vulnerable to you and has bound up his pleasure with your pleasure without you making yourself completely vulnerable to him and binding up your pleasure with his? To be a Christian is not to say, I'm trying to be a better person. To be a Christian is to say, I have a new prime directive for my life. Lord, what gives you delight now gives me delight. What gives you pleasure is my deepest passion. I'm reorienting everything around my life, everything in my life, my attitudes, my model, my goals, the way in which I behave, everything for you. Why? Because I see what you've done for me. Friends, there is no way to come to grips with this God without complete commitment and making yourself a living sacrifice. But secondly, there is no way, there is no way for you to be like God without maintaining vulnerability to other people. This teaches us that it is intrinsic to the act of loving to make yourself vulnerable. When you've been hurt, and I know plenty of you have been hurt, If you didn't come to New York because you're hurt, you came to New York and got hurt. And because you're hurt, here's what your tenancy is going to be. Let the hurt make you wise, not hard. I see people who come to this church because they've been hurt by other churches. They won't commit to this one. I see people getting into relationships because they've been hurt in other relationships. They won't commit there. To commit means to make yourself vulnerable, to open yourself up, to make it possible to be disappointed, to love somebody who's flawed.

and you don't want to do that, then you are moving away from the furnace that forged you because the love of God is a vulnerable love. It has to be.

Don't you see, let your hurt make you wise so you're not as foolish as you used to be, so you can discern these things, but don't let it make you hard.

The only alternative to vulnerability is the damnation, of hardness, the damnation of isolation. You must allow yourself to love people who are flawed. You must open yourself up. You must be willing to commit. Well, how, somebody says? Well, finally, this way. By looking at the third of these three things, we've seen the sophistication of his love. We've also seen, secondly, the involvement of his love. But lastly, we also see the costliness of his love. God shows that in a family like this, there are two inexpensive ways to love and one costly way. The two inexpensive ways are pretty simple. One is you can just support the person and compromise the truth. You can just sit there and say, well, Gomer, this is how you authenticate yourself. I just want to be supportive of you. I certainly... In other words, what you do is you just show a kind of mere affection and support and acceptance, compromising the truth and ultimately compromising your real concern for that person. The other inexpensive way to go is just to quit, just reject, condemn. I've had it. I'm not going to pray for you. I'm not going to care about you. That's it. Both of those are fairly cheap. to reject or to completely accept. But instead, what does God have to do? What does God have to do? He says, I've got to melt you. I've got to transform you. And how does he do that? How does he have Hosea do it? By neither quitting nor compromising. But even omnipotence has to love someone in a costly way to get the real goal, which is the restoration of the lover as lover. Omnipotence, you know, you could just, God could have just, Hosea could have just exercised his power and then you have a slave for a wife and then you have slaves for children. Or he could have just let them go and just rejected them. Instead, the costly way is the way that God shows. Because in verse two, when it says, chapter 3, and he bought her. You know what's in there, don't you? Jesus in the garden, wrestling on the ground, saying, Father, if it's possible,

let this cup pass from me. Father, is there any other way we can love these people? Is there any other way than the cross? Is there any other way than this unbelievable cost? Is there any other way? And the father says, no, we could reject them. We could just say, good riddance. We could just sort of accept them and just not worry about the law or justice, and then they'll be destroyed. Either way, they're destroyed. This is the only way to go.

And when Hosea buys her and then leads her away and says, I don't want you to be a slave. I want I want you to be my wife. We're not for sharing.

The New Testament tells us, as Paul says, you're not your own. You're bought with a price. And Jesus says, I do not call you my servants. Remember in John 15? I don't call you servants. I call you my friends. You did not choose me. I chose you. No greater love has a friend than this, to lay down his life. That's how he bought you. you. Application, final applications right here. If you are in relationships like this now with people as messed up as Gomer and Ephraim, if you're in a family like that, I tell you there's two cheap ways to go. You can either reject the person or else you can never, ever, ever bring up the truth. Both of them are easier. Both of them. If you live the costly way, if you're willing to engage people and be loving and be kind, but not compromise the truth and tell the truth, which is so much harder. If you get into those relationships and do that, what's going to happen? Will they always melt? Will they always come trembling from the West? Will they always be transformed? No. And I think that's the reason why God doesn't let you know what happens to Gomer. You know why? Because if the story ended with Gomer jumping into Hosea's arms, we could that I love in that costly way, that's what's going to happen. Or if Gohmert leaves, everybody would say, well, see, what's the use? Instead, we don't know. Why? It's not your business. I tell you this. If you love as Hosea loved, if you love as God loved, if you love in the costly way, you'll be a prophet. Nobody will probably write a book about you, but in some way, you will do what Hosea did. You'll witness, you'll show the love of God to the world. You'll make an impact. I don't know how, but you will. So follow him. But last of all, just realize, if this is what he's done for you, see yourself. You see, somebody says, how can I love like that? Here's how you love like that. Just remember, that was you up there, naked. That was you up there that he put clothing on. That was you up there that he led away. That was you up there who, when he had you by the throat, turned around and said, I'm not going to call you a servant.

I want you to be my friend. I want you to be my mate. I want you to be, I want us to be family. And you see, the more you let that sink into your heart, the greater your heart will be. That is the love that forged you at the foundation of the world. And that is the love that will turn you into a great heart. If there's anybody here who says, you know, I don't know if I can even believe in the God here telling me to give my life to him completely. I don't feel the need for God. need for God. I don't. You know what I say to you? Just as Hosea, while she was running from him, kept Gomer from starving. I tell you right now that the energy and the vitality and even the intelligence that you are using to question him and complain against God and disobey him is coming from God himself. Don't you know he's healed you? Don't you know he's the one that taught you to walk, don't you realize what you're doing to him? Do you want to keep putting him through this? I don't care whether you feel the need or not. You owe it to go to him and say, I don't even know if you're there, but open my eyes because if you're there, I don't want to do this to you. Love him. Christian friends, love him. Remembering the sophistication, remembering the involvement. You remember the sophistication, you'll trust in suffering. You remember the involvement, you'll be able to handle worry. You remember the costliness, be changed. Love him or you'll over love something else. Something that's nowhere near as great as your soul is. Something that could never warm your soul. Love him or be cold and freezing forever. Love him and come into his warmth and his life and his song. Let's pray. Father, as we listen to your music. We pray that you would help everybody in this room to see what it will mean for them personally to come and make themselves vulnerable to you and to receive your love so that they can, like Hosea, become witnesses and models of it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.