Read in your bulletins with me. We're taking a look at John chapter 6, verse 16 to 24, a passage on which the teaching is based this morning. John 6, 16 to 24.

When evening came, his disciples went down to the lake, where they got into a boat and set off across the lake for Capernaum. By now it was dark, and Jesus had not yet joined them. A strong wind was blowing, and the waters grew rough. And when they had rowed three or three and a half miles, they saw Jesus approaching the boat, walking on the water, and they were terrified. But he said to them, It is I. Don't be afraid. Then they were willing to take him into the boat, and immediately the boat reached the shore where they were heading. The next day, the crowd that had stayed on the opposite shore of the lake realized that only one boat had been there, and that Jesus had not entered it with his disciples, but that they had gone away alone. Then some boats from Tiberias landed near the place where the people had eaten the bread after the Lord had given thanks. Once the crowd realized that neither Jesus nor his disciples were there, they got into the boats and went to Capernaum in search of Jesus. This is God's word. Word. What we're doing every week is we're looking at basic vocabulary words of faith and spirituality. You can't get around in any field, including the area of faith and spirituality, unless you understand basic vocabulary. And we've been every week taking a word out of the Apostles' Creed, that earliest summary of Christian faith, and going to the Book of John to get a definition. And if you go through the Apostles' Creed, you know we eventually get to the place called our Lord. Jesus Christ is only Son, our Lord. Now, the word Lord is used all the time. People always talk about the Lord. I prayed to the Lord. I know the Lord. He is the Lord. And it seems like a, this is a great example because it seems like a word that everybody knows. It's commonly used, excuse me, right here, Jesus is called Lord in this passage. And yet, you know, in 1 Corinthians 12, verse 8, St. Paul says, None can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. None can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. Now, that can't mean that without the Holy Spirit, you can't pass air through your vocal cords and actually enunciate the words Jesus is Lord. Lord. What it must mean is that though everybody thinks they know what it means to call him Lord, the meaning of Lord, uh, to base your, to understand it, to base your life on it, to really grasp what it means to call him Lord, obviously is a very profound thing. And actually we're going to learn by looking at this passage, what does it mean to really say he's Lord? What does it mean? It's very profound. What does it mean? What does the, what's the word would mean. And by the way, it's not at all a bad idea at Christmas time. You might say, what kind of Christmas passage is this? We're singing Hark the Herald Angels Sing. We're singing Little Town of Bethlehem. This isn't a Christmas passage. But you know, look, the idea at Christmas that God sent his son, little baby, manger, coo, goo, goo. You know, it's a little baby squiggling around. It's so sweet. God's vulnerability. God's accessibility. But the idea that a kind of vague grandfatherly God sent his son to be a little baby, that will warm your heart, but it will never change your heart unless you see who actually came. The idea is astounding and is life-transforming to think that the Lord of heaven and earth, the great, the magnificent, magnificent, a God of a figure of terrifying power, terrifying, holy, overwhelming magnificence became a little baby. That will transform your heart. You see, if you don't see the terrifying side of Jesus, Christmas will warm your heart, but it won't transform your heart. So what does this passage tell us? It means when we say he's Lord. Okay, first thing, first thing we see is He's sovereign Lord. Look at verse 19. When they rode three and a half miles, they saw Jesus approaching the boat, walking on the water. They saw him approaching the boat, walking on the water. Now, one thing you have to realize is he's not simply walking on water. He's walking through a storm. The ancients understood that the sea in general, but the stormy sea in particular, was a symbol of the fact that life and the world were filled with uncontrollable powers, powers beyond our A, control, and B, comprehension. You see, you walk along on the land, and once every so many centuries, an earthquake will open up under your feet. But on land, that happens, you know, very occasionally. occasionally, but at sea, that happens constantly. Because whenever a storm comes up, suddenly the waves can come up quickly, and the currents can come up, and all of a sudden you're sunk. And you see, the waves mean that the sea represents a far more uncontrollable kind of existence. You see, sea travel is a much, much more fragile, much more difficult and dangerous thing than land travel. But not only that, on land, when you're walking on land and something's coming at you to bite you. You can see it. You know, you can see it at least, you know, maybe, you know, depends of course on the terrain and all that. But you see it coming. If something's going to come to bite you. But darkness is upon the face of the deep. Darkness is always upon the face of the deep. When something's coming up to chop you, you don't feel it till the very last minute in the ocean. And so what the ancients understood, and this is true of almost all ancient And, of course, we can relate to this very quickly. The sea in general, and the stormy sea in particular, represents the fact that life is filled with terrifying, incomprehensible forces that can suddenly sweep you up. It can suddenly sweep you away or sink you. It can suddenly bite you. And what you have here is Jesus Christ not just walking on the water, but walking through the storm. Notice he's not slogging through the water. he's strolling, he's walking along, and his absolute power over all the forces of destruction and all the forces of death and all the forces of devastation that the stormy sea represents. Very, very important to see. In fact, if you put this together with the other story we know, we know there's another time in which Jesus was in a storm and he just snaps his fingers virtually. He gets up and he says, peace, be still, which is really essentially saying, be quiet and stay quiet. And he's not Charlton Heston. He's not, you know, like at Moses, you know, the Red Sea. He's not saying, stand back. He's not rolling up his sleeves. He's not stretching out his rod. He's not saying, be hold. No, he says, shut up.

The storm stops. In this case, he's strolling. He shows absolute power. over all the forces of devastation and darkness. That's what he shows. Now, do you understand this? Before we move on, what he's saying is, Jesus Christ as Lord means he has absolute power. It means he is completely sovereign over everything. It means there's nothing that he can't handle. It means there's nothing out of control. Now, and let me just suggest, let me apply this practically to a couple kinds of people. If you're here today, for example, feel like, well, I'm not sure why you're here. There's a lot of reasons a person can show up at Redeemer and not be all that interested in Christ, or at least certainly not be all that interested in making him the very center and Lord of your life. But if you're not, here's probably why. You think that life is a walk instead of a sea voyage, and you think your heart is a garden plot rather than an incomprehensible deep. But here's what happens. Maybe so far you're happy, and maybe are going along pretty well in your life, things are pretty good. And you see other people whose life, you know, have kind of fallen apart. And what you're assuming is either they're incompetent, they're not savvy, you're thinking there's something wrong with them, there was this lack of wisdom or a lack of guts or a lack of discipline or something. No. The Bible says, in fact, almost all ancient cultures understood this. What basically happens is you may think, you may think things are pretty successful and all of a sudden up will come a storm. And all of your achievements, all of your success, your money, everything is just swept away by forces beyond your control, beyond your comprehension. Or you may think you know your own heart. Or you may think you know your spouse's heart. Or you may think you know your friend's heart. But there's deep, dark, slimy things down there. Things will suddenly come up and chomp you. It's not things that will suddenly come up and bite you. there's darkness on the face of the deep. And you're not in control of your life. And if you think that you're going to be able to just go across the lake, if you think you're going to be able to get through life without him in the center of the boat, here's the warning. You've got a rude awakening coming. On the other hand, there's some people here surely right now who would say, my life is filled with a storm. I know exactly what you're talking about. I really feel out of control. I feel I don't know which way to go. You know, we have a term for this. We call it, I'm at sea. When we say I'm at sea, what we mean is I'm out of control or I'm confused or both. But this is a text that basically says it doesn't matter how deep the deeps, it doesn't matter how high the waves, it doesn't matter how strong the wind, Jesus Christ is a match for it. In fact, how ridiculous to even say he's a match for it. In the middle of your life, Jesus Christ gets you through anything. Okay? He's sovereign. He's got that kind of power. But, oh, we don't stop there. there. He's almost a magician at this point if we stop there. Here is Jesus Christ. Look at this power, walking on the water, walking through the storm, absolute sovereign over all devastation, all death, all destruction. And so, of course, you want him in your boat. But wait a minute. That's not all. To call him Lord means he's sovereign. Secondly, he's not just sovereign Lord, but secondly, he's the ultimate Lord. Now, take a look here. You move on down into verse 20, and it says, but he said to them, it is I. Now, what he says there is far more amazing than what he's just done. You think it's amazing to see him just strolling along through the storm, over the storm, you know. He's Lord of the storm. He's enthroned over the flood. You know, that's amazing. No. What he says is more amazing than what he does. Now, it says, it is I. And, you know, let's pity the poor translators. that Jesus says, that if you just translated it word for word, would make the poor reader scratch his head or her head. But you see, what he actually says literally is, I am. Now you see, the reason the translator can't say that, he says, ego, a me. He says, I am. And the reason the translator can put that down is you're reading that and saying, Now, what kind of nonsense is that? Jesus Christ comes and says, I am. Well, of course he is. I mean, there he is. Why would he say such a thing? Jesus Christ, when he says, I am, is he's giving the divine name as his name. This is what God said to Moses in the burning bush, Exodus 3, 14. When he was trying to open up to Moses the deepest secret of his identity, when God was giving us the deepest name that looks into his deity and his godness? He said to Moses, I am. Why would he say I am? It's so profound. The more you reflect on it, when God says I am, first of all, he means, he says, I was has no meaning to me because I have no beginning. I will be has no meaning to me because I will never change. You can never say God will be something. To will be means I'm going to change. The other than I am now. But you see, when God says, I am, he's not only saying, I have no beginning, but he's also saying, I'm perfect. I have no, I will not change. But really when he says, I am, he means, I am just because I am. You can't say that. I can't say that. No one can say that. When he says, I am just because I am. I am not because of anything. I am my own cause. I am my own condition.

I don't exist because. I'm the cause for all existence. See, I don't just exist because of something, but rather everything exists because of me. And therefore, when God says, I am, he's making an enormous claim. It's an incredible claim. But when Jesus Christ says, I am, do you realize what he's doing? Listen, over the years, there have been many people, many figures, who have claimed deity or divinity. That's not so weird. We have them today. We've always had them that said, I am God, in some way. But look how they define God, and then you'll see something about how they are making their claim. See, some people would say, well, God is that little spark. God is the sacred in all of us. Some other people would say, well, God is the life force in all things. Some other people would say God is just the power of good in the world, which is always opposed to the power of evil. And therefore, you see, if you have those beliefs in God, those definitions of God, then when someone says, you know, I am God or I am deity or I am divine, it's not so weird. But Jesus Christ has given here, he gives us the most indigestible claim in the history of the world. Indigestible, unpalatable. It is the claim using the definition of God that is the most difficult for human beings to get a hold of. You see, when he uses the I Am, the divine I Am, what he's saying, first of all, he's saying, I'm the personal God. I'm not just a vague aura. And he's saying, I'm the transcendent God. I created the world. I existed before the world. I'm not just a life force in all things. And he's also saying, I'm the absolute omnipotent God. I am not just a kind of force of good opposed to the force of evil. But I'm the one who created everything. I'm the one who's sustaining everything. I'm the one holding everything together. other. I am. I, flesh and blood human being, am also that. So Jesus Christ is demanding that we not just see him, get this, as a power. He's not even, see this is the reason why this supplements the first point so importantly. Why can he walk around like this in the storm? Why is he not rolling up his sleeves to calm the storm? Why isn't he slogging through the storm? Why does he act like this? Here's the reason why. He's not just a source of great power. He's not just the source of the greatest source of power. He's the source of all power. All power in the world is only on loan from him. See, he is not just simply saying, I am sovereign. He's saying, saying, I am the ultimate. I'm God himself. All power is on loan for me. I don't just have being and power. I am being and power. I don't just have existence. I am existence. Everything that has being, everything that has power, everything that has existence is dependent on me at this very second. So, it's a claim of not just I'm powerful. Let me into your life and I'll help you. But I am the ultimate Lord. Bring me into your life as your preeminent authority. Now, before we move on, let's be practical about this one. Jesus' claim here, to say Jesus is Lord, is not just to say, he's got power and he comes into my life to help me, but rather he's got ultimate authority, and when he comes into my life, he has to be the center of my life. He is the preeminent thing. It doesn't matter what else I want to do. It doesn't matter what other things I love. Loving him, obeying him, following him, has absolute unconditional, unconditional authority on my life. Jesus Christ's claim here, therefore, pushes us into extremes.

Jesus Christ's claim here means that intellectually and personally, if you're trying to look at him, it creates an all-or-nothing situation. First of all, it creates an all-or-nothing situation intellectually, and then secondly, personally. I'll do this briefly, but it's very important to see. First of all, what do I mean it's an all-or-nothing situation intellectually? Well, just this. You cannot, with any intellectual integrity, accept anything he says without also accepting what he says about himself. If you reject the idea that he is God and that he is absolute Lord and authority over your life, then you cannot accept anything else he says with any intellectual integrity. Do you see? Now, why am I pushing that? Because the average person in this culture does not want to say, Everything Jesus said and everything Jesus did is trash. Everybody loves the things he says. His teaching is unparalleled. Look at the Sermon on the Mount. His deeds of love and mercy are unparalleled. People just can't get enough of the stories of what Jesus does and the teaching of Jesus. But what the average person in New York says, oh, I like a lot about Jesus. I like his teaching. But I can't accept the idea that he's God. Now, here's what I'm trying to show you. That has no intellectual integrity. Because everything he does and everything he said is interlaced with this unbelievably self-centered teaching. I have no problem calling it self-centered. Jesus Christ claims to be judge of heaven and earth. I'm not going to show you all these places, but believe me, Jesus Christ claims to be the creator of heaven and earth. Jesus Christ says every sin that anyone does to anyone is against him. Jesus Christ said, I'm older than Satan. I saw Satan fall from heaven. And these claims are all interlaced. Look, he doesn't just walk on water. He claims the divine name. You never have anything he does or anything he teaches all by itself. It's always interlaced with these enormous claims about himself. And therefore you cannot say, I like this that he says, I like this... But I can't believe that he's God. You have no intellectual justification for rejecting what he says about himself and accepting anything else he says. In fact, I could press this, but I'll just take 30 seconds. It's not just his self-centered claims run parallel to all of his other teaching, but rather his self-centered claims are the very basis for everything else he says and does. When Jesus Christ says, here's forgiveness, oh, we love that, but it's based on the idea that he's the authority that can do that. You can't forgive someone unless the sin is against you. You, where are you going to ever get an absolutely clean slate? You've sinned against mommy and daddy and sister and brother and boss and friend and lover and spouse and children. You've sinned against all these people. Where are you going to go to get a clean slate? Unless there's one person who in every sin you've sinned against. You see, if Jesus Christ is Lord of heaven and earth, if he's creator, God is your creator. If he's the one who has, who basically made you into whom you owe everything, then every sin against every person is a sin against their creator. And every sin against your own heart is a sin against your creator. And the only place you can ever possibly go to get a clean slate, the only place you'll ever be able to go in one spot and get complete freedom from guilt is if he is who he said he is. Now, you read all these wonderful things that And Jesus says, I forgive you. You know, there's forgiveness in God. Forgiveness, come to me. We like that. But don't you see, all that wonderful offer is based on who he says he is. I'll give you another quick one. Look at his death on the cross. How does that make you feel?

You know, see, the point is, if he's not, if he's just a nice guy, if he's even a great guy, if he's a wonderful teacher, that's not just a tragedy. That's disgusting. How dare God abandon him? God do that to him. Or if you say, well, God didn't do that to him. He did this as an example of sacrificial love. Oh, then he's a masochist. It's a suicide, don't you see? But if he's God, if he is, as the hymn says, the royal guest you entertain is not of common birth, but second in the great I am, the Lord of heaven and earth. If that's who he is, then this is a voluntary sacrificial death, and it's something completely else. Don't you see that? If he's not who he says he is, the cross is an embarrassment, and the cross is meaningless. If he isn't who he says he is, all of his teaching is meaningless. All of his offers are meaningless. It's all or nothing intellectually. You cannot intellectually justify rejecting the idea that he is absolute sovereign of the universe and accept anything else he says. But you know what that means then? And secondly, personally, it means he can't be on the periphery of your life. He can't be something or someone you go to occasionally. He's either the center of your life or he shouldn't be there at all. He's either an idiot or he's a lunatic or he should be the center of your life. Now, you know, many people have said that, but nobody said it nearly, nearly as graphically as Flannery O'Connor. If you've ever read her short story, A good man is hard to find. Ever read that short story? The central character of the story is a killer, a misfit, they call him. And he's shooting people and he's blowing people away. And then he explains why. And this is what he says. Jesus. He says, Jesus has thrown everything off balance. If he did what he said, then there's nothing to do but throw away everything and follow him.

Now, did you hear this? You take up with Flannery O'Connor. Not with me. She says, Why is he a killer? He sat down and said, Jesus has thrown everything off balance. Now, what that means is there's no moderation. There's no walking the fence. Balance. He says, forget balance. Jesus has thrown everything off balance. Jesus says, balance is over. If he is who he says he is, then there's nothing to do but throw away everything and follow him. If he didn't, then who's to say what's right and wrong? Who's to say what's goodness? Who's to say what's justice? That's Flannery O'Connor. What she's simply saying is this. There's no half ways with him because of the enormity of his claims. So he's not just sovereign, Lord. He's not just a powerful one who comes into your life to help you. He is ultimate, Lord. which means he's the final authority and he comes into your life to have preeminence. Well, you say, you know, we could, well, you know, I suppose you could end the sermon right here and some of you would just as soon.

But that's not the way it works. In practicality, this is what really goes on in your life. I know this. Storms come up. Things that you didn't think would ever happen begin to happen to you and you start to feel helpless. and you start to realize that your life and your heart is not something that you're competent to navigate in. And you start to recognize, you start to fear and you start to realize, I'm stuck in this storm. And then what the natural thing to do is, is to say, well, maybe I need God. So you look to God or you look to Jesus or you start to study your Bible, you start to come to Redeemer, you know, you start doing something. And then when you start to say, you start to see who he is, do you say, great, now I'm going to become a Christian. a problem. Look, the third thing we see is he is not simply a powerful Lord and not simply, you know, the supreme divine authority, but there's something else. He's the holy Lord. Look carefully and you'll see what happens. It says, verse 19, they rode three or three and a half miles. They saw Jesus approaching the boat, walking on the water, and implication, then they were terrified. They weren't that scared before Jesus showed up. Now, it doesn't mean that they didn't realize they were in danger. I mean, you know, there's Mark chapter 6 and Matthew chapter 14 tell the same story. And there was danger. But don't forget, the disciples had a number of people, fishermen, who were on the Sea of Galilee all the time. And the Sea of Galilee is notorious for its storms. And so there were people in that boat who had seen this before.

They realize it was real danger. It's not until Jesus shows up that they're terrified.

Why? Why when they saw him coming didn't they say, great, now we're going to make it. Here he comes. No. Why were they terrified? Well, you think about it. They're terrified because they realized they were in the presence of something wholly other. You see, when Moses met God in the burning bush, God said, I am. And he hit the deck. because the holiness of God was revealed to him. And now, just as the holiness was revealed to Moses in the fury of the fire, so the holiness of Jesus is revealed to the disciples in the fury of the water. Now, what is holiness? I already gave you the idea, actually. Holiness means the aspect of Jesus, the aspect in which we see that he is wholly other. He's above and beyond us. See, when you come near the holy, you don't just notice that, gee, he's bigger than me. The contrast, his greatness is so great that you actually feel almost like you don't exist. And you see his purity. You don't just say, wow, he's better than me. He's more good than me. Oh, no. His purity is so much greater that you feel like you're lost. Do you feel like you're ruined? Now, Rudolf Otto, many years ago, actually the turn of the last century, wrote a book called The Idea of the Holy. Rudolf Otto, I don't think, was a Christian. But anyway, he didn't write as a Christian. He wrote as an anthropologist and a sociologist. And what he did was he went and he just studied human beings in all the religions, and he came up with an amazing fact. He came up with what he considered the deep ambivalence of people to the holy, to God, to the presence of the supernatural. He found that when men and women got into a place where they started to experience the presence of the supernatural, they felt on the one hand attracted and on the other hand repelled. He called it numinous awe, deep ambivalence. Why is that? Well, the Bible says it's very simple. There's one layer of our soul and when God created us, we needed his glory. We needed his greatness. significant unless we're in relationship with that greatness and glory. But on the other hand, we have laid down a second layer to our soul because we want to be our own lords and master, right? We want to be in control. And what that means is when you come close to God and we are deeply committed, this is what sin is, we're deeply committed to the idea that though God may be there, we don't absolutely need him every second. In other words, though God may be better than we are, lost sinners that need to live by grace alone. And even though God may be more powerful, we're not people that absolutely need to depend on him every second. When we get close to God, we begin to realize the way we've been living is wrong, and therefore we're traumatized by the holy. We're traumatized. And what's ironic is there's a greater storm in the heart of the disciples than there is out on the sea. They feel more in peril before Jesus than they did before the storm. Why? Well, Well, storms, listen, what makes storms? If you watch the Weather Channel, you would know. Storms happen when opposites collide. Cold, dry air, warm, moist air. High, low. And Rudolph Otto understood this, and the Bible does too. We desperately need the glory of God, yet we desperately need to control our own lives. And what happens in the world is when storms come along, that begin to show us that we really need God. When we start to get near God, when we start to get near Jesus, just start reading about who he is. Just reading about it. A storm happens inside. We get traumatized. And we say, either... Let me give you several forms of it. Some of you listening to this sermon are offended. You say, well, I believe I need God, but this idea of sin and being lost and being condemned, that's old and primitive. See, as soon as you start getting close to the real God, the depiction of the real God. You're offended. Some of you might read the Bible and start reading about Jesus and you see how perfectly loving he is and totally humble and absolutely courageous. And you read him and you know what? You start to sink. Why? You're sinking. Why? Because you say, I've got to be like Jesus. But you never live up to it. When you start to get near the real God, there's a storm inside worse than the storm outside. And that storm inside is a storm of guilt, despair, feeling like I'm never going to make it. A feeling like I won't never be good enough or maybe just a terror at even the claim that you're a lost sinner or anger at it or being offended. But a storm happens on the inside. How do you get through it? Here's the answer. Jesus is not just sovereign Lord and he's not just ultimate Lord and he's not just a holy Lord. The fourth thing we learn here is he's something else besides Lord. If he was only a Lord and nothing else, we're all dead.

Jesus comes and says, look and see what he actually says. It is I. I am. Don't be afraid. Now, what he actually says in the Greek there are four words. When he comes in, this is all he says. I am no fear. Now, that should immediately shock us. Because in the Old Testament, whenever God shows up and says, I am, he doesn't say no fear. In the Old Testament, he shows up in the burning bush. He says, I am. Get your shoes off. I am. I'm coming down on Mount Sinai. Don't anybody touch that mountain? Because I'm holy and you're sinful, and you will be destroyed. And here's Jesus Christ. Now, look carefully. He doesn't just say, I am no fear, which is exactly the opposite of what God says in the Old Testament. But the implication is, I am therefore, isn't it? Didn't you read it in there yourself? Therefore, don't be afraid. amazing. Jesus Christ is saying, my holiness, instead of being a threat to you, which is what you feel, is not. My holiness, it is possible for the white heat of my utter purity to be an assurance rather than a searing pain and a horrible threat. How could that be? Here's the answer. Does Jesus Christ walked through every storm? Oh, absolutely not. You say, well, I don't remember any storm that he didn't. There is one. Several times Jesus Christ likens himself to a figure in the Old Testament. Jesus knew the scripture like nobody's business. I mean, you cut Jesus, he bled scripture. At every moment he had scripture on his mind. And two or three times he says, he says, a couple times he says to people, several times he says, he says, they repented at the preaching of Jonah,

You know what he's saying? When Jesus Christ was on the cross, almost for sure, he was thinking of that great psalm that Jonah cried out, in the belly of the fish. Why was Jonah in the fish? A storm of God's wrath for his disobedience had come to him, and he was thrown into the water. And when he was down in there in the belly of the fish,

He said, I am cast out of thy sight. All thy waves and thy billows have gone over me. And when Jesus Christ was on the cross, he was certainly thinking about this. And what he was saying when he said, a greater than Jonah is there is this. He says, there's one storm in which I do sink. There's one storm in which the waves and the billows go over me. I won't walk over them.

Because you see, I'm going under the only storm that can really kill you. The storm of justice. The storm of punishment for sin. The storm of eternal justice. I'm going under those waves. I'm going under those billows. I'm going to be really cast out. And it's because I sank in the only storm that can really kill you that you're going to be able to walk through with me every other storm that ever strikes you. See, in other words, Jesus Christ is not only a Lord. He's a Savior. He's a substitute. every other founder comes and says do this and you will live. But Jesus Christ came and actually lived the life we should have lived and died the death we should have died. And here's what's so interesting. Here's how you know you understand the gospel. Here's how you know that you're not just a religious person. You're not just a good person. But you really understand what Jesus Christ says. It means to make him your Savior and Lord. The holiness of God is your comfort now.

Now this takes another sermon right here. dare I even bring this up at the end. But here it is. Jonathan Edwards says, in one of his great books, he says, one of the ways you can tell the difference between a Christian and a Pharisee, a Christian and just a religious striving person. Everybody likes the power of God. Because the power of God is the benefit. I want the power of God. I need, I'm weak. The mercy of God, everybody wants. I make mistakes. I need forgiveness. The wisdom of God, I need. Oh, I'm so confused. I need your wisdom. The holiness of God. I don't need that. Because if the holiness and immediately makes me feel unwise, stupid, wrong, guilty, condemned. Unless, Edwards says, the way you know you understand the gospel is the holiness of God is a comfort. Why? Do you understand Jesus is not just your example you're supposed to live up to, but your substitute who died for you? He went under the storm for you? Do you understand that when Jesus Christ died, he paid for your sins so that when he becomes your savior, that means all your sins are paid for? What does that mean? In 1 John 1, verse 8, the gospel writer John says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us of all unrighteousness. Look what he says. He doesn't just say he's faithful and merciful to forgive us our sins. He says for God to fail to forgive you, if you're a believer in Jesus, is not unmerciful only, I guess it would be. It's unholy. God is so holy that now he has to receive us. Why? Because if Jesus Christ, by going under the water, paid for your sin, then you can never pay. That would be getting two payments, which means the holiness of God, not just the mercy of God, is for you. It is I. He says, I am the Holy One. Therefore, you have nothing to fear. Not I'm merciful, I'm okay. In other words, he doesn't come and say, you know what, I overlook these things. You make mistakes. make mistakes. To err is human. Whoops. But I forgive you. No, what he comes is, I am the Holy One, and because I'm the Holy One, you're saved. I died on the cross to completely satisfy justice.

And the way you know that you have finally understood that is that when he shows up with his holiness, you let him get in the boat. You don't say, depart from me. You begin to find his holiness to be actually a comfort. Do you get that? Are you that sure of his love? Do you understand that he sunk in the great storm so that we can walk through every other storm? And we will walk through every other storm. What you do is, if you're in a storm right now, you look at it and you say, how do I know he's with me? My goodness, what you say is, if he refused to abandon me in the only storm that can really kill me, if he went under for me, all those real waves, all those real of, then he's not going to abandon me now. And if you think he will abandon you because you haven't been living very well or you haven't worked well and you're going to clean up your life and you're going to read the Bible and now maybe for sure he'll listen to me, you don't get the gospel yet. And I'm here to say, please relax in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Conclusion. If you're not sure you're a Christian or if you'd like to know how to become a Christian, and here it is. Number one, realize that you are no more able to satisfy the standards of goodness and the righteousness of the Ten Commandments than they were able to row to the other side of the lake. Realize that by asking Jesus into your boat, into your life, is really a way of saying what? Not, well, now help me to live a better life. Look carefully. What happened when he got in the boat? What does it say that happened? And it says, and they were, did it say the wind died? No. And they Then they were willing to take him into the boat. And you know what the word is there? The miracle's not over. It says, and instantly they were at the shore. That's what it says. And see, to become a Christian means not Jesus gets in the boat and helps you to live a better life, but it means immediately you're accepted.

Don't be afraid of that. Don't be afraid of letting him in. He'll take you to a shore that you can't imagine. If you're a Christian and you say, I'm in a lot of trouble right now, Remember this. His love in time past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. By prayer let me wrestle. Then he will perform. With Christ in the vessel, I smile at the storm. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would help us to see that your Son is sovereign Lord and ultimate Lord and a holy Lord. But all that does not crush us more than a Lord. He's a Savior. We pray that you would show us how to really make him central to our lives, but help us to also see why that will not crush us, why that will not sink us under the weight of great burdens. Help us to see that ultimately to recognize his claims is to finally relax, is to finally realize that we're safe. And we pray that you would help us to take these transforming realities into our lives. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. What he comes is, I am the Holy One, and because I'm the Holy One, you're saved. I died on the cross to completely satisfy justice.

And the way you know that you have finally understood that is that when he shows up with his holiness, you let him get in the boat. You don't say, depart from me. You begin to find his holiness to be actually a comfort. Do you get that? Are you that sure of his love? Do you understand that he sunk in the great storm so that we can walk through every other storm? And we will walk through every other storm. What you do is, if you're in a storm right now, you look at it and you say, how do I know he's with me? My goodness, what you say is, if he refused to abandon me in the only storm that can really kill me, if he went under for me, all those real waves, all those real billows, Then he's not going to abandon me now. And if you think he will abandon you because you haven't been living very well or you haven't worked well and you're going to clean up your life and you're going to read the Bible and now maybe for sure he'll listen to me, you don't get the gospel yet. And I'm here to say, please relax in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Conclusion. If you're not sure you're a Christian or if you'd like to know how to become a Christian, here it is. Number one, realize that you are no more able to satisfy the standards of goodness and the righteousness of the Ten Commandments than they were able to row to the other side of the lake. Realize that by asking Jesus into your boat, into your life, is really a way of saying what? Not, well, now help me to live a better life. Look carefully. What happened when he got in the boat? What does it say that happened? And it says, and they were, did it say the wind died? No, and they kept rowing? No, it says, and take them into the boat. And you know what the word is there? The miracle's not over. It says, and instantly they were at the shore. That's what it says. And see, to become a Christian means not Jesus gets in the boat and helps you to live a better life, but it means immediately you're accepted.

Don't be afraid of that. Don't be afraid of letting him in. He'll take you to a shore that you can't imagine. If you're a Christian and you say, I'm in a lot of trouble right now, this. His love in time past forbids me to think. He'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. By prayer let me wrestle. Then he will perform. With Christ in the vessel, I smile at the storm. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would help us to see that your Son is sovereign Lord and an ultimate Lord, and a holy Lord. But all that does not crush us because he's more than a Lord, he's a Savior. We pray that you would show us how to really make him central to our lives, but help us to also see why that will not crush us, why that will not sink us under the weight of great burdens. Help us to see that ultimately, to recognize his claims is to finally relax, acts is to finally realize that we're safe. And we pray that you would help us to take these transforming realities into our lives. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
