All righty, let's go this way. We're looking at verses 11 to 16. It's actually in verse 7 that the subject of spiritual gifts is introduced. In verse 7 it says, But to each one of us grace was given as Christ apportioned it. Now, the grace that Paul's talking about there is not saving grace, because in verses 1 to 6 he's talking about saving grace. He says there's one Lord, one faith, one baptism. We talked about that last week. And so, because he's talking about what it means to be saved. And what it means to be a Christian. What it means to be a converted person. When he gets to verse 7. And he starts talking about grace. He wouldn't use the word but. If he was still talking about the grace that brings us into the kingdom. And into the family of God. Instead. The word grace here. Is referring to. Strength. Ability. Jesus Christ. Has. Tremendous ability. To serve people. And transform them. And. In verse. Seven. We're told. That. Jesus. Grace. His. Minister. Ability. To. Serve. Them. To. Meet. Their. Needs. In. Such. A. Way. As. They're. Changed. And. Transformed. That. Jesus. Is. Dividing. Up. That. Grace. And. Dividing. Up. That. Ability. Into. Us. And. He's. Giving. Parts. Of. Now, verses 8, 9, and 10 we looked at last week. There, Paul gets into a kind of parenthesis. He gets off on a tangent just for a couple of verses and how grateful we are. Because what he does in those verses is he explains why Jesus is in a position to give grace, give gifts to everybody. And what he does, Paul tells us, is because when Jesus Christ came to earth, he overcame all of the forces that bind us. He overcame evil. He overcame sin. He overcame death. everything that keeps us in a state of bondage. Everything that keeps us from being what we should be. Everything that keeps us in a state of decay and disintegration. And therefore Paul says you know. He's saying to everybody though we don't know because he lived in a different time. He says you know how when a conquering king comes back to his city. After he's conquered his enemies. That he takes the wealth that he won when he conquered those other those enemies. And instead of keeping it all for himself, as he goes back into a city, as he's bringing his captives back in his train, he throws out the wealth that he has won so all the people share it. He gives gifts. And therefore, Paul says, don't you realize what the gifts of the Spirit are? The gifts of the Spirit are abilities to liberate people. We are given power in our lives, and we're going to be exploring that tonight, just how that power divides up. We're given power in our lives. To serve people. To minister. To people. To give ourselves. To people. To help people. But. With a supernatural power. That comes from Jesus. Because. He liberated us. And now. He is giving us. Out of his wealth. Out of all that he won. And conquered. He's giving us. His conquering power. He's giving us. His kingdom power. And therefore. When he ascended. On high. When he came back. After defeating death. He led captivity. Captive. And he gave gifts. To men. about. But now when he gets to verse 11, he gets back to the subject that he introduced in verse 7. And that subject is the different gifts. And right away he says, it was he who gave it some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, to be pastors and teachers. Verse 13, verse 12, to prepare God's people for works of service. Now, in the older translations it says to, it doesn't say prepare God's people, but actually it says, for the perfecting of the saints for the work of ministry. The old King James, the authorized version, says the perfecting of the saints. Now the word perfect that's translated here, prepare, is a very, very specific word. You medical people might find it interesting. It means to take something that's out of joint and put it back into joint. You see, you know, if my arm is out of joint, It's fairly closely connected still to my shoulder, but it's not in perfect alignment, and therefore there's great pain. And some of you who know how to do this because you were trained, you can go up, then you can go... And suddenly my dislocated... my arm is located. It's located, it's in proper alignment. And that is what Paul is saying is supposed to be happening. It's happening through equipping ministries, which I'm going to talk about in a second. that we should be striving for is to recognize that when people come together in a church you're sitting alongside of each other but the bible here is saying you're dislocated it's great to all be together and you have some rough knowledge of what your gifts are but you don't really know how you should be serving you don't really know yourself like you should you don't really know how you should be serving here and how you should be fitting into the whole we're so new that we are more dislocated I would think than the average of people. But you see, the point here is we're all out of alignment. And what God wants is for every part of the body to get into perfect alignment for the work of ministry. And the work of ministry means every part of the body has a function. Everyone who's a Christian is a minister. And when we are located properly, every part of the body is ministering. Now, what's interesting here is Paul tells us that if you want to be located, if you want to be put into the right spot in the body if you want to come to understand your gift if you want to be properly aligned in the body of Christ you have got to be subject to equipping ministries and those equipping ministries are the ministries of apostles prophets evangelists and teachers they're the ones who perfect the saints prepare God's people for works of service for the work of the ministry they're the ones that help everybody get aligned now who are these people and prophets and evangelist teachers? Well, we've got to look at it, just briefly at least. First, I told you there's a lot to cover, so take a breath. Ready? Fasten your seatbelts. We go like this. Apostles. Apostles were a body of men. There were 12 of them, or depending on how you count, 13. And it was an office that was absolutely once for all and not possible to be reproduced. For example, Paul was an apostle and he says, no man ordained me, he says in the beginning of Galatians, but I was appointed by Jesus Christ. And the reason Paul says that is because Paul says in 1 Corinthians 9, am I not an apostle? Have I not seen the risen Lord? An apostle had to be someone who had seen the risen Lord. not the way you and I have seen him with the eyes of faith, not even by a vision. Paul tells us in 1 Corinthians 15 that the risen Christ literally and physically appeared to a whole lot of people, to his apostles, to a bunch of folks, and then he says in 1 Corinthians 15, Last of all, as to one untimely born, he showed himself to me, whom the least of the apostles. Now that is an extremely important verse for understanding this whole passage and even understanding what it means to get located. Because what Paul is saying is, I'm an apostle because I saw the risen Christ and I'm the last one to see him. An apostle was someone who could not be reproduced. It's true that when Judas was discovered to be a reprobate, they cast lots and they appointed a man named Matthias. Some people think that maybe the apostles blew it and God came and appointed Paul, and he should have been in there. That's the reason why some people say 12, some 13. But the most important thing is that when James the apostle is killed, early in the book of Acts, there is no effort to replace him. Because only Jesus can ordain an apostle. The reason it was so important is the apostles brought unadulterated objective truth revelation right from the mouth of God. In John 16 Jesus says that when I have ascended I'll send the comforter he says to his apostles in John 16 and the comforter the Holy Spirit will help you remember everything I said and he will lead you into all truth. Paul immediately says in Ephesians earlier in Ephesians chapter 3 he says you've heard of the teaching that was given to me by revelation. Revelation. The apostles had got truth that came right from the mouth of God. And you know what's so strange is when you read the writings of Paul, you see here's a humble man, a very humble man, and yet at the end of the book, there's places, for example, in the book of Thessalonians where he says, now this is what I tell you, and if you don't believe it, if anybody will not accept what I teach, cast them out. Or, at the end of the book of 1 Corinthians, 1 Corinthians 14, and I'll get back to this in a minute, Paul says, when the prophets stand up and they begin to teach, he says, when they're all done, let them sit down and judge whether or not what they said was right, and judge them by what I have told you as an apostle. You see, Paul would never say, judge my, you know, read my letter and decide whether or not I'm right. He says we have to judge whether the prophets are telling the truth or not, but you never judge an apostle. The Apostle was bringing absolute truth and objective truth. And when the Apostles died, how did the church form the scripture? How did the church bring together the New Testament scriptures? So they were all together in a book. They said we have got to have the writings of the Apostles or The writings. Of their immediate. Circle. Their. Homanoids. And. Their. Assistants. Their. Teaching. Assistants. We've. Got. To. The. Apostolic. Teaching. Because. That's. What. Scripture. Is. And. They. Pulled. It. Together. And. They. Form. The. Canon. Of. The. Scripture. And. What. You. Got. Now. The. Apostolic. Ministry. That. Builds. You. Up. that edifies the saints. It says here, the apostles prepare God's people for works of ministry so the body of Christ might be built up. Where is the apostolic ministry today? It's in the Word. It's in the Word of God, the written Word of God. When Paul left the apostles, when he left the Ephesians, pardon me, when he left the Ephesians in Acts chapter 20, he says, I leave you with the Word of grace, the Scripture, which is able to build you up. Now, he was only talking about the Old Testament at that point. Because the apostles weren't dead. And the apostles were living. Revealers and teachers. What's fascinating is. The very thing he says. The word of grace. That is able to build you up. Is the very thing. That the apostles. Are said to do here. The apostles. Bring you the truth. And. The apostolic office. Is a non-repeatable thing. In the history of the church. There have been. Numbers of folks. That have come along. And insisted. That the apostles. Have been restored. And I'm one of them. And here's the truth. write new books of the scripture I can give you a new revelation that goes on beyond the scripture every single one of those movements has ended in disaster and if you want to be located that means if you want to make sure you're being equipped that means you have got to make sure that you are sitting under ministries in which the word of God is being broken to you like bread is broken you can find yourself being built up you are fed with it the ministry of the word in small groups the ministry of the word in your own life of study but also the ministry of the word in the public teaching of it Absolutely critical. Because the apostolic ministry is found in the word. Then you've got prophets. Now, what in the world were prophets? I already alluded to this, and this is a little bit harder to get a hold of, but I think I can make it clear. When the prophets, prophets were itinerating, they were traveling preachers and teachers. They were like the apostles, and then they traveled around. They didn't stay in one church, but they moved around. and they would get up and they would preach, several of them. You'll notice something. What the prophets were teaching was not at all at the same level as what the apostles were teaching. Because in 1 Corinthians 14, Paul says, you make sure you judge the prophets. He never allowed the apostles to be judged. But the prophets had to be judged. Why? Because the prophets were not bringing the same kind of revelation that was unadulterated and had to be accepted as if it was coming right from the words of God's mouth. Instead, the prophets were giving a very, very... they were taking the word of God. They were taking the truth. And they were applying it. They were preaching it. They were bringing it home with insight and conviction. With power to people's lives. But they could err. They could make mistakes. They were marvelous preachers and teachers. But on the other hand, Paul says, judge them. Make sure that they're judged according to the apostolic standard. Then you had evangelists. Now evangelists, from what we can tell, were very similar to prophets. These were people with the spiritual gift of being able to relate people outside the faith to Christ. They too were traveling. They were public speakers. They enhanced the ministry of the apostles and prophets. But then lastly, you come to pastor's teachers. And the pastor-teacher, now I'll explain this in a minute, the pastor-teacher was the main office or the main equipping ministry that was resident, that stayed put, that was in the church. Now you notice, you're looking at your Bible and it probably says pastors and teachers. But the problem with that translation is that there's no little word and in the Greek there, in the original language, it's not there. says, some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and to be pastor-teachers. And if you want to know what that is, that's what I am. That's what they quote the ministry. Now, it's unfortunate that we have come over the years to be so dead and so ignorant about the teaching of this passage, is that the only people that we tend to call pastor-teachers, pardon me, the only are the pastor-teachers. Is that fair? You know, the pastor-teachers are supposed to equip people for the ministry. Everybody's in the ministry if you're in the body of Christ. This is a form of clericalism. Clericalism is really a way of saying just you ordained professional pastor-teacher types, you're the only ministers. The rest of us can sit back and watch and applaud you do the ministry. That, of course, is completely unbiblical and we see it right here in this passage. But, on the other hand, let's not forget equipping ministry. And a pastor-teacher has obviously got two sides to the office. The pastor. Pastoral side means that a pastor guides people. Gets involved in their lives. Moves them along and nurtures them and helps them grow. That's the personal side. But then there's the teacher side which is the public teaching of the word of God. As you probably know some of these people some of the people in this office pastor-teachers some of them are a lot better teachers than they are pastors. Great at public communication, one-on-one guidance, nurture, not as good. Some people are far better as pastors than they are as teachers. Really good at personal working in your life and dealing with your life and applying the Word of God one-on-one. But when it comes to the public, keeping your attention in public teaching, not so good. But both of those things are involved in the office. And a person who's got that office has got to have both those gifts. you put those four together and today as far as I can see apart from the apostolic gift which is in the word of God if you want to be perfected in the sense of this word for the work of ministry for the building up of the body of Christ you have got to make sure that you're not just a lone ranger Christian jumping all around reading books every so often you've got to say I have got to come under the equipping ministries or I'm not going to be located properly. And it's very, very important. Now, for works of service, and here we go. Some people say, well, that's great. That's nice. It's very nice to know about those ministries. And it's great to see people who've got those kinds of gifts. Public gifts, teaching gifts, ministry gifts. Great. What about the rest of us? Now, if you want to know about the rest of you, you have to go to other passages and we can't synopsis. In the scripture, you've got in Romans chapter 12, and in 1 Corinthians 12 and 1 Corinthians 14, and in 1 Peter 4 verses 8, 9, and 10, and in the passage right here, you've got lists of gifts. Let me give you, after a good number of years of study and pastoral work, what I think those different gifts in that lists mean. I'm just going to give you a quick list of them. And just tell you something about all the gifts that are listed. And I don't want you to think that the gifts that I'm telling you about are all the gifts there are. They're just the ones that are listed in the Scripture. My guess is that every one of these individual lists that Paul gives us is an illustrative list. It's not supposed to be exhaustive. And therefore, probably if you put all the lists together it's not exhaustive. But here's the ones that are mentioned. One of the gifts is called the gift of exhortation. Parakaleo. You know what, it's pretty easy to tell what that word means. Kaleo means to call, but para means to come alongside. And to exhort means not to say, do this. That's prophecy or teaching. But parakaleo is the ability to encourage. It's a kind of a counseling gift. It's an ability to come alongside side and to make people really feel like, hey, this person understands me, and to motivate that person to growth. Exhortation. Another gift is teaching. The gift of teaching is the ability to communicate spiritual truths in such a way that people retain them. If you're a teacher, people remember what you say. If you're a teacher, people learn. There's a lot of people that think they have the gift of teaching but nobody learns from them. There's a lot of people that think they've got the gift of exaltation but nobody gets better. If you have these gifts, there's real effectiveness. Thirdly, gift of prophecy. The way I'm explaining it and I'll get back to this in a minute. As far as I understand, the gift of prophecy is just really, it's a cross between exhorting and teaching. It's the ability to apply the word of God to people in a very convicting way. You know, when Nathan came to David after David had married Bathsheba and had her husband killed so he could marry her, and Nathan comes to him and says, David, let me tell you a story. There was once a man that had a hundred sheep, and there was another man who only had one little lamb. And the man with a hundred sheep coveted the lamb, and he had the man killed. And then he stole the sheep and took him for his own. What should we do with that man, Nathan? And David, being as dumb as a person possibly could be, David says, well, we string him up, you know. Arrest him. Draw and quarter him. And Nathan looked at him for about five seconds and said, thou art the man. That's prophecy, buddies. That's prophecy. And if you have ever heard somebody say something to you to take spiritual It doesn't have to necessarily be prophetic. It doesn't have to be in a public meeting like this. It doesn't have to be like that. And it just comes right home. You hear him saying, thou art the one. That's prophecy. Another gift is pastoring. We already mentioned it. But listen, a lot of you have pastoral gifts. The word pastor means shepherd. It means it's the ability to maintain responsibility for someone else's spiritual growth. If you're a pastor, you may not be a good counselor or exhorter. You may not be a good teacher. not be the prophetic type, you know, the person who just has got that insight and can go right to the root of things. And yet you've got this tender-hearted ability to move somebody along, to kind of take somebody under your wing and really see them grow. That's a pastoral gift, all right? Then you've got evangelist. The evangelistic gift is the ability to relate well to people outside. You know, a lot of you are Christians because you heard lots of people talk about Jesus Christ and Christianity and they might as well have been speaking a foreign language. All that jargon, you just couldn't figure it out. And one day you talk to somebody who you said, you know, this person's a Christian. They believe all that stuff that I find so absolutely far-fetched. And yet, I believe this person. This person seems to understand me. This person is very believable. I want to talk more. I feel like I can trust this person. This person seems like they thought it out. This person was an evangelistic gift. They got the ability to relate to people outside the fold. Then you've got the gift of discernment. What is the gift of discernment? It's the ability to judge motives. Now let me tell you something. The people who've got the gift of discernment know something about their own motives. Everybody wants the gift of discernment. Everybody thinks they got the gift of discernment. You know. Everybody thinks. I know where you're coming from. It is one of the banes of my pastor. Are people who are sure they got the gift a discernment. People that have got the gift a discernment do not get a high horse about it. Because they also know about their own heart. They also know about their own motives. They also wonderful in exhortation, but they cannot deal with a person from another culture and do it. And there's other people who can take one of their gifts and just go right across the culture, and they're just as good in one culture, or almost as good as they are in another. The missionary gift is the ability to exercise the other gifts in a cross-cultural situation. Now, those are talking gifts, prophetic gifts. Jesus was a prophet, and a priest, and a king. And therefore, we also can expect that we are given his gifts. So there's prophetic gifts, and I mention them to you. Exhortation, teaching, prophecy, pastoring, evangelist, discernment, missionary. These are yakking gifts, right? These are those of us who like to talk, you know, and that's the way that God has given us a gift. But that's not the only kind of gift. Then there are priestly gifts. And those are serving gifts. And they're listed in Romans 12 and in 1 Corinthians 12. For example, there's the gift of giving. What is that? Well, if somebody says, couldn't be me. I'm not very well off. I'm not rich. How could I have the gift of giving? It's the gift of giving, not the gift of earning. Some of you have not got the gift of earning. And you know it. But you've got the gift of giving. Because the gift of giving means the ability to spot very practical needs and meet the need. And when you give, you give in a way that bears tremendous spiritual fruit. Haven't you met people like that? Then there's the gift of service. The diaconal gift. That's the ability to meet spiritual, not spiritual, but physical material needs in a way that bears spiritual fruit. The person who says, there's nothing I like better than doing breakfast at St. Paul's Shelter for Homeless Men. love it. Not only that, but it seems like when I do it, I can see that I'm able to encourage people and I'm building people up. That's a diaconal gift. That's the gift of service. There's the gift of helps listed in 1 Corinthians 12. What's the gift of helps? It's the gift of assistance. Some of you don't like this, but you need to submit to your gift. You're born assistance. That means you have got the ability to get behind somebody else and free them up. You've got the in other individuals. It's not a upfront gift. It's a spotlight gift. It's a critical gift. And it's so much like Jesus Christ. But more than Jesus Christ. it's like the spirit. Because the Holy Spirit. Jesus says. When the spirit comes. He will not speak of himself. But he will testify of me. He will take a mind. And glorify me. And therefore a person. With a gift that helps. Is a person. Very much like a spirit. Who's like a flood light. You know. a flood light makes you see the building but you can't even see where the light's coming from. You can't see the flood light in the light of the flood light. And so the people with a gift of helps. Then there's the gift of mercy. The gift of mercy is the ability to love the unlovely and to alleviate suffering. It's also a very practical gift. It's a gift of a person who doesn't mind changing the diapers in a nursing home. It's a person. Who can deal. With people. That. Most of us. Normal. Types. Don't. A. Stomach. Poor. It's. A. Person. Who. Can. Deal. With. Suffering. Now. Doesn't. Mean. That. These. That. A. Person. With. A. Gift. Of. Mercy. Can't. Burn. Out. But. It. Means. You. Got. A. Desire. And. You. Got. Capacity. That. Other. People. Don't. have. You've also got the gift of hospitality that's mentioned in 1st Peter 4. And that's the ability again, you don't have to have a mansion to have a gift of hospitality. It means you can take not your money so much as your, not just your living quarters either, but your resources. And you know how to refresh people with them. Those are priestly gifts, serving gifts. So you have your prophetic, you have your priestly, and then you've got your They're kingly gifts. And those are leading gifts. And there's four at least that the Bible mentions. First of all, there's the gift of government. There's leadership that's mentioned in 1 Corinthians 12. And the gift of leadership means the ability. Let me tell you something. A lot of people want to be leaders. I've been thinking about leadership for a long time. You know what leadership is? You want to hear the ultimate definition. A leader is somebody who gets people to follow. That's it. You can say, no, a leader is someone who talks loud. who's got poise, a leader who's someone who's organized. Oh no, none of those things necessarily. The essence of leadership is you get people to follow. You have a goal and you can unite people to get behind it and go with it. That's what leadership is. Then there's another gift called the gift of administration. And the gift of administration is a little different. In fact, the gift of administration, when it's described in 1 Corinthians 12, is a Greek word that means a ship. The helmsman was the person who steered. Not the captain. See, the person that gets the leadership is a captain. The captain says, we're going to this longitude. We're going in this direction. Let's set sail. The helmsman's got to decide how to get there. The helmsman has to decide, well, how's the wind going. And, you know, whether this, the sails should be up or down. And so forth. The helmsman is the person. Not so much. Who gets people to follow. As a house. Then it's a person. Who knows. The most efficient. Way. To get a houseman is a administrator. a houseman is a very organized person. a leader does not have to be a organized a. in many cases they are not. a. a organized person sees gray areas. An organized person is very sensitive and sees all kinds of nuances and all kinds of qualifications, and that might make you a bad leader. Because to be a good leader, you've got to see things in black and white. Very often, a leader is an impatient person, an administrator a tremendously patient person. And then you've got the gift of wisdom. Now, what's the gift of wisdom, you say? Well, the gift of wisdom and knowledge, in my mind, is the ability to solve problems. It's like the sermon, only not for individuals, it's for situations. And lastly, there's the gift of faith. Well, somebody says, what's the gift of faith? The gift of faith is not saving faith. The gift of faith is the ability to set goals with tremendous confidence. And a person with a gift of faith is constantly being able to show the rest of us where God wants us to go. Setting vision. A person with tremendous optimism based on the truths of the kingdom of God. Now when you take a look at that, don't you see, when you look at all that, don't you see that any effort to try to bring about unity in the church by making everybody the same is a tremendous heresy. The cults make everybody the same. In cults, cults are like cookie cutters. Everybody's got to look the same. Everybody's got to act the same. kind of language. They do the same sorts of things. But the glorious unity of the body of Christ is based on its diversity. That the Spirit of God pulls together. Because under the equipping ministries, everybody finds their gifts and begins to function and the whole body begins to work. Now somebody says, ah, there's some gifts you skipped. You skipped a couple. What about tongues and interpretation of tongues? What about miracles and healing. And that sort of thing. These are gifts that are especially highlighted in the Charismatic and Pentecostal movement. I haven't skipped them. I'm just getting to them now. I waited to the end because when people were starting to get tired and starting to get sleepy, I wanted something to wake you up. All right? Now, I'm not going to... I have put, in eight-point Helvetic type, on your handout a lot of information that I didn't want to go into verbally. You can take it back. You can take a look at it. I'll give you the broad ramifications of it. My own belief is that there are several sets of gifts that are highlighted in the charismatic movement. And they basically surround three issues. You've got the baptism of the spirit issue. And in the old Pentecostal movement and to some degree in the charismatic movement, which are basically the same thing. The Pentecostal movement is the early 20th century original movement and emphasis on tongues and healing. The charismatic movement is something that's come about in the last 20 years which is more transdenominational. It's not just in the Pentecostal denominations like the Assembly of God but it's transdenominational. So I'm using the word kind of interchangeably for a moment. the old Pentecostal said, tongues is a sign of being spirit-filled. An interpretation of tongues is a sign of being spirit-filled. That's one issue. Then you have revelation issue. And there's a lot of folks that say that prophecy and the word of knowledge and the word of wisdom that are listed in the gift list are ways in which we today can receive messages from God and we get up and we need to speak them to one another in our public assemblies. and that's another group of charismatic gifts that are under the revelation issue. Then lastly, you've got what I'll call the healing issue and that is what is the place of healing and miracles in the church today? Now what I'm going to tell you, I'd like to give you a position in all three that as far as I understand is a balance and some of you, especially if you're newer Christians, you may have had very little real teaching on the subject. strong teaching on the subject from one point of view I can most guarantee you the wherever you've been before you didn't get this kind of teaching because whenever I give it people who have had strong teaching are mad at me from both sides from both sides I'm going to show you why what number one I do believe definitely that beyond the work of the Holy Spirit coming into your life upon conversion that we do need to ask for the fullness of the Spirit I do believe and we've talked about this before. We can't go into it tonight. We talked about it several months ago. That the Spirit of God can come upon us when we ask for it and give us high assurance and anointing with power and boldness. You see it in Acts chapter 4. You see it in Acts chapter 13. You call for it. You ask for it. The Spirit to descend on you. And it does. It can. He can. When the Spirit comes on down, there is an assurance of who you are in Christ. You see, there's an inferential assurance have day in and day out. If you're living a Christian life, if you're giving your life to Christ, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ and not in your good works, you infer that you're a Christian. You ask me today, do you know you're a Christian? And I say, yes. I'm sure I'm a Christian. And I infer it. I get it out of the fact that I've seen myself grow. I've seen myself be used. I've trusted Christ and not my works for salvation. That's inferential. But there's also intuitive assurance. And intuitive assurance means the spirit bears Romans 8, 16. The Spirit comes alongside of me and says, Yes, you are my son in whom I'm well pleased. And you sense the love of God and you sense a high assurance of who you are in his economy and in his family. And it brings you a boldness and it brings you a love and it brings you a power. And that is an experience that we need to ask for in the church and that's an experience that godly people receive. And there is a real problem, find, because the charismatic churches emphasize that experience, there's a problem that non-charismatic people become very anti that kind of talk. And they don't like to talk about the fullness of the Spirit. And they don't like to talk about the anointing of power. I think that's a mistake. But I also know, absolutely know, that you cannot say that tongues is a sign, a necessary sign, an inevitable sign of that filling. It doesn't say so in the Bible. It says, Paul says, do all And the answer to that, of course, is what? No. Do all prophesy? Do all pray in tongues? Do all do these things? Tongues is a gift, and it's a gift that has to do with me talking to God. It does not say in 1 Corinthians 14 that if it's God talking to man. I have heard many times people pray in tongues, and then somebody get up and give an interpretation in which God is saying, saying, oh my children, I'm, it's almost, you know, oh my children, I'm coming soon, love one another. And yet Paul specifically says, in 1 Corinthians 14, verse 2, a person who prays in tongues does not speak to men, but is speaking to God. Right? You have to understand that. As far as I understand tongues, it's free vocalization. It's a way of praising God and praying to God in a language you don't know. But it is not revelation from God to man. It says so. All right? It's not a miracle either. There's no indication it's a miracle. And I'll tell you one other thing that some people are going to be surprised at. I don't see the Bible teaching that somebody else can interpret your tongue. It says very clearly in 1 Corinthians 14, if you pray in a tongue in public and be very careful when you do, he says, you better make sure that you interpret it so people can understand what you're saying. The point is, tongues is not a miracle. When you pray in tongues, you're doing free vocalization. You're singing. You're singing in jazz. I have never prayed in tongues, but one of the first times I ever prayed with my wife, she prayed with me in tongues. And this is not my idea. This is our understanding of the scripture. Okay? One person who's never done it, one person who has. When you're praying in tongues, you're singing. Just like if you sat down on a piano and began to play without music, you're singing to God, and you can interpret that. You can't translate it, absolutely not, but you can interpret it. You can say, this is what's on my heart. I see no indication in the scripture that tongues is a sign of the fullness of the Spirit. But I see it as a gift. It's not for everybody. It's not revelation. It's not something through which God is speaking to us. All right? And that's a balance. Yes, seek the anointing, seek the power, but don't expect it to be a sign of tongues being the sign of it. The second balance. I've got two and I've got just enough time to get these in. The second balance is revelation. Dear friends, one of the biggest problems, I think, that has come up in the last 20 years is people who believe that the gifts of prophecy and the gifts of wisdom and knowledge are messages from God. the sort of thing that only the apostles have ever had, and that when I feel in my spirit God telling me something about you or you, I can get up and I can say, I've got a word of prophecy, I've got a word of knowledge, you should get married to this person, we need to sell the building, this is God's word. Now, there is no indication anywhere of that sort of thing. Even the prophets in the New Testament, whatever you think about prophecy, they had to be judged when they got up and said something. were not supposed to be, nothing they said was supposed to be received as God's word in the same way that the apostles did. Friends, you can be illuminated. You get illumination, but you don't get revelation. God can work on your heart and lead you in some powerful ways, but you must always make sure that you carefully test that out. Let me give you a quick example. George Whitefield, one of the greatest men in history, saw thousands of people come to Christ He had one son born to him, a little baby John. And he preached several days after John was born. And he got up and he said, God has shown me that John is going to grow up to be a great preacher. Six months later, John died of pneumonia. And Whitefield went into a tremendous time of reflection. And he said, you know what? God leads me. God shows me these things. God gives me illumination. But it's not the same as revelation. I've got to test it out. ego. I made a prophecy and I brought God into disrepute because of it. I acted as if I'd had a message from God. He repented of that, and a lot of us have got to repent of that. When somebody asked me, were you called by God to come to New York City? I can tell you when God called me, but I wasn't sure about it until just a few months ago, even though it was years ago that he called. He came, and I began to say, hey, I think God's calling me to New York. But if I'd gotten up the day after that first sensation and said, God's called me to New York City, I'd be doing exactly what Whitefield said. How do I know it's not my ego? How do I know it's not my indigestion? I have got to take the word of God, and I have got to hold it up against apostolic standards, and I've got to test the spirits. Now, some people will say, I was called by God to go to New York City on October 21st, 1984, and I went. He got up on October 25th and told everybody about it. I think that definitely is taking to yourself apostolic prerogatives. On the other hand, do I believe God calls? Do I believe God gives us leading? Do I believe he guides us? Absolutely. Do I believe God can put strong impressions on my heart and give me burdens that I have to test out and say, I think God's leading me in this way? Absolutely. A lot of people don't like to hear me say that. It's a balance. Last balance. Final balance. A lot of people say, hey, don't tell me that God spoke to you and told you to go to New York City. Well, there's a sense in which he did. I don't like to use that language because I don't want to take apostolic prerogatives. But I know he leads like that. On the other hand, it's illumination, not revelation. It's subjective. It's inward. It's easily mistaken. It's easily mixed up with my flesh. I've got to test the spirits. Lastly, healing. Healing. Dear friends, do I believe, does the Bible teach that we should pray and expect God to heal people physically and to do miracles like that? Of course. James chapter 5 says, it commands us when a person is sick to call for the elders of the church, to lay hands on him, to anoint him with oil, and to pray that he be raised up. On the other hand, listen, Listen, what makes anybody think that the gifts and the miracle of healing are to be operating within any other framework than the framework of prayer? The framework of prayer is that if you ask God for something, God will either give it to you or he'll give you something better. But he does not always give you what you ask for. Or I'll put it this way. When you pray to God. God will. Will. Always. Give. You. What. You. Would. Have. Asked. For. If. You. Knew. Everything. He. Knows. God. Always. Give. You. What. You. Would. Have. Asked. For. If. You. Knew. Everything. He. Knows. And. What. Makes. You. Think. That. Healing. Would. Be. Any. Different. What. Makes. You. Think. That. You. Can. that Paul was turned down in a prayer for healing when he said, let this thorn pass from me. Remember? He prayed for the thorn in the flesh, which was for sure some kind of physical malady. And God said, no, because I've got some purpose for it in your life. Do I believe in healing? Should we say that healing miracles have ceased? No way. But on the other hand, do we believe that healing operates differently than prayer? No, it operates inside the framework of prayer. Now, did you get that? the glory of the body of Christ is the diversity of the gifts. We have got to have them working. You have got to get located. You've got to find yourself out. And the way to do that is to grow under the word of grace, which is able to build you up. Let's close. Our Father, we thank you that you tell us so much, so much about who we are. We've just taken a helicopter ride, a breathtaking look the various ways in which you might be working in our lives. Help us to locate ourselves. Help us to find our gifts. Help us to have, in this particular congregation, a balanced understanding of your revelation, of your healing, and of the anointing and power of your Spirit. Enable us to be a church that celebrates and lifts up the gifts of the Spirit. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.