The reading for today is taken from the book of John, chapter 12, verses 27 through 36. Now my soul is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? No, it was for this very reason I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it and will glorify it again. The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered. Others said an angel had spoken to him. Jesus said, this voice was for your benefit, not mine. Now is the time for judgment on this world. Now the prince of this world will be driven out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. self. He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. The crowd spoke up. We have heard from the law that the Messiah will remain forever, so how can you say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Then Jesus told them, you are going to have the light just a little while longer. Walk while you have the light before darkness overtakes you. Whoever walks in the dark does not know where they are going. Believe in the light while you have the light so that you may become children of light. When he had finished speaking, Jesus left and hid himself from them. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. God. Now, as I said, Redeemer is, beginning with the Rise campaign, is moving into a new chapter in its life. And there's a sense in which we're asking God to send us out into the city in a new way, send us out to be with the gospel, to serve our neighbors and our neighborhoods in heightened and radical ways, more radical than we have done in the past. that's asking a lot but what does it mean who do we have to be to be sent like that into our city Jesus Christ just before he died

went through an intensive course of instruction with his disciples in order to prepare them to be sent out into the world and what we're going to do this whole year in the worship services and through the preaching is we're going to start with where we are, which is John chapter 12, and all the way to the end, John chapter 17. It's the longest body of teaching, the most substantial body of teaching that we have from Jesus in the whole Bible. And it's where he is equipping his disciples to be sent out. And we're going to go through it so that he, in a sense, can instruct us and equip us. Now, the good thing about going through a part of the Bible consecutively in a year is certain themes That actually gives, I'll tell you, as a preacher, that means I don't never have to feel like I've got to tell you everything about that subject because it's going to come back. So I don't feel the need to talk to you about this subject at length. In fact, I'm glad because it's such a lofty one. Here in the very beginning of this part of the Bible, and by the way, at the very end too, at the end of that part, John chapter 17, it's all about the glory of God. God. See, a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it and I will glorify my name again. It's all about the glory of God. At the very end of John chapter 17, just before Jesus dies, he prays to his father and he says, I want them to see my glory. I want to give them my glory. It's like, according to the Bible, there's nothing more important than the glory of God. God. Some of you know that 1 Corinthians 10, Christians are told to do everything for the glory of God. But that term is so remote to us now. It is so distant. Most Christians have heard, of course, we have to do things for the glory of God, but what does that mean? This year, we're going to keep getting back to this subject, and today is really just an introduction, but let's get started. And let me tell you why, how important it is. Do you want to have meaning in life? Do you have some need for deep personal change? Are you concerned about justice in the world? The key to all those things is the glory of God. So let's start looking at it. Let's ask the text, what is the glory of God? Where do you find the glory of God preeminently? And how do you get it? How do you connect to it? How do you grasp it? What is it? Where do you find it? How do you grasp it? So what is it? You notice that this voice that comes from heaven. This is God. Of course. The God. The father saying. I have glorified. My name. And I will glorify it again. And that's actually a summary. Of the. Of the history. Of the world. According. To the bible. The main. Thing. God. Is doing. In the world. according to the Bible, the main thing Jesus Christ has come to do

is to glorify God's name, is to show the world God's glory. Now, what is the glory of God? Look, there's more to tell you than I can tell you right here, but I've always thought that the way to start and the simplest way to give people a definition of the glory of God is to look at the word used for glory in the Old Testament, the Hebrew scriptures, And a look at the word used for glory in the New Testament, the Greek scriptures. The Old Testament word is kibboth. That's the Hebrew word. And it tells us that the glory of God is his supreme importance. The New Testament word is doxa, for which we get our word doxology, by the way. And it tells us that the glory of God is his absolute ultimate beauty. So the glory of God is his supreme importance and his absolute ultimate beauty. I'll take a moment with both of these. First of all, supreme importance. Well, the word kavod means weight. The Hebrew word for glory means weight, heaviness, weightiness. And what's interesting is we actually have an English word that operates something like that word. We have the word matter. So when you talk about matter, matter can mean something solid, something substantial or something weighty. But matter can also mean what? Importance. And when the Bible says God is weighty, God is glorious, when it talks about his kavod, it means he is more important than anything else in the world, and he should be more important than anything in your life. He matters the most. Most people who believe in God For them, God is of some importance. So they believe in God. And if they have trouble, they may start going to church. Or they may pray. But if things go well, then they kind of don't pray. For most people, God is of some importance. Most believers in God. He's of some importance. He's an add-on. He's a vitamin supplement. He's a spare wheel. But when you understand the glory of God. To treat God as glorious. Is a treatment of supreme importance. It means if you believe he's in the glory of God and if you're treating him as glorious, it means his will, his work, and your relationship with him are the most important things. Let me just put it to you. Is your relationship with God the most important thing in your life? Is it the only non-negotiable so you would do nothing to jeopardize or weaken it? Does your life center on God See He's not an add-on He's not out in the suburbs of your life He's downtown in your life Is he the center Do you do your work Do you conduct your relationships Your marriage Or the marriage you'd like to have Is he always central Is he and your relationship with him The most important thing in your life everything else is negotiable. See, then and only then, see, if you answer yes to those questions or if you even say, oh, I wish it were that way, then you've got some grasp on the glory of God. So God is glorious means he's of supreme importance. Secondly, though, as we said, there's another word in the Bible that's used for glory. It's the Greek word doxa. And whereas the Old Testament word kavod means weight or importance, the New Testament word doxa means praise and wonder, luminosity, brilliance, or beauty. And John Edwards gets at this when he says, God is glorified not only by his glories being seen, but by its being rejoiced in. Now, do you hear that? God's glory, you have not grasped the glory if you only see it, you also have to rejoice in it. You don't just see God as supremely important, but you see him as beautiful, desirable, that he attracts you. Put it this way. Edwards is saying, if you obey God because you have to, that's not really grasping the glory of God as much as if you obey God because you want to. See, if you obey God because you have to, you're actually not giving him your whole self. You're giving him your will. And you're basically being selfish. If you obey God because you have to, say, well, I got to do this if I'm going to get all the blessings I want, then you're using God. God's not beautiful to you. He's useful. He's not an end in itself. He's a means to an end. You're using him to get the things that you really rejoice in. but to see the beauty of God is to be so attracted to Him that you obey Him for Himself. You love Him for Himself. There is, you don't say, well, I want to please God so I can get this thing or that thing. To know that you've pleased God because He is that beautiful and you are that in love with Him is the greatest happiness you could know. And Edwards is right in saying, just to kind of acknowledge the glory of God, saying, well, yep, He's the most important thing. deal with him and not love him. In other words, to obey him because you have to, not because you want to. To see the glory of God but not rejoice in that glory of God is not to really glorify God. So now, what does that mean? I mean, really, what does it come down to? And the answer is glad surrender and unconditional obedience. Unconditional obedience that is joyful. Unconditional obedience that's joyful. Eric Little, some of you know who he was. There was a movie that told his story. It's called Chariots of Fire. He won the gold medal in the 400-meter dash in 19, I guess it was 400-yard dash then, wasn't it? In 1921 in Paris. But he became a, though he obviously was a great athlete, he became a Presbyterian missionary. He was Scottish. And he went to China. And when he knew that the Japanese were going to overrun China, this was obviously in the early, you know, late 30s and 40s, he sent his family home to Canada. But he stayed there in order to do what? To do what God had called him to do, to be a missionary, to love people, to talk to people about Christ. And he stayed there, and he died in an internment camp. Now, Little had what he called a discipleship book. It was when people became Christians or people wanted to really grow as Christians, he would disciple them. He would meet with them. And he always started with a set of questions that go like this. Here are the questions he would ask. He says, are you ready to obey God, even if it means loss of face? Will you follow God, even if it means personal financial loss or being laughed at or some other hardship? And will all this sacrifice really be glad, See, doesn't it sound like he's talking about the glory of God as not only God being of supreme importance, but also absolute beauty. Are you willing to obey God? Pardon me. Are you willing to obey whatever the Bible clearly teaches, whether you like it or not? Are you willing to trust God in anything he sends into your life, whether you understand it or not? And if you say, wow, that's hard to say. right, Eric Little, who, by the way, lived this out, basically said, if you grasp the glory of God, then you obey him no matter what it costs, no matter how you feel, no matter what the consequences, and you do it gladly. Why? Because what else could be more important than pleasing him? And what else could be more enjoyable than pleasing him? And until you are able to answer those questions, yes, for those reasons, you haven't grasped the glory of God. Pretty powerful, Let me tell you about another movie Kathy and I just recently saw. It's a movie, just a new movie called Their Finest Hours. True story, in the winter of 1952, in the Northeast, there was a Nor'easter. And those of you who live in the Northeast know a Nor'easter is essentially a hurricane in the wintertime. and off the coast of Massachusetts, the Nor'easter captured two tankers, not one, and two tankers split and broke in half. And the Coast Guard station at Chatham, Massachusetts was faced with the fact that it had to do two rescues in the middle of a hurricane. And for the second tanker, when they found out there was a second tanker, they only had a tiny little boat, little thing, which would only have been able to bring in survivors, even if there were any survivors. And so that little boat had to go out there. And there was the guy who was the Coast Guard sailor, who was the guy who was supposed to be in charge of the boat. He had a go and talked to people and said, I need four. I need three volunteers, three people to go. And they're all cringing over the idea of going out into a into a hurricane to rescue people who may not be needing rescue. But by the way, they did rescue thirty two people, boat that was only supposed to bring back eight. And it's a true story, great movie. But when he's looking at his other Coast Guard guys, and they're all cringing about going out in the 60, 70, 80 mile an hour winds and all the danger, he looks at them and he says this,

they say you got to go out, but they don't say you got to come back. And what he meant is it's our job to go out there and rescue. It's not our job to survive. That's not in the job. That's not our concern whether you survive or not. Our job is to go out and rescue. See, that's what Eric Little was saying. You understand the glory of God. It's your God to obey. It's not your job to survive. And you do it gladly. How are you doing on the glory of God? Now, here's the question. You might say, wow, okay. Now, look, it's not all bad news. Some of you think this might be bad news. St. Augustine says, if God matters most to you, culturally and personally, it's revolutionary. See, if self-fulfillment matters the most to you, you got a society of individualists and it's fragmented and divided. divided. If your people matters the most to you, it tends toward racism and nationalism. If your family matters the most to you, it pushes you toward paternalism and patriarchy. Augustine says only if God matters to you more than anything else will you be able to love all individuals, all families, and all races equally. And it's not just culturally revolutionary, socially revolutionary. To put God first is personally revolutionary. If your work matters to you more than anything else, you'll crush your family. Or you'll never be able to build a family because work matters too much to you. Ah, you say, okay, if family matters to you more than anything else, then you'll crush your family with your expectations because they're going to have to give you all your happiness. But Augustine says, if God matters to you your family, and your work, it will rightly order all your commitments and you will love them all well. So you say, well, all right, I guess I should glorify God. Okay. I guess I should, you know, live for the glory of God. But what do I do? I mean, if it's true that the glory of, to grasp the glory of God is to grasp his importance and his beauty, what do I do? Do I go home and just sort of wait for God to hit me? Okay, Lord, I don't know what I would do. Just Right now, I don't feel like you're real enough to me for me to live a life like that. It's all abstract. Well, how do you find the glory of God? Where do you find it? Tells you right here. Two places. Look, now, Jesus Christ says, now my soul is troubled. What should I say? Father, save me from this hour. What's the hour? hour. In the book of John, whenever Jesus talks about his hour, he's always talking about the hour of his death. And that's the reason why he talks about being lifted up. When I'm lifted up from the earth, what do you mean lifted up? Hoisted up on a cross. So he says, Father, I'm dreading. I'm filled with fear before my hour, before going to the cross. But he says, glorify your name. And the Father says, that's what I'm doing. the Bible says the place to find the glory of God preeminently is on the cross. Yeah, go ahead. Go to the Grand Canyon. I haven't made it there yet. Time's running out, but maybe I'll see Grand Canyon. And if you go there and it takes your breath away, are you sensing the glory of God? And Psalm 19 says, yes. Yes, you are. Because Psalm 19 says, the heavens are telling the glory of God. When you see the stars, you see the ocean, and you're smitten by it. Yes, you are sensing the glory of its creator. They're creators. They're a creator. And in that sense, yes, you are sensing the glory of God. But you're seeing the glory of God in creation the way you see the glory of the sun in the moon. It's only a reflection. But the Bible tells us, and it's going to tell us over and over again, you're going to see as we go through the year, that when you look at Jesus Christ dying on the cross, you're looking at the sun. The full blaze of the glory of God. How so? Well, Jesus Christ says, my soul is troubled. In some ways, this is John's version of what we see in the other gospels in the Garden of Gethsemane. Jesus is cringing. The word trouble there means just what you think. It means he's scared. He's cringing. He's trembling. He's flinching. Before his death. Now, that's interesting because, you know, plenty of people, men and women over the years, there's plenty of people who have gone to their death without flinching, you know, sometimes singing, certainly without this kind of dread. But here's the question. Why, or the right question is, what would be so terrible that it would make the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, the maker of heaven and earth, scared. Jesus Christ is trembling because he knows he's going to be thrown into a kind of darkness up there on that cross. And he's going to experience something more terrible than any conscious, personal being has ever experienced, ever will again. Now, to get a handle on it, why he's so filled with dread and fear at this, I'm going to try to be as sensitive as I possibly can. But let me just say, let me ask you a question. What's the worst thing that can happen to a human being? I think it's to have love torn away from you. I mean, one way, of course, is to, for example, have a spouse or a child die on you. That's as terrible, I think, as it can be. Except it might be slightly more terrible or more awful or more bitter to have a child or a spouse scream at you, you say, I never want to have anything to do with you, and walk out of your life and you never see them again. That might be worse. And the reason I'm trying to muster up what sensitivity I can is I know there's people in this room who have experienced those things. And so I need to say this with all due respect. If there's God the Father, and if there's God the Son, and there is, their love relationship, a perfect love relationship, infinite, from all eternity, The love that they would have had would have just been infinitely greater than even the greatest love relationship any of us have ever had. And for Jesus Christ to know he's gonna be forsaken, that he's gonna have that love ripped from him, that Jesus Christ knew when he went to the cross he'd have no hope, no love, no God. He's gonna be thrown into absolute darkness. What was happening up there? He tells you down here in verse 31. Now is the time for judgment on this world. Wait a minute, judgment on this world? on the cross, the judgment that we deserve for all of the sin and evil the human race has done fell on him. He experienced that. And then he says, and so when I'm lifted up, that is when I'm on the cross and I'm experiencing the judgment and my soul is being torn to pieces, Then he says, I will draw all people to myself. What? Yes. He is saying, that's where you'll see the beauty. Anyone who looks and sees what I'm doing up there, anyone will be attracted. You say, how could that be? There is no greater beauty than the most beautiful being in the universe giving up his beauty, being beaten to a pulp for us, to save us, to love us. There is no greater glory than Jesus Christ who had heaven's glory to become killable and crushable and come to earth and lose it all for us. Losing his glory, losing his beauty for us is the greatest glory. It's the greatest beauty possible. it? Jesus Christ said, it's my job to go rescue them. It's not my job to survive. The Grand Canyon might make you say, yeah, I guess there's a God. He must be really great. But the cross shows you his glory, the glory of his justice. He is so just and so righteous. He had to punish sin, but the glory of his love, he was so loving and so merciful that he was willing to pay that penalty himself. Jesus Christ said, there's many places where it talks about that. It is written of me in the book. I come to do thy will, O Lord. Okay, let me translate that. Jesus Christ said, it's my job to go rescue them. It's not my job to survive. And if you see what he's done, that will draw you. Look at that, look at that, look at that. Think about that. beauty breaks upon you, breaks over you, and the glory, you start to see the glory. And lastly, okay, now I said I want to be as practical as possible because it's so, this is nosebleed stuff, isn't it? You know, like glory of God. Let's bring it down. What does it really mean to live for the glory of God? Well, we said it's to treat him as supremely important and to see his beauty, but we all know that comes in stages, that as life goes on, more and more into His glory. We see it more. We live into it more. We become more revolutionized the way St. Augustine said you will be if you make Him the most important thing. Well, how does that happen? I would just give you two practical tips from the text, two practical tips. Don't waste your sorrows

and get excited about what He could make you. Don't wish your sorrows. Look, think about this. Look at verse 27. Now my soul is troubled. Okay. Where, by the way, is anybody here got a troubled soul? You know, there's only two kinds of people in the world. There's the people who are, their soul's troubled now and people whose soul will be troubled later. That's it. There's nobody else. All right. Okay. So you're either having your soul troubled now or, well, what are you supposed to do with that troubled soul. Why don't we look at the Master? What did he do with his? My soul is troubled and what does he say? Get me out of here. You know, if you don't get me out of here, you know, I had it. We have a conditional relationship, you and me, Father. And if you let the worst happen to me, what looks like is going to happen to me, I'm walking. That's not what he says. Now my soul is troubled and what shall I say? Father, you got to get me out of here. that's laying down a condition. No. He says, Father, glorify your name. If when your soul is troubled and you want to bolt and you do not know what in the world's going on to say, Father, I don't know why this is happening, but glorify your name in my life. Show me more of your glory through this. Show other people more of your glory through this. I don't know how. And actually, by the way, this is a longer sermon. We'll get back to it some perhaps. Generally speaking, when your soul is troubled, it's usually because something that you've made too important to you, something that matters too important to you, it matters too much to you, is being threatened, and it's an opportunity for you to actually rest more in who he is and his love. In the 1950s, J.R.R. Tolkien was still alive, but his book was out, and people would write him letters like, what does this mean? There was a woman named Rona Beer who wrote a letter to Tolkien saying, hey, when the ring goes into, when the ring dissolves, you know, when the ring of power gets thrown into Mount Doom and dissolves, Sauron explodes? What's up with that? Why, when the ring goes into, Sauron explode? And actually, fascinatingly, you know, Tolkien, still being alive, And here's what he said. He says, the ring of Sauron is only one of the ways that you could depict the placing of your life and its power into some external object which is thus exposed to capture or destruction with disastrous results to oneself. Did you figure that out? Here's what St. Augustine would say. It's one thing to love a person, but if you make them the most important thing in your life, if anything goes wrong with them, you explode. because you see God is not as important. God's love is not as important as that person's love. God is not as important as that person. And because that person is too important to you

it's like you created a ring. Same thing happens with a career. Same thing happens with anything. Anything more important than God in your life. You are really, really, really vulnerable because if anything goes wrong with the thing that you love the most in the world you'll explode. And therefore, it's when your soul is troubled, usually you've got an opportunity to give yourself more to God and not to love the people around you less or love your career less, but love God more. And so don't waste your sorrows. If your soul is troubled, say, Father, show me your glory, get glory. The second thing is, realize that he's turning you into children of light. Believe in the light while you have the light so that you may become children of light. It's not just, by the way, that God in the end is going to show us his glory. He's going to make us glorious. These slight momentary afflictions, Paul says, are preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. We don't even know what that means. But those of us and those of you, I know, those of you who have seen in your troubled times say, Father, glorify your name. I can see God making you something beautiful even here. Who knows what years from now. I see you getting deeper. I see you getting wiser. I see you getting more loving. I see you getting humbler. I see you becoming a... Even here, you are being made children of light. The more you build your life around God's glory, the more God is going to turn you into something glorious. Who knows what he can do? Elizabeth Elliot wrote this. Tells this whole story. She says, there's a story about a king who went into the village streets to greet

A beggar seeing the king out amongst his people sat on a roadside and held up his alms bowl sure that the king would give him something handsomely. Instead the king looked at the beggar and said, give me something. Which shocked the beggar and made him pretty grumpy. But the beggar was taken aback and he fished three little grains of rice out of the bottom of his bowl and dropped them in the king's hand. A little bit of a snort probably. At the end of the day, the beggar poured out what he had received and to his astonishment, he found three pieces of pure gold in the bottom of his bowl. And he looked up and he said, if only I had given him everything. Give him everything to turn you to gold. Let's pray. Father, thank you that your glory is revealed in the cross and we just ask this, You would make us people who reflect your glory to our neighborhood and people who are more changed into the nature of your son as we look at his glory and especially what he did for us on the cross. Give to us now, we pray. Give us our heart's desire. Show us your glory. Glorify yourself in our needs, in our lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.