Our scripture reading is found in the book of Acts, Acts chapter 4, and we're going to read from verses 23 to 37. Acts chapter 4, verses 23 to 37. Just keep in mind that the apostles have been just interrogated by the civil authorities and they've been warned not to preach the gospel upon the peril of their lives. And so we pick it up at verse 23. On their release, Peter and John went back to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. When they heard this, they raised their voices together in prayer to God. Sovereign Lord, they said, you made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them. You spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our father David. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed one. Indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. Now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servants to speak your word with gratefulness. Stretch out your hand to heal and perform miraculous signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus. and after they'd prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of his possessions was his own, but they shared everything they had. With great power, the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and much grace was upon them all. There were no needy persons among them. From time to time those who owned lands or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales, and put it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to anyone as he had need. Joseph, a Levite from Cyprus, whom the apostles called Barnabas, which means son of encouragement, sold a field he owned and brought the money and put it at the apostles' feet. The word of the Lord. In just a few weeks, we're going to be launching a new church, and I believe that it's fair and right that these last weeks of the summer, we would spend our time looking at what the church is, see what it ought to be, and see what it can be. Now, what I'd like to do tonight is very simple, and it better be. There's one central fact, one central principle, one great essence of the Church. And when you're talking about the Church, it's so easy to run and immediately begin discussing what the Church should do. What does the Church do? And when we talk about what the Church does, we immediately get into the list of functions and duties and responsibilities. And that's all important. But before we talk about what the Church does, we've got to understand very clearly what it is. Because you see, if you look at what it does and not what it is, you can really go astray. If you define a human being in terms of what it does, he does or she does, you might come up with an android. You know, an android can do everything a human being does. But it's not a human being because the android doesn't have the essence of a human being. Whatever that is. in the same way it's very possible to have very busy churches that I, the only thing I can call them is robotic churches that have focused in on the functions and they've learned and decided what the church is supposed to do but they haven't got a good grip on what it is and that's very important I think we need to be very honest about the condition of the church today and it's very easy when a church or when a church hasn't even started to throw rocks the way other churches are. And I don't want to do that. It's a little bit like running for office when you have no record. It's very easy to lash the incumbent, you see. And yet we've got to see what the Scripture says. In 1 Peter 1.8, Peter writes to a church and he says, Though you do not see him, you rejoice in him with joy unspeakable and full of glory. Now here's Peter, and he's writing to a whole congregation, and he's able to confidently assume that every one of them has got a joy in Christ that leaves them speechless. He can write them and he says, I know that you're in that condition. Why? You're the church. Or you go to Acts chapter 2, which we're going to look at next week. And at the very end of Acts chapter 2 it says, the church enjoyed the favor of all the people the city, and every day the Lord added to their number those who were being saved. Here was a church full of people, and those people were so radiant, so compassionate, so responsible, and yet so unassuming that the church was the praise of the whole city, the whole city. And every day the church added people. Now, how many churches are like the normal church that Peter was writing to, the normal church that Acts 2.47 is talking about. How many churches are like that? And maybe those of you who've come and are either intending to come or just considering coming to this church are very happy because you might have found a church, and it's only maybe, I admit it, you might have found a church that you could bring friends to and not be embarrassed. And you think you've come across something cool. Well, not tonight. You're excited. Friends, give up your small ambitions. The glory, the brilliance, the stupendous nature of what the Church is. That's what I want to look at tonight and the next few weeks. And the thing that's going to be so hard is that every one of us is going to look at what the Church is supposed to be, that the Bible says it's supposed to be, through spectacles. And you know what those spectacles are? They're the spectacles of your own experience in the Church. Some of you have had bad experiences. Many of you, most of us, have had mediocre experiences, just have been stifled by mediocrity for years in the church. So when you read what the Bible says the church ought to be, you have these spectacles on, and what you tend to do is you tend to twist it and make it look like what you already expect. You see? And so you see things the Bible says, and you whittle it down and say, well, I know what it's talking about. No, we don't. We don't. Or what Peter said would be normal, you see. The Acts church would be normal. It's not. So I want to ask you tonight and the next few weeks if you're able to come, you cannot be passive. If I just lay out what the Bible says here, you're going to read them through the spectacles of your own experience and you're going to filter out half of what's there. You've got to help me. You've got to help yourselves. yourselves. You've got to listen, grasp, get a vision for what the church is supposed to be. Okay, now, tonight, one thing I want to show you, and that is the essence of the church, and it's in verse 31. This is the heart, this is the essence of what the church is, this is the central fact without which all the rest of the ministries and functions of the church are nothing but android operations. And you know what the central fact of the church is? It's in verse 31. No, it's not what you think. You think I'm going to say they were filled with the Spirit. That's not what I'm going to say. That's a symptom. That's a result. What was the cause? Look. The shaking. You see, realize that was the answer. In verse 29, in fact, that whole passage, what are the apostles praying for? They're praying that they might do the church's ministry. They're saying, oh Lord, make us your servants, they say in verse 29. They say, help us to preach the word. They say, help us to do all the things the church is supposed to do. How does God answer that? He answers it with the shaking. And they prayed, and here's the answer. The place they were meeting was shaken. And as a result, they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spoke the word with boldness. Now, what is the shaking? That's a very important thing. Is this a Steven Spielberg special effects? Is it just a nice touch that God put in there? Maybe there was a thunderclap. Maybe there was a bolt of lightning. That would be a nice effect. No. It's not an effect. It's the heart of things. The shaking is a theophany. Did you hear that? Theophany. T-H-E-O-P-H-A-N-Y. And it means a visible representation of the presence of God. In Exodus 19, When God comes down on Mount Sinai, His presence comes down on the mountain, and the mountain is crowned with smoke and fire, and the mountain shook. And Hebrews chapter 12, 26 says, on that day, the earth shook with His voice. And whenever God comes down, there's an earthquake. earthquake. Israel never forgot him coming down on Mount Sinai, and they constantly prayed, O Lord, come back. So, for example, Isaiah 64, verse 1. Listen to this prayer. O that thou wouldst rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains might flow with thy presence. What? That the mountains might flow with thy presence. The presence of God is so powerful, Isaiah is saying, The timelessness of the mountains looks like gravity compared to this presence. The solidity of the mountains looks like liquid compared to the presence. Whenever God comes down, he shakes things. And in Hebrews chapter 12, we read about a commentary on Exodus chapter 19. Now listen to this. It's talking about Mount Sinai. The Hebrews writer says, says, at that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. The words once more indicate the removal of what can be shaken, that is, created things, so that what cannot be shaken will remain. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe for our God as a consuming fire. What's that saying? It's saying whenever God shows up, when his presence descends, there's a shaking, because next to God everything else that looks so strong and so solid is revealed as being shaky. You see? When the presence of God comes down, when his reality is clear, when we're seeing him face to face, then things that look solid suddenly appear very shaky. Now that's very important. Next to God's power, all other things that impressed you as power are just pop guns. Next to God's love, all the things that look like love are very pale. Why do you think the people who experience the presence of God, like David, like Moses, like Jacob, why do you Why do you think those people were so bold? Why do you think people are able to die for their faith? Why is it that many of us in this room, if we're honest, would say, I'm not sure I would die for my faith. David, who saw the presence of God, had a very interesting verse that explained it. He says, thy loving kindness is better than life. You've heard that? There's a song, thy loving kindness is better than life. Do you know what you're saying when you sing that? You're saying the loving kindness of God, the love of God, that's solid, and that's more important than anything else. And my life, my physical life, my prosperity, my goods, everything else is shaky. It's expendable. In the light of God's face, I see what's really solid and what's shaky. And that's why in the Old Testament, Isaiah was saying, Oh, I want your presence. Moses was saying, I want to see your face. That's why they prayed for that presence, because anyone who saw the face of God

became unshakable people. Their love couldn't be broken. Their courage couldn't be broken. They wanted that. Okay. For a minute, clarification. Some of you, if you're thinking, and I hope that some of you are thinking still, you might say, now wait a minute, this presence of God stuff, I thought God was everywhere. How can you talk about coming into the presence of God? The only times, you might say, that I felt the presence of God was when I was on the lip of the Grand Canyon and I was just overwhelmed with the beauty of nature. And I recognized that God was in all of this, and I felt close to God. Isn't that experiencing the presence of God? Not really. Listen. There's an Eastern concept of God that says God is everywhere, God is in everything. And God consciousness, the presence of God means coming to see that you are part of God and God is everything. Now, friends, the Bible says that's only half true. The Bible says God is definitely everywhere because he's a spirit. But the Bible also teaches that God is not only a spirit but a person. a person. Eastern view of God says a spirit. But the Biblical view says a spirit. He's a person. Which means you can experience a grand. But because a person. You don't want to just experience. You want a. You don't want a. You want a. to know him face to face. I'm not a computer expert, but maybe somebody out here is. Suppose I said to you, hey, listen, I got a friend named Jack who's a terrific computer expert and he designed this computer. And you started to look into it and you noticed the design and you began to say, man, this was a brilliant guy. I never saw anything like this. Oh, look, he must be into this. He must have read so-and-so. He's done this. You know. And you're. You're. You're. can stick your head in the Grand Canyon and you won't meet the Creator that way. You can't. And the glory of the gospel is just this, that there is, yes, God is everywhere because he's the Spirit, but there's also a royal throne room presence. Everybody in this room is in the presence of everybody else. I don't know how many people are in here. It looks like 90 or 100 people. You're in the presence of 90 or 100 other people, and yet the only The person you're facing right now, I think, is me. And so don't you see, because I'm a person, the fact that you're facing me means that there's a sense in which you're in the presence of everyone else in the room, and yet, you're in my presence to a heightened degree. There's greater communication, except some of you are poking each other and saying, what do you think of that? and if somebody would walk up here and sit down so our faces were closer together and we were talking one to one you have to move the knowledge our face-to-face knowledge our communication our intimacy up another notch if you're a person face-to-face meeting is subject to degrees the bible says that though you can kind of know God from the back side from a distance sort of the way I know you know that there's a lot of people out there in New York I'm living people, but I don't know them. You can live in the presence of God in a general backside way, but the Bible says there's a way to know him personally. And that's what the Old Testament saints wanted. That's what Jacob wanted. And when Jacob woke up after he had his dream, and there was a stairway, and the angels came back and forth, that was a theophany. Because wherever the angels are, there's the presence of God. And God came down the stairway When Jacob woke up, what did he say? Boy, that was fun. Boy, he promised me a wife and kids. I always wanted to know if I was going to get married. No. He says, how awesome is this place? This is the very gate of heaven. This is Bethel, the house of God. Now, you know why he talked like that? Because all the ancient people in Mesopotamia built these pyramids. They were called ziggurats. And the ziggurats had steps on them. pictures of them. But do you know, archaeologists have dug those things up and found that the steps were far too big for human beings to use. So what were they there for? Well, they were landing pads for the gods. They were trying to establish a link between heaven and earth. See, even the pagans wanted to come into the presence of the gods. And when Jacob woke up, what did he say? He said, guess what? This is the stairway to heaven. This is Bethel. I've seen God face to face, the same. And yet, sad to say, if any of us had gone back to that spot to try to see God, would we have done it? Could we have met him face to face? No. And this is where the New Testament comes in. And the New Testament makes a claim that is astonishing. And that is, now listen, the presence of God that was available sporadically, occasionally, to the great men of the Old Testament, Moses, David, Jacob, you know, the presence of God that was fatal to people. When God came down on Mount Sinai, no one could touch the mountain because his holiness and power and majesty were so great, they couldn't even listen to him. That power, that presence, that reality, which was available sporadically, is now available continually to all those who know Christ as Savior and who gather in his name for worship." See, when Jesus Christ was gathering his disciples, he talked to Nathanael. Nathanael had never met Christ, and he goes to Nathanael and says, Nathanael, I saw you under the fig tree. Now, Nathanael falls off his chair, but we don't know why. Nobody really knows why. Obviously, Nathanael was doing something under that fig tree that was either very bad

or something very, very important happened to him there. Whatever it was, Jesus was showing Nathanael that he knew what really made him tick. And what does Nathanael do? Nathanael says, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You're the King of Israel. I can't believe it. You're clairvoyant. See, it's a miracle. And what does Jesus say? A weird thing. He says, you believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree. You shall see greater things than these. I tell you the truth, you shall see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. Real clear, right? Do you know what he's saying? You get excited by a miracle. Big deal. Way to you see. I am the gate. I am the stairway of heaven. The thing that Jacob had for a moment. I am the axis mundi. The axis of the world. I am the link between heaven and earth. I bring the presence of God into your midst. You will see angels ascending and descending on the Son of Man. In John chapter 3, he tells Nicodemus, Jesus tells Nicodemus, you must be born again. Nicodemus says, how? How can you be born again? And he says, you must believe me because I'm the only one who both descended and ascended to heaven. You know what he's saying? He's again saying, the reason you can be born again is I'm the stairway. Through me, the presence of God that made Mount Sinai smoke and tremble, that killed cattle and killed people, can come right into your life, transforming you, and you can know it continually. And then in the book of Hebrews, you've got this incredible, absolutely incredible passage without which you can't understand the gospel, really. Hebrews chapter 12, it's the latter part of chapter 12, that goes like this. You have not come to a mountain that can be touched and that is burning with fire. for Moses sake I exceedingly tremble and quake but you have come to Mount Zion the heavenly Jerusalem the city of the Living God you have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assembly you have come to God to the spirits of just men made perfect and to Jesus the mediator of a new covenant whose blood speaks more graciously than the blood of Abel do you get that? Can I translate? It says there was a mountain that could be touched, and it was burning and smoking with the presence of God, but now you've come to a mountain just as real, a presence just as real, though you can't touch the mountain. You come right into God's presence. You're right there with the angels. Every time Christians meet to worship, the same presence of God that was on the mountain that could be touched is present here. It's available. How could that be? Because of the mediator Jesus Christ, whose blood speaks more graciously than the blood of Abel. You remember when Cain killed Abel, his blood spilled on the ground, and God came to Cain and said, your brother's blood cries out to me from the ground. It cries out, vengeance, you see. Revenge! But Jesus' blood cries out, grace. And the minute that Jesus died, The veil in the temple that separated the presence of God and the Holy of Holies from the people outside was ripped. It's the death of Christ and those of us who have come in under his blood, those of us who have just asked him to be our Savior, the presence of God is now safe for us. It's no longer a terrific thing. It's no longer a terrible thing. because we're covered by the blood, because of the mediation of Christ, we can come right into the presence of God. And that is the central fact of the church. Aren't you glad I only have one point tonight? This is it. Everything the Bible says about the church hinges on this. And you're going to be a cynic if you don't understand this. And if you understand this, you cannot live as cynicism. How many of you are cynics? Look, what do you mean you say I live in New York? Listen. 1 Corinthians 14.25 It says, when an unbeliever comes in, nope, not on that one, it's not. Here it is. It says, when an unbeliever comes into your worship and sees us worshiping, quote, he will be convinced by all that he is a sinner. The secrets of his heart will be laid bare, so he will fall down and worship God, God is really among you. That's saying that in worship, the presence of God is so real that even an unbeliever walking in, though he cannot account for it, would be forced to acknowledge it. Does that happen? But you see, there's the claim for ministry. Paul, the apostle, writes the Ephesians. The Ephesians were Greek people and he says, Christ came and preached peace to you, and therefore you believe. Now, we know for a fact that Jesus Christ did not come and preach to the Ephesians while he was on earth. Then what could Paul mean? What he means is that when any of us who are Christians receive the presence of God into us, then when we go and minister, we're not ministering out of our own power, but Christ is ministering through us. That's the only reason that Christ could say to people when he was on earth, you will do greater works than I. That is a promise. You will do greater works than I. That's only possible if the very presence of God is in our midst. That's the thing that's promised. And because of the shaking, which happens again and again in Acts, Acts 2, Acts 4, Acts 12, Acts 13, Acts 14, and so on, again and again, and then 400 years and then again and 400 years like in the Old Testament. Continually. God descending. When that happens, it says in verse 31, the result is people are filled with the Holy Spirit. Now, those of you who've been, fortunately, those of you who don't have much of a church background and there's plenty of you and that's great, you haven't heard about all those controversies. But you know, Christians argue a whole lot about what it means to be filled with the Spirit. you what I think. People who are aware of the presence of God, who are living in the presence of God, are filled with the Spirit. Period. To be in the presence of God means reality. Look, when I'm talking to my kids, and I'm driving along, I just did 10 hours of that yesterday, and I want to say something to one of my children. You've got to stop picking on your brother. You know, my face is, you know, looking out the windshield. The kids are back there. where maybe they don't get the point. I stop the car. I turn around. I put my face in the child's face. And I say,

go ahead, make my day. Now what I've done at that point is I've filled his vision and filled his attention and filled his focus of attention with me and my word. What I say has more reality than any of his little impulses. My friends, to be in the presence of God means always his power is so real that you're not intimidated by anything else. His love is so real that you're not swayed or wooed by any higher loyalty. Now, the fact is, we're all subject. The presence of God is subject to degrees. I said so. You're in my presence now, but you can walk forward and be more in my presence. The presence of God and experience of the presence of God, which is available to all Christians, is something we have to seek continually because it's available continually. And sometimes it comes through with incredible power. Jonathan Edwards, some of you have heard of him. He was a congregational minister in New England 200 years ago. Listen to this little note from his prayer diary. As I rode out into the woods for my health, one day in 1737 now, I had a view that was for me extraordinary. The inward eyes of my heart were open, and I saw the glory of the Son of God and His wonderful, great, pure, and sweet grace and love. The person of Christ appeared ineffably excellent, with an excellency great enough to swallow up all my thoughts and conceptions. This continued as near as I could judge, as a condition of me, for about an hour, and such as to keep me the greater part of the time in a flood of tears and weeping aloud. I felt an ardency of soul to be full of Christ alone, to love him with a holy and pure love, to trust in him, to live upon him, and to serve him. Now, I don't know about you, but when I read a statement like that, this is what I think. Is this guy in the same religion I'm in? Maybe I'm in the international league and he's in the big leagues or something. No? Don't be discouraged. He was experiencing the presence of God at a heightened degree. And the presence of God is something you cannot push buttons and experience to the same degree when you go before him in your private prayer or when you come together and go before him corporately. But what the Scripture teaches is that we expect far too little of this. We expect so little reality in our lives. The people of the church experience this, and you see in verses 33 and 37, a lot of interesting descriptions, but they all boil down to two things, and they're both in verse 33. Great power and great grace. Power and grace. You see, look. If you see God's power, if it's real to you, you know, it's up in your face. First of all, you will stop being a coward. about a lot of things. You're not afraid. That's why boldness, every time in the book of Acts, go through it and watch, every time it says they were filled with the Spirit, it says they got bold. Because you see God and you say, what the heck am I afraid of? This is for me. But it also means, when you see the power of God, that you stop being cynical. I warned you I was going to get to this. Let me push this button. Cynicism is a condition where shaky things look solid to you. Things that are shaky. Things that can come down. The habits in your life you haven't been able to kick. The people in your life, the people you know that you've given up on. They'll never change. The people that are either too powerful and together to ever, ever, ever be reached for Christ. Or the people who are too messed up and weird and twisted to ever be helped by Christ. The cultural trends that will never, never change and reverse. All these things make you cynical. You don't expect much. You are not living in the presence of God. It's impossible to have any kind of a grip on His power and be cynical. Repent. And I know, starting up here, at least 80-90% of us tonight ought to respond to this passage than we've got in our lives. Do you hear that? If you don't do that, if you don't even think about it, you can always say, oh, it was awfully hot and it was hard to really concentrate that night. And the other thing that always is the result of being in the presence of God besides great power is great grace. You see, there's a hardness and a toughness that comes from seeing God and there's an intimacy. Because to be in the presence of God means His love washes over you. and the effect of that is to make you generous. That's why these people were incredibly generous with their money, with their time. In fact, I want you to know the early Romans thought that Christians were unbelievably strange in two major ways. Christians stood out completely in the early Roman Empire because, number one, because of their sexual purity and number two, because of their incredible financial generosity. Those were the two things that set them completely apart from their society. On the one hand, they believed that sex was something exclusively for the marriage covenant period. On the other hand, they were anti-materialistic, incredibly generous, and deeply involved in helping the needs of the poor. And you see, I think that when you see somebody who's incredibly licentious in their personal life, but wonderfully altruistic in their social action, or when you see somebody who's unbelievably upright and moral in their personal life, but proud and greedy and materialistic when it comes to their social ethics, you cannot see in either of those mirrors God. Because anyone who sees God is both full of great power and great grace. Without God, you can be a barbarian or you can be a wimp. But you can't be a person who's being transformed in the image of Jesus Christ as the more we look at Him face to face. You know, the medieval... The medieval concept of chivalry, the knights of the round table, that was a Christian concept because knights were not just supposed to be fierce. They were all supposed to be meek in culture. They weren't just supposed to be meek in culture. They were supposed to be fierce. between fierceness and meekness, sort of a happy medium. They were fierce to the nth degree and they were meek to the nth degree. And that's a picture of what a Christian is. It's a picture of what the church is. And a church that's continually living in the presence of God will constantly be looked at as weird. Because on the one hand, we won't be a legalistic church always talking about repentance without any talk about grace and compassion. church always talking about positive, wonderful self-esteem without ever calling people to the bad news of the gospel. Do you see that? If we live in the presence of God, we'll be weird. All right. In the next few weeks, I'll talk to you about a bit more, quite a bit more about how you get there. But let me just say this. If you look to see how the apostles got into this condition. I would challenge you to look at the two things. Number one, they did not form a committee. They prayed. And it's a long prayer. It takes up the whole chapter. You know, when I was getting ready to preach on this thing, I wanted stuff. I wanted to find points in this. You see, a big preacher wants to find points in his text. Well, the whole point is they prayed and they prayed. It goes on verse and verse. They prayed. down. I said, gosh, there's only one point. There's two. They prayed and they prayed. They didn't form a committee. They didn't jump to what the church does. They started with what the church is. And they filled their minds with it. And they prayed. And the prayer is completely unselfish. They're not praying for themselves at all. They don't say, oh Lord, protect us. Protect our kids. They don't say, oh Lord, when the new election comes in, bring a mayor in, an administration that will be more open to religious freedom. They say, oh Lord, just don't down. So they pray. It's kingdom centered. It's corporate. It's prevailing. But the other thing they do is they make themselves a living sacrifice. Now this is another sermon, so I can just summarize. In the Old Testament, whenever God's fire came down, it was because somebody put a sacrifice there. And the bigger the sacrifice, the more goats and sheep and oxen and all that were up there, the bigger the fire. The lavish, lavish sacrifices, the most extravagant and expensive sacrifices brought down the biggest fire. These apostles made themselves living sacrifices in that period. If you look carefully, what they're saying is, oh Lord, take us. We don't care if we're killed. We go flat out for you. We make ourselves a living sacrifice. You know how they did it? They said, I'm going to obey you and we're going to trust you. And no matter what happens, we're going to obey and trust you and make our life sacrifices. Until you do that, you can forget about experiencing the presence of God and being people of power and grace. Until a group of people does this, you can forget about the Church ever being anything remarkable. Don't you see? What does it mean to make yourself a sacrifice? What does it mean to put yourself on the altar? It means, number one, one. Give Him your agenda. Some of you have got agendas that you won't give up. You believe the basic Christian principles. You come to church. You try to be moral. But you know what your agenda is? This is what it is. You've decided your life has got to go in a certain way. And if God is going to be loving and kind and good to you, He's going to give you that agenda that you've got set. And you're going to take that agenda or nothing at all. And you're watching God to see whether He does it. And some of you are pretty upset

you sacrifice your agenda or you're not set. You're not a sacrifice. You have to say, Lord, your agenda, not mine. You have to say, my time, my money, my will. And if you give him those things, he turns it to gold. I just finished with a story. There was an old beggar. This can't be a true story. Who cares? There was an old beggar years ago that lived back when there was a king and a king came to town. and the beggar lifted his plate to him. And it was full of foodstuffs and things that had been put in there by people who had been donating all day. And he lifted it to the king, and the king says, Oh, no, I'm not going to give you anything. I want you to give me something. The beggar says, Wait a minute. This isn't very democratic. But he put his head down, and he reached in and pulled out all the rice that was in there, five grains. There was a lot of other things in there. He pulled out five grains of rice and put it in the king's hand. The king said, thank you. That night, the fairy tale goes, the beggar came back and looked into his bowl and he found five nuggets of gold in there with the carrots and the potatoes. And he looked down and he said, This is how the fairy tale ends. And it's not a Christian fairy tale, but I'm making it that, you know. The fairy tale ends like this. Oh, that I had given him all. No sacrifice, no fire, no power, no grace. The only way to receive a king into your life is to give him the key to the house, to the life. Let's bow in prayer. Our Father, all we ask is that you would enable us to see that we cannot lose anything worth keeping if we give ourselves to you totally. Corporately, we need to do that as a body, but individually, first of all, we need to do that. Many of us are holding on to our agendas. Many of us are holding on to our time,

many things that we believe we cannot lose. But Father, we have to put everything on that altar and then we will gain what? You yourself. Enable every person here to do that. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.