We've been moving through the Gospel of John, and today I'm going to read to you from verses 6 to 19. This is the great prayer of Jesus to his Father about us, about his brothers and sisters, just before he's about to die. Let me read you from verse 6 to 19.

I have revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me and they have obeyed your word. Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you. For I gave them the words you gave me and they accepted them. They knew with certainty that I came from you and they believe that you sent me. I pray for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those who have you have given me. yours. All I have is yours and all you have is mine. And glory has come to me through them. I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world. And I am coming to you, Holy Father. Protect them by the power of your name, the name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and gave them safe. I kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction so that the scripture would be fulfilled. I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word and the world has hated them for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For them, I sanctify myself, that they too may be truly sanctified.

This is a reading. This is the end of the reading of God's word.

We looked at last week and we're looking this week at the issue of mission. Let's remember what we already said.

Every human being needs mission. What's mission? To be in mission is to be living for a cause that's more important than your own comfort in life, so that you're willing to sacrifice. It's to live your life for a cause that you sacrifice your needs and conveniences for because the cause is more important than yourself. And to be in mission is to ally yourself with a force that you know can make a difference against the misery and brokenness of the world. You're not a person in mission unless you've got those two things. To live for a cause more important than yourself. To ally yourself with a force more powerful than yourself that can make a difference in the world. to make a difference in the world. That's mission. And unless you are living that, unless you're a person in mission, you really do not come into the fullness of what we might call humanity. You're really not a fully human person. For example, if you are living, basically, for a better career, for a nicer home, or for a sharp spouse, you're not a person in mission because you're not living for anything living to fulfill your own needs. And you know that even if you accomplish that, if that is your goal in life, you know that's not going to make a difference in the world. And as a result, you wonder why there's emptiness in your life. It's because every human being needs to live for mission. And as the years go by, you realize that. It gets more and more evident. For a while, it's possible, in a sense, to because you haven't reached success your own personal success, for a long time you can deny it. And you can say, if I reach personal success, this emptiness will go away. The trouble is when you get up there, and not many of us make it, but the people who are up there, the people who have made the worldly success, they know what happens inside. They realize they become personally irrelevant. They begin to realize ultimately what they've done. They had their 15 minutes of glory, and it's gone. And they haven't really made a difference.

and as a result they begin to find emptiness and you can go and talk to them, you can ask them or you can watch them or you can look at them or you can just read news articles about them and you realize that they've achieved the highest goals but because they weren't people on mission sacrificing for a higher cause, allied to a higher power

they're empty how about you?

take a look at yourselves what are you sacrificing yourself for? What difference are you going to make in the world? That was the question we put last week. And we see that without mission, there's no joy. I know... I have some friends, for example, some personal friends who've moved to another city of the world and they're going to put their... It's a different city than their own culture. It's a different language than their own language. And they're going to give themselves and their entire families the next 30 or 40 years. They're going to give the rest of their lives to planting dozens of churches around the city to make a difference. moved into the worst, the worst, most poor area of an American city, and their goal is to stay there the rest of their lives, that's at least 40 to 60 years, and do nothing but rehab houses until every single person in that very poor community owns their own houses, living in dignity and decent and safe conditions, and so the poverty in that area is eradicated. That's their mission. I know a bunch of businessmen who have put themselves together, and they have started Almost all of the prophets of which are going to plant new churches and start ministries like the ones we just mentioned. Those people are pressed and they're often in tears, but they're not empty. In other words, they're always crying, but they're not really sad. They are people in mission. And the great thing about this text is that Jesus says, As the Father sent me into the world, so I send you. As you sent me Father into the world, I send them into the world. Jesus doesn't just give us a mission in general. I think most counselors realize that many times, many depressed people are so self-absorbed that they need to just get out of themselves and serve somebody else's need. Some counselors just realize that mission in general is healthy psychologically for people. But Jesus doesn't come along and just say, go and get involved in mission in general. He says, I want you to be partners with me in my specific particular mission. Now, what is that mission? What remains for us to look at here today is not to look at like what we looked at last week, the joy of mission, the importance, and so on, but what's the specific nature of Jesus' mission and then of our mission? And I would just like you to look at two principles that are taught here. The one is that the mission of Jesus Christ is to show the glory of his Father, and therefore the mission of us, his people, is to show the glory of Christ. Christ's mission is to glorify his Father. Our mission is to glorify Christ. It's right here in the text. In verse 4, Jesus says, Father, I have glorified you through the work that you gave me to do. But in verse 10, and that's the verse that's been burning a hole in my thinking all week and that I want now to share that same burning sensation, with you. In verse 10, it says, Jesus says to the Father, and I receive glory through them. Do you see that? In verse 10, some translation says, I am glorified in them. In the translation I just read, it says, all I have is yours, and all you have is mine, and glory has come to me through them. The work of the Son is to glorify the Father, but the work of us, the people, is to glorify Christ. What does that mean? Let me show you. First of all, Jesus' mission in life is to show the glory of God to the world. Verse 4. Verse 6, it says, I revealed your name. Why would that be a mission? Here's why. Thesis. Our cultural crises of the day and our personal crises of the day are glory issues. Do you remember eight or nine months ago we talked somewhat about what the glory of God meant? Well, now we're back to that. Because Jesus very clearly says, my mission is to show the glory of God. That's what the world needs. And somebody says, why? Why does the world need that? Doesn't the world need something more practical? Look at the problems. Look at the cultural problems we have. Look at the social breakdown. Look at the psychological problems. Look at the problems of this world. Why are you talking about theology? We need something practical. We need practical help. and Jesus Christ comes and says there's no more practical help than this because our cultural crises and our personal crises have to do with this very thing. We don't see the glory of God. We don't know the glory of God. Our crises come from that. What's glory? Anybody remember? The word glory means weighty as opposed to frivolous. Substantial as opposed to unimportant. Lasting as opposed to temporary or forgettable. of moment, something that's material, something that matters. The word matter, which means weight, and the word glory is essentially the same thing. To show that something is glorious means that it lasts, that it has matter. So, for example, if you put something weighty in a stream of water, the water goes around it. Why? Because, you see, this great rock that you've put in there has more glory than the water. It lasts. It stays. Now, you put something strawier, flimsy, something with less glory than the water, and what happens is it just is blown away, and it's no longer there. Question. What? What really lasts in history? Think of history. Think of history as the water. Think of history as a stream. What really lasts. Let's be practical about this. Suppose you realize that you could tell the truth and pay all your taxes, or you could lie and end up with a few thousand dollars more in the bank this year than you would otherwise. What are you doing? You're making a decision about glory. That's what you're doing. You're saying, well, I could lie, in which case the money is more glorious than honesty. The effects of that decision ultimately. Say well, I have a spasm of conscience, but then I'll have a lot of money do a lot of other things. What really is important? Whenever you decide something like that, honesty or money, you are making a glory decision. What is more glorious? What's more important? What is more lasting? What has more value? What matters the most? Of course, in many cases, we think it's the money, not the honesty. And yet, you know what? New York City, in thousands of ways, for at least 100 years, has had continual decisions like that. The bid rigging and the kickbacks and the bribery and the not paying people and the not paying the taxes has been coming and coming and coming. And what was more glorious than New York City? What is more glorious than Manhattan? What looks more lasting and stable and immovable than that? And yet, the city is breaking up in pieces. It's not productive. It's not competitive. Bit by bit, even New York, because of decisions that say money's more important than honesty, we'll find out, we'll find out that honesty is more important than honesty. I mean, pardon me, that honesty is more important than money. I scared you, didn't I? The honesty is more important than money. That's the thing that's weighty. This is a glory issue. a culture problem? Here's the reason. When you decide that honesty is more important than money or money is more important than honesty, you're making a theological decision about glory. When you decide it's more important for me to tell the truth than to make this money, you are saying God is more important. Obeying God is more glory, is more of a glory thing. It's more glorious than the money. But if on the other hand you say it's more important that I have the money than I am honest, what you're saying is there. It's an atheistic decision. If there is no God, if there's no God, then nature is all there is. And eventually all this is going to burn up. And ultimately nothing you do makes any difference one way or the other. If you live a good life or if you live a violent life, if there is no God, God, ultimately, it makes no difference. Eventually, the earth is going to burn up, and nobody will be around to even remember things. What will really last if there's no God? The answer is nothing. What really has glory if there is no God? The answer is nothing. If you say, well, I don't know that there's no God. I'm not sure there's no God. In that case, then you're not sure what lasts. If you know there's no God, then you know there's nothing that matters, and nothing is glorious. Nothing will last. If you're not sure that there's a God, then you don't know what will last. It's beginning to dawn on people, and that's why we're having a cultural crisis. It's beginning to dawn on people, why the deterioration of ethics? Why the lack of productivity? Why the selfishness? Why the crime? Why this social breakdown? Here's why. Listen. It's beginning to incrementally dawn on people. If religion is just a tranquilizer and there's really no such thing as God,

this life is all there is, which is what secularism is. The saculum, the present. If this life, if this present world is all there is, then if I live a life of crime and violence or a life of kindness and compassion, it ultimately makes no difference at all. Nothing really matters. There is no glory. That is the unraveling of a city. That is the unraveling of a society. and therefore Jesus knows and I hope that right now you know that unless people see sola dea gloria that to God alone be the glory unless people see that there is God and that the hymn alone belongs the glory nothing else nothing else will matter and we cannot build have a basis for any kind of values unless there's a God nobody has ever yet discovered a basis for values apart from religion. Not only is our culture breaking down, but as I mentioned before, we personally break down. If we really can only live for ourselves, if the most glorious thing we've got is our own happiness, eventually we realize that we're personally irrelevant, we're personally inconsequential. Is it really, does it really, is it just a coincidence that the more rich and powerful The more powerful a neighborhood is, the more counselors there are there. The more suicides, in many cases, are really there. Why? The more on happiness really, really, really, really, really Because ultimately, when you live for yourself, you become personally irrelevant, you don't make a difference, and it's your lack. Again, it's a glory issue. What is really valuable? What really matters? What will really last?

Jesus knows that at the roots of our cultural crisis and at the root of our psychological crisis is glory. If there is a God, then the only thing that will last is that which is done through him. The only thing that will really endure is that which is done for him. The only thing that will really endure is those things which are done with him. And if there is no God, nothing makes any difference at all. I am not being pessimistic. I am being reasonable. And anybody, anybody else I think who is reasonable sees they've got to go one way or the other. There's no basis for society or else there's God. There's no basis for my really being personally relevant. and knowing that there's hope and that there's some reason for me to live where there's God. There's none or there's everything. It's all or nothing. And therefore Jesus says, no God, no glory. No God, no society. No God, no personal meaning and hope. No glory.

You've got nothing. And therefore Jesus Christ comes and says, says my job is to show and reveal the name of my Father. But then what's our mission? Now, our mission is not quite the same. Now, this, by the way, doesn't mean that you've got to interpret the text or interpret me as saying that you're not supposed to talk about God, the Father in general, and you're not supposed to talk about Jesus. That's not the point. What the point of this is, is that God does not send us, Jesus does not send us in the world to talk about God in general, but on about Jesus Christ as the way to the Father in particular. In verse 10, you have a staggering statement. Jesus says, I get my glory through them. The world sees my beauty. The world sees my centrality, my importance. To glorify something means to show people it's critical. To glorify something means to show people it's all important, it's crucial, it's central. It's more important. It's more glorious than anything else. Jesus says that he has created us and he has sent us into the world to be able to show people that he is glorious. Now, what's interesting about this is this is the same mission as the Holy Spirit. Those of you who've been here for a few weeks realize we've spent some time talking about that. In John 16, verse 14, Jesus says that the Spirit has come into the world to do what? but Jesus says the Holy Spirit will glorify me. He will take the things that I've said and reveal these things to you. He will glorify me. What's the difference between a religious person and someone in whom the Holy Spirit has actually come and worked? What's the difference between a moral person and someone in whom the Holy Spirit has actually fulfilled his mission? I'll tell you what the difference is. A moral religious person Jesus, enjoys Jesus, listens to Jesus, obeys Jesus, believes in Jesus, and he's one of many things in their lives. But a person that the Holy Spirit has worked on, the Holy Spirit's job is to show the splendor of God. The Holy Spirit's job of Christ, the Holy Spirit's job is to show the importance and centrality and the critical nature of Christ. when you have had the Holy Spirit work on you look at Christ and you say he is more glorious than anything else so for example you know how a Christian gets hold of their conscience a religious person says I should be better I should be better Jesus died for my sins I know I'm forgiven in some general sort of way but I'm never good enough but the Holy Spirit comes in and awakens the Christian and the Christian says I see that I have been giving more weight. I've been giving more glory to my performance than to Jesus' performance. Listen to this. See, when a Christian has the Holy Spirit work on him or her, the Christian says, I've been giving more weight to my performance and my obedience than Jesus' performance and Jesus' obedience. I haven't been glorifying Jesus enough and that's why I feel guilty. Jesus is the solution to my guilt. become the solution to your guilt? He becomes the solution to your guilt when the Holy Spirit glorifies him. And you see him as central. You repent of having given too much weight to your own sins and failures and lapses and not enough weight to what he did on the cross for you. And suddenly the cross becomes glorious and you're healed. That's the work of the Spirit. Or here's another thing. Why are a lot of you anxious? A lot of you are anxious because know in some general way that God's in charge of the universe, but you think you know what's best. You think you know what's got to happen. And if that happens, it's all over, right? And if that doesn't happen, my life is ruined. But when the Holy Spirit works on you, you say, I have been giving more glory and more weight to my own judgment than I have been to his wisdom. And now I see that the Bible says Jesus Christ rules all things for me. and the more weight you give to his wisdom and his love, the more you're healed of that anxiety and on and on. A Christian is somebody who says, Jesus is the most important thing. He's glorious to me. I no longer can live my life my way. He's got to be first in every way. In my thought life, my intellectual life, my career, my sexuality, my use of possessions and money, in every way, he's got to be first. That's the difference between a moral person and a Christian. Is there anybody out there that says,

this is a fanatical approach. I believe in being moral. I believe in the Christian ethic. But this idea of, this is fanatical. That means by definition the Holy Spirit has not done his work in you. Do you hear that? Because the job of the Holy Spirit is to make him glorious. To make him central, critical in your life. For you to see the solution to all my problems, my anxiety problem, my guilt problem. The solution to my priorities problem. I have to revolve everything in my life around him. Until you see that, the Holy Spirit hasn't done his work because that's his work to make him glorious. You look at Jesus and you say, how did I ever do it without you? You look at Jesus and say, how did I ever miss his splendor? Nothing, nothing, nothing else impacts your life has the weight that Jesus has now. Has that happened to you? Until it happens, not gone in your life. You've resisted it. You've turned away. Now here's what's so astonishing. Christian friends, what's so astonishing is that when Jesus says that he sends us into the world so that we will now glorify him, we are partners. We are participants in the work of the Trinity. We are participants with the Holy Spirit. That's a staggering structure of thought. we're not out there just being able to we're not out there in a sense just recruiting people to come to church Jesus doesn't say he's not sending us out as salesmen and saleswomen what he's saying is that I have set things up so that you can do the same thing in people's lives that the Holy Spirit does the Holy Spirit will work through you the Holy Spirit will work in you and you will bring people to see my glory well, somebody says how do you do that? suggest it happens in these ways. First of all, it happens when you talk to people about The Glory of Christ. You have to talk to people about it. You do it in every other realm. What happens when great music grips you? What do you do to your friend? You take your friend and you sit him down and you say, you've got to listen to this. And what you do usually is you try to really want to impress the person with the music. You have them come in and you put them in the nicest this chair in your apartment, sit back, listen, let me get you something to drink. I really want you to listen to this. And what you're doing is you are seeking out of love for that friend and also out of love for the music, you're seeking to glorify the music. You're trying to bring the glory and the weight and the beauty and the impact of that music that it had in your life into his life. Now, sometimes he doesn't get it, does he? He sits there and says, oh, that's nice. Well, well, what do you do? You don't keep pounding. A heart can only be unlocked from the inside. But he appreciates your effort, and you hope that someday he'll see the light, and you realize that this is the only kind of music that really ennobles a human being. But you see, what is that? You do that, you know, a doctor has helped you, you glorify her to your friends. An actor, you think he's great, you glorify him to your friends. A great book, a great bit of music, glorification. It rings with the praises. Christians, you've got to open your mouth. You've got to say, this is how all of my problems actually have been dealt with. He is central. You've got to open your mouth. But secondly, here's the other thing. You've got to show forth his glory. There is no doubt that what Jesus is saying is that you are supposed to be living, living evidences of his glory. Now this is a rather frightening thing, and let's just, let's just shudder a little bit under the weight of it for a minute. Let me tell you the best way that you can be a missionary, when you are inexplicable to people unless they resort to Christ as an explanation for you. That's how Jesus glorified his father, he was continually baffling people. He was an enigma. Why? You see, there are lots of ways of writing off religious people. And many of us are so inconsistent that we fall right into the categories. Some people say, well, religious people have had dysfunctional families. And therefore, they're perfectionistic, they're legalistic, and they have to impose their views on other people. They just have to. They need certainty, you see, because they didn't have certainty growing up. And therefore, they're insecure people. And they're rigid people. And they can't be open intellectually, and they can't be open personally. Other folks say, well, some folks are just weak. They failed in life. That's the reason why any famous celebrity has been revealed or exposed to be doing something wrong, has gone to prison, has been brought down. And when that person turns around and says, I found Jesus, everybody goes, yeah, there we go. There we go. Sure. You know, when you failed in every other way, when you have actually been a failure in every other way, of course, religion, it's a last resort. Go ahead. Fine. Everybody says fine. If you're that weak a person, if you're that needy a person, we're not going to keep you from your crutch. Some people say it's the training. You know, if you've been trained up by parents who are really religiously strict, you can never really get over it. You can try your very best and you can never quite get over it. So people stereotype religious people. The Bible says that Jesus Christ came and glorified his father by baffling them. On the one hand, he threw out the money changers in the temple. Do you imagine, all by himself, can you imagine what kind of authority he must have had in his voice? Can you imagine, just go ahead, all by yourself, try to throw all the street vendors off Canal Street in the middle of the spring sometime, and just see how far you get. Can you imagine the kind of authority and power that man must have had? But on the other hand, he was able to get prostitutes to trust him. Children love to play in his lap. And everybody said, if he's like this, then how could he be like this? If he's like this, then how could he be like this? And what you see all through the New Testament is, we've never seen anyone like this. We've never heard anybody speak like this. Now my question to you is, are you an enigma to your friends? To the people who really know you, are you inexplicable unless they resort to Christ as the only secret for why you are the way you are? Huh?

Listen, do your friends realize that though you have more firm convictions about religion than they do, that they still than they are? That you're more open-minded? You're less ideologically narrow? And they can't figure it out. Is that true of you, though? Or are you explicable? On the other hand, let's just say you're lonely, very lonely, and you got your friends who are lonely. But they look at you and they see that, on the one hand, you handle your loneliness in a way that they don't, and yet you're You're more honest about how much it hurts than they are. And yet, you deal with it and you'd explain it with no self-pity at all. And they go, how could this person be this way? Are you an enigma? Are you a paradox? Until people cannot explain you, except unless they say it's because of Christ. I don't know if I believe in Christ. I don't even know what I think about it. But what I know is that Christ, in this person's life, is what gives this person a kind of equanimity and justice, a kind of courage, but the same kind of humility and approachability and an openness, at the same time a firmness and a courage, which I can't explain, but I know it's got something to do with that person's religion. Is there anybody talking about you like that? Until they are, I'm not sure that you are participating in this work of mission.

Now, lastly, just the last thing. When Jesus says, Now, I'm going to have to end anyway. There's more to do. But when you think about mission, you can't just simply say, I talk to people about it, I live a consistent Christian life. You also ultimately have to realize that Jesus Christ says, as I sanctified myself, so that they might be sanctified. Right after he said, as I go into the world, so I send them. See, when Jesus says, I sanctify myself for mission. He means I set myself apart and it costs me something. He eats mission. He drinks mission. It costs him. And the point is, what is it costing you? Are you really volunteering your time to reach out to people? We've got tons right here in New York, all sorts of volunteer approaches just here, just in our church. And we're only two years old. You can tutor inner city kids. You can visit AIDS patients, right? You can help people who are looking for another job if you've been through that before. There's all sorts of things that you can do. You can rehab houses. You can serve people food who are homeless at a homeless rehabilitation shelter. That's just our little church, and that's just a few of these things, and yet all those ministries go hurting for volunteers. How many hours are you putting into that? how much money are you putting into these kinds of works when jesus says i sanctify myself a friend of mine some of you have heard of marcy sproll tells me this story that when he was a he was in high school he was in he was a high school football player and one day he dropped a pass and afterwards the football coach came over to him and took the football put it in his hand and said, I don't want you to put this football down for a week. I want you to eat with it. I want you to sleep with it. I want you to take your showers with it. I don't want... I want you to eat football, drink football, and sleep football for a week. I never want you to drop this all week so that next week you'll be able to catch the pass. And he did. And you see, he ate football. He drank football. And a lot of you know that. In your business, in your careers, You've done this before. But don't you see, where does it get you? What dent does it really make in the world, for example? Now Jesus says, Jesus said, my meat and my drink is to do the will and show the glory of my Father. Look what it cost him to show you his glory. Now what's it going to cost you to show somebody else his glory? Nothing close. But it'll be something. What's it costing you?

give yourself

lose yourself in mission and you will find yourself let's pray Father we're about to take an offering up I pray that you would enable us to not simply consider this a time of giving money but rather a time of making a new commitment to unselfish living ways in which we can be showing other people glory by talking about it, by embodying it, and by giving of ourselves in service. And now, Lord, I ask that you would grant that we would all in this room devote ourselves and renew and deepen our commitment. Now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
