The scripture is from Isaiah 25 and 26.

On this mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples, a banquet of aged wine, the best of meats and the finest of wines. On this mountain, he will destroy the shroud that enfolds all peoples, the sheet that covers all nations. He will swallow up death forever. The sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from all faces. He will remove the disgrace of his people from all the earth. The Lord has spoken. In that day they will say, surely this is our God. We trusted in him and he saved us. This is the Lord. We trusted in him. Let us rejoice and be glad in his salvation. salvation. The hand of the Lord will rest on this mountain, but Moab will be trampled under him, as straw is trampled down in the manure. They will spread out their hands in it as a swimmer spreads out his hands to swim. God will bring down their pride despite the cleverness of their hands. He will bring down your high fortified walls and lay them low. He will bring them down to the ground, dust. In that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. God makes salvation its walls and ramparts. Open the gates that the righteous nation may enter, the nation that keeps faith. You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast because he trusts in you. Trust in the Lord forever. For the Lord, the Lord, is the rock eternal. He humbles those who dwell on high. He lays the lofty city low. He levels it to the ground. And casts it down to the dust. Feet trampled it down. The feet of the oppressed. The footsteps of the poor.

Each week we're looking at another aspect of Redeemer's vision statement, which we print every week this fall in the bulletin. Redeemer's not here just to hold services. We are here to build a great city for all peoples through a gospel movement that brings personal conversion, community formation, social justice and cultural renewal city to the world, and we, for three weeks, were looking at what is the gospel, and now we look at probably the second most important word in that purpose statement, and that is the word city, and Isaiah talks incessantly about cities, and we're looking at the book of Isaiah, so let's see what Isaiah teaches us about what God thinks, what the Bible thinks, and therefore, I hope, what we would think about cities, and we're going to look at it under three headings, So Isaiah tells us about the importance of cities, the two cities, and the final city. The important cities, the two cities, and the final city. First of all, the important city. Now this point is drawn more from reading between the lines of Isaiah. Notice, for example, verse 1. In that day the song will be sung in the land of Judah. We have a strong city. city. Isaiah talks about urban realities incessantly, so much that sometimes people have called this the book of the city. He talks about cities 60 times. And it's always so positive. See, we're singing. We have a city. We're living in a city. And when you not only read Isaiah, but when you read really the whole Bible, you can tell, well, maybe you don't if you just read one verse here or there, but when you put all what the Bible says about the city sort of end-to-end and read through it, it's very, very clear that the Bible has a much more positive understanding of cities than we do. The assumption behind so much of what the Bible says about cities is anyone in their right mind would want to live in a city. Go look at Psalm 107, great place. Psalm 107, it starts off by saying, oh, these poor people, they don't live in a city. And then they And God, in his mercy, hears their cry, and he lets them live in a city, takes them to a city. And when the children of Israel go into the promised land, when they go into Canaan, you can read about this in Numbers 35, God orders them, as they're starting to settle the land, he orders them to build six cities. He orders them to build six cities. In other words, he orders a certain degree of urbanization. He orders density. city. He orders walls and gates and town squares. Now, when we, most of us, especially modern Americans, hear this positive understanding of the city, we really don't understand it. What's the big deal about having a strong city, living in a city? Why is it so important? And basically, the answer that's assumed, some places it's stated directly, but it's usually assumed, is simply this. Look at the history of the human race. Cities have always provided a diversity of human connections. In the cities, there's more people like you than anywhere else, and there's more people unlike you than anywhere else. There's a greater diversity of human connections, and contacts, and networks, and alliances possible, and because of that, because there's so many more people like you, as good as you, in the city than somewhere else, and there's so many people unlike you, utterly different from you, in the city than somewhere else, it creates creativity, it creates innovation, it gets you to think in new ways, and throughout the history of the human race, out of cities has come new ideas, new practices, innovations, trends, and therefore, the cities set the course of the culture, as the cities go, there goes the society, and that's the reason why Isaiah, and the reason why the prophets are so hard on cities, that's why they're so hard on Jerusalem, they know this, that if the rich trample the poor in Jerusalem, they're going to trample the poor everywhere, if a worship idols in Jerusalem, then the rest of the nation will be idol-worshipping. If the cities decline spiritually and morally and socially and culturally, then the whole society goes that way because as the society goes, so goes the society. And that was also the assumption behind the very first Christian missionaries. You can read about it in the book of Acts. Let me say this in a very, very stark way. The early Christian ministers and evangelists, If you read in the book of Acts, and it went on after the book of Acts, we know from history a couple hundred years, the early Christian ministers and missionaries and evangelists and all that, when they wanted to spread the gospel, they went almost exclusively to cities, and they almost ignored everywhere else. You can read about it in Acts 16, where Paul wanted to reach Macedonia. So what did he do? It says in Acts 16, he chose the biggest city in Macedonia, Philippi, went there, planted churches, and then left. Why? because if you have a culture like they did in Rome and it's not a whole lot different than New York City if you have a culture in which the dominant theme is self-glorification and power and you want to turn it toward the way of service and the way of forgiveness and the way of sacrifice and the way of love and the way of peace then the only possible way you could affect your society is you have to go into the cities and live that life out there It's the only possible way. So the early Christian missionaries ignored everywhere else, went to the cities, and by the year 300 A.D.,

historians will tell us that the urban populations of the Roman Empire were about 50% Christian, whereas the rest of the countryside was pagan. In fact, our word pagan comes from the Greek word for farmer or man of the country. But you see, if the cities are going in one direction and the countryside is all another direction, it doesn't matter. the society's going that way, and that's what happened.

And therefore, what the Bible shows us is the cities are crucial, they're important. As the cities go, so goes the society. That's the first thing we learn. So, first we see the importance of the city. The second thing we learn in the book of Isaiah is that the history of the world is a tale of two cities. The history of the world is a tale of two cities, and these two cities are actually described for us here, especially the last half, 26 verses 1 to 6. The strong city and the lofty city. You notice that those are two different things. We have a strong city. That's up there in verse 1 to 4. And then God humbles the lofty city. Let's look at these two. What is the lofty city? The lofty city is a human social order based on pride, verse 5, not humility, and based on self-salvation, not, verse 1, God's salvation. the first example of a human social order a city based on self-salvation was the tower of babel which by the way was a skyscraper being built in genesis 11 and all the people came to that city and built that skyscraper were told genesis 11 verse 4 to make a name for ourselves now from the book of genesis all the way to modern to contemporary i should say post postmodern theory, from the book of Genesis all the way to contemporary postmodern theory, everyone has always said that the power to name things, the power to define things, is the ultimate power there is. And when people say, I'm going to make a name for myself, what they're really saying is, I'm going to be my own savior and lord. And a city based on self-salvation is a city based on the idea that you can create yourself, self-creation, self-definition, self-justification, through performance and accomplishment, which, of course, by the way, is the central cultural narrative of New York City. Self-definition, self-creation through performance and accomplishment. Now, if you have a social order based on that, based on self-salvation, not God's salvation, you have a social order of what? Exhaustion and oppression. First of all, it's exhausting. Notice the contrast. The lofty city, unlike the strong city, which we'll look at in a minute here, does not have perfect peace. Instead of self-creation, self-definition means you're always driven. You're always restless. You're always exhausted. You're never sure. In fact, the higher you go in the lofty city, the more nervous you get. How are you going to keep your position? How are you going to keep it up? People think you're really great that you got to this place, but can you do it tomorrow? day and what about the competition you're always restless you're always driven so there's a place of exhaustion but it's also a place of oppression it's a place where the poor are trampled it's a place where because of the if you know you're building your own definition if you're if you're building your own identity and you're therefore constantly exhausted and at the very least you're not going to notice the problems of other people and at the worst

so the lofty city is a human social order a city built on self-salvation and power not on god's salvation and peace based on self-creation not service there's another social order there's another city and that city here is described as the strong city that's verses one to four we have a strong city notice it's based on god's salvation god makes Now, what does that mean? This means instead of a social order based on power, it's based on peace. Instead of a social order based on your life to benefit me, it's a social order based on the idea of my life to benefit you. You don't need to create yourself. You know who you are. And that's the reason why verse 3 says,

Now, two things. of all, this city, this divine city, this city of God as opposed to the earthly city, this new human social order is marked by the word peace, which is the word shalom. And in Hebrew, the word shalom, which we translate peace, is much richer. We say that every time, right? It's much richer than our English word peace, which usually means the cessation of hostilities or maybe just an inner or calm, but shalom means full flourishing, absolute flourishing in every area. A shalom actually means to be webbed and knit together. We'll talk about this when we get to the subject of justice. I'm experiencing physical shalom when my body is working fine and when it starts to break down and the parts do not, you know, mesh and the parts start to fight with each other, like in the case of cancer or something like that. I lose my physical shalom. It unravels. I disintegrate. Shalom is interdependence, interwovenness, cohesion, wholeness, physically, emotionally, socially. This city is a city of shalom, but here's what else I like about this, is you will keep him in perfect peace. In Hebrew, very often, the way you get magnitude across is through doubling. The way you get intensity across is through doubling. It doesn't actually, In Hebrew, there's no word for perfect peace here. What it actually says, literally, is you will keep him in peace, peace. Shalom, shalom. This isn't just shalom. This is shalom, shalom. And it's a way of saying infinite peace. Peace, peace, peace. Not just peace, peace, peace, peace. Infinite peace. Because you don't have to make a name for yourself. You know who you are. And because of that, the city of God is a place of joy and of justice. It's a place of joy because you don't have the relentless, relentless exhaustion of self-creation and definition, and it's a place of justice because you now don't have to move ahead at the expense of other people. You've got the inner peace by which you can serve others, and so there's your two cities, the city of God, the earthly city, the strong city, the lofty city. Now, here's the question. How do these two cities relate to each other? What is their relationship? Where are they? you read this superficially, it would look like that right now we live in the earthly city as place of exhaustion and oppression. And someday God's going to end it and bring in the city of God. That's what it looks like. So for example, near the end of chapter 25, see, it's talking about God bringing in very, very vivid terms, swimming through menorah. God is going to bring down the lofty city. He's going to bring down the oppressive city. He's going to trample it down. and at the end of chapter 26, verse 5 and 6, he's going to level the lofty city. He's going to bring down its oppressive social structures and so forth. So at first it looks like the lofty city, we're in here now, and then someday the city of God. But notice it says in verse 1, chapter 26, we have a strong city, and there's a lot of discussion in the Bible that talks about the presence of this city. It's much more complicated to say city of man, and later, someday, we'll have the city of God. It's so much more complicated than that, and the two people that explain the relationship of these two cities to each other are Jesus and Jeremiah, Jesus and Jeremiah, and I'm going to actually take them in that order. First of all, centuries later, Jesus, knowing this theme from the prophets, knowing this theme that history is a tale of two cities, looks at his disciples, and in one or two verses, in the middle of the Sermon on the Mount, so it tends to get missed, in Matthew chapter 5, he says, you are a city on a hill. He says to his disciples, you are a city on a hill. You are the light of the world. Let your good works shine forth so that men may see them and glorify your Father who is in heaven. Now, when Jesus said that, he wasn't just pulling a metaphor out of the air. He had all of the Old Testament background, and here's what he's saying. He is saying to his knows Jesus and whose life has been changed through radical grace. Anyone who has begun to experience the peace, peace, peace, the perfect peace, the deep peace of not needing to make a name for yourself, not having anything to prove at all. He says, on the basis of that, I want you to form alt.city.org. You are the alternate city of God in every human city. You are an alternate city Which means, everybody, you're not an alternate city if you just simply come to a church service and get something out of it as an individual that gets you inspiration and you go home. You're not an alternate city unless you are creating an alternate human society. And what Jesus is calling us to is he's actually saying, this social order needs to begin to be realized now amongst the members of the people who have been changed by my grace. And therefore what this means is inside the community of Jesus, work should not be the exhausting thing it is when it's self-creation, but the joyful thing it is when it's service. Inside the community of Jesus, people who outside can't get along at all, people of different races and classes and vocations, inside can. can. In the community of Jesus, we use sex, we use money, we use power on different bases. We are the alternate city. We are alt.city.org. We are the alternate city now. We are the strong city in the lofty city. That's what Jesus says you've got to be. Now, if you want a historic example of that, you have to go back even further because what Jesus was not giving us a new idea, even though he always gives it to us in the best form, he's certainly not the new, it was not a brand new idea. Because if you go back to the book of Jeremiah, we see the very thing that Jesus is talking about already, even before the coming of Christ. Now, if somebody says to you, you know, we print this vision statement here, you know, inside the bulletin every week. It says to build a great city for all people through a gospel conversion, community formation, social justice, culturally new to New York. And if somebody says to you, well, where's that in the Bible? Well, it's actually all through the Bible. That's the idea of the fall series. But basically, almost word for word, certainly idea for idea, the whole vision statement can be found in Jeremiah chapter 29, verses 4 to 7. And let me read it to you. No, let me give you a background. The children of Israel had lived for centuries in a culture in which faith in the biblical God was the official religion. and then the Babylonian Empire, Babylonian army came and sacked Jerusalem and killed all sorts of people and took the professional classes in exile to Babylon. The professionals, why? They took the leaders to make them live in Babylon, assuming they would assimilate and lose their cultural distinct identity in a generation or two, and that way they would have subjugated the nation. So when the exiles, the Jewish exiles, who were all professionals, professionals, by the way, came to the outskirts of Babylon, and they knew the agenda of the Babylonians. The agenda was, we want you to move into the center of the city, we want you to build houses, we want you to settle down, we want you to, you know, get involved in the economic life, get involved in the cultural life. They knew what the purpose was, and that was cultural annihilation. So, they just started to congregate on the K-bar canal outside of Babylon, and they figured there's part of the heart of the city and its cultural and economic and social life and lose our distinctive identity, or we can stay out here and be separate and be withdrawn and keep our identity. And then God wrote them in a letter through Jeremiah, and it was a shock. It was a total shock. This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses. Settle down. Plant gardens. Eat what they produce. See? invest in real estate, get involved in the market economy, marry and have sons and daughters, find wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage so they may have sons and daughters. This is what the Babylonians want, right? And then God says, increase in number, do not decrease. Don't lose your identity. Be different. Keep your distinctive beliefs. Keep your distinctive practices. Be different. Increase, do not decrease, and seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. And that's the word shalom, pray to the lord for it because if it prospers you too will prosper now there's three things god told them to do and they are absolutely crucial for us to understand the first thing he said was move all the way in get involved in the life of the city totally secondly he said stay distinct be different keep your beliefs keep your practices even though it'll be offensive to many of the people in that pagan city well here's the question how can you do both of those things, it certainly seems like it's one or the other, and here's the crucial thing, he says, I want you to be different, I want you to keep your practices, your Biblical practices, your Biblical beliefs, but I want you to go into the heart of the city, and go in there, not to feather your own nest, not simply have yourselves a wonderful life, but to seek the peace and shalom of the city, and the word shalom means full flourishing, I want you, out of your Biblical faith and out of your Biblical practices and out of your distinctive faith in God, I want you to go into the heart of this horrible, really horrible, imperialistic, violent, pagan city that's already killed a lot of your relatives and family members. And I want you to make it a safe place, an economically prosperous place, a vital place, a socially just place. I want you to work for the full shalom of the whole city. In other words, the secret is, here's how you can be involved in the city and you keep your identity, go in there as servants. If you go in there simply to increase your tribe, if you go in there simply to increase your wallet, if you go in there just simply to increase your own personal prominence, you will fail. You will simply, in a couple of generations, you will lose all your distinctiveness. You'll become as violent as them, you'll just be part of the city, the lofty city. You'll be building your life on the same things they are. On the other hand, if you go in there and you just say, If you go in there to serve out of your difference, to serve out of your beliefs, to serve. Let me get practical. Why are you here? Why did you come to New York City? You're professionals. Why are you here? I can tell you why we're here. Virtually everybody that comes here comes here premised on a cost-benefit analysis for you personally. You're here so you can say, I've got a job in New York, and it helps your resume. May, you're here because there's some, you're here to make money, you're here to make it in your career, you're here to enjoy the cultural opportunities, you're here to incorporate into your self-image the coolness of having lived in New York City, you're here to meet cool connected people, in other words, you're here to plunder the city, and it will convert you, I don't care whether you're a Christian or not, you're going to be assimilated by this power-hungry, fairly cruel, rapacious city,

it's going to get you, if you just come here to build a great life, in fact, if you just come here to build a great church, but instead, if you come here to pour out your life and to use the resources of our faith and church to build a great city, then we will increase. That is to say, we will keep our identity and we will find more and more that people out there want to know what we believe, the only way, the only way to really keep your identity at the same time prosper the church, the believers, is by not trying so much to prosper the church and the believers, but trying to prosper the whole city. That's what Jesus said. That's what God says. That's what God says through Jeremiah. Proverbs chapter 11, 10. There's no way we can have a vision renewal fall unless I quote this verse. It's been important to Redeemer since the beginning. intending, when the righteous prosper, the city rejoices, there's three key words in there, first of all, the word prosper, there's a group of people that are prospering, and that word prosper, by the way, does mean get successful, come on up, make money, become prominent, move on up in the ranks, this group is moving up on the ranks, but get this, the whole city, when it sees that, rejoices, the word rejoice is a word that always means the celebration of a military victory. It's very odd that it's used in this place. What it's really saying is there's a group of people who, when the whole city sees them becoming prominent, the whole city feels like it's a victory for the whole city. In other words, this is a group of people, who are they? They're called the righteous, and boy, that really gets across a lot in English, doesn't it? These are the people who believe in the true God, but who, as they get prominent, as they make money, as they get position, as they get influence, so plow it into the whole city, so serve the whole city, so love the whole city, that the whole city is looking at them saying, you know, I don't believe what they believe necessarily, but I can't imagine a city without them. They help so many people. They are so crucial to the city's life. They press so much value into the city that if they left, we'd have to raise taxes enormously. enormously. That's the kind of people God calls us to be who believe in Jesus. And if you come here simply to build a great life or even to build a great church and not to build a great city, it will convert you. It will take you over. The citizens of the city of God are the very best citizens of their earthly city. And that's how they stay, very distinctly, citizens of the city of God. Now, so there you have the importance of the city, and there you have these two cities, and history is a tale of these two cities, and there you have the call to be the alternate city, alt.city.org, in god's alt.city.org, the alternate city in every city. Now, the question is, how do we do that? How do we do that? How in the world do you get the power to do such a thing? if I know in most cases and I'm talking to people who believe people who don't believe and people who don't know what they believe you know it's a big place here I'm talking to all of you I'm talking to every single one of you if you were to actually start to live your life on the basis of this social order on the basis of this calling it would change even if you've come in here as you know staunch believing Christians you came to New York City you came basically to benefit yourself and according to this that's deadly to you and deadly to the city so what are we going to do how are we going to change our hearts how are we going to get the power to do this and the answer is the beauty of the final city now where's the final city verse 6 to 8 at the very top let me read it and right away you're going to say I don't say anything about a city wait on this mountain the Lord Almighty will prepare now wait a minute on this mountain wait a minute you say

You know, we're in the Adirondacks. You know, we're not in New York City anymore. You know, there's mountains and there's cities. So this isn't a city. Yes, it is. Do you know this very, very famous verse? You probably do. This is from Psalm 48. Great is the Lord and most worthy of praise in the city of our God on the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful in its elevation, the joy of the whole earth, the city of the great king. You see, Jerusalem, which was the image for the future city of God, so often in the prophets, had at its center, on the highest place in the city, Mount Zion, the temple. It was a way of symbolizing that the city was all built around God and his salvation. And therefore, in the prophets and in the Old Testament, you need to watch out for this, they're able to say how beautiful the city of God is, how beautiful the mountain of God is, because that was the same thing. To talk about the mountain was to talk about the city. And so what we have here, right here, is an amazing vision of the future city of God that he is going to bring about on this earth. On this mountain, the Lord Almighty will prepare a feast of rich food for all peoples. It's a multi-ethnic city. We're finally going to get the healing of the nations. A banquet of aged wine, the best of meats and the finest of wines. You've got to watch Babette's Feast sometime. That's the picture of our future. this is absolute physical well-being this is the end of deformity this is the end of hunger this is the end of poverty it's the end of disease it's the end of death on this mountain he will destroy the shroud that enfolds all people the sheet that covers all nation he will swallow up death forever the sovereign Lord will wipe away the tears from all faces now listen you know what I've heard that and you have heard that probably a lot but I suddenly realized something as I was meditating on this God could have said I'm going to end suffering And that would have been true, and that's what he's saying. But that's also an abstraction. But when he says, I'm going to wipe the tears off of your cheeks, who does that? Mothers do that, especially, to kids. And here's God saying, I am going to become so intimate with you. My love is going to so envelop you that there will be no desire of your heart, no matter how deep, that will be unfulfilled. and there will be no hope in your heart, no matter how lofty, that will go disappointed. So here we have emotional and psychological absolute fulfillment, shalom. We have physical shalom. We have social justice and the healing of the nations. This is the future city. How will God bring that about? How does he bring that about? And the answer is right in the middle. I actually read through it. On this mountain, he will destroy the shroud that unfolds all people. swallow up death forever. That's how he's going to bring about that future city, and that gives us the power and the pattern for how we can begin working to bring the city of God in our earthly city. He destroys the shroud and swallows up death. Now, that's interesting. The word shroud is exactly what it sounds like. This was the grave clothes. This was the thing you put around the dead body. And this is very vivid. This is saying that all peoples everywhere are living under a shroud of death. it's eat, drink, and be merry because tomorrow we die and therefore the cities are places of oppression and of exhaustion. But God has destroyed the shroud. He has destroyed the shroud. He's swallowed up death. How did he do it? And this tells us, this is the answer to how we can live life in the city. He did it by sending his son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ moved into our human nature. He didn't commute from the suburbs. He moved downtown, and he moved into our human nature. He came under the shroud voluntarily, and he's the only person who ever died voluntarily for someone else. Now you say, wait a minute, what? He's the only person who ever voluntarily, out of love, out of the freedom of his will, out of the goodness of his heart, died. You say, no, no, no, I know other stories, very moving stories of people who died. Listen, other people may have chosen the timing of their death. death. Other people may have chosen the manner of their death, and it's very noble. I don't want to diminish that, but they had to die anyway. There's nobody who's ever chosen death except Jesus Christ. We have to die. We all have to die. We're under the shroud, but he went under the shroud voluntarily. He moved into our neighborhood. He moved into our human nature, and when he came in, instead of taking power, he lost it. Instead of taking control, he sacrificed and loved us and served us. And by paying the penalty, because that's what death is, it's a punishment, by fulfilling the curse, by paying the penalty, he broke the bands of death. He destroyed its power over us. So we read, you know, on the one hand, John 19, 40, taking Jesus' body, the two of them wrapped it with the spices in strips of linen. He went under the shroud. But then, chapter 20, Simon Peter, who was behind John, arrived and went into the empty tomb, and he saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. The cloth was folded up by itself, separate from the linen. Finally, the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, went inside and saw and believed. When they got in there, the shroud, the grave clothes of Jesus, were just laying there crumpled, and they were laying there still wound up the way they had been They were put on Jesus. He had just passed right through them. He had destroyed death. What an image. He swallowed up death. And those who believe in him know eventually we are going to have the material world. We're going to have Babette's Feast forever. This is our future. Now, if you know that pattern, then and only then can you see where you get the pattern and the example and the power to do what God called people to do in Jeremiah. Jeremiah, we are supposed to come into New York City and not try to take over New York City, but simply live the life of Jesus, which is the way of the cross, which is my life for you, which is the way of service, and that's, and then people will start to say, and only when we start living like that, and we're not living like that, because nobody's coming and asking us yet, what do you believe that makes you live like this, and when we get that kind of influence, it's the only kind of influence it's safe to have. It's the only non-coercive kind of influence. It's the only way that we're really bringing the city of God. Otherwise, all other kinds of influence just help us. We're just new people in power in the lofty city. But that is how Jesus did it. He came to earth, eschewed power, eschewed control, died for us, and as a result, he is the most influential person in the history of the world by anybody's standards. and that's the only way we can go. To the degree you see him moving into our neighborhood, you might say, our city, and dying for us, then you can do the same thing. And by the way, swallowing up death forever, let me just quickly read two theologians who talk about this. Here's one theologian who says, my skeptical secular friends care so much about justice for the poor. They care for alleviating hunger and disease. They care for the environment, and yet they believe that the material world accident, that all beliefs in right and wrong are socially constructed and totally relative, and that eventually the world and everything in it will burn up in the death of the sun. And then they find it discouraging that so few people care about justice, without realizing that their own worldview completely undermines any motivation to work to make the world a place of peace and justice. I wonder why my liberal secular friends wouldn't at least want the resurrection of Jesus Christ to be true. What a great resource and incentive, the only great resource and incentive, to work for peace and justice in the world and never give up. And N.T. Wright says it this way, the message of the resurrection is that this world matters, that the problems and pains of this world matter, that the injustices and pains of this present world must now be addressed with the news that healing, justice, and love have won. If Easter means Jesus Christ is only raised in a spiritual sense, then it's only about me and finding a new dimension for my own personal spiritual life. But if Jesus Christ is risen from the dead physically, Christianity becomes good news for the whole world, news which warms our hearts, precisely because it isn't just about warming hearts. Easter means that in a world where injustice, violence, degradation are endemic, that God is not prepared to tolerate such things indefinitely, and that we will work and plan with all the energy of God to implement victory of Jesus over them all. Take away Easter, Karl Marx is probably right, to accuse Christianity of ignoring problems of the material world. Take it away, and Freud was probably right to say Christianity is wish fulfillment. Take it away, and Nietzsche was probably right to say it was for wimps, but it's not.

What kind of people, by the way, should we be when you realize that we believe that the end point to which all of history is going is this incredible party in a big city? Richard John Newhouse says, if you don't like New York City, you're going to hate the New Jerusalem.

what kind of people would we be, should we be, if we know we're on our way to a party? How festive should we be? If we know we're on our way to physical wholeness, how much should we be working against poverty and hunger? And most of all, how much we should be trying to convert people, to give them the deep peace, the peace, on which this city is built. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us truly to build a great city for all people, through a movement of the gospel that brings personal conversion and social justice and community formation and cultural renewal in this city. And we pray that you would help us to see how the pattern and fact of Jesus taking the shroud, coming under the shroud, taking on death and destroying death gives us everything we need to live in the way you've called us to live. Help us to be that people as we continue to seek your help in doing so. We pray this in Jesus' name.
