So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah. Quick, he said, get three sayas of fine flour and knead it and bake some bread. Then he ran to the herd and selected a choice tender calf and gave it to the servant who hurried to prepare it. Then he brought some curds and milk and the calf that had been prepared and set these before them. While they ate, he stood near them under a tree. Where is your wife Sarah, they asked him. he said. Then the Lord said, I will surely return to you about this time next year, and Sarah, your wife, will have a son. Now Sarah was listening at the entrance to the tent, which was behind him. Abraham and Sarah were already old and well advanced in years, and Sarah was past the age of childbearing. So Sarah laughed to herself as she thought, after I am worn out and my master is old, will I now have this pleasure? Then the Lord said to Abraham, why did Sarah laugh and say, will I really have a child now that I am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? I will return to you at the appointed time next year, and Sarah will have a son. Sarah was afraid, so she lied and said, I did not laugh. But he said, yes, you did laugh. Now the Lord was gracious to Sarah,

Sarah said,

this will laugh with me. And she added, who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. What we're doing right now is we're looking over this period of weeks at the stories of Abraham's life, which we read in these passages in the book of Genesis. And the one we get to today is about laughter. It's really about laughter. There was a very tragic incident that happened, I think just a few blocks from here, that I read a couple of newspaper articles in a couple of different papers about. It was a well-known New York City singer, a cabaret singer, Street on the West Side who committed suicide. And I was reading in, very tragic, but I was reading in one of the neighborhood papers about it. And one of her friends very sadly said that she, of course, had gotten very, very, very down and discouraged and depressed. But the neighbor put it this way, or the friend said, she lost the ability to laugh about anything. She lost the ability to laugh. And, you know, that statement just made me reflect. It's something we know, but boy, how vividly it was put there. Laughter is a literal necessity for life. If you can't laugh, you can't even keep on living. You can't live without laughter. And the point of this text, text. The climax of the text is that when God comes into a life, he comes in to bring laughter. As Sarah says, God has brought me laughter. And actually, though, God transformed her bitter, cynical laughter into a real joy. Now, how can that happen? How can God give you that kind of permanent, deep joy that everybody really needs? Well, the answer to the question will be seen as narrative in which God comes into Sarah's life. God comes to Sarah. And let's notice these four things. Let's notice that God, that he comes to Sarah, how he comes to Sarah, why he comes to Sarah, and how he can come to us. We'll notice that he comes, how he comes, why he comes. And then by looking at that, we'll be able to answer the question how he can come to us. Okay. Let's to her. He comes. See, background, all right? Background. God has said to Abraham, I am going to make a new people and a new society out of your descendants. And out of your descendants will come the salvation of the whole world. And therefore, I will give your wife, Sarah, a son. But the promise was 25 years ago when they're getting older and older, and the years go by, and the years go by, and Sarah is 90s, in her 90s, and Abraham is 100. And one day, Genesis 18 verse 1, three strangers come to the tent of Abraham, three wanderers, three travelers. It's the Lord and two angels, though that is not immediately apparent. And the first thing that Abraham does, like a good Bedouin, is he does beginning of the passage, these first couple of verses, you see Abraham and Sarah rushing around. Why? Because it was considered the highest duty, a sacred virtue in those days to do hospitality. When travelers came, you did everything to make them at home, to have them rest their weary feet and refresh themselves. And we see Abraham takes these three men, these three figures, and he is feeding them outside the tent. Sarah is in the tent, just inside the flap, listening to the conversation. And then verse 10, the Lord says, he reveals himself as the Lord, and he says, I will return next year, and Sarah will bear a son. Now, why has the Lord come? This is an amazing thing. The Lord is appearing, visibly appearing. Why has the Lord come? And the answer is, he's come for Sarah. He has not come for Abraham. He has not come to speak to Abraham. He's come for Sarah. And that is evident a number of ways. Notice verse 10 starts with the word, then. You see, they asked, where is your wife Sarah? Abraham says she's right there listening. Verse 10, then the Lord said. The Lord's message was for Sarah to hear. Not only that, as you can see from then on all the way through the passage, is not between Abraham and God. It's between Sarah and God. And besides that, God has already appeared to Abraham. And he's also spoken audibly to Abraham. And he's given this promise over and over and over again. God is here not for Abraham. He's here for Sarah. But why has he come for Sarah? And that's a good question. Because you know, this is no new information that Sarah does not already have. Sarah knows all about this God. Sarah knows all about this promise. God is not that Sarah doesn't already know through Abraham. So why is he going to the trouble of appearing? And the answer is, and this is our first point, it's not good enough to know God through somebody else. Sarah believes in God, but she doesn't really believe God. She knows about God, but she doesn't know God. Everything she knows about God has been through Abraham, and that's not good enough. You've got to have your own encounter. You've got to have your own dialogue. You've got to have your own experience of God. You can't do it through somebody else. That's, you know, when it comes to this issue, we're reduced to metaphors, but let me give you one metaphor that's actually pretty good. I was listening to John Stott, the famous, well-known Anglican. Whenever you say well-known and then you haven't heard of it, you feel like an idiot. I'm sorry. But anyway, you may not have heard of this man, but anyway, he was a relatively well-known Anglican minister, and recently he had his testimony. I got a tape of it where he was giving the account of how he found Christ. What he said was so interesting to me was that all of his life he had been taught, he read his Bible every day, he prayed every day, he went to church every Sunday, but it wasn't until he was 17 years old or so that he was listening to a minister preach, and he went and talked to the minister, and the minister gave me this verse, he said, Revelation 3.20, me. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into you and eat with you and you with me. And this is what Stott says. It was exactly what I needed to know, this verse. For I had believed in Jesus all my life. I'd been around Jesus all my life, but I realized he was on the outside, on the wrong side of the door. I said my prayers every day, but through the keyhole, as it were, hoping he heard. But that night, 13th of February, 1938, when the others were in bed and the lights were out, I crept out of bed and I knelt. And as simply as I knew how, I opened the door. Now, see, what is that? Like Sarah, he knew all about this God. He read his Bible all the time. He prayed all the time. He went to church all the time. But he realized he'd never had a personal encounter. Jesus was, as it were, on the outside of the door. He had never made him central. He never brought him in, and so he opened the door. What does that mean? It's mysterious, but this, let me just leave it with this. It's not enough for you to know about God. You must have a personal experience of him, and especially, it's not enough to try to relate to God through somebody else. You may have in your life someone who's had a personal encounter with God, and you believe, Believe. This person is always trying to get you to read the Bible, trying to get you to come to church. Maybe this person's brought you to church tonight. And if somebody asked you, do you believe in Christianity? Say, sure, I believe it. Maybe not as intensely as my friend here, but I believe it. But maybe your friend has actually met God and you haven't. You, it's not a matter of degree. The person may not just be more religious. The person may have actually come to open the door. You must open the door too. Sarah gets a visit from God, not to give her new information. She already had the information, but to have a personal encounter with God Himself. You've got to have one. Nothing else is sufficient. So first we see that He came for her. Secondly, we see how He came to her. And what's so interesting here, the manner in which he comes, if you contrast the way he comes to see Sarah with the only other time he appears to Abraham in Genesis, which is Genesis 15, which we looked at several weeks ago. Some of you would have probably been there, but even if not, let me give you the background. There couldn't be two more amazingly different appearances of God. In Genesis 15, God comes in darkness when the sun goes down. Here he's at bright noonday. In Genesis 15, he appears as a smoking torch and a fiery pot of smoke, you know, coming through pieces of dead animals. And here you have a guy with sore feet who's so accessible and familiar that they don't even know it's God for a long time. In Genesis 15, even before God shows up, Abraham felt this crushing dread. But here it's so gentle, and look how gentle God is. Look at how gentle He is. Sarah laughs, and when Sarah laughs, verse 14, the thing she says is much more self-hating and bitter and despondent than it looks on the surface. So Sarah laughed to herself, and she thought, after I am worn out and my mask is old, will I now have this pleasure? Now, the word worn out is a word that means useless. It doesn't just mean, it means useless, good for nothing, very negative word, very self-hating word. But the word for pleasure is not what you might think either. The normal reader reads this and thinks what she's saying is, after I'm this old, well, I have now the pleasure of having this child. But, you know, if you think it's pleasant to have a child, you're a man. man. She's not talking about... You're not going to talk about having a child as a pleasure, I have to tell you that. And that's not what the word means. The Hebrew word here is the word that means sexual pleasure, and this is what she's saying, just to see how despondent she is. She says, I am utterly worn out. We're not even having sex. My husband hasn't touched me in years, and I'm going to have a son? I mean, it's self-disdaining as well as disdaining the How does God react? This is so different than the dramatic, fiery, awesome voice out of the fiery pot saying, I am the Lord. Here you have God so gently. What does God say to her when she laughs at him? She laughs at the Lord of the universe. What does he say? How dare you laugh at me, you little humanoid speck? I am the Lord. No, what does he say? All the commentators notice that when he restates her objection, he combs out all of the self-hating terminology. He will not repeat the nasty things she says about herself. He says, why did Sarah laugh and say, will I really have a child now that I'm old? That's not what she said. She didn't say anything near that nice. But he gently restates it, combs out all the nasty terminology, won't use it of her, and then just reassures her. He says, I will come back. Amazing. And when she continues to lie, And she says, I didn't laugh. I didn't laugh. What does he do? He doesn't explode. He almost smiles. You can almost hear a smile when he says, oh, but you did. I mean, what is God doing saying, oh, you did. Gotcha. I mean, what's going on here? You cannot imagine two more different appearances. What is going on? Why would God be so different with Sarah, answer is you can't put God in a box, and God doesn't put you in a box. God does not work off a template. God does not have a conversion software with two or three approaches, okay? He doesn't work off a template. There's infinite varieties in the way in which He comes into people's lives, and you have to be very careful. You know, I know one axis, for example, one axis. axis. Sometimes He acts very dramatically, suddenly. Sometimes He works with process and very naturally and gradually. Sometimes there's a big change between your life before and after your Christianity. Sometimes the change is much more gradual. And there's another axis. Everybody who meets God personally has to have an experience of your need and weakness and an experience of His love and provision. But which has to come first? first. See, a lot of people have come through the need and weakness door. They get filled with conviction of sin. And only later do they experience any of God's love and grace. Other people come in through the gentle door, the door that just assures them of love, and only later on do they begin to see the depths of their flawedness and so forth. And you must be, this is the point, do not overly worry that your Christian experience has to emulate or imitate somebody else's. And don't too quickly project your own experience and journey on somebody else and say, well, you're not a real Christian unless. Be careful. Isn't it amazing how different God can show up as? How many different ways? How diverse He is in a way? And here's one other great thing just to point out. You notice when she says, I didn't laugh, and he says, oh, but you did. Look at what a wonderful counselor. What a wonder. Look, don't be afraid to tell God. Don't be afraid to show God your weaknesses, your doubts, and your struggles. Don't be afraid. He's not going to blow up at you. And here's another way to understand this verse. If somebody's deceiving you, if somebody's been lying to you, don't blow up at them. If the God of the universe isn't insulted when somebody lies to him. Why in the world do you think you have a right to be? Wonderful counselor. You see, receive this wonderful counsel. Imitate this wonderful counsel. So we see that he came to her. We see how he came to her. But now we come to see why he came to her. And here's why. And this is the heart of the narrative. He came to transform her laughter. In some ways, the heart, not the climax, but the essence and the heart of the narrative is two statements in verses 13 and 14. In verse 13, God says, why did Sarah laugh like that? Why did she disdain herself and me? Why is her laughter so bitter and cynical and skeptical? And then he gives the answer. Now, it's in the form of a question in verse 14, actually the answer. It's the diagnosis. It's the explanation for why Sarah is the way she is. And he says, is anything too hard for the Lord? But the Hebrew word he uses there actually, literally, is the word for wonder. It's the word you see over and over again in the Psalms where it says, tell of his wonders. Be in awe about his wonders, his great and mighty deeds. God literally says, is anything too wonderful for me? And here's what he's saying. Sarah is filled with disdain and filled with bitter cynical laughter because her laughter is devoid of wonder. Now, what is wonder? Now, that's a hard thing to define. I'm just going to have to describe it. And there's nobody who's described it better than G.K. Chesterton in his very famous essay called The Ethics of Elfland. And in it, he talks about one thing that everybody knows, and that is that children are having a really good time. Have you ever watched children live? I don't mean behave. I said live. If you stand back and look at the children's life, they're actually having a fairly good time. I mean, they never say, life stinks. They're never saying, I feel no meaning in my life. And you know the reason why? is because their life is filled with wonder. And the more wonder you have in your life, the more your life is meaningful. I mean, it takes nothing to get a kid filled with wonder. You know, you take them to the zoo. Wow. You tell them a story. You don't even have to tell it well. You know, you just go, you just talk like this, and they go, wow. But as Chesterton points out, that wears off. And the older you get, the harder and harder it is to fill the heart with wonder. You take a four-year-old to the zoo, and he goes, wow. You take a 14-year-old to the zoo. What are we doing here? I mean, I know this. I've been through this. What happened? And it's not just the fact that as you get older, there's a natural inability. It takes more and more to fill the heart with wonder. The stories have to get better and better. things have to be bigger and bigger. And it gets harder and harder to fill the heart with wonder, and that's bad, because without wonder, you've run out of meaning in life. But we have something else going on. In our world, in our Western culture, we live in the most wonder-killing worldview, the most wonder-killing culture that's ever existed. What they'll tell you in most of the most of the major universities of the world in almost every department is that if you experience love, beauty, that's really a chemical reaction. That's how you're wired. That's evolutionary biology. If you talk about every claim of truth and morality and justice and right, they'll tell you is socially constructed. It's basically a power play. Nothing is more wonder-killing than that. So how do we live? Because you can't live without wonder. You can't. And G.K. Chesterton's answer is, we have to have wonder, so what we do is we steal it through art. Our worldview doesn't have it anymore, so we steal it through art, through stories mainly, through books and through literature and through plays and through movies and things like that. And momentarily, we have wonder. Especially if the story has these three elements. He says there's three elements that particularly fill you with wonder if the story has them. Number one. The story has to show you that there are stupendous, mysterious powers out there. Beyond the here and now that you can see. And taste. And touch. And smell. There's mysterious and stupendous powers. Beyond the here and now. Secondly. The story brings us into a situation of doom. in which our prospects are impossible and hopeless. But then thirdly, there's a heroic key, a heroic key that unlocks the barrier between those powers and your situation and brings those powers into the impossible situation, and there's resolution, there's redemption, there's rescue, there's salvation. And you know what? We jaded contemporary Western people, we go to the stupidest summer blockbuster movies. Poorly acted, you know, terrible character development, nothing but special effects, and we lay our money down because they always have those three elements, and afterwards we make fun of them, and we talk about them, but in the middle of it, it's, your heart's racing, and we need that wonder. It's fleeting. I was talking to a woman at a college who's very skeptical about Christianity, but she loves Harry Potter books, and she always has trouble because she has to find ways of putting covers on the Harry Potter books at college. You don't want to be seen reading a Harry Potter book. So trying to find it. But at one point I said to her, it was the only chink I saw. I was trying to talk to her about Christianity. She was totally closed to it. And at one point I said, why do you like Harry Potter books? She says, I don't know. They kind of cast a spell on me. And she laughed. And I said, I think it may be because in spite of what your intellect tells you, you. Your heart knows that this world is not all there is. And every good story tells you that there are mysterious, stupendous powers out there that can come into our impossible situation. Your heart knows it, though your intellect denies it, and the stories assure you and give you some relief and fill you with wonder. And she said, hmm, maybe, maybe. But that's how we're living, a little bit by little bit, fleeting, but the Bible, the gospel is this. In the Bible, God comes and says, I've got a story for you. That's the ultimate story because it's true. And if you believe it, like a shaft cold and clear, your whole life will be permeated with wonder, a wonder that lasts, a wonder that doesn't just wear off as you're driving home or you're walking home from the movie, a wonder that lasts, that will completely fill your life in every area with meaning. If you believe that, wonder will come into your life. And what is that story? Well, God gets to Sarah and transforms that laughter by putting wonder into it. Look at what she says in verse 7 near the end. Sarah says, says, God has brought me laughter. Well, what do you mean brought me laughter? Wasn't she laughing? I mean, wasn't that the whole point? She's been laughing all of her life. She was laughing earlier. What does it mean brought me laughter? The fact that she can talk about the laughter she's doing now is something that has been brought to her that she didn't have before means, she says, I have a laughter now I never had before. It's not the bitter, cynical laughter. It's a laughter filled with wonder. And where did the wonder come from? Verse 1 of chapter 21, God was gracious. The grace of God came into her life. The grace of God overcame the impossibility of her situation. You see, she knew there were powers out there, but she didn't see how they could possibly come in. And through the son of promise, through Isaac, whose name means laughter, Laughter. There was the key that brought the power into the impossibility of her situation. And she laughed. Why? Because she now has the laughter of grace. The laughter of grace. Without wonder, there's the cynical bitter laughter that tries to get rid of despondency. Or there's the nervous laughter that tries to get rid of anxiety. You see, the cynical laughter, says, I'm in an impossible situation and there's no way out. So you laugh bitterly to just try to fend off this despondency. And the nervous laughter is a person who says, I know my situation is bad, but I can do it. And your laughter is nervous because it's fending off the anxiety that you probably aren't sure you can. But the laughter of grace says, God has overcome the impossible situation with his power. She's wondering at it. Her life is filled with wonder, her, and therefore she has a new laughter, so new that she can say, I'm now laughing in a way I never was before. And so she now has the joy, the joy she was lacking. Her whole life's changed. The wonder is there. Now, how can we get that joy? I mean, isn't that the question? How can this joy come into our lives? And here's a major mistake that people make when they read this and they say, oh, that's great. I see exactly what we can do. Sarah was 90, but she wanted a child and she got it. And therefore, if we really believe, if we really pray, if we really trust God, the God who says nothing is impossible with me, if we really pray, we really trust, then we shouldn't have such low sights and low goals. We should go for impossible things. Sarah was 90. She wanted a child. She got it. So we ought to say, let's ask God for amazing things. Let's expect God amazing things in our lives. You have a desire for some incredible accomplishment in your life? You have an agenda for your life that's almost too great to imagine? Do it. Pray. Ask God for these great things, and God will bring impossible things into your life. That's how great he is. Is that... Some of you are saying, I can tell you don't like this, this approach. No, I don't. That's not how you apply this text. When you say the way we apply this text to our lives is that just as Sarah had an impossible dream, but through the power of God, she got it, so we can dream big dreams. And if we trust in him and we believe in him, God will bring these things in our own lives too. Is that how you apply it? No. Because that's making a logical mistake. It's making an exegetical mistake. The logical mistake is this. The greatest person who ever lived in the history of the world, whose prayer life was considerably better than yours ever will be, and whose faith was unbelievably greater than yours ever will be, had a horrible life. He had a terrible life. He didn't have a comfortable life. He didn't have a happy life. have incredible goals that God brought him to. He had his prayers turned down. He was abandoned by his friends. So you think somehow you're going to do better? And besides that, it's not just a logical mistake, but it's an exegetical mistake. Does this text teach us that if we believe like Sarah, God can do incredible things? Sarah doesn't believe. That's the point of the text. Where's this great belief? Do you see Sarah down on her knees saying, oh, no, Sarah's laughing. comes down, you know, how many people in the history of the world get God appearing to them? She has one chance. She laughs at his face. So she said, you know what? So, of course, if we're going to apply the text like this, you know, Sarah had this incredible goal. It was an impossible goal, and you can have the goal too. So how should we get these great things in our lives we should laugh at God? No, I don't think so. The heroic key, the thing that unlocked the door that brought the power of God into her life was not her faith. She didn't have any. It was the son of promise born into her life and into the world through the grace of God. Remember I said a minute ago that what God offers in the Bible is the ultimate story, story, the story in which all other stories are based, the fictional stories that give you wonder for a little bit, but no adult heart can seem to really hold on to that. God says, I've got a story, which is the ultimate story, that it's a true story, and if you believe it and take it into your life, it will fill you with a non-naive wonder. It'll make you childlike, but not childish. dish. But is this the story? Is it the story of Abraham and Isaac and of Sarah? No. This story points to the story that can do that. And you know where that story is? You know what that story is? Luke knew, because when you come to the gospel of Luke and you come to chapter 1, the famous place of the Annunciation, Luke deliberately shows us something. Luke shows us an angel who centuries later shows up to another woman, and this angel says to this woman, you will bear a child. You will have a son. And this woman, centuries later, says, how can this be? Which is pretty much a laugh. So an angel shows up, centuries later, just like back then. Says to this woman, you will have a son. And this woman is as skeptical as Sarah was. And you know why this woman was a skeptical Sarah? Because if you think it was impossible for Sarah to have a son with an old husband, how much more impossible was it for Mary to have a son, as the angel said she would, with no husband at all. And when Mary says to the angel, How can this be? The angel says, incredibly enough, in Luke 1, nothing is impossible with God. Why does Luke have the angel? Why does Luke play up and show us deliberately the exact parallel between the birth of Jesus and the birth of Isaac? Why does the angel say the very same thing to Mary that he said to Isaac, that he said to Sarah? You know why? Why? Because Jesus is the true Isaac. Jesus is the ultimate son of promise. Jesus is the ultimate one in whom we hear the laughter of God's grace, triumphing over the impossibilities of our situation. Because our situation is far worse than Sarah's. Don't you understand? Don't look at Sarah and say, well, if you're 90 years old and you want a baby, let's just pray to God for it. Don't you understand? There's something far greater being promised here. Not infertility. That's essentially not all that impossible thing. The ultimate Isaac, Jesus comes in to deal with sin and death itself. Let me tell you what's impossible, that you and I should live forever. That's a little more than having a baby when you're 90. Let me tell you what's impossible, that you and I, in spite of the way in which we live, would be adopted into the family of God. God. And yet that's exactly what happens through Jesus Christ, the ultimate Isaac, the ultimate son of laughter. Why? How did Jesus do such a thing? I'll tell you why. The Bible tells us that Jesus Christ lived in a heavenly world of laughter. John chapter 1 and many places say that the son was in the bosom of the father. And of course, that's metaphorical and kind of mysterious. But what it means is the father and the son rejoiced in each other through all eternity. They delight in each other. Jesus was living in a world of laughter, but he came into this world, and he became a man of sorrows. He was always weeping, and on the cross, he cried out, and he was forsaken. Why? I'll tell you why. Jesus Christ lost the divine laughter and received the sorrow and the mourning and the weeping and gnashing of teeth that we deserve so that we could have the laughter. He took our place. He took the condemnation for our sin so that we could have forgiveness. He took our death so that we could have life. And that's the story. What is the story? C.S. Lewis put it this way. Jesus Christ, our great captain, has opened a cleft in the pitiless walls of the world, our dungeon. And he bids us come through. The heroic death and resurrection of Christ has in a sense punched a hole in the barrier, that huge barrier between the ideal, between glory of God and our impossible situation. And now in comes everything we need. And that is the one story because the true story, Jesus is the ultimate prince that kisses us sleeping beauties. Jesus is the ultimate St. George who slays the dragon. Jesus is the who dies to save the world or the universe or the city or the neighborhood or whatever. Every other story they ever filled me with wonder wears off. This one won't. If it comes into your life, if you see Jesus as not just a wonderful guy who that we try to emulate, maybe God will bless us. But if you see him as the true Isaac, the one who took God's frown so you could have God smile. Who lost the laughter so that we could have it. Then, into your life will come this wonder, and your laughter will be transformed. From bitter laughter and from nervous laughter into the laughter of grace. It never goes away. Because it's not based on your performance. Now, how do you know if that's happened? How do you know if you've moved from knowing about God to knowing God? How do you know if you've moved from being religious to being a Christian? removed from just seeing Jesus as a great teacher or a great divine figure to seeing him as the true Isaac, the one who lost everything so we could have it, the one who's triumphed over the impossibilities of our situation. How do you know? Four things quick. Four signs that you're a real Christian that you can see in the life of Sarah. First of all, look at Sarah's new self-image. She is a source of wonder to herself. And this is one of the ways, the first way you know you're a herself. She says, look at this counterintuitive mixture of humility and certainty. And she added, who would have said to Abraham that Sarah, me, would nurse children, yet I have. And that is an exact image of what happens to you as a Christian. If you ask a religious person, are you a believer? You know what they always say? Of course. I was raised this way. I'm a good person? I've always believed. Of course. Sarah shows us that when Jesus Christ becomes your true Isaac, there's no coarseness about your life anymore. No. On the one hand, it's a joke that you're a Christian. Who would have thought that I would be, of all people, would be a Christian? So on the one hand, there's this incredible humility that makes you a joke. I mean, in a certain sense, you know what? When you become a Christian, you see your life as a the star. And you say, who in the world would have thought me a Christian? There's an amazement, there's a wonder, but there's also a certainty. Yet I have. Who would have thought that I would be a child of God? Yet I am. The grace of God. See, radical grace means humility. Who would have thought me? But it also means certainty. I know I am because it's not based on me. And so you see what's interesting? If you're a Christian, you don't have to look at the stars

and you don't have to go to the movies to fill yourself with wonder. You just have to look at your own life. Sarah is a never-ending source of wonder to herself. Isn't that amazing? And so the first sign that you're a Christian is that you laugh at yourself. You laugh over yourself. You wonder at yourself. The second sign that you're a Christian is that nobody else's laughter can bother you anymore. The way the NIV translates it is this. She says, brought me laughter, and everyone who hears about this will laugh with me. With me. That's a guess. The Hebrew preposition there that they translate with is much more nebulous than that. It means over and probably at. Robert Alter, the well-known Jewish commentator on Genesis that I've been using his commentary, says, probably. He says, the reason that most English commentaries just can't bear to put it down this way is what she's probably saying is, God has brought me laughter, and everyone who hears about this will laugh at me. And you know what? Robert Aldridge says, you know, most English translations just want to soften that. They just can't believe that she's laughing about the fact that people are going to laugh. But he says, think about it. What do you think a 90-year-old woman breastfeeding a kid looks like? And she's not talking about the fact that it's ludicrous that she's born to children. She says it's ludicrous that I'm nursing. And my guess is she would have looked pretty stupid. And you know what? She doesn't care. Here's what's interesting. The second mark that you've become a Christian is that when people laugh at you and find you ludicrous, and you know, if you're a recipient people will laugh at you than will laugh with you. But the second mark that you're a Christian is you don't need people's approval like you used to. The touchiness is gone. People laughing at you does not get in the way of your laughter anymore. So first, she's a source of wonder to herself. Secondly, she can take criticism. She has no problem with what people think about her anymore. Thirdly, she's reconciled to her past. You know what's intriguing about this? What was

failure. What was the greatest failure of her life? Well, like I said a minute ago, very few people have had God appear to them, right, in history. And God only appeared to Sarah once, and she laughed at him. So in a sense, her laughing at God was probably the greatest failure of her life. And yet, her son's name is Isaac. Laughter. And what does that mean? It's a memorial. It's a reminder of her greatest failure, of her cynical, bitter laughter in the face of God's promise. Every time she looks at Isaac, every time she calls Isaac, every time she thinks of Isaac's name, she's being reminded about her failure, which just goes to show what the gospel does to your past. If you believe you're saved through your good works and by trying your hardest to live up, then memories of your failures are a never-ending source of pain for you. And the only way you can get even a modicum of comfort is to just repress them. But the gospel is that you have been accepted despite your failures. That God has loved you despite your failures. And the memory of the failures just shows you how much more great, just increases the gratitude how much more wonderful God is. In other words, the gospel turns your failures into gold. The memory of your failures through the gospel. The gospel turns your failures into wisdom, into humility, into compassion. The memory of your failure, consoled by the gospel, turns you into a person who understands other people who fail. Turns you into a person who's wise, who's humble, who's compassionate. Don't you remember? Jesus Christ's wounds are still there in glory because God takes your into the glorious thing he's making you. So the gospel makes you a source of wonder to yourself. It makes you able to handle what everybody else is laughing at. It doesn't matter what other people think. Thirdly, it reconciles you to your past. And last of all, it helps you laugh at yourself. It helps you laugh at other people, with other people. It helps you laugh at your past. But last of all, it helps you laugh at the world's standards. Why did God choose to bring Jesus into the world, as it were, through an old woman a worn-out woman rather than the young, fertile Hagar? Why did God decide later on, we'll see, to bring Jesus into the world not through beautiful Rachel but through homely Leah, the two wives of Jacob? Why does God over and over and over again, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1, why does he prefer to work through the foolish things so he can shame the wise, Paul says? the weak things to shame the strong. Why does he choose to work through the despised things? Paul says God always prefers to work with the losers, the things that the world says are washed up, old, shriveled, barren, losers, outsiders, ugly, poor. And God works through those people. Why? Because he's a God of grace. And when you realize he's a God of grace who works in impossible situations or situations the world thinks are impossible, you get a wonderful disdain. You take lightly the things the world thinks are so important. And you work with and you love people on the outside. There's a place in Isaiah 54, let me close with this, where Isaiah talks about how fascinating it is that God brought the salvation of the world through Sarah, the barren woman, woman, the woman who everybody despised. Why? That's the way God works. Up in Harlem, there's a church, an African-American church called Bethel Gospel. And the pastor there, who's been there for many years, Ezra Williams, tells a story of how the church started 80 years ago. He says it started this way. This is what he says. There was a German-American woman, Christian who lived in Midtown. And a couple of young black women from Harlem began attending that church because they were seeking. They wanted to know about Christ. But they were asked to leave because 80 years ago in Midtown Manhattan, black people weren't welcome in a lot of the churches. And she decided that she was going to work with them anyway. If her church would not let them in. Then she would go to them. And she began a Bible study in their home up in Harlem. And she began to work with them and have fellowship with them and to teach them and to get together with them. But she was engaged to a man who was part of a very respectable family. And that very respectable family, Reverend Williams says, let her know in no uncertain terms that if she continued to fraternize with these people and she continued to go to Harlem, that the wedding was off. rough, and her chance for a great husband and a great family and a prosperous life and all the things the world says you've got to have was about to go down the drain. So she struggled, and she wrestled, and she thought about it. And this is the verse, Reverend Williams says, that came to her many years ago. And the verse that came to her was Isaiah 54.1, based on the story of Sarah, which goes like this, Be glad, O barren woman who bears no children. Break forth you who have no labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband.