John chapter 2, verses 12 through 21. After this, he went down to Capernaum with his mother and brothers and his disciples. There they stayed for a few days. When it was almost time for the Jewish Passover, Jesus went up to Jerusalem. In the temple courts he found men selling cattle, sheep and doves, and others sitting at tables exchanging money. So he made a whip out of cords and drove all from the temple area, both sheep and cattle. He scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. To those who sold doves, he said, Get out of here. Get these out of here. How dare you turn my father's house into a market? His disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. Then the Jews demanded of him, What miraculous sign can you show us to prove your authority to do all this? Jesus answered them, Destroy this temple and I will raise it again in three days. The Jews replied, It has taken 46 years to build this temple and you are going to raise it in three days? But the temple he had spoken of was his body. This ends the reading of God's word. Here we have Jesus Christ who said, I am gentle, meek, and lowly. Jesus Christ who was as a lamb before the shearers. He was quiet and meekly took his death and his accusation and his trial. Here's Jesus Christ that says, turn the other cheek. And here we see him, terrible in his wrath, literally cracking the whip over people, maybe on people. The thunder in his voice, Christ, the lightning in his eyes must have been terrible, and he drove everyone from the temple. And so our question is, this gentle, meek, lowly, turn-the-other-cheek Lamb of God, driving everybody out from the temple with anger and fury, and we have to ask ourselves, what? Is Jesus schizophrenic? And the answer is no. He's perfect. and because we really don't know any other perfect human beings, we shouldn't be surprised that we're surprised. This is the way you know you really are worshiping a real God. A lot of people like to say, well, I like to think of God as, or I prefer to think of God as this. Now, with all due respect, who cares what you prefer to think about God? Why would you treat God as any different than all the rest of reality? All the rest of reality. Why would you treat God worse than the rest of reality? Think about it like this. You're driving down a road, and it's very twisty and very windy, and you're very tired of all the twisting and turning, and you notice ahead is this, the road bears to the left, and there's this great big tree right in front of you. Do you say this? Do you say, I like to think of this road, I prefer to think of this road as straight. I prefer to think of this road as going straight ahead so I don't have to keep on turning. Do you do that? Do I do that? No. Instead, I submit, in spite of my likes, I submit my likes to the reality of things. I submit my likes to the real shape of the road. And if I don't, I die on the tree. That's the way it is with reality. You don't like the road. It's disturbing the way it's going, but it doesn't matter. You submit your likes. Even though it's surprising you, even though it's disturbing you, you submit your likes to the reality of the situation. That's how you work with anything. Why would you treat God worse than you do with the rest? The road. You don't make demands of the road. The road makes demands on you. You submit to the reality of it. And that's how you live. That's how you survive. five. See, friends, Christianity is difficult. Christianity disturbs. Christianity is always bumping up against personal prejudices and cultural understandings of things. And the reason we know that it must do that is if it's true, it would have to do that. Christianity cannot compete with religions that are invented. It can't compete with religions that are made up. When you make up a religion when you think of God the way you like to think of God? Well, he's never disturbing you. He's never bothering you. If you are dealing with something real, the real things are always surprising you and disturbing you, and you have to submit to the reality of the situation. How do you know whether your God is real or made up? If he disturbs you, if he's constantly crossing and confronting your biases and your expectations. Christianity cannot possibly compete with other religions. Christianity is difficult in many cases. Christianity makes demands. It's very difficult. It means you have to change your mind on things because we're dealing with truth. We're dealing with facts. Anybody can be simple if you don't have any facts to deal with. Now, this particular passage tells us this about Jesus. He tells us, well, tells us a number of things. We'll look at them. But most of them are disturbing. right up against our biases. There are things that we don't like to hear, especially us modern people. And yet, we have got to submit to the reality of it, or else we'll die. The car of our life will soon be wrapped around the tree of reality. And therefore, what we've got to do is we've got to look and see what it is that Jesus actually is doing, and why he's doing it, and what he means to teach us by doing it. Those three things. What did he do here? Why is he doing it? And what does he mean to teach us by doing it? So the first thing is, what does he do? He cleanses the temple. Now, it's important to understand, but it's easy to understand if we just briefly cover it. What he does here, it's been called for years the cleansing of the temple. The Jews at festival days came and thronged Jerusalem. Some people estimate that the permanent resident population of Jerusalem was only 80,000 people. the major feast days, Jews came from all over the world, and the population during those feast times was three, four, or five hundred thousand people. Now, because they were coming from everywhere, and they had to come to the temple and offer up sacrifices, they had to bring ox and goats and sheep, and they couldn't bring that from a foreign land, and therefore what happened was they bought them there. And because they came from foreign lands, they had to have their currency changed. And so this is a good and natural and right thing to do, to buy sacrificial animals, to pay for them, to have your money exchanged. But what had happened was that whole process had not happened any longer out on the street or even on the steps or even in the vestibule, but it was going on right in the middle of the temple, right in the temple courts, right in the places where people were actually doing the sacrifices and offering worship to God and praying and seeking God. And the effect was, as Jesus says right here, you've turned worship into a marketplace. The effect is it's completely mechanical. You see, people were all around you with the money and with the calling out and with all of the hustle and bustle that would go along in a marketplace situation. And in the middle of that, you offered up your sacrifice and you paid something to the priest and then you looked up and you recited a prayer and you went out. It was completely mechanical. It would be like trying to, I mean, it's hard enough with a jackhammer, right? worship with a Third Avenue bazaar in here along. And you say, well, I'm going to come in and worship. And what do you do? You come in and you sit down. You might be able to read a few prayers, hardly hear yourself talk, and out you go. Jesus said,

I must purify the temple of anything that distracts from the pure and exclusive focus on God. The things that he threw out were good things. There was nothing sinful about what was going on, but they were good things that had come into a place that only God had a right to be. Good things that had become too important. Good things that had come into the center. That's why they had to be thrown out. Things that were fine in their place, but had usurped the place of worship. And so Jesus cleanses the temple of any distraction from the pure and exclusive focus on God. That's what he does. But why does he do it? The reason he does it is because of the holiness of God. What is that the Jewish leaders come to Jesus after he's done this. And you notice it says in verse 18, not that they said, this is illegal. You can't do this. They don't say that. What do they say in verse 18? They said, prove to us that you have the authority to do this. And that means they knew that when the Messiah came, that the Messiah would have a passion and zeal for holiness. holiness, that the Messiah would say, God is holy and all who approach him must be holy as well. These folks knew the prophecy of Malachi 3, one of the most famous of all the messianic prophecies from the Old Testament, that when the Messiah, the anointed prince, came, this would be what he would do. By the way, as Christmas comes and you hear the Messiah being played over and over again, you'll listen carefully, and this is one of the passages that's the basis of the Messiah. 3 verses 1 to 3. Behold, the Lord whom you seek shall suddenly come to his temple. And who may abide the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appeareth? For he is like a refiner's fire and like a fuller's soap, and he shall purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver. He is like a refiner's fire and like a fuller's soap. Fire and soap. A fuller's soap was like acid taking out the stains. The refiner's fire, we know what the refiner's fire did. The Jewish leaders knew that the Messiah, when he came, would have a burning intensity, an omnipotent fire, a passion that God be honored as holy by anyone who approached. Now, that means, since all the reasons that Jesus does this is because of holiness, we have to ask ourselves, what's holiness? What does it mean when Jesus says, no one can come into the presence of my Holy Father me in holiness. What does he mean? Well, one of the problems with the word holy, we have a major PR problem here, friends. A major problem. When a modern person thinks of the word holy, what do you think of? Monty Python. Holy. Listen. What does it mean to be a holy person? We know what it means. It means to be rigid. It means to be unapproachable. It means to be hollow-cheeked Is that what the Bible says? No. The Bible talks about the holiness of God being His beauty, being His crown. What does it mean for a person or even a thing to be holy? You know that things are holy in the Bible? In the Old Testament, we're told that there's furniture that's holy. There's pots and there's pans that are holy. And you say, what? What pots and pans are holy? Any pot or pan that has been separated from common use and has been given for the exclusive use of the tabernacle and the temple is holy. In other words, anything or anyone who is for God and only for God, for God's exclusive use. Someone or something is holy when it is for God's exclusive use. you are holy when you say, Lord, use me any way you want. We're told that zeal for the holiness of God's house consumed Jesus. That means he's a refiner. And just as a refiner has a passion for the purity of his gold or his silver, he passes it through the fire and he wants to see it perfectly pure and absolutely beautiful in the same way he is zealous for the purity of our lives. the impurities out. He wants us to be just exactly as loving, and as holy, and as perfect, and as great, and as noble, and as courageous as God Himself. In other words, to be holy means to be a man or a woman of one thing. You've got one aim. You see, Jesus is really saying, if you want to come near my Father, you've got to be streamlined. Right now, in your heart, there's all kinds of things that you're for, and they're all contradictory. There's all kinds of things that for. He says a holy person is streamlined. There's one priority. There's one aim. There's one goal. Everything else is ditched. And he says, you cannot come into my presence, the presence of my Father, my Holy Father, unless you're holy. It says so. Hebrews 12, 14. Be holy, for without holiness, no one will see the Lord. Jesus Christ cleanses the temple because he knows that the Father is holy and everybody has to approach Him in holiness. All right, that's what He did and that's why He did it. But what is He trying to tell us? What is He trying to teach us? Jesus Christ never, ever does public actions, never did public miracles, never did public actions without trying to teach us things about God or about ourselves or about the world. What is He trying to teach us? Here's what He's trying to teach us. When the Jews do ask Him, when the Jewish leaders come to Him and say, what miraculous sign can show us to prove your authority? Jesus answers very cryptically, I'll give you a sign because I'll tell you why I have the authority to tell people about the holiness of God. Take this temple, tear it down, and I will lift it up in three days. And they said, what are you talking about? But Jesus was talking about his body. He was referring to his death. to his resurrection after three days. And here's what he's saying, very, very simply. He says, you believe that you can get into the presence of a holy God through this temple, but I want you to know that I'm the temple. You believe that you can come into the presence of a holy God carrying bloody sacrifices as ways of atoning for your sin, but I tell you I'm the temple, I'm the priest, I'm the sacrifice, I'm the altar, the right and I'm the light on the left. I am the temple. I am the one. And only through me can you approach a holy God. That's what he's saying. And at this point, he's telling us the meaning of the universe, the meaning of history, and the meaning of our lives. And I think anybody here who knows anything about their own heart will be able to respond to this. Everyone who tries to get close to God, anyone who ever has sought to get near him does not find it to be a warm and encouraging experience. The reason that most churches are so full of cranky people, listen, church people are cranky people. They are more sensitive to criticism. Listen, it's my job. I'm in the church all the time. I know, all right? People are more cranky. They are more sensitive to criticism. They have more fights than other people. Haven't you ever noticed that? I mean, thank goodness a lot of you have no church background, but a lot of you do. And I'll tell you why. Because the churches are full of people that are trying to get near God. They're trying to get closer to Him. They're trying to pray. They're trying to do good. They're saying, I want to get near. And the nearer you get, the smaller you feel, the more flawed you feel, the more unworthy you feel. And going to church just always makes you feel anxious and vaguely guilty. And therefore, you're just, you know, you are, you're on edge. And when people criticize, well, I don't think I believe that. Do you believe that? What do you mean I don't believe that? What's wrong with that? It's because the closer you get to God, the smaller you feel. The closer you get to his holiness, the more unholy you feel. When I first started as a pastor, I was in a small town, and there was only one hospital in that town. you always would go around to the beds of other people in other rooms nearby. I mean, there was only so many churches in town, and pretty much all the people knew who you were, even if they had heard your name or something like that. So you would go in, and it was normal and right to sit down and say, I'm Pastor So-and-So, and how are you doing? And they'd say, well, I'm in for tests, or I'm going to have surgery. And you always offered to pray. And 90, 90, 90, 90, 999 times out of a thousand, you have people say yes. So you bow down and you pray. And when I got up, I always used to notice as a young minister virtually all the time, men and women, that there were tears in people's eyes when I was done praying. I used to go out thinking, oh, that's great. They feel close to God. They feel closer to God. And after a while, I began to talk with them a little bit and find out how they were feeling, and I was surprised. prized. Essentially, when a minister comes in, whether you're a church goer or not, especially if you're not really certain where you stand with God, if a minister comes in, the minister represents God. And when he sits down and starts to pray, immediately I found out from people that they started to feel so unworthy and started to feel like, well, I don't know whether God's going to hear this prayer or not. And they were crying because they felt bad, not because they felt so warm and toasty. And I began to realize this is the problem. The closer you get in, the closer you try to get to God, the closer you get to holiness, the more unholy you feel. Many of you know one of the great inventions for education in the 20th century has been the curve. Do you know what it means to be graded on the curve? It means, for those of you from other countries form of relativism. It means that if everybody in your class gets 60% on a test, only 60% right, Arthur, you haven't heard of this yet, have you? Arthur? Where's Arthur? You haven't heard of this. This is what the problem is with American education. What happens is if you come in and everybody gets 60% right and maybe one person gets 70% right, you don't all get Ds or Cs or Fs. The person with the 70% gets an A and the rest of you get and C's, you know, it's all relativized. And that's really nice, isn't it? Unless, unless you come up with a scourge of a student's life, in a particular class, sometimes you may happen to run into a curve buster. A curve buster. When I was a freshman, I had an English class. We walked in, and there was 18 guys and one woman. And we all looked and said, uh-oh. And it was true. We were all up there getting 60s and 70%s, and she would knock out 97s and 98s, and she was a curvebuster. What this meant was, if only she was so far above us, so far beyond us, what happened was we were constantly getting bad grades because of her. And because, you see, her aboveness, her beyondness took away all of our excuses for our lack of excellence, traumatized our self-images. Now, when the Bible talks about God as being holy, what does it mean? What does it mean? The word holy means separate. It means God is separate. It's talking about the aboveness, the beyondness, the transcendence of God. God is the curve buster. When we get near Him, all of our excuses for our lack of excellence fall at our feet. image is traumatized. And the closer we get to it, it doesn't have to take much. Just coming to church, just reading the prayers, just listening to the scripture, it doesn't take much, does it? You start to feel unholy. You start to feel sinful. You start to feel flawed. When I first started trying to get near God, I would read passages of scripture. I said, well, it'll be inspiring to read the Bible. So you get out, it says, this is eternal light, that you love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. and I said, that's not inspiring. That was holiness, you see. All my heart, soul, strength, and mind. I have to love God with 100% of my heart, 100% of my soul, 100% of my attention, 100% of my thoughts, 100% of my desires, 100% of the time. That's holiness. That's to be for him, utterly and completely and exclusively for him. And I looked at that and I said, I feel so unholy. Archbishop William Temple used to say this. He used to say, your religion is what you do with your solitude. And that means when you don't have to think of anything, when you're alone and nothing is making you think of something, where do your thoughts go? Do they, like metal particles, get drawn back to the magnet of God? Do you find yourself constantly thinking of him and his excellence? No. Whatever you focus on, that's your God. Whatever you find it most effortless to think about, that is what you worship. We're not holy. And the more I thought about it, the more I read, the closer I tried to get, the more unholy I felt. And I believe that anybody who's making the same effort to seek God feels that. If you're trying to get near the real God, the holy God, you begin to feel it. He busts the curve, you see. And Jesus says, now, and what Jesus is saying will only make sense to people who at least have had enough integrity as to admit that when they try to get close to God, they felt unholy. who have no problem with that because you immediately did the modern thing and that is you said, well, I prefer to think of God in some other way. But if instead of doing that, instead of treating God as if he's a Lego set, if instead what you have done is actually treated him the way you treat all the rest of reality and you start to come near the God who is holy, who is perfect, who is loving, who is great, who is truthful, who is just and righteous, you feel unholy and Jesus Christ says, I and I alone solution. When you read the Old Testament religion, you see there enshrined and graphically portrayed what we all know intuitively, that God is unapproachable. And so the people couldn't go back into the Holy of Holies where God's Shekinah glory, his holiness, and his presence dwelt. Only once a year, the high priest representing the people could go back into that behind that curtain after he'd spent weeks washing himself and purifying himself and carrying the sacrifice. and it was dangerous. He could be killed back there. And Jesus Christ says, though, however, I am the priest. I am the sacrifice. I lay myself down. I am the temple. I have died in your stead. I have paid everything that you owe. I'm the Lamb of God. And as a result, when Jesus Christ died, the veil, the curtain, separating the Holy of Holies, the presence of God, from the people, that curtain was torn, Matthew tells us, from top to bottom. Why? Because those of us who believe in him can now approach God. That holiness of God that was fatal is now no longer fatal, but comes out and can flood into our lives and just flood into our hearts. And Jesus says, only if you approach God through me. Only if you finally admit who he is and who you are and you come through me. I am the temple. I'm the way in. I broke a hole in the wall at the expense of my life, but now follow me in. Just like the soldier who says, I'm going to lead the troop out, but I know there's a mine out there, so I'll go first. And the mine blows him up, and then we can all go in through the hole that he, at his own expense, has opened. Now, that's what he's trying to teach us. And so how do we apply that to our lives? If this is all true, then what does that mean? I suggest it means two things. Two things that should change the way in which we think about ourselves and the way in which we live. Number one, it means that Jesus Christ is a refiner. We're told that he has zeal for the purity of the courts of his Father. Peter tells us that if you are born again, if you unite with Christ by faith, don't you become part of his body? And what is the temple? His body. Don't you know that when you're born again that means into your life comes the spirit of God, the spirit of a living God? And what does that mean? It means that you are the house of God. Your life is the temple of God. Now, do you remember are you putting together here? It says here that zeal for the purity of God's house consumes Jesus, for the holiness of God's courts consumes Jesus, and now what is it that consumes Jesus? What is it that He lives for? for the purity and holiness of your lives. He is committed to make you holy and happy. There's nothing else that he lives for. He, you know, zeal consumes him for the purity of the courts of his Holy Father. And you are the courts of the Holy One of Israel if you've united with Jesus Christ by faith. He is concerned about that and he will get the impurities out. Now, how does he do it? What have we been talking about all day? He's a refiner. How does a refiner work? Think and listen, and let me give you a couple of illustrations because some of you are in the furnace right now. Everybody who's tried to get toward Jesus Christ, everybody who wants Jesus Christ, you either are right now in the furnace or you're about to go into the furnace or recently you've just come out of the furnace. What does a furnace do? The furnace creates conditions so that the purity and the impurities can't live together. The heat makes it impossible for the gold and the impurity, the dross, to stay together. It pushes them in different directions. A furnace, a refiner's fire, is a condition, a situation in which your love for other things and your love for God no longer can live together. A furnace is a condition in which you are forced to choose, and by choosing love for God, you become more holy, more perfect, more loving. You become more like Jesus, more wise, more courageous, Look, here's one. Think of this. You got a really good job, a nice paying job, but now your boss is demanding that you do things that are going to really compromise your conscience. Choose. Up to now, your love of money and of comfort and your love of God have lived together. There's not been any choice, but now the heat is on. And you begin to realize that if I begin to obey God, jeopardy? And where in this job market am I going to find a job that pays like that? Ouch! What's happening? You're in the furnace, and for the first time, you've got to choose between your love of comfort and money and your love of Jesus. Choose this day whom you will serve. And if you choose rightly, what's happening is the dross falls away. Here's another one. You know, you're in a great relationship with somebody that looks like good spouse material, but this other person is asking you basically to compromise on a couple of very key issues. If I obey God, it puts the entire relationship in jeopardy. Ouch! Choose! I've got to choose. My love, my love for the idea of a family and my idea of a relationship and my love for God, ouch! The furnace is on. Which way are you going to go? Maybe, and here's another one, something that you've wanted all your life looks like it's not going to happen. You have a choice. See, up to now, you felt fairly competent to run your own life and you felt God's been pretty competent to run your life, but now you have a choice. Are you going to be bitter or are you going to say, Lord, I submit gladly. If this is the way you want to run my life, fine with me. For the first time, you've got to choose between confidence in your own competence to run your life and your own agenda and His agenda. Which will it be? My dear friends, a lot of you are in the furnace now, or you're about to go into it, or you've just come out of it. Don't you see what happens? The heat is on. You're being pushed so that the impurity, the true, the false self and the true self in you are being pulled apart. And Jesus Christ is not putting you in the furnace to cook you. He's putting you in the furnace to refine you. You see? You're not a goose. You're gold. You're silver. You're a diamond. Jesus Christ is the jeweler. He looks at you and He loves you and He says, I don't want your misery. You're in the furnace for your joy, not for your misery. I can't wait to see you bright and shining as a diamond cut and polished and in your setting. I am consumed with zeal for your holiness and for your happiness which are the same thing. I am consumed with zeal for what you can be and the beauty of what you can be. me. Choose me when you're in that furnace and I can guarantee you the only thing that will drop off or fall off is not what you think. That thing that you think was an arm was really a tumor. That thing you think was a leg, I'll be maimed if I get rid of this. It was really a malignant growth. You're going through the furnace. Hear me. Listen to me. I'm your refiner. Will you let him be your refiner? And the only other thing, if all Jesus Christ must be your owner as well. You see, there's a big difference between the way he acted when he was at the wedding feast. A lot of you were here last week and we went over the first part of John 2. At the wedding feast, somebody had a problem and he said, Okay, now that's the way we like it. But here's the difference. When he was at Cana, he was a guest in the house. When he was here, he was the host. He owned the house. Now you don't make many demands if you're the guest, right? If you go to stay with somebody, you say, well, here's your guest room. Is there anything I can get you? And you say, well, yes. I was wondering if you could knock this wall out for me. I wonder if you could put a back stairway in. Would that be all right? You don't do that. You're a guest. But if you're the host, if you own the house, you make changes. You move things around. You change things. You knock things out. How do you know whether Jesus Christ is really in your life, dwelling in your life, lives is where he owns. How do you know if you're really a temple of the Holy Spirit? If you have Jesus Christ in your life as a guest, if you're saying, well, I would like him around so that he could do things for me, friends, he won't come in. He doesn't come in that way. He comes in to live. And when he comes in to live, that means it's his house. And the way you can tell whether you're actually giving yourself to him and letting him be your owner, is that he is putting his finger on things and he's saying, I want that gone or this is too important and you've got to move it off. The only way you know that he's in your life as Lord as he really is, is if you can point to those things that he has been pointing to and you can point to things that are out of your life in the last year because he has pointed to them. Otherwise, you've got a God of your own making, a God that you prefer to think of. My dear friends, you know what the only alternative is of saying to God, Use me? The only alternative is to say, God, what? I want to use you. The only alternative to holiness is un holiness. The only alternative to say, Lord, I give you myself. My heart owns none before thee. I'm at your disposal. The only alternative is to say, Well, Lord, I want you in my life. I want you to do this and this, but not this. This far, but no further. Otherwise, our relationship is negotiated. You have no relationship then. You know how the hymn goes. My heart... No, you don't know how the hymn goes. There's a hymn that goes like this. Oh, use me, Lord. Use even me. But then it goes on. Just as thou wilt and when and where, until thy blessed face I see, thy rest, thy glory, thy joy share. And what he's saying is, this is the irony. Listen to me. If there's anybody here who said, now I see what I have to do, I'm scared to give myself to Jesus that way. The irony is, until you say, Lord, use me, you're not really your own. Because the irony is, when you say, Lord, use me, until you do that, who knows? Your life is being controlled by all these other things that you want so badly. But if you say, use me, he will never use you as a thing. But instead, he will give you his glory. If you say, Lord, I give you myself, what does God say? Great. I can't wait to make you sweat. When you say, Lord, I give myself to you, he says, fine, my child, now I give myself to you. Come. Let him be your owner. Let him be your refiner. Let's pray. Father, in this moment, in this time, we do sense things that because of the furnace, You're making us choose between. I pray, Father, that there's folks that are here that see what those things are. In some cases, it's choosing between you and reputation. Some of us are afraid that if we make this step to give our lives to you, what's going to happen is that we're going to look like fools to our peers and our friends. In some cases, people are saying, If I make this move, I'm afraid that, well, Father, I pray that you will purify us and show us that if we give ourselves to you, all that we will lose are things that we need to lose, that you can make us into bright and stainless mirrors reflecting back to you your own glory and goodness. I pray that everybody here will be enabled to do that. And I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
