Okay, I'm going to give you some teaching, do some Q&A, but mainly what we're going to cover, what I'm going to cover up here is what you will also cover in your discussions in your various groups and gatherings afterwards. This year we are talking about how the gospel shapes community. I mean, it's very typical for Redeemer and typical for me and typical for Christians to talk about the way in which the gospel changes a person's individual life. But what we're doing in these several meetings that we're getting together to talk and teach this as a group of leaders this year, we're looking at how the gospel also prepares and creates and shapes a distinct kind of community, how it doesn't just change your individual life, but also creates a community. And the handout that you've got, if you're on page three, rather than read through it, you can probably follow along. I want to make three main points, and then under the third point I want to look at two case studies of this. The first point I'd like to make is when you pick up the Bible, this is, by the way, in the introductory paragraph. When you pick up the Bible and you see all the do this. Do that. Thou shalt do this. Thou shalt do that. Because we're Americans and people who live in a Western society, we almost always pick the Bible up and read it as if this is God's blueprint for my life. Here's how God wants me to behave. And that's partly right, of course, because here you are. You're sitting there. You're reading it. And when it says, don't commit adultery, when it says, be generous to the poor, what that means is you, the reader, this is God's will for you. Right? And yet, something that comes up, if you read more carefully, is that the Bible is actually not speaking to you individually. In fact, one of our problems, of course, is that English, unless you're from the South, English doesn't have a second person plural pronoun. You know, we say you individually. We say you corporately, unless you're from the South where you say y'all. But most folks. Or, by the way, unless you're from a little narrow places in Western Pennsylvania where you actually say yuns. Have you ever. Anybody ever heard that? Ah, yuns? Yeah. Pretty bad, isn't it? Yeah. So, however, the Hebrew and the Greek actually have second person plural, but when we bring it into English translation, it just comes across as you. And you all have no idea how often the you is plural.

And actually, just to give you an example, I'm going to give you an example. I'm going to give you an example of this. Look at the prologue to the Ten Commandments.

Ten Commandments are laid out in Exodus 20. The prologue is in Exodus 19, where God says,

You yourselves have seen what I did to Egypt, how I carried you on eagles' wings and brought you to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations you will be my treasured possession. Although the whole earth is mine, you will be for me a kingdom of priests and a royal, a holy nation. A kingdom of priests and a holy nation. In other words, I'm going to turn you into, and he's described it, we'll get to this in a second. I'm going to create a community of priests, a holy nation, a kingdom of priests. And then he gives you the Ten Commandments. So what are the Ten Commandments for? They're to create this kind of community, basically. And the Sermon on the Mount is to create this kind of community. That's the reason why John Stott, when he did his exposition of the Sermon on the Mount, called it the Ten Commandments. It's a Christian counterculture. He didn't call it how God wants you to live your individual life. And he was right. Or, to put it another way, when you read the Bible and you read what the Bible says it wants you to do as a Christian, essentially what it's calling you to do is be part of a community in which everybody else is trying to do the same thing. It's calling you to be part of a counterculture. It's calling you to be part of an alternate society. It's calling you to be part of a community that's different from the rest of the world. And actually, you can't carry this out. And I think I've used illustrations before about this. You can't actually carry out an awful lot of what the Bible actually says unless you do it in a community. This is the reason why over the years I've had people say, well, you know, why isn't the Bible more specific? And the answer is it doesn't have to be specific. If you're sitting there all by yourself, you know, you're saying, well, what does this mean? Very often if you were part of a community of people who were saying, okay, we're not going to be greedy. We're not going to be materialistic. How are we as a... You know, because the Bible is filled with that. You know, the Bible says far more about materialism than about lust. Far more. But, of course, materialism is hard to define, is it not? Greed is hard to define, yet the Bible is constantly warning you about it. It's really only as we get together and talk about these things and talk about how we spend money on ourselves. Of course. Of course, again, it's weird. We now live in a culture in which it's taboo to talk about, are you spending enough money? I mean, are you spending that kind of money on yourself? You don't talk about that. On the other hand, you do talk about sex. You don't talk about money. That's the way the culture operates. But if you're in a community in which we're willing to talk about our sexual practices, our financial practices, because we're trying to, as a community, be faithful to what God says. How God wants us to live. Then a lot of those questions get worked out in community. An awful lot of people over the years have come to me and said, why isn't the Bible more specific? Why doesn't it just tell me as an individual, don't do this, do this, because that's greedy and that's not greedy. And I now come to realize as a pastor, it's because the Bible expects to work it out. It's actually one of the reasons why the book of Proverbs is almost impossible for us to read and understand, because it was supposed to be worked through in a community.

So what I'd like you to see first of all is the Bible actually is written to people who it assumes are creating a special kind of community. You really can't read it individualistically and really get out of it all you're supposed to get out of it for how you're supposed to behave. That's the first point. Second point. If you look a little more carefully at the kind of community, both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, there is an odd and very important balance to keep in mind. There's a balance that we have to. have in our head. God says, I want you to be a kingdom of priests and I want you to be a holy nation. And by the way, in the New Testament, Jesus says, I want you to be a light of the world, a city on a hill, and I also want you to be salt. Let me. Let's look at what these things mean. A holy nation. The word holy in its more, you know, it's more basic. the more basic sense of the word holy is to be set apart, to be distinct and to be different. That's what the word means. When we talk about God being holy, he's the most set apart, the most distinct person. He's absolutely unique. On the other hand, when we talk about pots being holy, there's quite a lot of places where it talks about pots and utensils. And you ever seen a holy spoon? You know, you and I think of holiness as righteousness and godliness, but, you know, what is a righteousness? What is a righteous spoon? What is a godly fork? And yet the Bible talks about basically holy utensils and things like that in the Old Testament. Why? Because they've been set apart for God's use. They've been set apart. So the idea of a holy nation is God is saying, I want you to be distinct. I want you to be different. When you become a Christian, even though you're still British or you're still Chinese or you're still American or you're still. You're still Latin American or whatever you are, you are now also different than all other Latin Americans, all other British, all other Chinese. You are a holy nation. And that word nation is a really strong word. It's the word ethnic. And it means to some degree, every person who becomes a Christian has been lifted out of their culture into a new culture. It's a very strong word. So first of all, it's saying, you have got to be different than the world around you. You have got to be part of a community that operates on very, very sharply, distinctly, wholly different operational principles in the way in which you understand sexuality and personhood and money and power and race and in everything, practically. In other words, virtually every aspect of the way in which you live your life. See, we're a new culture. Every aspect of the way in which you live your life has to be changed by the Word of God, by the gospel. And that's what a holy nation means. And yet. He also says, you're supposed to be a kingdom of priests. Now, priests are mediators. It's very interesting. See, a prophet, you know, prophet, priest, king, a prophet speaks from God to the people. So a prophet says, hear the Word of the Lord. And it's kind of combative, confrontive, right? But a priest is someone who actually speaks to God on the part of the people. A priest is sympathetic. A priest gets in the shoes of the person and then brings the needs to God. A priest is a counselor. A priest is someone who's deeply involved sympathetically in the life of a person and who's bringing them to God. Not bringing God to the people, but bringing the people to God. Very sympathetic, very. And yet, we're supposed to be a whole kingdom of priests. Now, that's weird. Hmm. Holy nation. Different. We're different than the rest of New York City. We're different in the way in which we do this and this and this. We're distinct. We're holy. We're not like them. We're not going to be assimilated. We're not going to be, you know, we're not going to be affected by the values of the world. We're going to be holy. Right. At the same time, we're supposed to be priests. We're supposed to be so deeply involved in the lives of the world around us and the neighbors around us and the people around us. And that we're supposed to be deeply involved in their lives and leading them toward God.

And that's the reason why. To cover, we're calling this, the gospel produces a very unique kind of community, a counterculture for the common good. Counterculture is holy nation. Common good is kingdom of priests. Counterculture means we're different. We are not like them.

For the common good is, and yet, out of our difference, the purpose of our difference is not just to be different. The purpose of our difference is not to be different. It's not to say we're different and we're right and you're wrong. The purpose of our difference is to be a resource by which we pour ourselves out in involvement and service to the people around us so as, if possible, to show them God. Now, Jesus basically says, roughly speaking, the same thing in that section of the Sermon on the Mount. And don't forget, again, the Sermon on the Mount, just like in the Old Testament, we have the Ten Commandments, which we tend to read individually. But I'm trying to show you, if you look at the prologue, holy nation, kingdom of priests, counterculture for the common good, the Ten Commandments are a set of guidelines for behavior in order to create this unique kind of community that's both for the world and yet against the world, against the world for the world, different from the world and yet serving the world, serving the world out of the fact that we're different and the resources of our difference. Jesus comes along and here's the Sermon on the Mount, which many people call a kind of New Testament version of the Ten Commandments, and indeed they are. They're incredible. He basically takes, you know, you've heard it said, don't commit adultery. I say to you, don't have lust. You've heard it said, don't kill. I say you shouldn't even, you know, do verbal abuse and disdain your neighbor. Jesus is basically ratcheting up our understanding of what it means to live according to the Ten Commandments. And yet he does almost the same thing. Don't read this individualistically, he said. What? He says, you are the salt of the world. And you are the light of the world, a city on a hill. And essentially you have those same two aspects. See, on the one hand, think, light exposes the darkness, right? And a city on a hill is a separate entity, different than the darkness around. Here's the city of light and here's the darkness around. That's the counterculture. And yet. And yet. Where to be salt. And see, salt just gets out into the meat to both season it. It distributes itself out into the meat to both season it and to preserve it. And so in a sense, a city on the hill is this group of people that have gathered together and created this counterculture. You know, there's, you might say, a gathering together, a cohesiveness. And yet the salt is a dispersion, an involvement, and an involvement for the good of the meat that otherwise would go bad. And so, and then Jesus says, if you are salt and light, then the Gentiles, the pagans, will see your good deeds and praise God, which is kingdom of priests.

And over the years, both as a pastor, redeemer, and as a former, you know, a person who's always trying to form Christian community, I find that this is virtually impossible. This is virtually an impossible balance. So we just need to always be just yearning for it and working for it and correcting, correcting. Constantly correcting. You know, of course, Martin Luther, someplace where Martin Luther said, the human race is like a drunk man who, having fallen off the horse on one side, gets back on to promptly fall off on the other. And basically, he says, you want to understand history, if you want to understand your own life, you know, just think of yourself as a drunk man trying to stay on top of a horse and not being able to do it. And there is no doubt that you have, I've seen over the years, churches and Christian movements that have been just like that. Just saying, we've got to get out of our holy huddle. We've got to get out there and involve with people. We've got to engage the culture. We've got to not see them as the other and the enemy. And then not too long after that, losing their distinctiveness. Or people saying, we've got to get ourselves back. We've got to, you know, we've got to, the church has got to be the church. And we've got to be holy. And we've got to be different. And it's not our job to change the world. We have to change ourselves. It's very hard to keep this thing together. But there it is. Kingdom of priests. Priests. And think what priests are. It doesn't say kingdom of prophets. And, of course, that doesn't mean we're not supposed to be prophetic. And yet, that's not the word he used. The kingdom of priests and holy nation.

Anyway, not hard, not easy at all. I mean, in some ways, I don't know, you know, I could, you know, you can critique Redeemer on both sides, frankly. I mean, in many ways, we're not involved in the city enough and we're not holy enough. So maybe I've been. I've been an absolute complete failure. I haven't even fallen off the horse on one side or the other. I've just. I've fallen off the horse on the back. Past the. I don't know.

Nevertheless, this is the way that we have to identify Christian community, how we have to understand it, and how we have to evaluate ourselves. Now, having said that, I'm. Like I said, I'm. And I think that this is not a. This is not a. This is not a subject that I can just say, here's the. Here it is. I'm introducing it so you can ask me some questions for 20 minutes and then you can get together in your groups and try to thrash more of it out. However, having said that, now, all Christian ethics comes under the gospel and community as far as I'm concerned. Virtually all of it. And so if you actually, you know, if you're following along, let me turn you. If you turn to page 7, I think I'm just going to give you an overview of page 7, 8, and 9. Here's why.

It's not the only way to do it, but one of the. One good way to summarize communal ethics are sex, money, and power. How does a community understand sexuality and family? How does a community understand money, possessions, material goods, economics? And how does a community exercise power, understand power, distribute power? You know.

And I certainly don't have the time here tonight to go over everything. I've given you at least some ideas in this handout. It's a pretty long handout. At least some ideas about what I think the Bible says about these various areas. And if any church was involved in. If any church was really living up to this, we would be a holy nation. And to a great degree, a light to the world as well. Because these aren't two totally different things. If our family life and our sexuality. If our generosity, the way in which we use our money. If we're really holy, it actually. I'm now realizing real holiness does move you out. Real holiness is a beacon to the world. It's attractive to the world. It. I mean, there's a kind of holiness that's just a kind of moralism, of course, and legalism. But real holiness, where you're really saying, we really want to be shaped by what the Bible says about sex. We really want to be shaped by what the Bible says about sex. What the Bible says about money and power. It would automatically make us an outward-facing place, an attractive place to the rest of the city. Anyhow, let me just take a. Let me just look down at sex. Let me give you three biblical guidelines, as it were, for sexuality and community, and five guidelines for money and possessions in a Christian community, which I think are part of what the Bible means when it talks about being holy. On sex, actually, I will. I'll give you these three. They're actually on page eight. Let me give you three ways in which we would really look very weird. And here's a. It's not money, but in sex, that in our culture,

we are going to look like freaks. In our culture, this is a place where. These are pressure points. Because people inside our community are going to be under enormous pressure from. from the society to be different than this.

And people on the outside looking at this do not understand this, you know, are repulsed by Christian sex ethics by and large. When you talk to modern secular liberal people about what the Bible says about money, they may think it's realistic, but they don't think it's despicable. They say, that's unrealistic, and thank. I'm glad I'm not part of your church. But they're. They're not going to say, and I just think that's ridiculous and despicable. They basically would say, man, if you're a congregation living like that, well, I don't want to be part of it, but boy, that's great. But if you describe sex ethics to the average liberal, you know, Western person in New York City, they'd say, that is really, really sick.

And illiberal, and offensive, and maybe oppressive. Now, if you go to some other part of the world, it's the. You know, it's reversed, as you know. There's other parts of the world in which the non-Christian culture around you might be even more conservative about sex than what the Bible is. But then, in areas of power, you know, they would be utterly offended by the way in which we consider. Mix the races, and mix the classes, and that kind of thing. So, you know, we're going to be hated by every external culture somewhere. The pressure point's going to be different. And the ones in New York have, I think, at this point, to do about sex. And here's why. Look, here's three things. Number one, the Bible says, on the basis of the Christian understanding of personhood, the Christian understanding of the image of God, the Christian understanding of the integrity of soul and body. This is different than the Greek understanding. It's different than the postmodern understanding of the personhood. It's different than. Okay. On the basis of the Christian understanding of the image of God, we say, you must never make yourself naked and vulnerable physically to a person, or to have sex with them, without making yourself naked and vulnerable wholly in every way by committing yourself socially, economically, and personally to the other person in marriage.

It's a monstrosity, we believe. It's a denial of the integrity of the image of God to say, oh, I'm going to give myself to you sexually and physically, but I'm not going to give myself to you in every other way. I'm not going to commit myself to you so that we're now a new decision-making unit, and we're married, and we're economically one, and we're legally one, and we have to make decisions together. Oh, no, I'm not going to give up my independence. And the Bible says that is a complete. denial of the Christian understanding of personhood. And therefore, sex outside of marriage is utterly wrong. And it's. Listen, when Christians came along and started practicing that in the early church, everybody else in the Roman. I mean, in the Roman world, women had to be. The wives couldn't commit adultery. The wives had to be chased inside marriage, but the husbands were not. It was not necessary. It was expected that they wouldn't. It wouldn't be. And people before marriage, certainly, no problem. And so Christians came along, and they were weird. And we're still weird. We're weird again.

But I'm not going to go any further. Some of you have heard. I mean, there's plenty more to say, but I'm just giving you an overview. This, by the way, is a crucial witness. This is a crucial part of being a holy nation, obviously. And yet, at Redeemer, because of the pressures of society, there's a fair number of our. very active people and members who have sex outside of marriage, we know, right? And therefore, we were always having to call people to holiness in this area, and it's not easy. Number one. Number two. The second thing is, because of our understanding of the image of God, infanticide, abortion,

euthanasia of senile elderly people and mentally handicapped people,

because of the image of God, Christians, from the beginning, had a very, very wide circle of protected people.

Interestingly enough, by the way, there's a new book coming out. Now, you heard me talk about this, a lot of you, this is the last Sunday in November. There's a new book coming out, first part of next year, an academic book, Oxford University Press, called Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Image of God. That's the name of the book. And the argument of the writer is that, you know, is that pretty much the whole civil rights movement was grounded in this idea of the image of God, you know, and some of you may have been there in November. I quoted, there's this great, great sermon by Martin Luther King, Jr. called The American Dream, in which he said, we have to call the American nation to say, if you believe, if you're a Christian and you believe in the image of God, there are no gradations in the image of God. You know, all, there are no inferior races. You know, all human beings deserve to be protected. Now, on the basis of that, Christians, not only Christianity and the idea of the image of God was behind the civil rights movement, it was behind abolition, but it was also behind the Christian attitude toward abortion and infanticide. And in the early days of the church, Roman, in the Roman world, both abortion and infanticide were just routine. Christians were absolutely different. Why? Because their understanding of the image of God expanded the circle of protected, of protection. And some of you heard me mention the fact that there's a crisis right now in the whole area.

Peter Singer, Princeton, at Princeton University, Peter Singer has been arguing for quite a while that if abortion is all right, then we've got to be able, at a certain point, to take mentally handicapped people and senile old people, and we have to have the right to let them die as well. And the reason is because the only people that deserve protection are not people in the image of God, we don't believe in that anymore, but people with capacities to choose. Preferences is what Peter Singer says. Unless you have the ability to exercise preferences, you don't have the right to protection. So what's actually happened is, this is also the way the Greeks and the Romans felt. Aristotle said some races need, some races deserve to be slaves because they are not capable, he didn't think, of higher reasoning. So the higher the capacity, the more you could be protected, and the lower the capacity, lower the education, various capacity, senility, age, infants, they're not protected. But Christianity came along and said, the image of God means that they're all protected. Unborn children, senile old people, slaves, people of different races, they're all protected. And though the Christian church has certainly had a very spotty record at carrying this out, it's not. It's always been a resource. And inside the Christian community, we have got to also stick with that and not let the world's understanding of personhood overwhelm our understanding of personhood, which means protecting all these human beings in the image of God. Thirdly, in the area of sexuality, is homosexuality. And it wasn't that hard to see that, you know, whatever we decide the United States government needs to say in its understanding of marriage, you know, it's pretty tough to know to what degree you should ask the secular government to adopt a Christian understanding of marriage. But a Christian understanding of marriage has always been that the power of it is that you are bringing two people of different genders together into close quarters. That's the power of it, which I mentioned yesterday in the sermon. And that's the reason why the Bible, it was interesting as somebody years ago said, to me, well, there's just seven different places in the Bible where homosexuality is forbidden. It's just seven verses. And, you know, the right answer on that is you don't know how to read the scripture. It's not how often does homosexuality get condemned in the Bible. It's the fact is the Bible starts with a heterosexual marriage and it ends with a heterosexual marriage. And it privileges heterosexual marriage because it's the union of different people of two different genders. And so there's really no. Again, that goes in with this idea of the image of God because we're told when God made man and woman in his own image, remember what it said? In the image of God created he them, male and female created he them. Remember that? Where male and female together image God in a way that man and man or woman and woman do not. That's what Karl Barth, that's what virtually everybody who understands Genesis 1.26 understands that. To mean. And therefore, the fact that Christians from the very beginning have said heterosexual marriage is the only marriage, the only way sex is to be used, sex has to be used inside marriage, abortion is wrong, all these things, you know, this is one of the few places where the Catholic Church, the Eastern Orthodox Church, the classic Protestant Church,

Orthodox Judaism, do you realize how much unanimity there is about these three things? Through centuries and centuries, all the churches that have never really been able to agree on hardly anything else, it's so obvious that when you read the scripture that this is the way we've got to live and we can't let that erode. That's three things. Five things on money. See how different we would be? How wholly different we would be? Now five things on money and then take some questions. Here's what the Bible says about your attitude toward your money and the way in which you ought to give. Point one is, and just look up here, don't try to follow. This is a summary. Point one is the Bible says tithing, giving away 10% of your income to ministry, to charity, to benevolence, to others, you know, who are in need, that is a general rule of thumb.

If you're not giving anywhere close to 10%, you need to do everything you can over the next couple of years to change your life around so that you can. This doesn't mean you might not be under, you know, a huge amount of debt. And, and you know, the Bible does say in Genesis, in Romans 12, oh, no one anything, which means it's very important to make good on your debt. So you might say, I can't tithe for a while because I'm making good on my, I mean, there's all kinds of short term excuses, which are valid because we can't be legalistic about this, but there's no long term excuse. For year after year, not giving anywhere near 10%. And by the way, Christian Smith, and Mike Emerson, they're sociologists, just wrote a book called Passing the Plate. And they, they just sit around and fantasize what, even if you define the number of evangelical Christians down to practice, to the smallest possible, most conservative number, then you sit there and figure out what would happen if they all tithed. And it's astounding. And they said, there's probably another $47 billion would go into Christian ministries every year. And then they sit around and said, you realize what that could do? Do you realize what you could do with $47 billion a year more? It's pretty scary. Pretty interesting. Anyway, 10%, point two, second principle is this, that 10% may not be enough. You may live in a working class community and be a working class person as a Christian. You may live in a, you may, you may be a professional. You may be a highly paid professional. These people have brackets in which they live. Professionals know each other and they, they get together and they very often live near one another. And working class people know if you're a Christian, you need to live near the bottom of your bracket.

Um, and if you do, in many cases you can give more than 10%. In other words, if you're a working class person, if you're a, you know, a not very highly paid professional person, if you are very highly paid professional person, there's about four or five classes out there. You know that there's really poor people. There's working poor. There's a blue collar people that make a pretty good living cause they work for, because they're in the U a w. There's a, there's a, you know, there's, there's professionals who have enormous debts, uh, and they've gone to college and they've gotten master's degrees, but they just are in professions that don't make a great deal of money. Uh, and then there's highly paid professionals and then there's very wealthy people where you need to have Christians in all those brackets. You know, we can't just say, well, you can't have any Christians up there, but whatever bracket you're in, you need to live near the bottom in the way you spend your money on your, on your, on your, uh, your clothing, on the way, you know, which is where you spend your money on, on eating and food and leisure. In other words, you need to live near the bottom. And very often if you do that, you can give away more than 10%. Third point. Third principle is, yeah, um, I already mentioned this, so I'll be, I'll be fast. There needs to be a willingness inside the Christian community to talk about our money together. It is fascinating that I do see Christians being, being willing to get together and share, uh, their problems they're having with sex. Now you don't do that with a lot of people, but you'll have four or five friends and you'll say, I've got these sexual urges and I got these problems and I've done this and, and you help each other and you pray. Why aren't you doing that with anybody else when you're deciding how much to spend on an apartment, how much to spend on rent, how much to spend on your vacation? Why don't you do that? And if we're not willing to, then you're not really part of a Christian community. You're still really basically an aggregation of individuals. If you're not willing to talk about things like that. Now you probably don't need to talk about, you know, here's how much I make and here's how, and you know, here's what I'm spending with everybody. Just like you don't talk about the fact that I've got a problem with masturbation with everybody. But if you've got a problem with masturbation, you might want to talk to some Christians about it. You probably need to. And if you've got an eating disorder, you need to talk to some Christians about it. And frankly, you need to talk to some Christians about how you spend your money. Otherwise you're not really part of a community. You're just, you know, you're just, you're just a part of individuals who come together for inspiration. That's the third principle. The fourth principle is that when Jesus is how important taking care of one other inside the community is, this is one of the reasons why it's been so interesting and important to me, uh, to see that in hard years, and I'll get back to this a little later, um, hard years like the end of 2002 after nine 11 and hard years like this year, I am seeing, I'm seeing people inside the church go to the mat, dig down deep. And even when they're actually making less money and are more afraid and more financially insecure, they're giving more to the diaconal fund than the year before and they're helping out more. This is crucial because of this. If you read my material in here based on Craig Blomberg's interesting book, riches, uh, neither riches nor poverty, he says, he says the places where Jesus says, don't worry about money, like in Matthew six and in Luke, don't worry about money. We read those in the Bible, individualistically. You know why we say, Oh, what that's saying is that if I'm a Christian, I don't have to worry about money because God will somehow just drop money into my pocket somehow. If I have a problem, he says, if you look at the context, you'll see what he's really saying is don't worry about money because the Christian community will take care of you. What? And what, what Jesus is saying is give and give really generously in such a way that everybody in the community that our needs are being met. So, so that when the time comes that you have got a need, the community will take care of you. When God is giving you resources, use it to take care of members of the community that have problems. And then when you have problems, God will use other people in the community with resources to help you. And that is the basis for the, that is actually the basis for the assurances that Jesus makes that don't worry about what you will drink or what you put on. You know, God will take care of you. And we read that individualistically. Somehow God's just going to get me a job or something like that. No, he's going to take care of you through the community. So you've got to be part of that. You've got to be part of a community and a community that shares resources. That's the reason why the diaconate is so crucial at Redeemer. One last thing, point five. Al, I'm not going to go there. Point five is it's not enough to take the principles of what the Bible says about money and just apply them individually to yourself. You need to, as much as you possibly can in your business practices, in the way in which you use money out in the public, you need to, you need to apply that to, but we just don't have time for that. We don't have time because we've got to take some questions. So do you see how different we would be? And I've just hit sex briefly. I hit money briefly, but this is a, you know, an overview and there's more stuff you can read about it in here. And also we're going to be discussing it afterwards, but for about 15 minutes I think, or maybe less than that, I can take some questions. So Q's, A's, Q's, A's, Q's. Okay. Q. Um, just in terms of the priesthood, trying to balance priesthood, and then being out there in the world, I think I've had the most struggles actually with Christians, um, rebelling against some of God's commands rather than people in the secular world. And I've, I've particularly been struggling with this year because one of my best friends from college, um, who's been a Christian for many years decided, actually told me over Facebook that she decided to become a lesbian and had this whole thing. And I've been really struggling in how to handle it, especially because there's sort of an insistence that if you're not going to accept me and be happy for me, then, or friendship, friendship is over. And yeah, it's a third category, right? It's a third category. It's, it's Christians who we feel like are not willing to be part of the Holy nation. In other words, we're not, it's not people in the world, people in here in the Holy nation was people who are professing Christians who really don't, aren't, don't want to be, uh, don't want to submit basically to what the Bible says about holiness.

Uh,

well, well that is, uh, you still have to be priestly though to them. You know, there's two ways of looking at them. They're either, they're either revealing that they, um, never really grasped the gospel, really didn't understand it. And therefore now they're part of the world and we have to be priestly to people in the world, or maybe they're wayward Christians who will come to their senses at some point, but we still have to be priestly to them. And I guess the good thing, the prophetic is, this is the way you've got to be. The priestly is to kind of come alongside and say, don't you see where God wants you to go and couldn't you please understand that? And I would say generally because, um,

because, because people who are Christian who, um, have same sex attraction today have got a community of people that's coming in around them to say, I can make you part of a Christian community, a real Christian community, in which this is all right, this is acceptable. So what very often is happening is my brother, for example, when my brother during, when he was at Penn State decided, Hey, I have same sex attraction, I'm gay. He jettisoned his Christianity. Now this is, that's just how old we are. Um, he was an evangelical Christian, loves the Narnia Chronicles and in college said, Hey, I'm gay. And, uh, what he decided to do at that point was to say, this does not fit with Christianity at all. Now this would have been 1981, something like that. And, um, I have to say it made it vastly easier for us over the years to relate to him. Then, uh, today, probably, I'm not sure where he'd be, but today what you have is you actually have folks who say, you don't have to make this choice. You can be part of a Christian community and we just bring that in. And in that case, uh, they have a lot of support. Um, and I would actually say the best thing to do with most of them is to take a priestly rather than a prophetic stance. Uh, I'd say the prophetic stance is, you know, our relationships over unless you're, you know, I'm not going to treat you as a Christian. I'm not going to, uh, you know, or we're just can't be friends if you're going to be like that. Uh, now they have a prophetic stance when they say, unless you accept this, I don't want to be your friend. Unless you accept this part of me, I want to be your friend. So if they give you that prophetic, um, you know, stance, then you say, I would rather keep a friendship, but I can't. No, I, I can't condone that, but I still like to keep a friendship. See, that's priestly. I can't condone it. Not at all. I think that's a great misunderstanding on your part. I think in the long run, that's going to hurt your relationship with God tremendously. Can I still want to be your friend? I've told you now, I won't bring it up every time. Maybe we'll talk about it in the future, but at this point, I just want you to know that that's priestly. The prophetic is to do what she's doing to you. I think, which is you've got to accept this about me, or we can't have a relationship. See, the prophetic approach for the Christian, traditional Christian to a person who says, oh, I'm a gay Christian now, uh, is to say, we can't have a relationship unless you're willing to see that you are sinning against God. So I would, in most cases, say the priestly approach is better. It worked a lot better, frankly, for many, many years with my bra, my brother. On the other hand, it was a heck of a lot easier because he just knew I can't mix Christianity and, and homosexuality. Uh, so that's, yeah, name. Nevertheless, that is not the main thing. Our job, our job is not mainly to reel in a wayward Christians. It's still mainly to, you know, show the world that the Holy nation is like in some ways. I tried to say on here, you either have traditional societies that demonize homosexuality, demonize homosexuals and say homosexuality is wrong, or you have liberal societies that, that accept homosexuality. And, and are kind to homosexuals. Right? I said here, I believe a Holy nation, which is also a kingdom of priests would say what is wrong with homosexuality and then really reach out with a great deal of kindness and a lack of, uh, self-righteousness toward gay people. That, that would be really different. And there are congregations that do that, but not many. Okay. Couple more questions. Q. Hey, Q. Could you provide some pastoral guidance on approaching the work of NT Wright and the new perspective on Paul? Because I know he's written some really great stuff, which you've talked about at the same time, his views on justification have been heavily criticized. You know, it's a little too off topic for right now, even for two minutes. Okay. Why not? I don't know what group, ask a pastor, you know, to get you some reading material. Okay. Thanks. Okay. That just a little too far off topic. Great though. And very important by the way, but yes, go ahead. I've had a really good experience over the past year with one of my small groups and we're going into a situation this next year with, I guess we'll call her a disciple for us or we're discipling. We're being discipled. Sure. And I find that that's something when I talk to other people in Redeemer that that's something, especially among a lot of young people, that that's something that we'd really appreciate and a big need with people to be around more advanced Christians, I guess. Yeah. All three. All three of them would be great. Okay. So I wonder if there's, if there's a plan at all at Redeemer to turn that into something that's a possibility for more small groups, if that's just something that's going to happen organically. Wait, what? Perhaps my, the last sentence repeat. If it's something that's going to in any way happen under some sort of a system at Redeemer or if it's just going to be something that happens organically. You know, I think I'd rather, that's a great, it's not just, that's actually more like a piece of advice than a question. I'll take it as that because it's a good piece of advice. No, I couldn't answer you. I couldn't say, oh yeah, there's a plan for that. That would be, that's not true.

We're, but it really has, it's very, I think, I think that's something that we ought to just take under consideration as leaders and those of you who, you know, can we talk about that? So I'll take it as a piece of advice and say it's really good advice. By the way, anyway, let's, let me see if I can work another couple in here. Thank you. Yeah. Do you have any advice for how to bring up the topic of money within a small group? You know, I, Yeah. Can you suggest a study or would you suggest sort of mentioning it and seeing if people bite, that sort of thing? Well, you could, listen, the, if you're in a small group, if you go up the chain to your staff person, whoever that person is, would have access to some old, older materials that are still pretty doggone good that we've used in the past. Or Howard Freeman, who's our director of stewardship and development, either has access to them or can quickly get his hands on them. Over the years, there's been a number of materials that we've developed. They tended to be used at seasons and haven't been put into a form that regularly comes back up. But we actually have some interesting stuff that's been put together that would be, I think, exactly what your group needs. Yeah. A couple more cues. Yeah. We've had a couple of different situations in our group. And one is we had a couple that were not technically in the group, but they sort of were on the periphery. And it became obvious through conversations and comments that they were living together. Yeah. And yet I didn't really feel. First time this ever happened at Redeemer, really. But they were, if they were fully in the group, I felt like I could have some inroads. I barely, I didn't really know them very well. And yet people were looking to me, why are you allowing this to happen? But I didn't really have much of, I mean, I would talk with. That's one. And then the second is, how. Are there any guidelines, if there's somebody in your group that you suspect, are there any guidelines as to how do you broach that subject? It is, you know, as you said, it's a taboo subject. How do you be direct? How direct? Any guidelines there as to how you. How do you really get into that conversation? Well, you know, Becky Pippert used to say, what you do is you do a Bible study on John 4. So let's all turn to John 4. And it's a. Let's begin at this verse. It says, you've had five husbands and the man you're living with right now is not your husband.

And then you say, how does this impress you? Or how do you. Wait, what do you. Let's talk about it. Sorry. Actually, the number one thing is, whoever you know is there to give you help as a small group leader, however the system works. Ask the person who helps you to ask that person or the person who helps that person to say, I have a case. Don't use the names. Write it up and say, I would love to have some advice. In other words, use the small group system that we have. We do have folks who are more experienced with some of these things who could help people who are less experienced. Now, but I'm not going to completely. I'm not going to completely punt. I would like to say, if the people are members, and therefore have taken vows to live as Christians, identify themselves as Christians, live as Christians, and you have suspicion, first of all, it's only suspicion, then you might want to, you know, do a little more research as it were, or even ask them or get near some, you know, there's ways of gently asking questions that kind of help you know whether this is the case or not. But if they're members, I think it's fair to say, do you. Have you thought about the biblical implications? You know, of living together? I mean, have you thought about it? Have you worked it out? Have you discussed it with each other? Or is it something you kind of did without thinking about it? Because I really wish you would think about it. If they're not members, and they've never made those kinds of claims, those kinds of vows, I think you actually do. You might want to go. I mean, if you're a pastor, essentially, if you're a small group leader, you are a pastor, small p, shepherd small s. And what you might want to do is you might want to make sure that you get into areas of Bible study that you think at least touch on. So I'm not totally kidding when I say go to John 4. And maybe you don't want to go to John 4. That might be a little bit, you know, but if you have suspicion that people need to be hearing about the truth in a certain area, then rather than confront them, you say, you say you're Christians, but you're sleeping together. Well, um, I would be more gentle with non, with, with non members. They haven't taken vows. Uh, we try to bring people along. It's always great if you, if in the process of doing your Bible study, your discussion, they start to see things and they come to you. So I would be gentler and less direct with non members than I would with members. Uh, I would try to get into areas that I feel like these people need to be thinking about this. Try to find ways to get to books or to chapters of the Bible to study that would get us there. But also I would consult up, up through the system, if you can. Okay. I'm going to turn the announcement time over to, uh, Bruce. And then I actually, I think I've got something to share with you too, right?