Acts chapter 2 verses 40 to 47. This week we're starting a new series and I'm going to read from Acts 2 40 to 47. With many other words Peter warned them and he pleaded with them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who were accepted his message were baptized, about 3,000 were added to their number that day. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who are being saved. This is God's word. Now we're starting this week and we're services on the church all the way, it's going to stretch all the way to Easter. And I realized that we haven't actually done a series of sermons on the church since the very, very, very, very beginning, since actually the late summer in 89 before we even started morning services. And one of the reasons, one of the reasons for not concentrating a lot on the church and who the church is and what it is and what it should be, one of the reasons for not doing too much of has been right, and that is a redeemer is filled with people every week who are spiritual travelers. Some of you know who you are. A spiritual traveler is someone who's looking, coming to grips with God, Christianity. You haven't really come home. You're looking. You're thinking. You're trying to figure it out. And of course, not only you, but everybody needs primarily not to come to the church but to Christ. Not to look at the church but Christ. Who he is, what his claims are, you see, his character. And of course, that's very, very important, and that's where you always have to start. But for two reasons, you cannot actually come to grips with who Jesus is unless you also come to grips with what Jesus and his followers said about the nature of the church. and the two reasons are this first of all one of the things that we're always going to do if we're trying to come to grips with Christianity is we want to know if it's true is it true did it really happen is there a God is Jesus the Son of God is all this true and unfortunately or fortunately it's almost impossible to come to grips with the plausibility and the credibility of Christianity without looking at the church. Why? Because all the arguments against the existence of God, all the arguments against the existence of truth, do not create doubts in the heart like the church does. I think it's G.K. Chesterton, though I couldn't find where he said it, because it's impossible to find anything that G.K. Chesterton said, even though he's quoted all the time. But he's the one who said, and he's absolutely right, that the main argument against the truth of Christianity is Christians. That the main reason in the West that most people who don't believe in Christianity don't believe in Christianity is because of the church. It's because of the church. Let me put it in the worst possible way. I mean, I say worst. I mean the way that gives me the most nightmares. The question that creates the most doubts in me. Okay? Just to let you know. And the question goes like this. If Christ is so great, why is the church

If christ is so great, why has the church why are christians? Why have they conducted themselves the way they have? And there listen there is nothing that can create doubts like that Like I said, all the arguments against the existence of god are pop guns of doubt compared to that And so you can't come to grips ultimately With the plausibility the credibility of christianity unless you think about that the church We have to come to grips with what it should be and You'll see for example that the reason we have to do this study is when I start putting in the bulletin, I'm going to put the title of the series. The title of the series is The Church, How to Believe Despite Christians. I mean, to be a Christian today, you have to believe despite Christians. And if you're not able to understand what the church has been and what the church can be and what God calls the church to be, unless you understand something about the church, you're going to have trouble coming to grips with the truth of Christianity. You'll always be in doubt. out. Secondly, we also have to see, and I'll just say this briefly because that's mainly the point today, if you want to intelligently commit to Christ, you have to realize what he is calling you to. And the plain simple fact, what Peter is doing here on the day of Pentecost, which is what we read from, what Peter is saying here at the end of the very first sermon on the first day of, in some sense the founding of the church in many ways. One commentator put it this way. When Peter says, save yourselves from this corrupt generation, and they begin to get baptized, one commentator puts it like this. Peter is not asking for private and individual conversion, but for identification with a whole new community, a new society, a new humanity. These people were transferring from the world society that they belonged to into what was a new and being saved society. In other words, Jesus Christ, when he calls you, if you're going to intelligently commit yourself, you have to realize he doesn't just call you into an individual relationship to him. He calls you into a whole new society. He calls you into the church. And therefore you can't, I mean, you can't know everything that Jesus has in store for you. That's part of the adventure of being a Christian. But if you're going to intelligently commit to him, you have to recognize what he's calling you into. into an individual relationship of meeting your needs, but into a radically new society called the church. So what we're going to do today is take a look at this passage and just ask the simple question. This is an introduction. What is the church? What are the characteristics of the church? And then later on in the series, we'll come back and take each one each week. Now, when we ask ourselves, what is the church? I want to basically concentrate almost completely pregnant verse, this amazing pregnant call. Peter says, save yourselves from a corrupt generation. There is so much in there. Let's take a look at this. First of all, Peter is first of all teaching the depth of the salvation he offers, the depth. In other words, when he offers salvation, does he say, if you have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you'll have forgiveness of sins? Yes, but much more. Does he say if you have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you'll have peace in your heart, or you have strength to face life? Yes, but much more. This verse shows us the radical depth and comprehensiveness of the salvation that Peter's offering, that the gospel offers. Because of this word corrupt, now just let's take a moment on this. This word corrupt in different translations is translated different ways. If you have the old King James, it'll say, save yourselves from a crooked generation. When you think of the word crooked, you almost immediately think just of sinful or, you know, dishonest. It's a crooked. That means embezzlement or something like that. No. The reason they have trouble translating it, the reason here they say corrupt or there they say crooked, it's a word that means malformed. It's a word that means disintegrating. It's a word that means a malignancy. Crooked would mean the sense of being maimed or lame. And what Peter is talking about, he is not saying this generation is unusually wicked. I mean, there's been, the generation he was speaking to, Peter's generation, wasn't the worst society. He's talking about the plain fact of existence, and that is everything is falling apart. We live in a world, our human existence is always falling apart. And Peter's actually saying, I want to address that. I don't just want to give you forgiveness of sins. I don't just give you a little better feeling. I don't want to just get rid of some of your guilt. I want to address the radical disintegration of human existence. What does that mean? Well, by the way, the word Things Fall Apart. That's a, you know, that famous African novel titled Things Fall Apart. That is exactly what the Bible and common sense tells us. Everything's falling apart. Everything. Physically, everything's falling apart. My favorite illustration of that is if you take a, put a, you know, cook a turkey. Take the turkey out. Put it on the table. In one hour, it'll be cold. Depending on the temperature of the room, in a day or two, it'll stink. Depending on the temperature of the room again, in a week or two, it'll be poison. It'll be a health hazard. Now, if you see what's happening to the turkey, you basically have a picture of what's happening to you. Everything is falling apart. You are falling apart. The scientists will tell you there was a big bang, and since that big All energy is dissipating. Everything is running down. The clock can never be turned back up, they will tell you. Everything is spreading. Everything is expanding. Everything is falling apart. You can, in other words, in an anomalous way, you can take an oven, you see, and you can heat it up, which means that kind of creates energy. You can drain energy from other sources to kind of build up energy. But overall, everything, second law of thermodynamics, everything is falling apart. Everything is going to disorder. Everything is falling down. that's just true physically, but that's also true in every other area. It's true intellectually. If you're a philosopher, you write a cutting-edge book now, 50 years from now, they'll laugh at it. Everything's falling apart. Or you want, let me be real practical, there is a force in the world that makes everything disintegrate. You can just tell. Look at your relationships, look at your friendships. Unless you are working incredibly hard to maintain them, they fall apart. They fall apart if you just let them go. You drift apart from people. A little misunderstandings come in. Relationships fall apart. Families fall apart. They will fall apart sooner if you're foolish and selfish. But eventually they'll fall apart. And one person will be the last one left and they'll have buried all the rest of them and they'll have to stand end and think about it. Everything falls apart. Your relationship with God. Very few people actually connect. But those who have will tell you that if they leave their relationship with God, if they just stay unfocused, if they just sort of leave it without thinking about it for a couple of days, it's gone. The coldness, the numbness, everything is falling apart. Everything is running down. Everything is disintegrating. Everything is corrupt.

Now, once you realize that, you realize that the deepest lungs of your heart are in complete disjunction with the world as it is because we want to live, but everything dies. We want significance, but everything is insignificant because everything is falling apart, and the world is falling apart, and the sun will burn out, and eventually it doesn't matter how you live. Nothing you do will make a difference. And we want love, and all love dies. Everything is falling apart. Here's the question. Our deepest feelings are completely at variance with the world as it is, because the things we want, the world can't give us. So here's what we have to ask. Is the human heart malformed? Is it having a malignancy, or is the world a malignancy? Something's wrong. Either the human heart has been bent out of shape, or else the world's been bent out of shape. Well, of course, the Bible tells us the human heart is right. The human heart wants to live forever. We were built to live forever. The human heart wants eternal love. We were built for eternal love. The human heart wants significance. We were built for significance. But the Bible and the Bible alone gives us a way of understanding that situation. Only the Bible can tell us how the world could have produced beings who really want so much more than what the world has. And of course, we're told in Genesis 3 why everything's falling apart. We're told that when human beings decided, though they were built to love God and serve him, when we decided to go our own way, everything stopped working the way it should. But we're also told in the Bible that someday God's power would come back into the world to restore everything and to renew everything and to change everything. Someday he'll come back someday the power will come back. Peter is promising that now. See, the Old Testament made these kinds of statements about why the world was falling apart. Everything's falling apart, but the Bible says things are going to change. So you have, for example, in the Old Testament, you have Isaiah 65. Behold, says the Lord, I will create a new heavens and a new earth. The former things will not be remembered. They will come to an end. The sound of weeping will never again will there be an infant that lives but a few days. No longer will you build a house and have others end up living in them or plant a field and have others end up eating from it. The wolf and the lamb will feed together. The lion will eat straw with the ox. There will neither be harm nor destroy destruction on all my holy mountain. And in Isaiah 3 35 we read strengthen the weak hands make firm the feeble knees say to those who are fearful heart fear. Your God has come. Then the eyes of the blind will be open and the ears of the deaf be unstopped. Then the lame will leap like a deer and the tongue of the speechless sing for joy.

Now, these are all the promises. When Peter begins to preach and when he says, save yourself from this corrupt generation, you can see in all of Peter's early sermons, in Acts chapter 2, which we didn't print in here, in Acts chapter 3, Peter's saying it. This is what that he's making. And that's the reason why he actually says in Acts chapter 3, he says, wait for the Christ. When he comes back, he will restore all things. And even now, he says in chapter 2, the last days are here and the Spirit is poured out on all flesh. Now, what does all this mean? Very simple. Peter is saying, I've got a salvation that is absolutely comprehensive. comprehensive, I have a salvation to offer you that will reverse the corrupting power of human existence. I've got a force that is greater than that force that automatically makes relationships fall apart, automatically makes bodies fall apart, automatically makes your relationship with God fall apart, automatically makes families fall apart, civilizations fall apart, culture fall apart. Ideas fall apart. I've got something that will heal the results of all sin. I've got something that will heal physically and spiritually and emotionally and socially every way. And it's the power is in the world now and I can offer to you now and it can begin this healing effect and there will be a day coming when it'll will be complete. And that's what he's offering. He's not offering a little inspiration. He's not offering a little bit of help. When you see Christ in the beginning, you're almost always saying, I just need some way of sort of dealing with my problems. And Peter comes blowing through there and say, give up your small ambitions. He's blowing through your categories. He says, forget that. I want to give you a salvation that's comprehensive, that deals with all the disintegration. That's the first thing you learn. But then secondly, we see in this phrase the depth of the salvation Peter offers, but we also see in this phrase the form of the salvation. Now, you have to follow me very carefully. We are Western people. We live in the secular, individualistic West. And when we think of salvation, we almost always think of some kind of channel of power coming right down, sort of right through from God, right down into us. And Peter says, let me tell you what I'm going to give you. The form of the salvation comes in this form, a new generation. He says, get out of the old generation and let me baptize you so I can get you in a new one. What is this? Now, let's think about the word generation. This is a great word. This is an evocative word. Some years ago, there was a very, in the very beginning of all the talk about generation, remember, nobody ever talked about generations. Of course, the Bible does. But I mean, nobody in our culture talked until around 1990. Then all of a sudden, we start hearing about the difference between the boomer generation and the generation X and the depression generation. And there's actually an excellent article that I read years ago. It was, I think, in 91 or 92, and it was in the Atlantic Monthly. And it was written by a man named Howe and a man named Strauss, the Howe and Strauss. But in the very beginning, this is the first line. It said, two worldviews reflecting fundamentally different visions of society and self are moving into conflict in the 1990s. to worldviews, fundamentally different views, visions of society and self. And at the very top of the page, they quoted Alexis de Tocqueville, who said, in democratic nations, each generation is a new people. Now listen, each generation is a new people. A generation is defined in this way. A generation is a people, a worldview, that results from certain formative historical events. You see, a generation is a group of people that have experienced certain formative historical events, and what it does is it shapes their whole vision of reality, and makes them, that's why de Tocqueville was able to say that, it doesn't make them just a generation, but a whole new people. So it's those events that make a new people. Let me break that down. First of all, what do I mean by new people? When I was, my kids went through phases, and one phase was bowling, and I'm glad that was over. And then another phase was archery. That was a short phase, but it was pretty interesting. And my kids said, we want to get into archery. So we found a couple of places. This is New York. You can find everything any place. And we would go out to a place where they, I don't even know what you call it, but it was a club, an archery club. And it was a place for you to rent bows and arrows and to shoot and so forth. And it amazed me that there was a whole archery subculture. And what I mean by that is, I mean, there were newsletters and there were clubs and there were camps and there was a whole jargon. There was all sorts of things. You'd hear them talking at the counter. and I got one of these and I have one and I have no idea what they were talking about. There's a jargon, there's a technical, there are videos, tons of videos and there's retreats and there's a whole subculture but it's only a subculture.

If you're into archery, it doesn't probably, it doesn't change your language, it doesn't change the way, see the archery, here's a bunch of archery people, here's two families in archery and here's two families that they're into bowling and they live, you know, in the Queens, All right? And so does that mean that the way in which they bowl or the way in which they do archery, is that going to affect everything? Is that going to affect the way they spend their money necessarily? Is it going to affect the way they deal with other races? Is it going to affect their sense of humor? Is it going to affect the way they deal with their emotional problems? Is it going to affect the way men and women deal with each other? Is it going to affect their business practices? Is it going to affect every part of their life? No.

Because it's a club. It's something you do in your leisure time. formative. It doesn't change your whole view of society and of self. It's a club. It's not a culture. In a culture, you have radically different views of what's important, radically different views of how you spend your money, how men and women relate, how you relate to other races, how you handle suffering, how you deal with trouble, how you deal with personal problems. See, all those things, everything in a people, a culture, is seen differently. And so a people is a comprehensive worldview, a comprehensive view of reality that affects everything. And secondly, the people are formed by what? They have distinct stories. There's been something that happened to them. Now, see, that's the reason why generations are new peoples. For example, my Paris generation had World War II, in which it was very, very easy to see here's the good, here's the bad. Just war, you see. Good versus evil. My generation had the Vietnam War. Utterly different. Very, very muddy. Very, very different. As a result, one generation and the other generation have two extremely different views of patriotism, extremely different views of authority, extremely different views of your government and your country. extremely different. One thinks the other is incredibly hokey and unbelievably sentimental, but you haven't been through World War II. My generation had a set of parents who'd been through the Depression. My children's generation have a set of parents who did not. Very different attitudes toward money. See, a generation is a whole new worldview because of formative events. Now, here's what Peter is saying. When you become a Christian, you are not joining a club. Christianity is not something that you do on Sundays or in your private time. It's not just a way of giving you a kind of release. You see? Here's a man who's working real hard, you know, in business, and he's sort of overworking and kind of, you know, unhappy, and somebody says, you ought to take up bowling, you ought to take up archery. So he does. It doesn't, and so he has relief, and he feels better, and he has a way of kind of blowing off steam, and maybe he doesn't and work quite as hard, but it doesn't fundamentally change the way in which he does his business, or the motivations for how he does his business, or how he sees money, or how he sees all the people he works with and for, or who work for him. See, but Christianity, Peter is saying, it's not a club. It's not just a way of dealing with the superficialities of your life. When you become a Christian, you become a member of a new generation. You get out of your old generation. And here's the reason why. Because now a Christian knows that you have a story that supersedes all other stories. It's a universal story. It's a world story. And it's a story of how God has come into history and has created a people for himself. That's what's so unusual. You see, every other, look, put it this way. The Bible tells us that God came into history. Every other religion says salvation comes through principles. Every other religion says here are the principles, now do them and you will live. But the Bible says salvation was actually done through a real historical event. This is the reason why Christianity creates a whole new generation. It creates a whole new people. Because something has happened in history. Something far more formative than the Great Depression, far more formative than World War II, far more formative than the Vietnam War. Now let me keep on pressing. If you're Korean, what Jesus Christ has done, what God has done in history, and if you become a Christian, you're related to that, that is more formative to you than Confucianism and the fact that your country was military subjugated for 2,000 years. And if you're Japanese and you become a Christian, that becomes more formative than the fact that you were military triumphant in Asia. If you are English Christian, this becomes much more formative to your life and your outlook than your English history, or the fact that you won the British Isles. And if you're Irish and you become a Christian, it becomes much more formative than the fact that you lost the British Isles. You see, nothing is more formative than this story. What's the story? The story is that God in the Garden of Eden, he created the world to be a garden, but because we turned from him it became a jungle. He created the world to become a garden, but because we turned, it became a jungle. But he didn't give up on us. And on a dark and stormy night, in Genesis 15, on a dark and stormy night, he appeared to Abraham, and he says, I have come into the world, and out of my electing and sovereign gracious love, I am going to make a people here. I'm going to make them out of your descendants. In this people, the world how they should be living. I'm going to create a nation among nations that will show other nations how to live. I am going to come into this people, and by my love and power, I'm going to change the way in which they do everything, how they handle their money, how they look at themselves, how they look at society, how they look at other races, how the men and women involve themselves. I am going to create a people. and on that dark and stormy night he took an oath we sang about it in the middle hymn his oath his covenant his blood support me in the whelming flood when all around my soul give way he then has all my hope and stay he made an oath and he says I will create this people no matter what it costs but the history of that people throughout the Old Testament seems to be one of failure because God says I will come down into this people and if you obey me then I will live in your midst Through us. You see, through this people, it will be a light to the nations.

And it seems to be one of failure. And then, finally, the climax of the story. One man shows up. And he's not just part of the people. The entire history of the people of God is recapitulated in him. He comes out of Egypt. He wanders in the wilderness. He is tempted. distracted, but he's fed in the wilderness. And he has called like that people to care for the orphan and care for the widow and care for the poor, and he does. And he has called like those people to love God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, love his neighbor as himself, and he does. And then finally, on a dark and stormy night,

he pays the price that God said years ago he would pay on that night he bears the curse of the people of God and what is the curse of the people of God if they don't obey him to be cast out to be exiled to be cut off and he is cast out only not just into a different land but into eternal justice and wrath and he is exiled but not just from this or that place grazing land or something, but from the Father himself. He receives the curse of the people. And now, when we receive him, that story becomes our story. That's the reason why the Bible says, when you become a Christian, you died. What do you mean I died? He died. No, but his story is your story. Because he died in your place as your substitute. That's what Christianity is. Every other religion says, here are the timeless truths. But the Bible gives us historical narrative. The a story. The Bible gives us historical events. God broke in and he says now Jesus' story will subsume your story. Look at your own personal story. There's all these failures in it. There's all this hurt in it. There's all this brokenness in it. And look at your national story. If you're part of a people group, if you're part of a race that's been subjugated, you're filled with bitterness and you're filled with resentment and fear with inferiority and if you're a member of one of those races

who's been triumphant, you're filled with arrogance and you're filled with superiority and we're all messed up unless we get a new story, unless we get a new background, unless we become a new generation. And this is it. Peter says, when you become a Christian, you don't try now to live a better life. Try to be like Jesus and maybe God will forgive your sins. Oh, come on. What he's saying is, Jesus Christ, you were treated as if you had died because you did. You're treated as if you had died for your sins. You're treated as if you've been raised. You're treated as if you lived that perfect life. His story becomes your story, and when that happens, it changes the way you look at everything. No longer are you primarily affected by your past, but by Christ's past, by your nation's past, but by the past of the people of God.

You, he says, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Peter says, when you become a Christian, you enter into a new community that becomes a visible place where everything is changed by the gospel. And that's what we're going to look at for the next number of weeks. Everything is changed by the gospel. Now, if you go through the rest of this passage, you see it. For example, Christians... Oh, look, put it this way. We talked about this when we went into these three weeks on the prodigal son. Remember the parable of the man that had two sons? There was an elder brother and a younger brother, that they're both lost. You know why? Because apart from the gospel, you can only do two ways of looking at life. And really all world cultures basically at bottom have one or the other or both. One approach is what we call moralism. And in moralism, you say, there is a truth and I will be saved by following it. And the other approach is relativism. And in relativism, you say, Say, there's no truth, therefore I'm free.

But you see, each of those creates a certain kind of culture. But the Gospel is not, there's a truth, and I'm going to follow it, nor of course is the Gospel that there is no truth, but that there is a truth, and he's a person. He's not just a principle. And he's come, and he's fulfilled it for me. And see, that means on the one hand, you have the guts of the moralist without the condescension. You have the firmness, you see, you have the flexibility and the love of the relativist, but not without the spinelessness. And if you look on down through everything that we're told about that early church, why did that church grow? Why did that church change the world? Look at the bottom, look at the last verse. It says, because people were attracted. They had the favor of all the people. they looked at them and why? Let me just, let me just, I'm seriously, I'm just going to go down one, two, three, four. First of all, they were devoted to the apostles' teaching. Their attitude toward truth, you see that up in verse 42. Devoted, that means they loved it. Moralists don't love the truth. Moralists fear and hate it. And that's the reason why they never create a new generation. They create little subcultures. You know why? Because moralistic people who are desperately trying to obey the truth, they need to take the Bible and they need to break it into little details and rules so they can obey it, so they can feel superior to other people. They never ask, how does Christianity change my whole attitude toward business or to art or to economics or to how I deal with other races? No, that's just too general, too broad. They need to know that they're being good. They're not freed. They don't love the truth. They're afraid of it. They're trying to deal with it. They don't love the truth and of course relativists don't love the truth. They don't believe it's there. How could either of them be a new generation? Do you see? They can't. Relativists have no way of reforming their culture. They have no way of saying this is wrong and that is wrong. Oh, they do because they're inconsistent. They say everything is relative, every culture is equally okay but it's wrong to oppress women. That is a complete non sequitur. You can't say that. Either it's wrong to oppress women therefore there's truth with it or else all cultures are not relative. On the other hand, the moralists, they don't know how to really create a new generation because they're too busy working on their details and condemning other people. Do you believe in the gospel? It means that you have a way of judging all cultures and yet never feeling superior to anybody else. It means you have a way of dealing with relationships, you can sacrifice in those relationships, but not do it out of a need to feel like a good person. Relativists, for example, say, don't you dare sacrifice for other people. There was a great book in the New York Times. I mean, not great at all. There's a book in the New York Times that this was the subtitle, How to Love Your Children Without Sacrificing Yourself. That was the title. That's the, hey, listen, that's the relativistic liberal person You can be good to people and do what you can, but don't ever sacrifice yourself. Well, it's impossible to love your children without sacrificing yourself. On the other hand, the moralist is a person who lets people walk all over them. For the sake of my family, for the sake of my friends, I have to serve. I have to give. A lot of relativists got out of moralistic backgrounds where they felt like all they were doing was being walked upon, but you see, moralists don't sacrifice because they love people. They sacrifice because they need to know that they're good people. that they're a good husband, a good wife, a good father, a good mother. That's the reason why they let people trample all over them. They don't love them. They're using them. They're not doing it for them. They're doing it for themselves. They're not doing it for the other people. Now, I'm done because the gospel, we're going to have to examine this for several weeks. The gospel gives a unique attitude toward the world, a unique attitude toward your money, a unique attitude toward your job, a unique attitude toward people who disagree with you, a unique attitude toward God, a unique or the unique way of looking at your emotions or at suffering. Absolutely different. And that means that our communities, our churches, are visible communities that look different.

Now, Redeemer up to now, in some ways, looks a lot like this church. You know what the original church was? It was a center city church. It was huge. It had 3,000 to 5,000 people. It had a multiple staff and they didn't have a building and they met in fellowship groups all across the city in homes. The ultimate original church was not a nice little white clapboard church on the hillside somewhere. It looks just like this. But in other ways, Redeemer is still a club. Because we're Western people, we're individual people, and we come here as long as it helps us personally. You haven't gotten accountable to each other by and large. We haven't gotten deeply into each other's lives. That's one of the marks of the Gospel. You haven't gotten into completely non-codependent but absolutely committed and sacrificial loving relationships with other people. We haven't gotten really involved. Look what it says there. They gave away their money to anyone that had need as others had need. We haven't gotten that involved in the lives of the inner city. We don't look that different than other yuppies and that's what we are. People on the outside don't see us as being utterly different. We have not created

over the next few years we're going to break Redeemer into parts we're going to stop being just a big mega church and we're going to start becoming a whole movement of churches and we have the basics down we're very good at evangelizing and discipling but have we become a new generation? I don't think so and we're going to look at that because it's the only way to be obedient to this do you see what is offered? do you see it? my favorite book My favorite book has a spot in which the king, the great king of the city has returned, but he doesn't come in and take his throne yet. But there's people inside the city that are sick or dying, and he gets his hood on, and he kind of dresses up in hides, and he goes on in, and he finds the people who are sick and dying, and he puts his hands on them, because in that book there's a proverb that says, the hands of the king are healing hands, and thus shall the rightful king be known. throne. And pretty soon, even though he hadn't taken up his throne, the good news traveled through the city like wildfire. And it said the king has come back. And though he hasn't formally taken up his throne, he's in the city incognito and he's healing people and he's marshalling his people and he's commissioning them. And he's putting together a group of people who will serve him. Guess what? It's true. That's a great story, but it's nowhere near as great as the real story. stories, point to the great story, and it's a true story. Beauty has kissed the beast. We can fly.

The dragon is dead. Let us pray. Our Father, you have given us a great promise in this statement by Peter, who said, save yourselves from this corrupt generation, become a new generation. would that you would affect that in the city. We pray that Redeemer would just be part of that. Father, for those of us who are here who have not really come to grips with who you are yet through Jesus, they haven't given their lives to you, help them to see the comprehensiveness and the beauty of what you offer in your salvation. And for those of us who have stayed pretty much in a Jesus club, we pray that you would show us, you would show us that many of us who have been listening and following for a number of years here now, that we need to move into a position where we lead and we minister and we form these communities and we form a whole new people, a whole new generation.

Not, oh Lord, not to condemn the generation around us, but to enlighten and to love so that they can see what you've shown us. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.