Somebody handed me some quotes from Tao Te Ching, who is a, you know, a great Chinese philosopher, 4,000 years ago, and he said, care about people's approval and you will be their prisoner. And poor guy was struggling with codependency 4,000 years ago. So, poor fella. He didn't want his mother to see that, so he wrote it down. Let me explain what we're doing. You may or may not have been here last week, and I'm going to, I think most of what we do tonight is enough of a self-contained unit that, whereas I hope tonight will be probably more helpful and more coherent to you if you were here last week. Nevertheless, it's a self-contained unit. It ought to be able to stand on its own. We're talking about self-image and self-esteem, and this evening we want to tackle a term that's new, though the subject isn't new, codependency. And actually, if this, if you had to give this a topic or a title, it would be a Christian perspective on the codependency movement, and how a biblical understanding of self-image is brought to bear on this. And I'm, I'm going to do exactly what I did last time. I'm going to, I'm going to give a talk. My wife's going to get up and say something more concise and memorable. And then, on the same, on the same subject. And then we're going to take questions and answers. So, let me open with prayer, please. Let me do that. Our Father, we, we're not praying just as a perfunctory ritual thing. We're praying because we're talking about truth. If we take seriously what you have told us in your word, and that is that our hearts actually are allergic to the truth,

that all of us are born, in a sense, in denial. Therefore, we have to have your spirit to illumine us. Not just to understand the truth in general, but also the truth about ourselves and the truth about you. So much truth is difficult to hear. So much truth is traumatic. We pray that you will enable us by your loving draw, the way in which your spirit lovingly draws us to the truth. That our eyes will be open and our minds cleared and our hearts invigorated because of our time that we spend together tonight. We pray it in Jesus name. Amen. Yeah. In general, what I would like to say is that I think codependency is, it's a real pattern. I'm going to describe it. It's a real syndrome. And many of the books that I've been reading, I've been, I've just, in preparation for tonight, I thought it'd be good for me in general to read about 20 books on codependency. And Mike, I'll give you my quick conclusions and I'll go into detail. One is these folks whose books I'm reading, are really, really good at reading. And the other is these folks whose books I'm reading, are really not sure what they're talking about. And that gave me a whole lot of, it gave me a lot of confidence because I began to realize that almost nobody's really an expert on this. So rather than to say here, all these people with all their degrees, they're experts as I'm not. I'm realizing that almost everybody's shooting in the dark. And I, it just helped my own self-confidence so wonderfully to read the books. And I'm serious, completely serious about that. Secondly, I think codependency as they describe it basically is fairly helpful. Because it's a true syndrome, a true pattern. What I have a problem with is that the causes and the solutions, the causes of the pattern and the solutions of the pattern, I think are ordinarily presented in a simplistic reductionistic fashion. And one thing that's going to run through everything I say is that any theory of personality that's not based in the scripture tends to be simplistic. It tends to reduce people or reduce personalities to a couple of themes. The reality is always far more complex. Christianity is actually not, my own understanding is, Christianity is the only system of thinking that doesn't give pat answers and it doesn't oversimplify things. Now, I know to a lot of you that may surprise you. You may say, well, Christians are the ones with the pat answers. Not a bit. I mean, to say if you know Jesus Christ as your savior, all your problems will be solved eventually. Is not a pat answer. Frankly, beneath that is a whole very complex, rich tapestry of truths. I think that when I read the codependency books on why people are codependent and how to deal with the codependency, I think they're unbelievably simplistic. And I think the Christian faith, the scripture, the Christian gospel gives a much more nuanced and subtle and rich tapestry of answers. So, hey, listen, you're all in different positions on this thing. Some of you have maybe read 40 codependency books and some of you just have vaguely picked it up from your friends. Some of whom probably are really steeped and saturated in all the lingo. Originally, for about 20 years, the term codependency, I think, was something that wasn't very well known outside of circles of therapists. So, I don't know. I want you to know my thinking is the original definitions and the original understanding of codependency was the best. And in a sense, what's happened to it in the last five to ten years is not as helpful. See, originally, the codependency became a concept because as early as the 1940s, the people who were involved with Alcoholics Anonymous began to notice that when some of the alcoholics recovered, instead of their families getting strengthened by it, their families, many of them, fell apart when they recovered. Partly out of that developed something called family systems theory, which is actually a pretty helpful thing. And it also fits in a great deal with what the Bible says about the family. The family is not a loose aggregation of individuals, but the family is a system. Have you ever seen a mobile? A mobile is a bunch of little birds or little somethings, you know, that are all suspended. They're suspended from an interlocking system of little balances. And so there's a bunch of little axles. You know, here's one little axle and on the end of both of them is hanging a little bird. But then that axle is hanging by a thread on another axle. At the end is another axle and you've seen those mobiles. And if you pull one of the birds off, so there's an equilibrium in a mobile. If you pull one of the birds off, everything, you know, is upended and the whole thing collapses. And so that's what we're talking about. And what the therapist began to realize is that when a messed up person in a family gets better, it can really screw the family up because the family had developed a kind of equilibrium in which the messed up person was something that was taken into consideration. Everybody played a certain role. And the identified patient, the person who was the mess, had a very important role to play in the life of everyone else. And that when he or she became better, it fouled up the whole mobile, fouled up the whole system. And what eventually happened, was therapists began to talk about people who were not alcoholics. They called them originally co-alcoholics or para-alcoholics. And a co- or a para-alcoholic was someone who was not hooked on the bottle, but was hooked on that person's hookedness on the bottle. In other words, let's just say here's a wife and here's an alcoholic husband. The alcoholic husband has become dependent on alcohol. But the wife, has become dependent on her husband being a mess. And therefore, the original definition went something like this. A co-dependent is someone dependent on dependence. Or someone who has found meaning in life through fixing, controlling, rescuing a messed up person. So a co-dependent is, the reason you have this word co, is it's a person who in a sense feeds off of someone else's dependence. They need to be needed. They get their meaning in life out of fixing up other messed up people. So when a person, that you've built your life on helping, is okay, you lose meaning in life. And your life collapses. Now, characteristics that go along with that, that kind of person go like this. Now this is all, I think, quite helpful. This is a description of something that's real. The characteristics of such people go something like this. People like this, co-dependent people, feel very or totally responsible for the actions and destinies of others. So if this person that you are co-dependent, is falling down, you feel responsible. Co-dependent people feel safe when saying yes, when over committing, giving out, but they feel very uncomfortable when saying no. When they're letting other people help them, expressing their own needs, they don't like to do that. They only feel happy, they only feel safe somehow when they're constantly tired, over extended, weary, helping everybody else. Then they feel, at some level, good about themselves. On the other hand, they're always on the verge of anxiety and depression, and unhappiness. Co-dependent people blame themselves for everything, feel lots of guilt, take everything personally, suffer silently in self-pity, are very down on themselves, and as a result of that kind of pain in their lives, very often co-dependent people also have compulsive behaviors. They may not be alcohol, but it can be any kind of compulsive behavior that helps them sort of mask or escape the unhappiness they experience in their lives. Now eventually what became, clear, was it wasn't just the wives or the spouses of alcoholics, but the children of alcoholics that sometimes showed those kinds of symptoms, and that people began to realize that families of workaholics, and compulsive gamblers, and a myriad of other compulsive behaviors, and the family members around those compulsive behaviors shared that too. And then in the 19, especially in the 1980s, the concept of co-dependence suddenly got popularized. And I, maybe if you, when you start asking me questions, I could talk to you a little bit more about this. One of the great difficulties with the last five to ten years, and I don't know if anybody saw, for example, recently a couple of articles about it in Time magazine. For example, Time magazine had a big article on Melody Beattie, who wrote the book, Co-Dependent No More, which has sold four million copies. And one of the things that many people worry about now is that the term co-dependency has become so broadly used that it means anybody who's messed up at all. I mean, I have read, here's a couple. For example, here's one definition I got. Co-dependency is any pattern of destructive feelings and behavior that makes healthy, loving relationships impossible. And I, today, in preparing for tonight, I called a friend of mine who's on the verge of getting a PhD in history of psychology at the University of Pennsylvania, which is the best department, they say, around on that subject. And he said one of the problems today is the word co-dependency, co-dependent, has become absolutely synonymous with the word neurotic. It's the same word, you know, 50 years ago, even 20 years ago, the word neurotic meant maladjusted, a person who isn't sure of who he or she is, unable to really have good relationships, and he says the word co-dependence means that, and it has become meaningless. Therefore, be careful, frankly, about what you read. However, I personally think the original definition of co-dependence is really pretty helpful. Now, here's where I begin to have some problems. And the problems are when I read what people say the causes of it are, and then the solutions. Now, when I read all the different books, I found that an awful lot, everybody comes from a different point of view. The reason there's been such an extreme explosion in books is because there's a market for it. And that means no matter who you are, and no matter what particular theory you have of how to help people, you try to tie it into co-dependency somehow, because that'll sell the book. And some of the books I read were coming from such different positions, it astonished me. An awful lot of the books come out of psychodynamic psychology, and psychodynamic psychology for years has been teaching essentially this, that basically we have a sweet, we start out as sweet, innocent, loving little children. And if we get a lack of love from our parents, or if we have parents who are too gentle, too demanding, if we don't get unconditional love, then that child is traumatized, and we spend the rest of our lives, in a sense, being controlled by our inner child of the past. And if there's that kind of, if there's a sense because of poor parenting, of not feeling lovable, or if, now see this can happen from a lot of points of view, psychodynamic psychology would say if you have an alcoholic parent, alcoholic parents of course are extremely, extremely capricious. So one day you walk across the carpet and your feet are muddy, and your mother says to you, wipe your feet off next time. The next day you walk across the carpet with muddy feet, and she takes your head off. And in that sort of situation you never know, there's no consistency. But there's tons of reasons why a child, according to psychodynamic psychologists, would be unhappy, and would feel that they're not getting the kind of love that they want. Now, if they experience pain or shame because of their past, you grow up into what the psychodynamic psychologists would say, you're always controlled by that original family. That means if you've had a dysfunctional family life in which your love needs weren't met, there's a couple of things that you could do. You could grow up to be the eternal child. That means that you are always messed up, and you're always broken, and you're always looking for people to feed you, and you're always trying to fix you. You're after a parent. You're after the parent you never had. And so you try to find somebody who's always picking you up and protecting you and taking care of you and bailing you out. And you desperately want that, you know, in a sense there's a side of you that says, I'm no good, you don't really love me. And you do everything you can to kind of prove to yourself that this person doesn't love you, and yet constantly try to make that person prove their love to you. And you may get married to a person like that, who ends up really being the parent that you never thought you had. Or the psychodynamic psychologists on the other hand say, instead of growing up to be the perpetual child, you grow up to be the perpetual parent. Which in that case means, not that you're the messed up one, but you're the one who's always in charge, you're the one who fixes everything. And you need people who are children for you to put together and continually bail out, so that in a sense you're being the parent that you never had. Now what happens is, when you get the eternal parents, together with the eternal children, you know, they just are so happy to find one another, and they get together, and then they just suck each other dry forever. And, uh, now, by the way, I'm not making fun of this at all. I'm trying to tell you that like any system, any thea-, any system of counseling based on a personality theory that's not actually from the Bible, it's too simple. It's, it's just, it's, it's one-dimensional. It tends to try to understand all behavior like that, and the fact is that a lot of behavior can be understood by that, like that, but not all of it. And then what happens is, because of, of this, psychodynamic psychologists have certainly latched on to codependency theory. There's a whole lot of other people, new age people. There's Marxists coming in, basically, and saying the reason people experience pain in their past is because they've been oppressed. But here's what every single one of them seem to be saying. That there's pain from your past. And what you do is you, you get involved in compulsive behaviors in order to try to medicate or deal with that pain. And all of the, uh, codependency folks say, here is how you solve codependency. You work backwards. First, you stop the behavior. You dry out. You get into a, you go into a hospital, or you, you get into a support group, or whatever it takes to stop the compulsive behavior. Now that the compulsive behavior is stopped, now you're gonna have to start to deal with the pain of your past. The fact that you don't like yourself. The fact that you're down on yourself. The fact that you have to, in all sorts of other ways, try to find love elsewhere. If you're the eternal child, uh, you have to admit the fact that you really, uh, are so low in your self-esteem that you're constantly trying to make people prove their love to you. If you're the eternal parent, uh, you have to feel good about yourself by saying, look how wonderful I am. I take care of people. I fix people. Uh, and you stop the compulsive behavior, and then the pain from your past shows up, and now you have to address it and deal with it. How do you do it? Almost all the codependency books talk like this. Like this particular one. I think it's page 54. They say now, this is the bottom line. Once you stop, every, I mean, everybody agrees that if you're an alcoholic, get him into someplace where he stops it. If you're a compulsive gambler, if you're a, a workaholic, if you're, if you're into compulsive anything, stop it. And now the power of the past is surfacing. And then what do you do? And like here's an example. This is a therapist, a, a respected therapist in codependency theory. And, uh, this, she says, many of us were not taught that we are valuable simply because we exist. That's all. That's why we are precious. We are alive. We exist. Therefore, we are of worth. Many of us believe that our only value in being valuable is, is being valuable to someone else. I am my father's daughter. I am my mother's daughter. I am my husband's wife. I am my child's parent. I am my employer's employee and so on. But the fact that we are of worth in and of ourselves hardly ever occurs to a low self-worth person. Uh, uh, the hooks come from others' expectations of us. Hooks need to be removed from us to be, for us to be free. We need to be detached from our two-way, unhealthy dependencies on our families of origin, on our work, and even on our spouse and our children. Someone says, well, that sounds pretty self-centered. But actually, it's getting a centered self. A centered self is a person willing to take such good care of him or herself that no one else has to. They set their children free. They set their spouse free. They set their coworkers free. Uh, they set themselves free. Free to make choices to go, stay, connect, commit, support, and love. Now, you see, what she's saying is, and what most of the books say, you stop taking care of other people. You say, look, I can't make you happy. And you can't make me happy. I've got to start taking care of myself. I've got to look out for myself. I've got to nurture myself. I've got to parent myself. You know, all the books, they all have different ways of putting it. I have got to start looking at what's good about me and I start patting myself on the back. I've got to stop thinking that other people have, that I can help other people. I can't. They're them and I'm me. Now, this is where I begin to have some problems for a couple of reasons. Number one. Number one, is this is, the basic cause comes from the idea that our problems come because of the way in which we've been treated. I say that on the one hand, of course, we are definitely affected by a lack of love. I was in the subway the other day and I saw a woman sitting and she had about a three or four year old child in a stroller. They were all pretty ragged and she was putting on her makeup and she was just yelling at the kid. And she was saying, you're a pain in the ass and you're the biggest pain in the ass in the world and your father's just as big a pain in the ass as you are. And there was a little kid sitting there saying, mommy, why are you saying that to me? And she says, because it's true. So I sat there and said, okay, here we go. Dysfunctional family right before my very eyes. There it is. The kid obviously is going to be affected by that. There is no doubt. Here's the problem. If we believe, if we believe though that we are simply the product of what people have done to us, I think that we're reducing ourselves to tabula rasa. The psychodynamic theory says that we're all sort of blank slates and our parents write on us and we are really whatever our parents have done. Here's the problem with that. There's really four different kinds of scenarios you have. You've got messed up families and out of it comes messed up kids. And then you have wonderful families and out of it comes wonderful kids. And codependency theory can explain that. But what about the fact that you also have wonderful kids coming out of messed up families and messed up kids coming out of wonderful families? How do you account for that? The codependency theory can't account for that. The Bible can because the Bible says that we both are sinned against and yet at the same time we are also sinners. There's a place in Solzhenitsyn's book Gulag Archipelago. Archipelago, I never say it right. And he's trying to... There's a place where after talking about all the torture that the people who are in the archipelago go through and he says sometimes you sit around and you fantasize what you could do if you could get to the guards and the soldiers and the oppressors. And at one place he says when you sit there fantasizing what I would do to the people I love, the people who oppress me, when I think about throwing them into a pit, he says I have to stop and I have to realize as a Christian that it is only in a sense the way things turned out that I'm the victim and they're the oppressor. In a sense, I mean he's a Christian so he didn't say it's an accident. But he says in a sense it's just the way things turned out that they're in a position of power and I'm in a position of victimization. And then he gives this little phrase that is often quoted. He says, the line dividing good from evil runs through every human heart. In other words, the line dividing good and evil cannot just be drawn around the world and say now here's the evil people who are nasty and here's the good wonderful people who are victims. He says the fact is that every one of us is both a victim and an oppressor. We're both sinned against and we're also sinners. And therefore what makes us what we are is far more complicated than simply how we've been treated. Now let me go a little further. I'd like to give you a... In October of 1989, and I know that not that many of you were there then, in two evening services I talked about a kind of... I gave you what I think is a very biblical understanding of why we are in bondage to the things that we're in. And let me just give you a little outline of it right now. Some of you might remember it, but I don't know how many of you were here at that time. In the book of Romans, Romans chapter 1, we read this. Let me give you the theory. And I think the good thing about this theory is it can account for scenarios A, B, C, and D. Not just nasty kids coming out of nasty homes and wonderful kids coming out of wonderful homes, but also wonderful kids coming out of nasty homes and nasty kids coming out of wonderful homes. In Romans chapter 1, we read this. It says, The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness, since what may be known about God is plain to them. For although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him, but their thinking became futile and their foolish hearts were darkened. Though they claimed to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images made to look like mortal man and birds and animals and reptiles. Therefore, God gave them the power to come over in sinful desires of their hearts. They exchanged the truth of God for a lie. They worshiped and served created things rather than the Creator, who is forever praised. Amen. Now, there's actually an outline in there. I have to find it to make sure I give it to you right. Well, number one, the Bible says, of course, we have a need for love. And if that need for love is thwarted, it's going to screw us up. But the Bible says there's a deeper need than that, deeper need than what the psychodynamic psychologist can tell you. There's something more profound. In a sense, I mentioned this yesterday in church. And some of you will remember this or you'll make the connection. The Bible says that the most foundational need, the thing that makes us humans, is that we all need to worship something. We are homo religioso, man the religious. That's the most basic thing. We have got, or as Bob Dylan put it, you got to serve somebody. In other words, nobody really, no one really stands on his own or her own. Everybody has got to serve someone. And the Bible says we are all created, therefore, to worship. Now, to worship in the Bible does not mean simply coming to a service and praying and singing about things. That's not what worship is. To worship means to give something glory. And the word worship, glory in the Bible means weight. So to worship something or give something glory means to give it the greatest weight in your life or the center of your life. And the Bible says that when you worship something, you make a covenant with it. Now listen. Go into the Scripture and you will see continually covenants being made. A covenant is a legal binding contract in which you give yourself, you contract yourself to someone else. So you think it's going to meet your need. So I mean in the most basic sense, for example, what if you have a... here's a... this happened all the time in the Bible. Here's a small kingdom and here's a great big kingdom. And they're afraid the big kingdom's going to sort of squeeze them out. So the small kingdom comes and makes a covenant with the big kingdom. In the Bible, actually in the Near East, it was called the Suzerainty Treaty. That was a lesser suzerain or which is a word for ruler, would go to a greater suzerain and make a treaty like this. You'd come and you'd say, I promise to obey you and to serve you. And if you do that, if I do that, you must bless me. So I will pay you taxes and I will give you tribute and I will serve you in all these ways. And then you will bless me. You will not attack me. You will defend me from other marauders. So if I'm in a covenant with you and someone else comes up, if I'm in a covenant with Syria and Egypt comes up, then Assyria will come and defend me. So you will protect me and you will provide other sorts of blessings for me. However, if I do not obey you, you have a right to come down and destroy me. So every covenant always had three things, a promise to serve, the blessings that would come if you serve properly, and the curses that would come if you didn't serve. Every covenant. Every single covenant had those three aspects to it. Now, the Bible says that what is sin? Sin is the unwillingness for us to give up control of our lives to our great suzerain in the sky, the Lord. And the Bible says it is the nature of the human heart. This is what sin is. Sin is not just, you know, lying and cheating and swearing and killing. It is bad as all those things are. The essence of sin is that we want to make our covenants. We want to worship other things that we think will give us the blessings, will give us the protection. We worship and center on other things, and we believe that those things that we are worshiping will give us the blessings. It will give us the fullness, and we don't feel like we're giving up real control of our lives. We'll give our, we will, we'd serve anybody but God. As Bob Dylan says, you've got to serve somebody. You've got to find someone or something that will give you meaning in life. You see, what is a codependent person? A codependent is someone who has made a covenant with an idol. It's a rescue covenant. And what you're saying is, as long as I can rescue people and help people and make people better, then I will have meaning in life. In a sense, there's an idol that you have given yourself to, and the blessings are supposed to be that the idol will say, well done, good and faithful servant. Look at all these people that you've helped. Feel good about yourself. However, Romans 1 says, you see, that's what it says. It says right here, when it says, although they claim to be wise, they became fools and exchanged the glory of the immortal God to images. They worshiped, it's, pardon me, they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and worshiped and served created things rather than the creator who is forever praised. But it also says, they exchanged it for a lie and therefore God gave them over to the sinful desires of their hearts. Idol worship always creates some kind of bondage. Because you see, you don't worship an idol, you get into a covenant with the idol, and the covenant, the idol therefore drives you. And therefore, if you have made a covenant, in a sense, with your parents, if you have made a covenant in your heart and say, my parents wanted me to be a doctor. By the way, I'm not picking on anybody here. For all I know, that's what's happened to you. But so you have, you have picked up a parent-doctor idolatry. You've made a covenant in your heart years ago. And in your heart, you say, if I become a doctor and live up to my parents' expectations, then I'll have meaning in life. Then I can look myself in the mirror, then I can feel good about myself. But you see, what happens is you're being driven. You're given up. You're out of control. That's your master. And as long as you're moving along toward your goal, you get blessings. But whenever it looks like you may not be doing what you ought to do, you start to hear curses in your heart. A lot of you have got that little voices that go on and say, what a failure you are. How bad you are. How terrible you are. Those are the curses of the idol. They come from the idol because when you make a covenant with a suzerain and you say, I promise to serve you and obey you, then the suzerain has the right to bless you or curse you depending on how well you're doing. The scripture says that all idols are false, which means ultimately, ultimately you are living some kind of lie because none of them can actually deliver what they promise. They weren't built to be gods. For example, I was talking with Kathy about this before. I was working this all through before we came. And Kathy says, okay, what's wrong with rescuing people? Isn't that a good thing? Yes. But when it becomes the difference between a codependent person and a normal person in this one area, a codependent person has made a covenant with that. It's become an idol. In other words, if I'm normal, now, for example, in this area, I think Kathy asked me to confess this sin. In this area, I'm certainly a lot more like a codependent person than she is. And I think that's surprising that an awful lot of people go into the pastorate or go into counseling, go into helping professions. Sorry to blow your cover. Because when you read down this little list of things that can't say no, need to be available to everybody, want to solve everybody's problems, feel terribly guilty about everybody else's lives falling apart. And that's one of the reasons why we go into the ministry. And you say, Kathy doesn't have that problem. Therefore, if she's trying to rescue somebody and the person isn't being rescued, she can sleep at night. And if I'm trying to rescue somebody and I can't rescue them, I can't sleep at night. Why? Because the curse is of the idol. I feel bad about myself. I want to kick myself. I say, if only I'd called before. Here's another thing. What if somebody calls Kathy and says, I tried to get a hold of you and I couldn't. And therefore, I slashed my wrist. I'm in the hospital now. And if you'd only been available, I'd be all right. And Kathy, in her own heart, would say, I can't be available for everybody. I feel terrible. I'm going to go to the hospital. I'm going to come over and see you. But she's not going to feel guilty about it. I will. I'll feel terribly guilty about it. Why? It's an idol that I've got a covenant with. And therefore, it's the curses in my life. And idols always drive you. There's always addiction. You're giving up to it. Becky Pippert's got a great quote where she says, nobody belongs to him or herself. If you seek power, then power is your Lord. If you seek approval, then approval is your Lord. Whatever you seek is what drives you. You don't belong to yourself. And the only, the only one that if you worship will not destroy you is the one who's created to be worshiped. And that, I mean, the one who must be worshiped, and that is the only non-created person, that's God. He's the only one that can actually deliver. He's the only one, in a sense, when you put God on the throne, the throne of your heart was built for God. But if you put anything else on the throne, they're going to be bad kings. They're going to be bad rulers. They're going to demand things that you can't possibly provide because they can't deliver the blessings because they're not the one that you're supposed to be serving. You're not built for that. Say, for example, I've just got a couple of people that I pulled out of here. There's a lady who's bulimic. And when she went into counseling, she used to say this, that every single day she would wake up and the first thing she would do is feel like she was being bullied. And she would say, I'm not going to be bullied. I'm going to feel her stomach. And if she felt her stomach was nice and flat, then she could sort of feel like I'm in control and I can get through the day fine. But if she would wake up and she would feel that she was bloated, she would immediately begin to feel terrible about herself. She'd look in the mirror and she'd see, oh, look how awful I am. Of course, she's like a size six, but she's too fat. And so what she will do is binge and purge. The counselor gets in a little bit deeper and finds out that when she was growing up, her father put a tremendously high premium on physical beauty. And there was no boys in the family, only daughters, only girls. And he was the only one that was allowed to eat sweets. Everybody else had to watch their diet. And he put a tremendous amount of emphasis on that. And as a result, here's what happened. A, depends on how you look at it. For example, she had an idol. She had a slimness idol. The slimness idol says, if you're slim and if you're beautiful, then I will bless you. I will make you feel good about yourself. But if you're not slim, you know, cursed be you. And remember, idols are false, which means they will always distort reality. They have to. And people who make that kind of covenant look in the mirror. And even though to anybody else, to any objective person, they look perfectly slim, anorexic and bulimic women, they look in the mirror and they see that. And they look perfectly slim. And they see themselves being very fat because you see the idol can never, ever, ever be satisfied. So not only that, she also had a father idol, the father idolatry. If her great father, you know, thought she was wonderful, then she would feel blessed. But if her father disliked it, she was cursed. And what's interesting is because of that idolatry with her father, who was a male figure, she spent seemingly all of her life marrying men who were just like her father. And she was a man who had just as much of a fetish almost about the wife looking perfectly beautiful, always having the makeup on, always looking incredibly trim. And she tended to go find other men who could do the very same thing that her father had done because she had a father idolatry, which is the basis for her slimness idolatry and so on. So the point is we're in a covenant with idols. Where do they come from? You know, the Bible says they come partly because the heart manufactures them. They come partly because your family in some case can give you an example for an idol. Your peer group can give you the idol. If you try to, the Bible is much more complicated than any behavioristic understanding or psychodynamic understanding or psychoanalytical understanding or cognitive rational motive therapy understanding. All of them tend to say they reduce your problems to this or this or this. Actually, what's actually happened is that you have entered in to a covenant with something because you've got to worship something. And the thing that you're worshiping can't satisfy you. And that's why you're driven. Now, in conclusion, unfortunately, somebody says, well, what do you do about it? Now, here's where I have to kind of quickly talk about what I mentioned last week and drive it in. The gospel says that everybody is under the law. This is what I was trying to say yesterday, those of you who are in church here yesterday. Everybody is under the law. Deep down inside, we know we owe God our whole selves. That's an itch that we try to scratch through performance. So we make a covenant with our father and we try to scratch the itch, knowing that we owe God our whole selves by trying to serve our father's expectations or serve the slimness idol or serve the rescue idol or millions of other kinds of idols. The real problem I found in trying to counsel people, the way I'm talking, is that as soon as you begin to say, the real problem is you need to repent of your idolatry, the person says, oh gosh, I thought I was terrible. Now I'm even worse than I thought. And I say, what do you mean you're worse than you thought? Well, I'm a failure at this and I'm a failure at that and I'm a failure at that. And I say, that's the idol talking. I'm talking about the one sin that you never seem to deal with. And that's the sin, that's the sin of trying to be your own savior. That's the sin of doing an end run around God and trying to find your, you know, the one sin is you're trying to go about, as we said last week, establishing your own righteousness. Now, let me see, let me close with, and I shouldn't close. I'm going to assume most of you were here last week and I'm not going to keep on going. I'm going to, if you need more information, you can ask me or maybe Kathy can fill it in at this point. But let me close with an example. There's a lady I remember very, very well, actually a whole bunch of ladies that I remember when I was in the South that I met. I was in the South. And after they became Christians, I came to understand why a lot of the feminists were so upset. Because I met a lot of women in the South who had been just, it had just been driven into them that they're not worth anything if they don't have some, if they're not on some big guy's arm. That they've got to have a man who thinks they're attractive. They've got to have a man who loves them. Otherwise they're nothing. And a lot of these women, you know, if you sat down and said, well, what else do you want to do with? I mean, what do you want to be? What contribution do you want to make with society? And so on, they would say, but you know, all they would do is they go from boyfriend to boyfriend or from husband to husband. Because what had, what happened was someone had taught them this. And so they made a covenant, you might say, with, it was a, it was a, it was a sex idolatry, but it was more than that. They needed to have some man think they were attractive. They needed to be the hood ornament of somebody. And therefore, when they would become a Christian, when they became Christians, of course they stopped sleeping around. And of course they stopped a lot of that stuff. And yet the idolatry was still there. And I remember it was particularly with one woman, a man that, that really thought she was great. And she was by herself. And she had one, one child and she was by herself. And there was this guy, really thought he was, she was great and didn't want to marry her or make any kind of commitment to her, but wanted her to move in with him and cook and clean and do all those things for him. And he, she'd been doing this all of her life. And I remember sitting down and she came to me at one point and she said, I think I'm ready to go. I know it's wrong. I know I'm not supposed to commit adultery and all that kind of stuff. See, she was thinking only in a way at the superficial level. She was saying, I repented so many times of my sexual immorality, but I just, I, I think I'm going to go anyway. I just, I'm so lonely. I'm so unhappy. He makes me feel so good when I'm around him. And I was just getting into this idolatry stuff. And I said, here's what's happening is your old idol. When, when he, when he's saying great things to you about how pretty you are, the idol is blessing you. The idol is saying to you, ah, yes, blessed art thou my servant, because you are attractive. You know, you're serving me now. And I said, let's take a look at Colossians three and Colossians three says, set your mind on things which are above Christ. Your life is hid with God in Christ. And when Christ appears, you will appear with him. And I said, look, you have to do this. You have to look at him and you have to say, you are not my righteousness. You are not my glory. You are not the thing that is going to be able to bless me. You are not my life. Christ is my life. My life is hid with God in Christ. Pleasing him, knowing him and serving him is the only way that I am going to find real happiness. In fact, at one point I remember she wrote, and she said this, she says, I don't have to have a man love me to be real. Now what she was doing was she was contradicting the idol. The idol was cursing her and saying, you're not even a real. See, you don't have any identity. You don't have any, any reality to you unless you serve me. And she started to say, wait a minute. Now that I'm a Christian, I know this. I'm accepted in Christ. Christ has already lived for me and he's died for me. I am clothed in his righteousness. I don't have to be spending all of my life, hoping that I'm going to be good enough for him. He's accepted me. And therefore I don't need, she said, I don't have to have this man love me to be real. The only person whose acceptance I must have, I've got the most powerful and the most pure and the most wonderful person in the whole universe. I don't need to have my life controlled by this. I am not a slave to this. I am free. You think that's easy? Do you think that was easy for her to say? Okay. Okay. Okay. And she continued to do it, but that's a struggle that may go on for a long time. You have to recognize what those idols are and say, hey, when I flagellate myself and lacerate myself over being bad and being awful and so on, I need to repent of that. I need to repent of flagellation. That's just one more way in which I'm serving my idol and trying to rest in my performance and trying to earn my own salvation and trying to be my own savior. See, there's one sin that if you repent of, will get you out of all that. Looking at you. Looking down at yourself and flagellating yourself and beating yourself. That one sin is to say, I'm serving an idol here. Identify the idols of your heart. Find your identity in Christ. Now, codependency, if you are, and I know a little bit about it because I probably am, according to all the definitions, and not only that, my wife's diagnosis. I'll tell you what you do. It's true that, look, at the one level, if you are a god, you're a god. You're

So, My brain chemistry did it to me. What I have to say is I've entered into a covenant with idols. I have got to break that. I've got to worship the only one that can fulfill me. Now, I'm going to have to see if my wife feels like there's anything that she needs to balance me off on. And she can talk and then we'll have a good half hour for questions. Are you ready to say something? I'm just opening it for questions because anything that's unbalanced will come out more in the questions. You've got a couple things, don't you? There's a couple things you wrote down. I wrote them down because when a question comes up, what I'm telling him is, why don't we just let you ask questions because anything that needs to be balanced out will come out in the question better than me guessing it in your mind. Is that what you're saying? You sure? Yeah. Honest. Okay. Okay. That's right. I'll tell you what. Why don't you start to ask some questions at this point about anything that we've said. And you can talk about last week because I know there's plenty of stuff from last week, too. John? Yes. I'm not sure that I don't disagree with the concept that being proven is necessarily a bad thing. I don't think that very many of the great things that happen have been done by somebody who has gotten them away from a certain business. It takes a couple of months off. Yes. Okay.
