Christianity is the only religion in which you're supposed to become like a child in order to receive the blessings of it. In other words, other religions say you need to summons up your power and become better than you ever were before in order to receive the blessings. Christianity is the only one that says, no, you have to become as a little child, you have to see yourself and become helpless. We're going to be looking here at chapter 6 of John. It's the meat of the bread of life discourse. And I'd like to read to you from John chapter 6 from verses 36 to 47. John 6, 36 to 47. But as I told you, you have seen me and still you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never drive away. For I have come down from heaven, not to do my will, but to do the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I shall lose none of all that he has given me, but raise them up at the last day. For my Father's will is that everyone who looks to the Son and believes in him shall have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. And at this the Jews began to grumble because he had said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. They said, is this not Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How can he now say, I came down from heaven? Stop grumbling amongst yourselves, Jesus answered. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. And I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, they will all be taught by God. Everyone who listens to the Father and learns from him comes to me. No one has seen the Father except the one who is from God. Only he has seen the Father. I tell you the truth. He who believes has everlasting life. This is God's word. The punchline. Jesus says no person can make him or herself a Christian. That's what he's saying. Jesus says you can't make yourself a Christian. A Christian is a Christian by the sheer grace of God alone. Here you have, again. A great example of what makes Christianity completely different from other religions. You go to Buddhism and it says you can make yourself a Buddhist. And here's how. You go to Islam. It says you can make yourself a Muslim. And here's how. You go to the humanist society and they'll say you can make yourself a humanist. And here's how. And you go to Christ and what does he say? You see, he's saying to these leaders, he says, you don't believe in me. Verse 36. And he says that shouldn't be surprising. Because, Jesus says, people can't make themselves Christians. You can't be a follower of me unless the Father draws you, enables you, opens your mind, gives you the power to come to me. Jesus says no one can make themselves a Christian. You are what you are by the sheer grace of God alone. That's the message. There's nothing you can take credit for if you're a Christian. You've only received it. Pride and superiority are utterly excluded. You have a life of complete security now. Complete freedom from fears. That's your portion. And Paul puts it in the same way. In Colossians chapter 1 verse 6, he says, The gospel is bearing fruit in you since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God and all its truth. Oh, friends, listen to that. Did you hear that? The gospel is bearing fruit in you since the day you heard it and understood. Understood the grace of God and all its truth. Paul says, when is the day that you can say you really became a Christian? When is the day? He gives you a definition. People are religious. People come to church. People have all kinds of various degrees in a sense of interest in Christianity. Paul says, here's the day that you say I became a Christian. The day that you heard the gospel. What's that mean? The day you understood the grace of God and all its truth. If your religion isn't a religion of grace, it may be something, but it's not Christianity. Unless you've understood the grace of God and all its truth, you can't call your religion Christianity. Jesus tells us three things about the grace of God that are absolutely critical and the most practical possible teaching. First of all, he says the grace of God is necessary. Verse 44. No man can come to me unless the Father draws him. All right, now would you do me a favor for the next five minutes, bite into this. This is like a piece of very hard candy. On the outside, it kind of hurts your teeth, but when you get inside, all the sweetness of it. No man can come to me. The necessity of God's grace. What Paul is saying is something, I mean, what Jesus is saying is something very categorical, but Paul says it too. In Romans chapter 3, verse 9, he says, No one is righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. Or in Romans 8. Paul says, The natural mind is hostile to the law of God. It will not submit to the law of God. Indeed, it cannot. Now, what Jesus and Paul are saying is something very important. It goes like this. If I put in front of you two prospects for lunch today, on your left hand, I put your favorite piece of cake. And on your right hand, I put a bowl of sliced monkey brains over fly-covered. And I put a bowl of sliced monkey brains over animal excrement. And I said, choose your lunch. What would you choose? Well, you'd choose the cake. Well, I'll tell you what. Let me give you a second choice. Let me give you a third choice. And you say, hey, a thousand choices. I'm never going to choose the monkey brains over animal excrement. I'm not going to choose that. Why? It's not that I can't eat it. It's that I can't want it. That's my problem. That's the reason. That's the reason why a thousand times out of a thousand, I will always choose the cake. It's not that I can't eat it. I don't think. It's that I can't want it. I can't want it. When Paul says the natural mind is hostile to the law of God, he is saying that you can't want it. Given a thousand choices, you can't want to say, I unconditionally obey you. Now, somebody out there might say that this is an exaggeration. Somebody says, listen, I respect the law of God. You say, I don't sense any revulsion in me. I don't sense. I don't despise the law of God. For example, the law, thou shalt not lie. Now, look, you say, I believe that's a wonderful law. And I do lie sometimes. And I have failed. And I'm not as moral as I ought to be. But I don't despise the law of God. What is Paul saying? And here's what he's saying. Friends, most of the time, telling the truth is a practical thing. As a person who had a season of my life, I've had a season of my life. In which I did a lot of lying. I can tell you this. Lying can be very hard work. You have to continually remember what you told everybody. You find yourself constantly slipping back into just describing reality and getting caught. And what happens is when you do caught, the consequences are terrible. And very often, telling the truth is very practical. Very practical. But occasionally, you come to this situation. What is it that when telling the truth will cost you dearly? What about the occasions when to tell the truth will cost you financially? Or will it cost you relationally? What about those situations in which the possible consequences of lying are greatly outweighed by the certain consequences of telling the truth? It is at that point and only at those points that to obey means to actually give God the rule. It's only when telling the truth will really destroy you that to tell the truth is to say, Lord, I will do this because I obey. I will do this because I obey you, regardless of the consequences. I am not my own. It's only when obedience is extremely costly that you actually are having to give God the rule. Otherwise, to obey the law of God does not entail you losing control of your life. But when it's hard, that's when you're saying, I'm doing this for you because I'm not doing it for me. Many years ago, I discovered that, yes, only occasionally did I disobey the Ten Commandments. But on every occasion where I disobeyed it, I disobeyed it because I refused to give God the rule. And I began to realize that I had never given God the rule. There was a deep revulsion in my heart to actually saying, Thy will not mine be done. You are the boss, not me. You're in control, and I will obey you regardless of the consequences. Inside my heart, I realized, sure, I accidentally obeyed the law of God constantly, but not because I gave him the rule. In my heart, I hated the idea. And that's why Jesus knows us better than we know ourselves. He says, No man can come to me except the Father draw him. Don't you see the teaching? The teaching is you can't earn your salvation because you can't want it. You can't earn your salvation because you can't even want it. God has to open your heart to even want it. If you're ever going to receive it, that's the reason why you see an example in Acts. Paul was preaching, and Lydia listened. And the text says, And God opened Lydia's heart to give heed to the message of Paul. And there it is. Jesus doesn't say, When you come, then the Father will draw you. He says, When the Father draws you, then you will come. You see, the coming is a consequence of the drawing. The drawing is not a consequence of the coming. Now, for a moment, here's the hard part of the candy, isn't it? Because, you see, some of you are saying, Well, if he's drawing me, what about them? Is he drawing them? Don't you know that you're not supposed to guess those sorts of things? Don't you know that Aslan was right? In the Chronicles of Narnia, the great Christian fairy tale, there's a place where the lion, the Christ figure, says to the little girl, Child, I tell you your story. I don't tell you anybody else's. There's a place where Jesus, in John 21, is talking to Peter, and he says, Peter, someday you're going to die for the faith. You're going to be crucified for the faith. And Peter turns to John, the Apostle John, and says, Well, what about him? And Jesus says, and I quote, What is Jesus saying? He says, mind your own business. Do you realize what a ridiculous request that is? My friends, do not be distracted. Do not be distracted by what He's doing to other people. Get the sweetness out of what He's doing for you. You know what the sweetness is? Once you've bit into this candy, once you see that's the truth, it gets so sweet on the inside, because here's the sweetness of it. The love of the Father is prior. It's aggressive. It pounces. Take a look at the parable of the prodigal son in Luke 15. What is Jesus teaching there? He tells us about a man who has a son, and his son takes a big part of the father's wealth, and goes off and squanders it in riotous living. And he realizes when he's completely bankrupt, he has nowhere to go, so he starts to come back, and the father sees him from far off. What does the father do? Does he sit and say, I'm going to sit here on the porch after what he's done, and I'm going to wait and see if he grovels. And if he grovels, then maybe I'll do something. Instead, that's not what the father does. The father sees him far off, and he says, My son. And here's the old man running down the steps. Here's the old man running across the field. He won't even take the road, and suddenly maybe he spies a gap in the bushes, and he pounces on his son, maybe from behind. His son doesn't even know what's going on. The father is kissing him. The father is hugging him. Now, you can imagine that this young man might not have ever repented. You know, if you come on up to the porch, and there's your father with this huge, I told you so, look on your face. Here's your father saying, If you repent, if you grovel, if you're servile enough, I might receive you back in. You realize how hard it is to repent under those circumstances. It's almost impossible to repent. Parents continually make it impossible for your children to repent because of that attitude. Instead, here's the father, not waiting for repentance, but pouncing on his son in love. You can imagine the encouragement. You can imagine how freeing that was. And now the son, who probably under other circumstances would never have been able to swallow his pride, now he's invigorated by this initiating welcome. And he turns and he says, Father, I have sinned. I have sinned against heaven and in thy sight. I am not worthy to be called your son. And all I ask, and what does the father do? He doesn't wait for the confession to be over. He says, Okay, enough, enough. Servants, bring the robe. Put it on my son. Put a ring on his finger. Kill the fatted calf, my son. He was dead and now he's alive again. What do you see here? Oh, you see a God of grace. Here is a father who doesn't wait for repentance, oh no. He doesn't say, you repent and then comes my father's arms. He gives you the father's arms and enables the repentance. Don't you see? The repentance doesn't bring the father's arms. The father's arms brings the repentance. This is a God of grace. We love him not because we first loved him, but because he first loved us. God doesn't just offer salvation. He goes and gets you. He pounces on you. He mugs you with his love. The scripture says so. Friends, there's maybe somebody here, you've been seeking for God and you say, I don't know whether or not I'm going to be worthy. I don't know whether or not I'm going to be moral or spiritual enough. I see the Christian life and I get excited, but I'm afraid I could never keep it up. You silly. Don't you see? No man can come to me unless the father draws him. If you have the faintest desire, if you have the dimmest longing to serve him, it means the cords of his love are already about you and his strong arms are already pulling you home. How do you come to Jesus Christ? You just yield to the sweet pressure. You just turn and say, I don't have to get his attention. I wouldn't even be worried about getting his attention except he's already drawing me. I'm not capable of being anxious about pleasing him. On my own, you give yourself too much credit. If you say, how do I know? How do I know he'll receive me? You're giving yourself too much credit. You're not capable of being anxious about that unless he's drawing you now. It's all of grace. His love is aggressive. His love is prior. His love is pouncing. His love is mugging. There's a hymn that goes, "'Tis not that I did choose thee, for Lord, that could not be. This heart would still refuse thee, hast thou not chosen me?" My heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first." Some of you, by the way, are being mugged right now. You know, it's a very good possibility the prodigal son was mugged from behind. The father was coming on him from behind to hug and kiss him. And perhaps at first he thought he was being robbed. That's often how it happens when God mugs you with his love. You think you're being robbed. Sometimes God's love, his prior love, his aggressive love, can be very, very rude. But just imagine if you were blindfolded and you were heading for a cliff and some friend of yours was trying to stop you, what would he do? He'd have to jump you. And as he pulled the blindfold off and you saw the cliff, you'd turn to him and you'd say, Father, his love is prior. His love is necessary. No man comes to me unless the Father draws him. You bite in. It's hard on the outside, but it's so sweet. Hey, secondly, God's grace is lasting. It's not just necessary. It's lasting. What's it say in verse 39? And this is the will of him who sent me that I shall lose none of all that he has given me. Now, this is a very important teaching. The teaching is that everyone who comes to Jesus Christ for real will be kept in Christ and kept in his service to the end. It means, a real Christian is someone who lasts because the grace of God lasts. And you have to understand this teaching in the context of grace. If you never were worthy, if you never earned your salvation and were worthy of it to start with, how could you make yourself unworthy of it later on? In John chapter 10, verse 27, Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. My sheep hear my voice and they come to me and no one can take them out of my hand. He says, my sheep hear my voice, and they come to me and no one can snatch them out of my hand. He says, I will lose none of them. You see, a shepherd's job is not to lose any of the sheep. Of course, a shepherd's supposed to be protecting the sheep against wolves and predators, but the main thing that a shepherd is there to protect the sheep from is their own stupidity. It was one of the great insults of history when God called himself a shepherd. I don't know if you have gotten the point yet. When Jesus and the Lord called themselves the shepherd, what they were actually saying is, you're the sheep and the sheep are the most stupid, stupid of all animals. If a shepherd would end the day coming to you saying, if you'd hired a shepherd and he comes at the end of the day and says, well, I lost three of the sheep, but none to wolves, none to predators, but just three, you know, just wanted off on their own stupidity, but that's not my fault. What would you say? You would say, why do you think sheep need a shepherd, you ninny? Because they are stupid. You see, I've heard people say, oh yeah, I see where it says, Jesus, Jesus says, my sheep come to me and no one can snatch them out of my hands. My sheep come to me and I have them and no one can snatch them out of my hands. But I've heard people say, but I guess you could crawl out, couldn't you? And the answer is no, because you see, then Jesus would not be a perfect shepherd. A perfect shepherd loses none of the sheep. Somebody says, well, what kind of strange religion have you got here? If it's really true that you can't fall away, if it's really true you can't wander away, why, why is the Bible full of warnings not to fall away? And the answer is, well, it doesn't say, the Bible doesn't say you can't fall away, it says that your shepherd won't let you. If I take my little, you know, for example, suppose you have a little five-year-old daughter and you have to go into a store and you say, honey, you can play out here on the lawn but don't go into the street. Even though you go into the store, you keep your eye out. Why? Because if she goes into the street, she'll be killed and you have no intention of letting her go into the street, even though you warned her. So you say, well, why warn her if you're not going to let her go into the street anyway? Why do you keep your eye out? Because the father wants the little girl to grow up. He wants her to mature. He wants her to understand. He wants her to develop his character and wisdom. So he warns her and yet he has no intention of letting her kill herself. Well, somebody objects. If it's really true that grace is lasting and if it's really true that a real Christian can never be lost, never fall under condemnation, well, then you can go live any way you want. There's no incentive to live a holy life. And what's the answer to that? I've known men who were really wonderful to women until they knew that they had won the woman's heart. And if you ever find a man who is just pleasing and serving you, women, until he knows he got you and then suddenly he loses interest, he never loved you to start with, did he? He was using you. He was using you to fulfill his need to feel powerful. And he's a total stranger to love. And if you find that once you realize that you cannot be lost from your shepherd's arms, if you find that you cannot, you cannot nullify his grace, if you find that you're absolutely secure and you cannot be condemned and there's no way you can be lost, if then you lose your incentive to live a godly and moral life, then the only incentive you had was one of fear and of pride. If you say, well, now that I don't have to be afraid of being lost, I can live any way I want, then the only motive you ever had was fear. Jesus says, if I am really your shepherd, if you have really come to me and said, Lord, you owe me nothing, but you have given me everything, then you'll be thrilled with grace and you'll want to be with me and you'll want to love me. Lasting grace. Absolute grace. Lasting. God's grace is necessary, right? Number one. Number two. God's grace is lasting, but, number three, God's grace is liberating. This is the will of the Father, he says in verse 37, that everyone that my Father gives me will come to me and him who comes to me I will in no way cast out. Do you know the freedom of knowing that? You know, the Methodists, the early Methodists, you know who they were? They were a bunch of religious people. John Wesley, Charles Wesley and their friends. They were a bunch of religious people who got transformed and converted and totally changed. They've been moral for years, religious for years, but they were totally changed when they understood and were liberated by the message of God's free grace. Charles Wesley, John Wesley and their friend William Holland were all converted within a few weeks of each other reading the same book. And William Holland tells his story this way. He says, Mr. Charles Wesley was reading the preface aloud to Luther's work on the Galatians. And when he read Luther's words, quote, what? Have we then nothing to do? No, nothing. But only receive from him who of God has been made for us to be our wisdom, our righteousness, our sanctification and our redemption. And Holland says, and there came over me such a power that I cannot well describe. My great burden fell off in an instant. My heart was so filled with peace and love that I burst into tears and I almost thought I saw my Savior. My great burden fell off. What was that burden? It's anything crushing you. The gospel of free grace will take off any burden. For example, some of you are under a burden of saying I cannot be loved. I am not lovable. Not all of you, but some of you. At the roots of your being, for whatever reason, you are sure you can't be loved. Oh, there's people who say they love you. There's people who say they admire you, but if they really knew, if you slip up and you sleep so fitfully, look, in Deuteronomy 7, God comes to Israel and says, Israel, I didn't love you because you were the greatest of nations. I didn't love you because you were the greatest of people. Because after all, he says, you're the least of people. But I set my love upon you and therefore I redeemed you. Did you hear that? If you listen carefully, there was the circularity of grace. You know what Jesus, you know what God says to Israel? Israel, I didn't love you because you were this and this and this. I loved you because, what? I loved you because I loved you because I loved you. Circularity. But it's the circularity that every heart in this room has got to have somewhere. Listen, your wife comes and says, why do you love me, honey? And you say, honey, I love you because you're a great tennis partner. Honey, I love you because you're so pretty. You're the prettiest girl in the class. Honey, I love you because you never get down. You're always buoyant. You're always upbeat. And is that what your honey wants to hear? Does that help her sleep well tonight? Does she say, what happens if I get down? Am I not allowed to get down? What happens if I get wrinkled? What happens? The deepest part of your heart needs to hear the slurp that you see in an awful lot of love songs, like Dan Fogelberg's song, right? The one that goes, longer than there have been fishes in the sea, higher than any bird ever flew, longer than there have been stars up in the heaven, I've been in love with you. That's purple prose. But whenever the heart wells up, it starts to talk in that kind of purple prose. It starts to talk in that kind of hyperbole. Longer than there have been stars up in the heaven, I've been in love with you. We need, we have to have a love that says, I love you not because you're serviceable to me. I love you not because you're this or that. I love you simply because I love you. Christians alone can know that kind of love that your heart has to have is not a fantasy. It's a fact. It is. Because Christians know that there is somebody who literally said and who literally says before the foundation of the stars, I set my love on you. I love you not because you're superior. I love you not because you're serviceable. I love you not because you're moral. I love you not because you never get down. I love you not because you're humble. I love you because I love you. I put my love on you before you were. I put my love on you before the foundation of the stars. And that's why a Christian and only a Christian can actually say, I don't just get a good feeling when I listen to music like this. I know that someone has actually said this to me. And so a Christian says, The stars may fall from heaven, but his free grace to me will stand, because his love for me is older than the stars, and therefore it has to outlast the stars. He loves me because he loves me. Do you know that? Do you understand that? Do you realize that's why you can have a relationship with him? Some of you, on the other hand, don't have the burden of feeling loveless. Some of you have the burden of pride. Some of you think that you're more polished than other people. You're more ambitious than other people. You're more successful than other people. You don't feel that you have trouble loving yourself. You think that you're fine. You feel like you've accomplished a lot. I want you to know that you better listen to this doctrine, because if you don't let Jesus or this doctrine take you off your pedestal someday, life will, and life is not a loving teacher like Jesus Christ. Well, you say, look what I've done with myself. I've worked hard to get where I am. You worked hard with the resources he freely gave you. Suppose you've been born into one of those families clinging to the cliffs of Iran and Iraq. What if you've been born into a Kurdish family, and now you're just clinging for your life to a frozen cliff? What if those were the resources you were born with? Then how many degrees would you have? Then what would your cash flow be? You are what you are. By the grace of God alone, until you see that, you're going to become harder and harder and more proud and more proud until the day that life itself begins to show you're not in control of your life. Friends, if you come and you receive this teaching that you are a sinner, that you deserve to be rejected, but through Christ, he will receive you because of what he's done, freely on the basis of grace, unless you understand that now, unless you let this knock you off your pedestal now, you'll become a harder person, someone who no one wants to love, except other people on the same track as you. Whatever your burden is, whether it's guilt, whatever your burden is, whether it's a sense of being unlovely, whatever your burden is, even if it's the pride that you don't know is crushing you, it will fall off your back. There was a ship once out to ocean. It didn't know because of the fog that it actually had sailed up the Amazon. And it saw another ship in the fog and it signaled to him and said, water, water, we're out of water, we're dying for a lack of water. And the other ship just signaled back and said, wait a minute, you're on a river, you're not in the ocean anymore. Just throw the bucket down and dip it up. It's all around you. Some of you are saying, what must I do to be saved? That's the wrong question. The question is, what has he done to save you? And the answer is everything. You're surrounded by a river of mercy and you think you're out at the ocean. Just throw the bucket in, dip it up, turn to him. You wouldn't even want him unless he was right by your side. Dip it up. Drink in his grace. Receive it. Him who comes to me, I will in no wise cast out. Let's pray. Now, Father, we pray that as we take up the offering, we might see that because you're a God of grace, because you set your love on us, not because of anything in us, but because of your grace. When we see how secure we are, when we see how lasting your grace is, when we see how free it is, how it humbles us, and yet it humbles us from our pride, and yet it picks us up from our self-hatred, how it will transform and change us, how it destroys every burden crushing us. Now, Father, I pray this, that you would enable us to take hold of your grace, to say, My heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I love thee, thou must have loved me first. Help us to give ourselves to you now as we take up the offering, and we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
