I'd like to read to you from the book of Proverbs, from which our teaching is taken today.

We've been going through the Ten Commandments. Today, we're going to be talking about the fifth of the Ten Commandments. The passage that I'm going to read to you is from Proverbs 23, and it's printed in your bulletin. Somebody would say, Why are you speaking on Honor Thy Father and Thy Mother on Memorial Day?

and the answer is the same answer that St. Edmund Hillary gave about why he climbed Mount Everest because we're doing a series on the Ten Commandments and because it's there. It just came up and that's the reason we're taking a look at the Fifth Commandment in our series today. Honor thy father and thy mother. You have a great exposition of that commandment here in Proverbs 23, verses 12-16 and 22-25. Let me read it.

Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to words of knowledge. Do not withhold discipline from a child. If you punish him with the rod, he will not die. Punish him with the rod and save his soul from death. My son, if your heart is wise, then my heart will be glad. My inmost being will rejoice when your lips speak what is right. Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old. a truth and do not sell it. Get wisdom, discipline, and understanding. The father of a righteous man is great joy. He who has a wise son delights in him. May your father and mother be glad. May she who gave you birth rejoice. This is God's word.

Now, there's a general consensus on the part of everybody that there's an increasing amount of social disorder,

that there's more and more crime, for example. You know, there'll be a lot of outcry about crime, about the fact that there's less civility, that there's less honesty, there's less integrity, there's less safety on our streets. And then you have a new administration come in, they put a lot of cops on the beat, and then they announce, oh, you know, murders are down 7% over last year and everybody says maybe things are getting better. But then you realize that murders are still 40 times higher in the city than they were 50 years ago when we had more people here. And as soon as you begin to think about that, you say, what is wrong? There's consensus that there's something wrong. And you see, on the one hand, you have people who say, ah, what's wrong is unjust social systems, unjust social conditions like racism. And on the other hand, you have people saying, ah, it's because of the breakdown of the family. Now, Christians who know the Bible get very unhappy when they hear these kinds of debates because if you read the Bible, you know the answer is both. The Bible says if the powerful oppress the powerless, you will not have a harmonious and peaceful society. And the Bible also says that it's in the family The two things happen. You can learn in a good family that you're loved, and therefore you learn self-respect. And secondly, inside the family, you learn to submit your personal needs, the needs of the whole, and therefore you learn social behavior. You learn how to be concerned about an entire community instead of just your own self. And therefore, if the family breaks down, society breaks down. So both of those things are true. Now, when we come up today to this particular commandment, we're up against the breakdown of the family. And the entire commandment, if you go to Exodus 20, or if you go to the way this commandment is expounded in Deuteronomy and a few other places in the Old Testament, you'll see that there's always a connection between the family and society in the very commandment. It doesn't just say, honor your father and your mother. It says, honor your father and your mother so that your days may be long. In the land the Lord thy God giveth thee. Now, a lot of people say, well, that just simply means if you honor your father and mother that you'll live a long time. That's not what it says. By the way, I think statistics will bear that out. Just too many people who honor their fathers and mothers who died young. I don't think that's what the Bible's saying. If you really want to understand what it means, you can go to the place in Deuteronomy 4 where this particular commandment is laid out. and there it says in Deuteronomy 4, honor your father and your mother so that, it says, it may go well with you and your children after you and so you all may live long in the land the Lord thy God gives you. What it's really saying is there will be a breakdown. This will not be a safe place. This will not be a place where you can live long and happily. Your society won't work if the family doesn't work. Now, just another couple of minutes belaboring this. The Bible teaches always, whenever it says anything about honoring your father and your mother, it always says, do it so that society will work. In the Old Testament, children being malicious against their parents, children doing violence to their parents was punished by the community. It was not a private crime, it was a public crime. The community, the community saw an assault on the family as an assault on them. Up until recently, in America and in Europe, if a husband abused or raped his wife, it was generally considered by the civil authorities kind of hands-off. Why? It's a private issue. It's a domestic issue. It's not a public crime. It's a private crime.

unbiblical. It's traditional. Oh, yeah. It was traditional in our culture not to bring a man in for raping his wife, not for bringing a man in for abusing his wife, but it wasn't biblical because the Bible sees an assault inside the family. In other words, if you abuse and misuse an assault inside the family, it was considered an assault against the public good. That's the way it was done in the Old Testament. If a child was assaulting his parents, that child was punished civilly. A society that doesn't support the family, or a society that lets the family unravel, is supporting its own unraveling. That's absolutely critically clear and absolutely obvious. one of the things that most upsets me, now this is a little personal note is many of the same people who are quite willing to say the traditional family has had it the family is a place to have oppression and abuse the traditional family of a man and a woman in a legal covenant raising children that whole approach is just as well we let it go we ought to experiment with new family forms these are the same people upset about the snail darter. Do you remember the snail darter? Who knows what the snail darter is? The snail darter, I can see a lot of you don't even care, but I'm going to tell you anyway. The snail darter was a little fish. And if a particular dam was built down in the Mid-South a few years ago, it would have created a dam. It would have created a lake. It would have created a power source. but a lot of people said we mustn't build that dam because this is the only place in all the United States the snail darter lives. And we must not let it go extinct. Why? We mustn't mess up the natural environment. We mustn't do anything to do such a thing because, you know, the natural environment is such a complex organism. If you pull out this snail darter, all sorts of counterintuitive bad consequences could happen. Who knows what could happen? The same people upset about the snail darter. let's not let it go extinct. Let's not do anything to harm the natural environment. Say that the traditional family on which all human societies have been built for thousands of years, let's try something new. Are we crazy? The Bible says, honor your father and your mother that you may live long in the land, that your children will live long, that you can have a healthy society. This is the place where people learn to know and the only place people can learn to know in a good family that they are loved, that they are worthwhile. The only place you can get a kind of validation is in a family. The only place that you can learn unselfishness is in a family. The society that lets the family unravel lets itself unravel. You've got ten commandments. All of human relationships, God says, all of human living can be boiled down to ten principles. And of those ten commandments, the first four are how to relate to God. God. The last six are how to relate to other human beings. The first of the six, the first of all the commandments on how to get along in human relationships is honor thy father and thy mother because the family is the first, the primary, the most important of all human relationships. The family doesn't work well? Listen, there will always be bad families and always be horrible families. But if the family doesn't work well, there's no living long and happily in any land where the family as a whole doesn't work well. Now, two questions. If all that's important, let's just ask this. Number one, what is a family? What does the Bible say a family is? And then number two, how does a family work? And the Bible says a number of things in a number of places about this, but this is a pretty interesting passage in the Old Testament, and I think you can draw the basic principles out of it. What the family is and how does the family work?

The family is a learning community built on a covenant of lifetime loyalty. A lot of L's in there. A family is a learning community based on a covenant of lifetime loyalty. That tells us both the form and the content of a family. And it also helps us today as modern people when the idea of the family is really being questioned and undermined and assaulted in all sorts of ways. It helps us understand what the biblical view of the family is. And the biblical view of the family is neither the traditional nor the modern. Neither the traditional nor the modern. Look, first of all, what's a family? A family is based on a lifetime covenant of loyalty. You take a look at this very interesting little verse, Verse in which it says, listen to your father who gave you life and do not despise your mother when she's old. That tells you a couple of things and here's what they are. Number one, first of all, families are built on lifetime covenants of loyalty. Even when you're old, she's old, she's your mother. From birth, you know, listen to your father who gave you birth

A family is based on a covenant. A family is based on a binding and permanent commitment of loyalty. This is very, very important to understand because many, many people are saying the traditional view, the traditional Western view of a family is whoever you're related to. Biology was everything. It's not just Western. It's Eastern, too. Biology is everything. That's the reason why in many, many cultures that haven't been... Well, I'll mention this in a second. Many, many cultures that haven't been deeply influenced by Christianity, adoption is not much of an option. Right? Some of you come from cultures that have not been really immersed in Christian values. And as a result, adoption isn't that... isn't that much of an option because the important thing is the blood. That's the tradition. This is my flesh and blood. That's really what makes a family a family. That's the traditional view. The modern view goes in a very different direction. The modern view is anybody who says they're a family is a family. Any consenting group of adults that get together and decide to have a living arrangement that will meet their needs is a family. Now, the Bible goes absolutely counter to both of those. The Bible says what makes you a family is a covenant of loyalty, a lifetime covenant. sticking with somebody and saying, I'm for your welfare under all circumstances till death. You see, there is nothing like Christianity to show you the beauties of adoption. Jesus Christ, in the most incredible prayer ever prayed, John chapter 17, 23, he says this. I'm paraphrasing it, but I'll quote it too. He says, Father, I'm your only natural son down here. I'm the only natural born I'm your only begotten I'm the only natural child you've got here on earth but I ask for these my brothers and sisters who have faith in me I ask that you would adopt them I ask that you would give them rights as children I ask that you would bring them into your family and then what does he say I ask that you would love them even as you love me

astonishing. What makes a family relationship is not the substance. You're not divine. I'm not divine. Jesus is divine. The Father is divine. You see, there's, as it were, a kind of substantial

relationship. But what happens? Jesus says, even though I'm your only natural child, I want you to love them even as you love me. What makes a family a family is a covenant. What makes a family A family of family is an agreement. What makes a family a family is a commitment. And it's a binding and permanent commitment. Now listen. As a result of that, God loves us if we believe in Christ, even as he loves his own son.

At the one level, and we're not actually in that level right now, we could go off into another sermon and say, astonishing. What does it mean? this great gospel that we can be sons and daughters of God, and he will love us even as he loves his only begotten son? But we're not going that direction. We're trying to say, what are the ramifications of that incredible thing for the family? What makes a family a family is that covenant of commitment. Not the fact that you're related, no. Not that you're related by blood, and not just because we happen to like each other, and for the next two years, we have signed a lease. peace. That's not why it makes you a family either. What makes you a family is from birth to death, until death do us part. You see, there's really two kinds of covenants that create a family, and they're somewhat different and yet they're the same. The first covenant, of course, is the marriage covenant. And what the Bible teaches is two people may come together and they may say, we love each other and say all kinds of wonderful things, but are you willing to make yourself For the welfare of the other person, till death do you part.

Permanent, exclusive, endless commitment. See, many people over the years have said, I've talked to couples that have been living together, but they're not married, and they say to me as a pastor, a little defensively, they say, well, you know, we love each other just as much as married people love each other. A piece of paper means nothing. And I say, well, why haven't you gotten married then? And if you push, usually the answer is, I want out. if I want out. In other words, you're not a family, see, because you're not really resting in each other. You haven't made yourself vulnerable to each other. You haven't said till death do us part. If you want to be a little bit humorous but absolutely accurate theologically, you're not a family until you're stuck with each other. Or let me put it to you in the nicest way. You're not a family unless you're really resting in each other. And when somebody says, look, I'm not going to give you the piece of paper but I love you just as much as the people who have given you a piece of paper, Why? You don't love that person enough to say, I make myself vulnerable to you. You don't love that person enough to say, until we're old. Hmm. Now, but between a parent and child, there's a covenant too, but it's different in the application. Because in a marriage covenant, you stay interdependent all of your life. But the purpose of a parent-child covenant is that you love that child and you make yourself absolutely loyal to that child for the rest of his or her life. The whole purpose of parenting, as we're going to see in one minute, is to get that child so that child doesn't need you. You teach with authority over that child to get that child to the place where that child doesn't need your authority anymore. But that doesn't mean that there isn't a lifetime commitment of honor and of love, supposedly, going on between a parent and a child. It's administered differently. Husband and wife don't go through stages which you become less and less dependent on each other. But parents and children are supposed to go through those stages, but it doesn't mean that the covenant's ever over. See? Do not despise your mother when she's old. She's still your mother. You honor her. You respect her. You see? You treat her as weighty and significant. What makes a family a family is the covenant. Not the blood. Not the lease. Not the traditional. Not the modern. It's the commitment. The lifetime loyalty. The making yourself vulnerable. Do you understand that? Then secondly, and this is all under what is a family. A family, first of all, we said the form of the family is the covenant. But the second part of this, the content of the family, the essential reason that God created families, the essence of what makes a family a family, parents' parents is this. Teaching your children what is right and wrong. Teaching your children what is important in life. Teaching your children what life is all about. That is what a family is. It's a learning community based on a covenant of lifetime loyalty. It's a learning community. What is the family for? What is the essence of the family? Teaching the children the moral order of the universe. Now, let me show you why, again, that pushes against the traditional and the modern. The traditional view of what a family was about was ownership, control, and power. In many, many societies in the past, and I'm afraid probably in many societies around the world today, the father owned the children. The father could kill the children. Nobody on the outside was able to do anything about it because you had complete ownership over your family. Because that's what a family is, power, control. Now, of course, as we've seen, that's completely unbiblical, but nevertheless, that's the way the traditional model has been. There has been a tremendous swing away from that in our modern society, especially in the West in the last 30 or 40 years. You will find all kinds of wonderfully powerful, erudite, well-written books for the last 30 years that say, we've got to change our whole concept of the family. Parents must not try to impose their beliefs on children. Parents must not try to tell them what is right or wrong. Parents should not try to exercise authority over their children at all. What parents should do is give, and this is the essence of the modern view, emotional warmth. Love. You just give emotional warmth and you accept your children under all circumstances and you support them and you're emotionally warm and you let them decide what they want to do with their life. And you let them decide what their values are. Or, you know, there was a very influential report put out by the Carnegie Foundation some years ago and it was published. published. It had one version of it called, it was called All Our Kin. Very influential book, and not a good book, I must say, in many ways. And in that book it said, you know, parents do not know. They don't have the expertise to train their children as to what is right and wrong, what life is all about. You need to give your children to the experts. And therefore, what you really should do is you create an environment of emotional warmth, and you get them into the right schools, and you get them with the right experts, and they will be the ones that will help socialize your children? The Bible says neither control nor emotional warmth is the essence of what makes a family a family. But what makes a family a family is that the parents teach their kids what they believe is right or wrong, what they believe is important and unimportant. In other words, your job as parents, oh parents, is to teach your children what is worth living for and dying for. There is no way that little kids can even begin to make choices in life unless they've already got a rationale. Unless they've already got a worldview. What is worth living for? What is worth dying for? They are not going to be capable of reflecting on it and developing it in time, in spite of what the reports say. Somebody's got to lay it on them. Somebody's got to say, this is the way things are. This is what's right and this is what's wrong. See, even relativism, relativism is a moral order. To say all things are relative, of course, is a point of view. And only one point of view. Is that what you're going to give to your children? But whatever you think your point of view is, you must give it to your children. You must say, this is what's right, this is what's wrong, and that's the essence of it. Both discipline and love are secondary. secondary. When I don't mean they're unimportant, I mean they're means to the end. And the end is to train. The end is to teach. An army. When your kids go into the army, if they go into the army, the army can do both those things very well. It can provide a place for them to live. It can give them a roof over their heads. It can provide discipline. You see? It can provide all of those things. But what makes a parent a parent is not control, and it's not giving bed and board. What makes a parent a parent is through the hundreds and thousands of ways available to you, you let your kid know, you let your children know what is worth living for and dying for. Now, a lot of people say right away, I hate that, a whole idea. Some parents will say, well, then my whole parenting life has been a failure. My whole parenting life has been a failure. Why? Because my children have rejected my values. they've rejected my beliefs. They've gone off in another way. Or some of you children may say, my parents, that was the thing I always hated about my parents. They were so sure they were right about things and I didn't like their values and so I've completely thrown them over and I'm living in a completely different way. Therefore, you may be asking, does that mean in light of what you just said, the Bible says is the essence of a family, that our family was a failure? Not at all. Listen, if what the Bible says is true, this means parents only fail, not when they're wrong in teaching what they believe, but when they fail to teach your children to believe anything. In other words, your children will lose respect for you, not if you teach them what they later on decide is wrong. Your children will lose respect for you if you don't teach them what you really believe or if they see that what you say you believe is not what you believe or if they see what you say you believe is not what you practice or if they see that you don't believe anything at all.

That's what kills a society. Not if your children learn there's a moral order and they decide it's a different moral order but when children grow up not believing there's any moral order at all and that happens through hypocrisy, that happens through inconsistency. My friends, listen, if your parents taught you inaccurate stuff about what was right and wrong, non-profound stuff about what was right and wrong, they did not fail in their office at all. If, on the other hand, your parents were hypocrites, if they said they believed this, but then they practiced this, they failed in their office. Same thing for you parents. You don't have to sit down and say, oh my goodness, what happens if my children grow up and they don't believe exactly what I teach them? What God is calling you to do is to teach them what you believe and to show them in everything else you do that it rises out of true beliefs, that you practice what you preach.

That's the most important thing you can do. And then the purpose of teaching your children is to get them to the place where you see here in verse 15, where it says, my son, now this is very, very, very, very critically important. The purpose of the teaching office is to say, get to the place where you can say, my son, if your heart is wise, then my heart will be glad.

The purpose of the family is to get a child to the place where you've taught him or her what is right or wrong so they don't need your authority anymore. They've come to the place of critical freedom. They've come to a place where their heart is wise. is a kind of parenting that wants the control, remember? And there's another kind of parenting that just wants the emotional warmth. I tell you, the traditional approach, the traditional model and the modern model are both wrong because in both situations, you're not really letting the kid grow up. In the control approach, you don't let the kid grow up at all. In the warmth approach, you still want to hold on in many, many ways. But the purpose of Christian

rejoice. That's the way a Christian parent thinks. That's the way a wise biblical parent thinks. The purpose of parenting is not to get yourself a retirement plan. The purpose of parenting is not to get yourself servants. The purpose of parenting is not to get yourself lifelong friends who are always there for you, who are fond over you. The purpose of parenting is to get your children to the place where you see their heart is wise. My son, when your heart is wise, my heart rejoices. You want to get your children to the place where all they have to do, the only thing they need to give you anymore is honor. They don't have to obey you anymore. They don't have to listen to everything that you say anymore. They just have to honor you for what you've done in their life because now they're free. Now they're mature. Now they're off. That's what a family is. Number one, it's based on a covenant. Number two, its purpose is teaching. is learning. Its purpose is bringing a child up into wisdom. Now, lastly, how does a family operate? How does a family operate? It operates in this way. First of all, parents are required to do two things, and children are required to do two things. And I just go through them kind of briefly because this is the practical side, which actually Jeff White is going to talk more about tonight. night. If any of you are coming back tonight, you'll hear the practical side. If you're not coming back tonight, I'd suggest the tape. Practical application. But here's a little bit of it. Number one, what do parents have to do? If you take a look here, on the one hand, there's such a thing as discipline. Discipline. On the other hand, there's such a thing as love. Remember I said that teaching is the main purpose, but the means to the end is discipline and love. On the one hand, you have verse 14, where it says, pardon me, it says, yeah, verse 14, punish him with a rod and save his soul from death. A lot of people get unhappy with the idea of that sort of authority. The Bible says it's absolutely critical for you to exert authority, oh parents. True story, I was reading one book on this subject of honoring your parents. There's a British pastor who tells a story about a young woman who was about 15 or 16. She was going to his youth group at his church, then she drifted away. One day, she was found dead in the park. He went over and spent some time with the family and discovered that this young girl had, the reason she was dead was because she'd gone out with a guy, the guy tried to have sex with her. He couldn't consummate the act. And so she made fun of him. And he strangled her. He sat down and spent a lot of time with that family. And the family wasn't Christian. But one of the things he discovered was that they gave her all the emotional warmth. And they gave her a tremendous amount of money. And there were no limits. There was no punishment. There was no discipline with teeth in it. And he got to know the family pretty well. But over the years, over the next couple of years, the family began to grow in the Lord out of this experience. The mother came to this particular verse in the book of Proverbs that said, Do not withhold discipline from your children. Do not be a willing party in your child's death. And she suddenly realized what she'd done, and she went ballistic over it, and he comforted her. The reason I'm bringing the illustration up is, you see, there has to be teeth as the children are younger, in the discipline. Do not listen to the books that say never exercise any authority. Never exercise any authority. There's got to be authority. There's got to be teeth in it. But on the other hand, it says, look, in verse 24, the father of a righteous man has great joy. He who has a wise son delights in him. All the way through the passage, you'll see that there's love here. A tremendous amount of love. It's not a harsh discipline. Martin Luther had a harsh father, difficult father, and an unloving father. Martin Luther points out that in Colossians 321, which we've read, it says, fathers do not embitter your children. And when the word embitter means to challenge to a boxing match, to challenge to a boxing match, which means it's very easy for parents to get into battles of the will, just contesting with children over who's going to win. in. Our relationships with our children should not be boxing matches. They shouldn't be situations in which you just try to get power over your kids, try to show them who's boss. Martin Luther, in a very poignant and kind of sad remark later on in his life, thinking about his father and about how harsh his father was, there's a place where he wrote this. Spare the rod and spoil the a child, yes, it is true, said Luther. But besides the rod, keep an apple to give him when he does well. Luther said, you can really embitter your children if you decide the way I'm going to teach my children is through discipline, not through relationship, not through love. Those are the two things that parents have got to have in balance, the discipline and the love, in order to teach. But then lastly, what do children have to do? Two quickies. Number one, children must honor The Ten Commandments, the Fifth Commandment does not say, obey your parents. You know why? Because when you're little, you have to obey your parents. But when you're older, you don't. The one thing the Bible requires of children is always honor. It does not always require obedience. And it does not always require love. What? The Bible doesn't require you to always obey your parents. Why? Because when you're little, you should. But when you're bigger, you shouldn't. The Bible also doesn't always require you to love your parents. Why not? Because you may have wonderful parents. You may have good parents. But you might have evil parents. And if you have evil parents and parents who have been evil to you, you can't love. It's inappropriate. You can't feel the love. But honor is not an emotion.

Honor is a moral choice. When you honor your parents, you're honoring the God behind your parents. When you honor your parents, on which God has said all of society is going to turn. You honor your father and your mother regardless of whether you have to obey them, it's appropriate to obey them, or if it's appropriate to love them.

Because honor is the way in which you show honor to God. And you will not, unless you are willing to see that honor is something you can always do, live long and happily in life. You treat them with respect. You treat them with significance. what your age is and it doesn't matter what condition your parents are in, honor them. But lastly, I would like to say to everybody here, you as children can honor your parents best by growing up. It says in Ephesians 6, 4, parents raise your children up. We've already said here today, verse 15, the purpose of good Christian parenting is to get your children to the place where they don't need you anymore. Listen carefully. Last thing, very, very important. No parent has ever, ever perfectly loved their children. J.I. Packer says, the kind of love we really need is love that is completely accepting and completely unconditional and yet never puts up with self-destructive behavior. Listen, he says, the love we want is we need to be completely accepted, unconditional love, but which never puts up with self-destructive behavior. That's the kind of love we want. And Packer points out that no parents are capable of that. Some parents are much better than others. Did you have parents who loved you unconditionally, never withheld their love from you, but on the other hand we're very careful to make sure that they never let you get away with self-destructive behavior and sin and so on there's no such thing as a parent who can do that and therefore every person comes out into adulthood feeling that they haven't been loved properly the only way you're going to grow up and truly not need your parents anymore is if you see what we talked about in the beginning Jesus says that through him You can have perfect parent love. Father, he says, I want you to love them even as you've loved me.

When I said that earlier on, did you get excited? Did you say, yes, that's right. That's how I relate to God. God loves me like that. Did your heart leap at that? Do you know what it's like to rejoice in your adoption? Do you know what it's like to have your heart overwhelmed with the unconditional acceptance of the Father in Heaven through Jesus? Have you experienced that? If you haven't experienced that, you will never, ever grow up. You'll never be free from your parents. You will either, if you had good parents, you'll continue the rest of your life idolizing them. And if you had bad parents, you'll continue the rest of your life being bitter and weeping over the fact that you can't accept yourself anymore because your parents didn't give you the kind of love I've given you. No parent can give you that kind of love. You will never grow up and you will never even be able to honor your parents unless you can look at your parents and say, you're no longer God to me. You were God to me. That's how families were built. That's how society is built. Your parents originally stood in the place of God to you. If they said you were great, you were great. If they said you were ugly, you were ugly. The only way you will ever be able to honor your parents and grow up

In the right way so that you can honor them and love them is to say, you used to be God to me, but no longer. I used to need your approval, but no longer. I stopped weeping over the love that you never gave me because no human parents can give that kind of love to a child. And I, as a human parent, will never be able to give that kind of love to a child.

Have you come to the place where you've done that?

Don't you realize how many people's lives are being completely run this way? You're spending half of your life upset because you didn't get the love you wanted from your parents. And look at a lot of your sexual messes. The sexual messes of your life is you're still trying to find that kind of approval you never got from your parents in lovers.

You haven't grown up. You haven't come to the place of wisdom. wisdom my son if your heart is wise my heart will rejoice my son when you don't need me anymore your parents are still controlling you and they will control you until you see until you feel the wonder breaking on you when you hear Jesus Christ say father I would have you love them even as you love me

to as many as received him, to as many as believed on his name, he gave power to become children of God. Come home. Come home to the real father. Come home to the one parent who can enable you to truly honor your parents for good. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, that it's possible for us to know these things, that it's possible for us to know what a family is and to see what you've called families to do, but help us to see that without the gospel, without knowing that our purpose as parents is to bring our children into the place where they know you as father. And unless we see that our purpose is to have so much of a sense of your father love in us, that we, therefore, no longer can weep over or be bitter or even idolize what our earthly parents gave to us. Oh Father, without the gospel, we cannot parent. Without the gospel, we cannot be good parents. We cannot be good children. Help us to see the wonder and the glory of the gospel and of the fact that we are in your family. Your family empowers our families. Let that be so in this church. Let that be so in our lives. Help us to come home to you so that we can come home to one another. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
