In your bulletin is printed our scripture passage on which the teaching is based, and it's very short, and it's made of actually two verses. We're looking at the Ten Commandments during this series of weeks, and we have come to the commandment, Thou shalt not steal. Now, in the Old Testament, in Exodus 20, verse 15, you see the very, very famous commandment. It's a single verse. and in the New Testament, Paul reformulates it in a way that shows the full meaning. He traces it out in a way that I think we're going to see later on here this morning is tremendously powerful. And in Ephesians 4, 28, he essentially says the same thing, only traces it out. And he says, he who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful

You shall not steal. This is God's Word.

Now, the Ten Commandments are broken into two basic groups. And we have been for a few weeks looking at the second basic group. The first group of four commandments have to do with our relationship with God. And the second six have to do with our relationship with one another. The first four have to do with what we owe God. and the last six have to do with what we owe one another as human beings. Now, for a moment, I would like to stand back and put all of these last six commandments in context and to not miss the context and not miss the order of things. The first four commandments are the basis for the last six. In other words, all the things we're looking at, we started a couple weeks ago on this last group of commandments. honor your father and your mother. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Today, thou shalt not steal. These are ways in which we respect one another's personhood.

But we must not forget that every single one of the commandments that have to do with our relationships with one another are based on our relationship with God. The Ten Commandments say we must come to God and see who He is before we can come to one another and see who we are.

our relationship with our fellow human being is entirely, the Bible's telling us here, and Ten Commandments in particular, and completely based on our knowledge of God.

Some years ago, the Church of Scotland was having a great meeting, one of its great assemblies in the town of the city of Glasgow. And the mayor of Glasgow came to address the body, said something pretty interesting. He said, you know, you spend an awful lot of time debating as theologians about whether there's a God or what he's like, and you spend an awful lot of time talking about God. Now, he says, I'm not a theologian. And he said, most people aren't. And with all due respects, let me tell you what we really need from you. We do not need a lot of speculation about God and about theological discussions and such things and doctrine. Those things really don't matter to the modern person anymore, and they don't matter to us. Here's what we need from you. How can we love our neighbor? How can we get along? How can we treat each other with kindness and respect? We desperately need an answer to that question, and that's what we're looking for the church to give. Now, I'm telling you this. I'm mentioning this not because you should be interested in Scottish politics, but because that's the sort of thing you would see on any USA Today opinion page. It's very common everywhere in the Western world, and the opinion goes like this. believe about God is not critical. It's social problems that are critical. Whether you believe in God at all is not critical. The important thing is how do we get along? How can we treat one another with respect? In other words, the modern person would just as soon jump right down to commandment five. And the first four, oh, that's a matter of opinion. But the last six, that's important. That is utterly mindless and irrational, according to the Bible and according to common You know, even Jesus says, before love thy neighbor as thyself, he says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. You have to love the Lord God if you're going to love your neighbor. You have to know the first four if you're going to understand the last six. Why? Well, here's what I mean by common sense. And I have no problem with continually pressing this home to anyone who wants to listen to me about such. such. Mr. Mayor, on what basis should I treat other human beings with kindness and respect? Mr. Mayor, on what basis should I be unselfish? Why should I deny myself anything? On what basis? If there is no God, the only reasonable answer to the question, then what are we? If there is no God, God, what are we? The only reasonable answer to that question is that there is no difference between a human being and a bag of chemicals, our feelings to the contrary notwithstanding. If there is no God, we are all the accidental, we are all results of the accidental collision of molecules.

And even though we might feel like the things we're doing seem to be noble and good, for the very, very little bit of time in the universe's history, you know, a few hundred thousand years in which human beings are going to live, and eventually the sun's going to die. And the little glimmer of human civilization is so insignificant in relationship to all the oceans of dead time that preceded it and all the infinite oceans of dead time that will come after, in which no one will be around to even know what you've done. What this means is that no matter how you live, whether you live nobly or you live violently, in the end makes not one whit of difference at all. In other words, Mr. Mayor, if there is no God and we're a bunch of bag of chemicals, who's to say how one bag of chemicals should treat another? Who's to say what is right and what is wrong in such relationships? Who's to say? In other words, on what basis? If you say there, who knows if there's a God, it doesn't matter what we believe as long as we treat one another with dignity. I know modern people do not like the idea of a God who's a judge. I know modern people don't like the idea of a God who gives a moral law. So let's get rid of the idea, and then we wonder why we've got lawlessness on the streets. Think. The Bible and the Ten Commandments tell us that every one of these commandments, don't kill, don't commit adultery, don't steal, deal, don't lie, are based on a fact. And that fact is we're not animals. We're not a bag of carbon-based chemicals, but rather we are made in the image of God. That means we have been made modeled. We're many models of God's own nature. Our nature is modeled on God's nature. We're in the image of God. We share his personality, his rationality, his creativity. And as such, every human being has a tremendous inviolable dignity that must be respected. That's the reason why we trample on God himself when we trample on people. When we trample on people, we tear God's picture, as it were. Every human being is filled with dignity. That's the reason why we do not lie, we do not steal, we do not abuse, we do not misuse. You see, there's a basis. Now look, you do not have to be a believer in the Bible to intuitively feel that human beings are not just like trees, they're not just like a bag of chemicals, but that there's something sacred about them. Yeah, but all you have is your feelings. So you will feel that because God put it in there. If you say, oh, it doesn't matter what our religious beliefs are, I just know that, but then you can't, you can never make a case for anybody else to treat you or to treat anybody else, you see, with kindness and respect. But the Bible says the first four commandments are the basis for the second six. Love your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and then you will know what it means to love your neighbor as yourself, and there's no other way. Now, having said that, let's take a look at this particular commandment with regard to our relationship with each other. We've looked at, you know, it's funny, You know what our last commandments have been about? Family, power, sex, and now money. You know, the commandments get down to the basics, don't they? Family, sex, power, money. This week, Thou Shalt Not Steal tells us how we are supposed to live our lives in relationship to money and possessions, to money and material possessions. And I would just like to divide our look at these two little verses into two parts. how we're supposed to live, how we should live in regard to this area. And then secondly, how we can live. How we should live, this is the ought, but how we can live, there's the power. What we ought to do and where God gives us the power to do it. Now, for a moment, let's take a look and see what the simple but radical principle is. Here's how we're supposed to live. Thou shalt not steal. Let him who is a thief, thief no longer. But let him do work with his hands so that he can give to those in need. Now, I'd like to point out that there's basically two principles in here about how we're supposed to live with one another in regards to money and possessions. First of all, the little command, the famous command, thou shalt not steal, tells us something profound about human nature. every other one of the commandments are based on something that God put into us when he made us human now without retracing too far we saw for example that the reason we're supposed to honor our father and our mother is because God is a father the trinity is a family God invented us to live in families and so if there's abuse in a family if there's not an honoring if there's not a not love and obedience inside the family. Bad families dehumanize because we are built for family living. And we saw that. And therefore, honor thy father and thy mother. The reason we're supposed to work to build our families up is because anything less dehumanizes us. It moves us away from God's design for us. Then, of course, we looked at killing and harming, and we talked about how important that was to see that human beings are in the image of God. And to harm someone is to treat that person as an object instead of a subject. To treat that person as a stone instead of a person. And it dehumanizes anyone if you use that person as just a means to an end, a tool. We talked about that. Then last week we talked about sex. And we said God made us sexual beings. He made us need to be naked and yet so delighted in and completely committed to anyway. To be naked and yet unashamed. To be naked and yet to be delighted in. We looked at all that and we said, because God made us sexual beings and he gave us sex as a way of fulfilling us, to misuse sex, dehumanizes. And nobody's going to argue with that either. to misuse sex turns you into an object instead of a subject. To misuse sex, we're not going to go into it again, dehumanizes. Now, what this must mean, therefore, when it says thou shalt not steal, it must mean that just as we were built for families and we were built for sexuality, we were built to have and care for things. That to steal, to take away someone's property, to take away something that they have worked for, earned, to take away something which is theirs by right, in some way detracts from our humanity, depersonalizes us. There must be, now for a minute now, this may not sound quite as spiritual as the other statements I've made about the Ten Commandments, but this must mean that to have things and to take care of things, material things, is part of what makes us feel human.

and it doesn't make sense. Go back into Genesis. You can see it there. In Genesis God made Adam and Eve for each other and as a result we have a deep desire for sex but if you also go back into Genesis you'll see that God just didn't make just Adam and Eve for each other. They were not put here simply to go at it. They were put here to take care of the earth. earth. They were put here to take care. They were given the garden, and they were told, cultivate this. This is yours. And so we also see, then, Genesis, that Adam and Eve were put here to have and to care for material things. Now, what would this mean? This would explain a number of things, would it not? This would explain why incarceration, in which you're stripped of almost all your belongings, that may be toothpaste and comb, incarceration is one of the most dehumanizing experiences. It would explain the reason why probably extreme socialism, extreme collectivism has failed. That when you're completely stripped of the idea of anything as being yours, it depersonalizes you. You lose your sense of responsibility. It's probably the reason why we're discovering now, that the way to build up poor inner city neighborhoods is to work for home ownership.

It's probably the reason why, and many people, I suppose a crowd in New York would experience this more than anything else. My guess is, you know, I don't know how many people are out here, six to 800 people, something like that. I'll bet you that more of you have been robbed. A higher percentage of you have been robbed than the average worshiping congregation in America. More of you have been robbed, more of you have been mugged, more of you have been breaking and entering, more of you had cars stolen.

This would explain why when you're robbed, you feel so violated.

That somehow your identity, your personhood is being trampled on. It's not like, oh well, there it goes. It's not the same. same. This would explain one of the reasons why, in many cases, buying yourself new things gives you a kind of pleasure and builds you up in kind of profound ways that most of us wouldn't want to admit but go beyond the utilitarian of saying, well, I feel better because now I've got this thing and now I can do this thing, but there's something more to it. We were built, we were designed to have and care for things, and we get our sense of significance, we get our sense worth to a great degree out of having and caring for things. A psychologist some years ago put it this way. He said he felt that out of our being built in the image of God, there were two fundamental needs. I don't think he says this anymore, if some of you know who he is, but he says there are two fundamental needs that arise out of us being in God's image. We have a need for significance and for security. And the security is met mainly through relationships, but the significance is mainly what? What makes you feel significant? Impact on the world. You're affecting things. You've got more and more, and that's really to a great degree what we mean by it. You have more of the world to take care of. So the first thing we see here, thou shalt not steal assumes that there's something about us that God put into us that we need to have things and to take care and therefore stealing is trampling on the caretaking rights of another human being.

You go out and you earn money, so you buy a car. Someone steals that car, they've taken away a part of the world that was given to you to take care of. You see, someone breaks in and steals something of yours. They have taken part of the world away that was yours to take care of, and you feel violated. Now, I can't stay much longer on this, but that's a foundational theological principle. But the second thing we learn about how we should live, we're supposed to take care of things. We're supposed to respect caretaker rights. There are two ways, not one, but two ways to steal, to rob people of their caretaker rights. Two ways, through wrong taking and through wrong keeping. Now, first of all, let's talk about the wrong taking just for a second. How can you steal? How many ways are there to steal? Well, seen that stealing means to deprive people of a part of the world that is theirs by right to take care of. Now, we have what I call the blue-collar stealing, which is easy to see. And blue-collar stealing is mugging, breaking and entering, armed robbery, things like that. Nice, easy things to quantify. It's the other stuff, the subtle stuff, maybe I should even say the white-collar kinds of stealing, that is destroying our society and is certainly destroying New York City. It's a reason why we can't compete. It's a big part of the reason why the social fabric is going down. There are many ways to steal. Some of them are written in your bulletin. Let me just mention a couple of them to you right now. First of all, there's theft. Think of it this way. First of all, there's theft of time. When an employee doesn't do his or her very best work, you are stealing. You're not giving your employer good value for his or her money. If you don't do your best, if you don't work hard,

one of the things that new people, very often getting into a field, find out is very often, very often, maybe not so much in New York City, but to a great degree, not in the professional part of New York City, but to a great degree in many, many fields, there's pressure put on you to slow down or you're going to make the rest of us look bad. You can steal from your employer or theft of time. But on the other hand, if an employer does not pay well, then you're not giving your employees good value for their time. Just as if you do not put in the time, you don't give your employer good value for his or her money, you see. Or you can go on. You steal when you don't do good work, period. How many of us as parents buy toys that immediately unravel? travel. How many of us as parents buy educations that don't educate? When you create a product that doesn't do what it's supposed to do, if you don't work to the best of your ability, all around you, people are being stolen from. Then there's other ways. If you don't pay your taxes like you should, if you don't pay your debts promptly, the Bible's got quite a bit to say about that if you pad your expense account. But let's go even further. There are entire businesses that some of you might be involved in, in which the entire company is doing wholesale or even wholesale stealing. A friend of mine some years ago told me that when he worked for an insurance company, and some of you may know this, that he was told that when a person made a claim that was absolutely allowable, you know, a claim that was a valid claim, that you should routinely down at least a quarter of them and make that person resubmit. Why? Because maybe they'll give up. Maybe they'll think that they didn't have a valid claim. Maybe they'll get tired. Maybe they don't really need the money. Maybe they'll just forget it. And he said, why? And the answer is, it's good business, but it's stealing. You know, there's a guy named Louis Smedes who wrote a great book on ethics that put it this way. He says, we know when a thug snatches a woman's purse, he's stealing. We're not sure whether a creative ad writer who woos money from people by subtle and seductive lies is stealing, but he is. We know an embezzler is stealing from a bank when he falsifies computer data. We're not sure whether or not a corporation that bribes officials to get a deal without the lowest bid is stealing. But it is. Bid rigging is big in New York. We know that a burglar who takes a four-family's TV is stealing, but we're not sure whether a company is stealing when it exploits a poor nation's resources. one yearns for the day when a thief was not an executive in a suit.

We can't laugh at this stuff. If 10% of the bid rigging, if 10% of the fraud, if 10% of the price gouging, if 10% of the wasted time by employees, if 10% of the breaking in, If 10% of the stealing that was going on in New York City, if 10% of it was gone, if 10% of the people of this city had an experience of God in such a way that they got convicted and their conscience started to screw down better and they began to stop stealing, there would be billions pumped into the economy. Whenever you ever read anything about how much it costs to live or to produce things in New York, you've got to stick at least a 25% tax on top of it. tax. It's called the corruption tax. It's because of the way things are done. It's because of the bribes. It's because of the kickbacks. It's because of the bid rigging. It's because of the outright corruption. It's because of the subtle corruption. It's because of the unpaid taxes. It's because of all the cheating. It's because it's a cash-based economy where nobody tries to pay their taxes. It's because of all that stuff. The entire superstructure, as great as it is in a place like New York City is eroding and is going to come down because thou shalt not steal. Four words aren't being taken seriously. These are very, very important things. God was wise. The wisdom of the law of God, consummate wisdom. But this is not the main thing I want to leave with you. The main principle behind this command is that you don't just steal by wrong taking, wrongly taking, you steal by wrong keeping. Let me put it to you in a nutshell and then just drag it out for the last part of the teaching. Paul says, when is a thief not a thief? Remember the old joke, when is a door not a door, when it's a jar? Remember that joke? When is a door not a door? Well, here's one that's not so much of a joke. When is a thief not a thief? When he stops stealing? No. What Paul is saying is, he says, let the thief no longer steal, but let him work with his hands so he has something to give away.

Listen, Paul is saying that you're either a thief or you're a radically generous person, and there is nothing, nothing, nothing in between. queen. You have not stopped being a thief when you stop taking. As long as you treat everything you have as your own, and as long as you hold it all for yourself and spend it for yourself, you're still a thief. You're either a thief or you're a radically generous person, and there is nothing in the middle. Now look and see why this is true. Remember we said the whole shalt not steal, the whole basis for thou shalt not steal is how we were made. We were put here to take care of the world. God created the world and said, you alone, not the animals, by the way, is part of what it meant to be in the image of God. I want you to cultivate the earth, not to ravage it. See, not to use it for your own ends, to cultivate it, to bring out its potential, to care for it, but not to own it. And if you understand this is not pious sentimentality, you must begin to look at everything you have. Everything you have, you have to see that you are a trustee, not an owner of it. You are a broker managing it. You are not an owner of it. This is not a pious sentimental thing to do. This is a discipline, and if you use it, it will utterly change your life. The Bible tells us you must look at everything you have, every inch of what you have, every cent of what you have, as God's given to you to care for according to his priorities. Let me give you an illustration. Let's just say you were the groundskeeper of a beautiful college campus. The head groundskeeper. Well, that's got a lot of authority to it. and a lot of pride in it. Because there's a certain sense in which you have complete run of the place. You have all the keys. Everything has to be checked with you. You've got tremendous authority, and you're proud of it. You love how beautiful the grounds are, how beautiful the buildings are. And, of course, there's authority, and there's pride there, and there's a sense of, this is mine, and yet, it's not yours. If you were to start to sell off your gardening equipment, equipment, if you were to start to say, I'm not going to let anybody into my physics lab today because I haven't gotten it cleaned or I just think that you're starting to scruff up, you're starting to scrape up the rugs in there, if he would start to act as if it was his, he'd be a thief. Why? Wrong keeping. In other words, he's a man under authority, authority, the groundskeeper. He's a man under authority because he is hired by the college and he's supposed to use all of the college's things in such a way as to benefit the students and the faculty. And if he starts to act as if it's all his, he's a thief. Now, God puts this as clearly as he possibly can all through the Bible. In Malachi 3, he says, tithe. What's that mean? He says, well, everything you own is mine, and therefore, at least 10%, at least 10% of your annual income needs to go to my priorities. Well, what are my priorities? Well, without having the time to go into them, the Bible's pretty clear. The poor.

Deuteronomy 15, in Deuteronomy 15, 7, he says, if there's a poor man among your brothers in any of

The poor is a priority. Secondly, the church is a priority. Thirdly, individuals who are in a covenant relationship with you, your family, your extended family, your neighbors, your friends, people with needs. There's supposed to be a general spirit of generosity, And in Malachi 3, God says, you must be bringing the tithe in. You must be giving 10% of your income away to my priorities. And then he says, if you don't, you're robbing me. Now, that word is extremely important. He doesn't say, if you don't, you're stingy. If it was yours and you were asked to give money away to charity at 10% and you didn't, you'd be stingy. not yours and the owner of the money, which you're just managing, asks you to give 10% away and you don't, you're robbing. And God always says, if you're not radically generous, you're a thief. If you're not giving your money away in radical eye-popping proportions to people, you're a thief. And you know why? Because your attitude toward your money is not right. right. You can either see this money as yours, in which case the idea of giving it away is upsetting, maybe unfair, or you can see this is all money that's been given to you. All your possessions have been given to you, and now there's an ease about giving it away. It's not yours, and if the owner calls up and says, fine, and he's only asking you to give away 10% after all, you're getting to live on the other 90%. This is pretty generous. What a great deal. If you see your money as his, there's a completely different attitude you have toward it. There's an ease about it. Either you will see it as yours, or you will see it as his. If you see it as yours, you will not be generous, and you're a thief. In other words, you're a thief, or you're radically generous, but nothing is in the middle. There is no other place to go. Now, that brings us to the last question. What I just said to you is, I am absolutely sure this is what the Bible teaches. The Bible says everything belongs to God. Well, somebody says, I don't think that's fair. I worked for what I have. Wait, fine. But what did you earn it with? I earned it with hard work. no, no, no. I'm asking you, let's go deeper. What did you work with? You worked it with your talents. You worked it with your mind. You worked it with your health. Did you earn those things? Oh, maybe you've worked hard to maintain your health, but don't you understand? You worked and you earned. And of course, listen, that's very, very important. But you earned it with opportunities and with abilities that you didn't earn. The Bible says, is leased to you. If God gave us the world to take care of, we must not only steal, we must not only refrain from stealing by wrong taking from people and trampling on their caretaker rights, but we also have to refrain from stealing by not keeping our money to ourselves and acting as if it's ours. But we should be able, we should be giving our money away at the drop of a hat, that, without worry, without begrudging. Now, the final question, of course, is how do we get there? How can we do that? How can we be in that attitude? And the answer comes this way. I'll just give it to you two ways. First of all, you need a new heart, and secondly, you need a new motive in that heart. Robert Murray McShane, a great Scottish preacher, put it this way. He says, I fear there are many hearing me who now know that they are not Christians because they do not love to give. to give largely and liberally not grudging at all requires a new heart an old heart would rather part with its lifeblood than its money now what he's saying there is you're never going to be radically generous simply by listening to a sermon and saying oh i ought to be more generous no i ought to regard this as not mine no you can never coerce yourself in didn't you hear what McShane said? He says, to give largely and liberally, not begrudging at all, requires a new heart. An old heart would rather part with its lifeblood than its money.

Where do you get that new heart? You get the new heart from a new motive. And here's what that new motive is. 2 Corinthians 8. You know, says Paul, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. For though he was rich, He became poor so that through his poverty, you might become rich. Now, I want you to know that the reason that McShane can say, and the reason that the Bible can say, that if you understand what Jesus did on the cross, you will be a generous person.

The two go together. If you're not generous, if you don't have a new attitude toward your possessions, It's not yours. You haven't figured out what he's done on the cross. You know, Paul says, you're not your own. You're bought with a price.

Your generosity and your grasp of what Jesus did on the cross, Paul says, comes or goes together. It rises or falls together. You know the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, he says, trying to get a big donation out of these people for famine relief. Read 2 Corinthians 8. It's all about Paul saying, there's a bunch of people who have been struck by famine here in Jerusalem. He goes to Macedonia and he says, I need money. And then he says, you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Though he was rich, became poor, that through his poverty we might become rich. Listen for a minute. Look at the word poor. It's a deep word. It's like a deep abyss. It's almost frightening to stare into it, like staring into a deep abyss. You're afraid you're going to fall into it. What does it mean when it says he became poor? Do you know what that means? He became poor for you. The torment, the darkness. He did all of that. He stripped himself of all of his riches for you. Now, what will it take for you to get generous? What terrible darkness are you going to have to go through? For example, just for example, what if you actually began to tithe? it would mean I can't go on the vacation that I wanted. Is that what it would mean? How much pain is that? You see, a Christian looks at what Jesus did to become poor and the pain that comes from his generosity. And then he looks at the pain that will come from my generosity. You start to laugh. You see, the idea of giving away a lot of your income in light of his poverty Jeopardy becomes laughable. It changes your thinking forever. Or then look at the other part of the verse, that you might become rich. Do you know what that riches is? It's talking about being holy in his sight. It's talking about the Holy Spirit in my life. It's talking about prayer. It's talking about Romans 8, 28. All things work together for good to them who love God. The idea that God is working everything out, no matter what happens in my life, according to his plan and he loves us. because of what Jesus did. And what does that mean? You see, if you think about his poverty and the pain of his poverty, then the pain of radical giving no longer becomes a pain. And if you think of the riches you have in him, the incredible riches you have in him, you'll never look at a material thing and salivate again.

Everything has changed. Everything. If you understand the grace. how it can happen. This is how you can get a new heart. And this is how you can finally become not a thief. McShane goes on and puts it in a pretty, he really is, he warns us. He says, I fear there are many hearing me who now know that they are not Christians because they don't love to give. To give largely and liberally, not grudging at all, requires a new heart. An old heart would rather part with its lifeblood than its money. Oh, my friends, he goes on, enjoy your money. Make the most of it. Give none away, but enjoy it quickly. For I can tell you, you will be beggars throughout eternity.

What is he saying? He says you can either be a thief or you can be generous. If you're generous knowing what Jesus has done for you, it means you've got a riches, that beggar, the greatest billionaire on earth. But if you decide to hold on to what you've got out of a desire,

out of a refusal to see what he's done for you, Refusal to admit that everything you've got is a gift. He says, you better enjoy it. Because your heart's hard. You don't understand the gospel. You might end up being a beggar throughout eternity. Unnecessary, though. Doesn't have to be. All you've got to do is come and see the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who, though he was rich, became poor. So that we could be rich. And so we don't have to be thieves anymore. Stop thief.

Every one of us in this room thinks too much about money, loves money too much, derives our identity from it too much. Money is supposed to be our dignity, not our definition. Make Christ your definition.

And you will find your money becoming strategic in your hands. and you will finally realize what Adam and Eve was put here to do, to use the material things of the world to honor God. Wait till you see the power you feel. Wait till you see the glory you've got when you start to use your money instead of having your money use you. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you'd enable us to know why we do seek things

instead of you, and help us to have a sense of the grace of God so that we can give and realize the original mandate you gave us when you put us here on earth. Father, help us to see the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, whose poverty became our wealth. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.
