The scripture reading this morning is from 1 Samuel 15, verses 10 through 23.

Then the word of the Lord came to Samuel, I am grieved that I have made Saul king, because he has turned away from me and has not carried out my instructions. Samuel was troubled, and he cried out to the Lord all that night. Early in the morning, Samuel got up and went to meet Saul. But he was told, Saul has gone to Carmel. There he has set up a monument in his own honor and has turned and gone on down to Gilgal. When Samuel reached him, Saul said, The Lord bless you. I have carried out the Lord's instructions. But Samuel said, What then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears. What is this lowing of cattle that I hear? Saul answered, the soldiers brought them from the Amalekites. They spared the best of the sheep and cattle to sacrifice to the Lord your God, but we totally destroyed the rest. Stop, Samuel said to Saul. Let me tell you what the Lord said to me last night. Tell me, Saul said. Samuel said, although you were once small in your own eyes, did not become the head of the tribes of Israel? The Lord anointed you king over Israel, and he sent you on a mission saying, go and completely destroy those wicked people, the Amalekites, make war on them until you have wiped them out. Why did you not obey the Lord? Why did you pounce on the plunder and do evil in the eyes of the Lord? But I did obey the Lord, Saul said. I went the mission the Lord assigned me, I completely destroyed the Amalekites and brought Agag back, their king. The soldiers took sheep and cattle from the plunder, the best of what was devoted to God, in order to sacrifice them to the Lord your God at Gilgal. But Samuel replied, does the Lord delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as much as in obeying the voice of the Lord? To obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed is better than the fat of rams. For rebellion is like the sin of divination, and arrogance like the evil of idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the Lord, he has rejected you as king. This is the word of the Lord. Just before I get started, let me underline one of the announcements that Gospel and Life conference. It's new. I'm not sure what it means sinks in. We have distilled all the basic topics of what we think is needed for Christian living in the city. We've distilled it into a series of three conferences that we'll be offering regularly, and we hope everyone who goes to Redeemer would go through the series once, only once, unless you want to keep coming back. But we would hope you'd come. And so we're putting it on as a staff. It's really important. This new one, the next one is coming up Friday night and Saturday morning, Friday evening, Saturday morning, and sort of the middle part of Saturday afternoon at the Sheraton. And I hope a lot of you will sign up for it. We're looking at the life of David. And in the life of David, the history of David, we come to Saul, who is the first king of Israel. Now Saul, as we're going to see as we go on, becomes a power-hungry, abusive tyrant whose life spirals down and down and down in a tragic ruin. But he doesn't start out like that. If you go back and read the first parts of the story of Saul in 1 Samuel 8, 9, 10, 11, you'll find he's a very decent fellow. In fact, more than that, he's really kind of an attractive fellow, one of the more endearing places in this, if you can use that word, in 1 Samuel, is the place where at the celebration or at the meeting where Saul's supposed to be anointed as king, he hides in the luggage. He feels unworthy and humble. And we also know, besides the fact that he was sort of humble, he also, when he first came into his kingship, there were a lot of opponents that first opposed him. And then when he began to accrue power, instead of turning on his opponents, was merciful to them. So he's a very attractive character. He's a decent character. And yet, he spirals down eventually into absolutely terrible evil. How does that happen?

And so that's an extremely relevant question to us today. In the 1960s, 70s, and 80s, it was pretty often usually said in the circles of the intelligentsia that evil behavior is basically a product of social conditions. But when the 90s came, and you had the ethnic cleansings again of Eastern Europe and Africa, and the terrorism of after the year 2000, the tenor of the writing and the tenor of the thinking now is best represented by Edward Rothstein, who writes for the New York Times every Saturday, most Saturdays, in the Arts and Ideas section. He's a really bright guy, great writer. And what he will say, and he has been saying since 9-11 especially, and over again, is he says you cannot reduce atrocities. You cannot reduce violence and atrocities to just being the products of social factors that trivializes the suffering of the victims. And it's a completely inadequate explanation of evil. And over and over again, Rothstein over the last few years has said, we have got to figure out how normal, decent people, horribly twisted, how normal, decent people can fall into evil. There is no more urgent question. How do they become capable of evil? One of the answers is right here. One of the answers to that question is right here as we look at Saul and we see his capacity for self-deception. Let's look at this passage and we'll see the capacity for self-deception, structure of self-deception and the solution to self-deception, the capacity for, the structure of, and the solution to this ability of the human heart to deceive itself, to hide the truth from itself, which is one of the answers to this most incredibly relevant of questions. So, first of all, let's look at the text, and, first of all, let's look at our capacity for self-deception. Saul had been given a direction from God, and verse 18 summarizes what that was. It was in the top of chapter 15, but verse 18 summarizes it. And here, let me give it to you in a nutshell. The Amalekites were a neighboring tribe, and God had said to Saul, I want you to engage them in battle. This was a violent people. people, they were prone to extreme violence, they did atrocities, and God says, I want you to engage them in battle, Saul, and when you defeat them, I don't want you to leave a person or an animal alive. When you defeat them, I don't want you to leave a person or even a single animal alive, but what Saul has done instead is he's not only kept the best of the livestock, which is the They didn't have gold someplace. They might have had some coins. But the wealth of the nation would have been the livestock. So basically, he has kept most of the best capital, and he also has kept the king of the Amalekites as prisoner against what God has said. Now, when you hear the direction from God to Saul, go into battle and don't leave a single person or animal alive, it's very natural for us to respond, oh no, how awful. But unless you are willing to put yourself into the cultural context, if you're going to sit back here in a very ethnocentrically way and just disdain it, instead of putting yourself into the cultural context, you're going to miss the genius of what God is saying here. Here's what he's saying. God is saying to Saul, what he said to de Saul was, I want you to go into battle with the Amalekites, but I want this to be an act of justice, not an act of imperialism. An act of justice, not an act of imperialism. You see, what he's actually saying is, how do you deal with a group of people who are marauding, who are committing atrocities, who are committing injustice, who are destroying people, who are murdering people? How do you deal with a group like that? Well, through force, But God says to Saul, I will not have you use force the way the Amalekites use force. I will not have you use force against the Amalekites to profit. I will not have you take slaves. I will not have you take the livestock in the capital. Here's what God is saying, I will not have you profit one cent from this terrible but necessary act of justice. I won't have you profit one cent. is saying, virtually all nations, whenever they go into war, they say they're going into war for truth, justice, but almost always, they're actually going to accrue power and wealth, and God says, I will not have you, that's how the Amalekites do it, I will not have you do it the way the Amalekites do it, this is an act of justice, this is a way of dealing with the injustice, you will not profit one cent from it, you will not get fatter, you know, one ounce from it, has done it. And that's what God has said. Saul has become the Amalekites. God, all the way through, if you read the first chapters of 1 Samuel, when the Israelites asked for a king, God said, this is what, he was afraid it was going to happen. He warned against this. He said, you're going to become like the other nations who simply use force to fatten themselves. They use force imperialistically, never in the cause of justice. And now Saul's become the Amalekites. Saul is acting just the way the Amalekites were acting when God said we have to stop it. Saul has adapted, and therefore Israel is adapting, to the violent power play status quo of the world. And so God says, I reject him as king. Now, before going on, I've got to deal with something, obviously. And that is, since in the last year, we have gotten involved in a war, right away, some of you are like, the little wheels are going. I said, now, what is he saying about the war in this text says quite a bit about war. Whenever you go into war, there's people for it and there's people against it, and the Bible challenges you both, whoever you are. Only those of you who didn't know we went into war in the last year have nothing to learn from this passage. And, you know, this is New York, and a lot of you are on the Internet an awful lot, and anyway. So, and on the Internet, you only learn what you want to learn, you know. We don't have networks anymore. So here's what you say. The Bible actually, this text actually says something. If you are ever against a war, realize that this text says that sometimes force is necessary and sometimes to not do something about people being murdered means to be complicit in the injustice.

But if you're for a war, you better realize what this text is saying, and that is that nations almost never, incredibly rare, is it, where nations are actually going to war for justice. Nations always say they're going to war for justice, they always say they're going to war for truth, but they're really going to increase their own power. And so, when we ever go to war, if a nation ever goes to war, you ought to be sitting down, if you care about the Bible, you ought to be sitting down saying, since only one out of 3,000 wars is ever for anything like justice, what evidence is there that this one is different? What evidence is there that this one is uniquely different? You better ask that question. It's hard questions, aren't they? But here's what I want you to see. If you sit around here and spend one more second trying to apply this text to our political leaders instead of to yourself, you're deceiving yourself. Because what we really learn here is how does Saul get to this place? How does Saul go from being a decent person to like the Amalekites, and the answer is this. He's in self-deception. And here's how the text gets us across. Notice, for example, in verse 19, the question is, why didn't you obey the instructions of the Lord? Verse 20, Saul comes back and says, but I did obey the instructions of the Lord. Now, you need to know that the Hebrew language, in fact, most of the ancient languages, were more metaphorical than our language. Our language is pretty abstract. There is no word or obey in Hebrew, any place you see in your English text, obey, what the Hebrew text actually says is, what Samuel's saying is, why did you not listen to the voice of the Lord? And Saul comes back and says, but I did listen to the voice of the Lord.

But Samuel comes back and says, you say you listened, and maybe you did listen, but you didn't really heed. To listen to the voice of the Lord is better than sacrifice, And to heed, to truly grasp and to be affected by what you heard is better than the fat of rams. In other words, what the text is saying is simply this. You can hear and yet not really hear. You can know something is wrong and yet at another level not know it. This is what self-deception is. Let me just give you kind of a definition. The human heart has an almost unlimited capacity to hide the truth from itself if it's too painful. the human heart has almost unlimited capacity to hide the truth from its from itself if it's too painful it's possible to hear but not really hear it's possible to know something and yet not know it because you don't want to know it and that is our capacity for self-deception let me tell you why it's so important to know to understand do you know that for years now In the journals of philosophy, they've been studying self-deception. It's very important. Why is it so important? Here's why it's so important. Self-deception is not the most terrible thing we do, but it's the reason we do the most terrible things.

Self-deception is not the worst thing you can do, but it's the means by which we do the very worst things because we know there's almost infinite capacity for us from ourselves, what we know is really true, to justify things that we know are really wrong, to know and not know something at the same time, to not know something we really know because we don't want to know it, there is an almost infinite capacity that we have for it, and it's that capacity that explains how so many decent people can do such incredible evil things and is an answer to the big question of our time. That's the capacity for self-deception. Now, let's look at so let's look at the structure of it notice when samuel comes to see saul we see that samuel comes to see saul and it says in verse 13 when samuel reached him saul said what now notice samuel hasn't said anything the first thing saul says when he comes out is he says i listen to the voice of the lord i just want you to know samuel i listen to the voice of the lord now samuel I hadn't said anything. What does that mean? The lady doth protest too much? What it simply means is when Saul says the first thing before Samuel says anything, I did listen to the voice of the Lord, what that means is he knows he didn't. He knows, yet he doesn't know because he doesn't want to know. Self-deception is the ability to justify things you know aren't right, to know something yet not know it, to know something and yet smother your consciousness of it. Let me give you three examples, each of which is more serious than the last.

The only time my wife and I are in a car for long periods of time is in the summer because when we go on vacation, we take a car. And one of the things, though, I'm going to use this illustration to show you. I have kind of gotten over it. But for many years, one of the problems was that whenever we get in the car, car, it'd be always at some point on the vacation, my wife would listen and say, do you hear that? Do you hear that sound? I think there's something wrong with the car. I think we need to take it in and figure, find out what's wrong with it. And I would always say, honey, it always sounds like that, and then turn the radio up real high. Why? Because, yeah, I don't think I'd ever heard that before, but I didn't want to believe there's anything wrong with the car. I'll get back to it so I just, you turn that radio up because you know, but you don't know, because you don't want to know, another illustration, a father has a son, who's a terrific athlete, he's a young boy, and he's a terrific athlete, and he's so proud of him, and he's the best athlete in every school he's ever in, but he's in a lot of schools, and the reason why he goes from school to school, is because every school he's in, he gets accused by the other students of stealing, stealing. And every time he gets accused of stealing, his father comes barging into the principal's office saying, the teacher is incompetent, the kids are lying, everybody's against it, my son is being persecuted, takes the kid out of school. But at home, he locks up everything. He knows, but he doesn't want to know, therefore he doesn't know.

near the end of World War II the first town that had a concentration camp that the Allies liberated was the town in Germany of Ohrdruf O-H-R-D-R-U-F and when the GIs got to the concentration camp there were a number of prisoners still alive but the guards hoping to get rid of the evidence had actually exhumed 2,000 bodies out of a mass grave and were trying to incinerate all the bodies in some ovens when the Allies got there and the guards left, but most of the bodies were stacked up in the ovens. When the G.I.s got in, they'd never seen anything like it. And two hours later, General George Patton, Blood and Guts, they called him, got in, went in, looked at it, and promptly vomited. George Patton vomited. And what Patton did the next day, the prisoners, who were still alive, who said, you know, every night the guards would go into town, and they'd drink, and they'd brag, and they'd womanize, and all that, and the people of the town must have known what was going on back here. They went in, they talked to the people of the town, and they said, no, we didn't know anything about it, and Patton says, well, whether you do or whether you don't, he said to the mayor and the mayor's wife and all the able-bodied people, tomorrow you're coming out, and you're going to dig individual graves for all those bodies, and the townspeople did. They spent the whole day digging graves. And that night they went back and the mayor and his wife hung themselves. And they left a note. And this is what was on the note. We didn't know, but we knew. The same mechanism that enabled very decent people to become complicit in that horrendous evil, it's the same mechanism that keeps me from wanting to admit to my wife, there's something wrong with the car, or the same mechanism that keeps me from wanting to admit there's something wrong with my body and I don't want to go to the doctor.

We have an enormous, almost infinite capacity to hide from ourselves truths that are painful to us, truths that we just don't want to admit. We have an enormous capacity, and it is the root of enormous evil, I mean, there's lots of examples, by the way, of how you can do it. There's not just one way to do it. In fact, actually, Saul gives you a couple. Do you want to just take a second to look at them for a second with me? Saul gives us a couple. For example, one of them is this, blame shifting, right? Notice, Samuel says, what, in verse, you know, 14, Samuel says, what then is this bleeding of sheep in my ears? What is the loathing of cattle? It's very interesting. What, see, in Hebrew, what Saul says is, I listened to the voice of the Lord. And Samuel is saying, if you heard the voice of the Lord, why do I hear the voice of these animals? And what does Saul say? Oh, the soldiers brought them. And actually, in Hebrew, he doesn't even use the word soldiers. He says they, a general, vague, third person plural, they. Oh, yeah, you know how those people are. I don't know. Somebody brought them. I don't even know who but you know what, now that they're here look at the weakness of the messenger for example, one of the things I always would do whenever Kathy would say, there's something wrong with the car and I would turn up that light, don't turn that radio up there's something wrong with the car now honey, you know that you're a glass is half empty person and she is she's much more likely to fear the worst she's much more likely to think the worst is going to happen than I am and so I said, well, honey, you know, you're just a glasses half-empty person. Well, that's true, but that doesn't mean there's nothing wrong with the car. Or here's the father. The father comes in and says, my son is being persecuted. He is the best athlete in this school, and all the other boys are jealous, and they are, but that doesn't mean his son's not a thief. But what you do is misdirection. You concentrate on the weakness of the messenger instead of whether or not it might be true. That's the way to get away from even having to think about the truth. Or let me give you another quick example. Saul says, yes, yes, yes, yes, I know. I did keep the animals and all that, but we're going to have a great sacrifice to the Lord. Here he hides behind morality and religiosity. He says, Samuel, we're going to have this great service, and I want you to preach the sermon.

Samuel will have nothing of it, because here, what, this is something, we know this, mafia hit men say, well, yeah, I kill people, but I'm really good to my mother.

don't look at this look at all the good I do

and another way to put it is

religion

this is one of the biggest problems we have in this country in some ways, in almost any country on the one hand, people who are religious use religion as a way of deceiving themselves about what's wrong with them they say yes, yes, of course I spend too much money on myself my workers. I'm cheating on my taxes. I'm cheating with my wife. But look, I'm in church every Sunday and I pray all the time, hiding behind the religion. Elizabeth Elliott tells a story from her household. She says, in our household, the children could play with the paper bags that were kept underneath the kitchen sink. And they could bring them out and play with them. But if you did play with them, you had to put them all back when you were done. And one day, her brother Tommy had taken them all out and had left them out. And then he went in and he was practicing his piano. And one of the ways he practiced piano was he played hymns.

And in came the parents and saw these bags everywhere, and they in the kitchen said, Tommy, get in here this instant. And Tommy says, I can't, I'm singing praises to Jesus. Jesus. And Elizabeth Elliot says her father walked in and said, there's no use singing Jesus praises when you're being disobedient. To obey is better than sacrifice. Now, on the one hand, there are millions of people hiding behind the fact that they're religious as a way of saying, see, I'm okay. And by the way, then on the other hand, there's all sorts of non-religious people who don't want to believe the Bible's true, who look at all the hypocrites, and they say, see, this is why I don't have to take the gospel seriously. I mean, religion is the greatest force for self-deception about pride, about cruelty, about selfishness. It's the greatest force for self-deception in the world.

Do you see where it can all lead, though? Some of you are cheating in your business, but you're saying, well, I'm not like those Enron guys. You know, I'm not cheating people tens and hundreds of millions, but what did the Enron guy say? They said something, didn't they? Said the same thing. They said, well, yeah, I'm cheating people out of hundreds of billions, but at least I'm not killing anybody. I'm not like a mafiosa person. What are the mafiosa people saying? They're saying, well, yeah, I kill people, but I'm not like Hitler. I only kill people that really deserve it. What did Hitler say? I don't know, but he said something. He didn't just say, I'm evil. Nobody says I'm evil, decent people get there because of this. Listen, not to put too fine a point on it. Yeah, let's put a fine point on it. This capacity in our lives makes it possible for the nicest and most decent people to go down to the absolute depths. And as long as you have not identified where this mechanism is working in your life, and as long as you haven't put an end to it, you are capable of the worst things. Don't kid yourself.

The human heart has this incredible capacity for self-deception, to hide from itself the truth that is too painful, to justify the things that you know in your heart are wrong, to know something but not know it because you don't want to know it. Now, what's the solution? Hopefully there's a solution, and there is a solution. First of all, you're going to have to know why certain truths are painful to you. Why Saul found this so hard to understand. See, I said self-deception is the almost infinite capacity of the human heart to hide from itself truths that are too painful, but why are particular truths too painful? There's a lot of truths we don't hide from ourselves. ourselves, there's other truths that we can't accept. Which ones are painful? Why are certain ones painful? And the answer is where Samuel says to Saul, very interestingly, verse 17, although you were once small in your eyes, didn't God anoint you as king? You were once small in your eyes, but the Lord has made you great. Now, why would he say this? Because up in verse 12, when Samuel was looking for Saul, in verse 12, we're told Saul has gone to Carmel. There he has set up a monument in his own honor and turned and gone down to Gilgal. Now, why has Saul pounced on the loot to make himself rich? Why has Saul put up a monument to his honor because of his military victory? Why has Saul kept Agag, the king of the Amalekites? You know why? why? Because you see, if you keep the king of the Amalekites as your prisoner, then you're a king of kings. You're an emperor. Now people have to respect you. Samuel says, Saul, you were small in your eyes. God made you great. Why did you keep the plunder? Why are you building the monument? Why are you keeping Agag? And the answer, the only, why are you still trying to make yourself great? Why are you still trying to look great to other people? Why are you still trying to yourself that you're great. And the only answer is he must still be small in his own eyes. The only possible reason why he's still doing all these things, God said, I can let you use force, but he has turned force and his military victory into the way he knows he's okay, the way he knows he's great. And that's the reason why Samuel can say your arrogance is a form of idolatry.

Here's what went wrong with Saul, and here's what goes wrong with us. Here's why Saul fell into self-deception, and here's why you and I do it at the same time. If God is how you know you're great, if God's love, if God's value of you, if you know that God honors you, that God has anointed you with his favor and love. Then you can handle bad news about anything else because the bad news can never get at your very self, the very roots of who you are. But what if you're a father and you have built your honor, the monument to your honor is your son, this great athlete, this great kid, the fact that I've raised a great son. See, what if the very monument he has to his honor, in other words, is what his very self is based on, then he cannot accept any information that jeopardizes that. And in fact, it operates even at a lower level. Why, you know, after so many years of this, this is years ago that happened, after so many years of my just never wanting to admit there's anything wrong with the car and then having the car break down, at some point my wife said to me, would you please figure out what's wrong with you here, why you have a problem with that, there are all sorts of things that you accept, why do you have a problem with that, what is the big deal with that? And I had to think about it, and finally, where the men knew what was wrong with cars.

There's too many people, I lived in a town for many, many years where whenever the women said, what's wrong with the car, honey? The guy would say, I don't know, he would stop, he'd pull up the hood, and he'd look, oh, it's one of these thingies here, this thingy here needs to be connected to this thingy over here, I don't know how to do that.

And therefore, when Kathy said there's something wrong with the car, what I heard in my heart was, you're not man enough to know what it is,

And so I was upset. But here's what this passage is saying. I was small in my own eyes, so I couldn't accept what Kathy said. The father is small in his own eyes, you see, so he couldn't accept what the kids were saying about his son. These things were their monuments because Saul heard but didn't really hear that God had anointed him king. king, he knew, but he didn't really know that God had honored him. He knew it at one level, but it hadn't really, really, something grasped him. Do you understand? He knew that he was great in God's eyes, but he didn't really know, because he knew, but didn't really know the good news, he could never accept bad news. Do you hear that? If he had known the good news, if the father knows

the love of God, the value of God, then it'll be awfully hard to admit your son is a thief, but you can admit it because at least your very self is involved. Okay. If I really know my honors in God, then okay, so what? So I'm not like the other guys. Then it's not going to freak me out that I don't know anything about cars. You see, if you don't, if you know, but because Saul knew, but didn't really know the good news about God's love and favor, he knew it, but he didn't really know it in his heart of hearts. As a result, he couldn't admit in his heart of hearts bad news. If you make an idol, see, if God is not your honor, then something else is going to be. And Saul was starting to make his military success and his political power an idol. And as a result, it was ruining his life. It was twisting his life. It is blinding him. And he was on his way down to the bottom. So the first thing, if you want a solution, is to recognize why certain truths are things are too painful to accept. Well, then what's the solution for it? It's just this. Saul was not able to let it, it didn't sink into Saul, how loved he was. It didn't sink into Saul, how honored he was. It didn't sink in that he was annoyed that he was kicked. It didn't really sink down, but let's not sneer at Saul because you and I have a resource for understanding the grace and love of God that he didn't have. What is that resource? It's right here in Hebrews chapter 10. 10. Hebrews chapter 10 goes like this. Therefore, when Christ came into the world, he said, sacrifice an offering you did not desire, but a body you prepared for me. Burn offerings and sin offerings, with them you were not pleased, but I have come to do your will. And by that will, we have been made holy through the sacrifice of the body of Christ once for all. Now, what is Hebrews saying? First of all, notice how much those words of Jesus sound like the words of Samuel. Samuel says God doesn't really want the sacrifices and the rituals. He wants obedience. And Jesus says you don't really want the sacrifices. You want obedience. That's discouraging.

If that's what God really wants, we're all cooked. Just get up some morning, try tomorrow, and say I'm going to obey the golden rule today. I'm going to always, always, always treat people exactly the way I want to be treated by them. You won't go an hour. not if you understand yourself, not if you have any idea about the ramifications of that rule. Nobody can be obedient, but this is not just anybody. This is Jesus. And the Hebrews writer says, it's not that Jesus' obedience makes him holy. Jesus' obedience makes us holy. Now, how could that be? Here's how. Jesus Christ was great, but he came small.

Philippians 2 is all about it Jesus Christ was equal with the Father but he emptied himself Jesus Christ was great but he became small even to God on the cross he died though he was great, he became small so that by living the life we should have lived and dying the death we should have died we, though small, can be great in God's heart in God's eyes because you see according to the book of Hebrews Christ lived and died in our place so that when we believe in him and say, Father, accept me because of what Jesus has done, that literally gets rid of the need for sacrifice, literally. And what does that all mean? The Bible says, you, every believer, the humblest believer is a king. Revelation 1.5, go look it up. The humblest believer is a king. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, on. The humblest believer is anointed. What does that mean? It's got to mean this. Look at the coronations. Look at the wealth. Look at the adulation of the greatest earthly kings in history. That's nothing compared to what we have in Christ and what we will have. Do you realize a billion years from now, anyone who believes in Christ will be ruling and reigning when nobody can even quite remember what a Roman emperor was or what a president of the United States was? the knowledge of that, if it sinks down into your heart, will absolutely liberate you. Don't you see how he loves you? And if you know that, if you know that he, though great, became small so that we, though small, can become literally kings, if you know that, if that sinks down, if you're melted by the idea of what Jesus has said, that and only that will dismantle this mechanism in your life. That's what, I'm not just saying it'll happen automatically. You got to work on it. You know, your spouse may say, what is your problem with the car? And you may have to get the gospel out and use it even on something small like that, but it'll work on any size thing. Only this will dismantle that. And therefore only through this will you be safe. This is the true king of kings, kings, who didn't take power but lost power, who didn't take lives but gave his life so that we might become kings in him. And if that truth sinks into your heart, it will liberate you. One last thing I can say. How do you implement this? Let me be real frank about this. Community. How do you implement this? Community. Let me say something pretty pointed. if you're the kind of person that likes to drop in on church but you don't want to be accountable you don't want to get into deep relationships you don't want to let other people into your lives you don't want other people to really see how you're living you're duck soup for self-deception in fact you're probably in it already think friends self-deception the only possible way to get any help with self-deception is to find somebody who's not the self you

would any of you have the courage to do this go find somebody who kind of knows you pretty well and go and say, what are things that are wrong with me? What are my character flaws? What are the things that are wrong with me that other people see and I pretty much don't?

And if they just say, well, it's body odor, say, I would like you to go deeper than that, please. Though, actually, that's useful to always know. Do you have the courage to do that? The gospel will give you the courage to do that, but once you have the gospel, you need that. You need that kind of information, because it'll hurt, But you see, when you get the bad news and you say, I don't even want to hear that, if you use the gospel, in order to hear that, it sinks the good news down deeper into you, and the truth will set you free. The truth will set you free. Know, know, know that the Christos, the anointed one, in him you are anointed, that truth will set you free. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you'd make these truths real to us as we take the bread in the cup. We ask that you would free us from the places in our own lives where we are practicing self-deception, where we are practicing denial. We ask, Lord, that you would help us through the gospel to be of all people the most happy, the most fearless, only when we hear in the depths of our being what your son has done for us, O Lord. Will our ears truly be open to all of reality? We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
