Good evening. When I was preparing to do this speech last night, I spoke to a 13-year-old who I tutor, and I asked her if she had any advice for me. And her advice was, when she gets up in front of the class, she either looks at the wall, or if that doesn't work, if all else fails, she looks at the audience and imagines everyone is an animal. Well, now I know kind of what Noah would feel like. When I moved to New York City three years ago, I thought that my life was going to be perfect. Here I was, moving to where my boyfriend was, living with my roommate from college in a huge three-bedroom apartment off Central Park West, and preparing to attend graduate school at Columbia on a full tuition scholarship. I can remember finishing my first semester exams at Columbia. Everyone was so happy to be done. And I remember all I could think was, is this all there is? After six months in New York, I realized that my life had never been so empty as it was then. My relationship with my boyfriend had failed, and my success at Columbia wasn't giving me the satisfaction that I needed. I'd always thought that achievements would make me happy. But I didn't. Having grown up in Arlington, Virginia, which is a suburb of Washington, D.C., and a classic dysfunctional family, I thought that the way to be normal and happy was to accomplish things outside of the family. My brother had taken the drug route, and I had taken the overachiever route. But it seemed that one accomplishment just led to one disappointment after another. It was about that time in December that my roommate started going to a Bible study connected to Redeemer Church. She consistently asked me to go every week. But I never went. I never had time. After exams, I had some time free, and one night asked her if I could go.

When she said a Bible study, I didn't really know what to expect. I was surprised when I found women I could relate to who shared similar goals and were sincere about getting to know me. Their eyes reflected a strength that I did not have, even with all of my accomplishments. For the first time that night at the Bible study, I was so excited. I heard that Christianity was about a relationship that God wanted to have with me personally. When I got home, I pulled out a children's Bible I had always carried around with me.

The leader of the group had suggested that I begin in the book of John so that I could get to know Jesus Christ.

Growing up, Jesus had just been a figure to me. He was a painting that was on the wall with a light behind him. He wasn't somebody that you got to know. I had always known, growing up through Sunday school, Bible school, and family, that Jesus had died for the sins of the world. But I didn't realize until I started reading the Bible for myself that Jesus had died for me. Jesus' life and death had already achieved for me all that was needed to go to God in confidence. When I realized this, I asked him to take control of my life. I asked him to take control of my life and to make me the person he wanted me to be. Over the past two years, I can't say that life has been easy. But as I learn daily about the extravagant love that God has for me, I am able to trust him more and more. I graduated from Columbia this past May and now work in the public school system here in New York City. As an occupational therapist, the needs of the students are often very overwhelming. But I now know that it is God who is in control. And who is working, not me. And that he will accomplish through me what needs to be done each day. Oscar Wilde wrote, In this world, there are only two tragedies. One is getting what one wants. And the other is not getting it. It is exciting to know for me that this is no longer true. While I still enjoy the challenges that my work presents and life presents, I know that I have found the greatest accomplishment there ever was. To know and to trust the God who created me.

Good evening. My name is Christy Siegel. As a young girl growing up in Brooklyn, I was surrounded with a great deal of chaos. There was no peace, no unity, nor love in our home. I was sent to a Jewish parochial school for nine years to learn and live the culture which was not present in my home. At the awkward age of 13, my parents filed for divorce. I was angry at my mother and pushed her away. Meanwhile, I was consumed by my father's wealth. Because of the power his money had over me, I was subjected to the terror of his abuse and manipulation. His alcoholism and rages left me feeling worthless and heavily burdened. At this point, God seemed non-existent. Even though I had studied him, he remained with me for 30 years. my mother, who prior to this had become a believer herself. Throughout this period in my life, she and many others in New York City kept me close in their prayers. After graduation, my father and I had a huge fight, leaving me feeling helpless and hopeless. I called my mother, crying for help, and she directed me to a hospital in California for healing. Throughout the programs at the hospital, I was introduced to a loving father, God. I was experiencing humility for the first time in my life by getting on my knees each night. I learned about forgiveness and love, all of these breaking my hardened heart. I returned to New York to live with my mother. I came with a searching heart and moved into the Jesus experience. Otherwise, I wouldn't have been here. I was known as my mother's apartment. Questioning who this Jesus person was, I began to listen to my mom's understanding of the gospel. Soon after, I went to a Thanksgiving party with Christians. I was entertaining the thought of becoming a believer, and it was there that I said the sinner's prayer and accepted Christ into my life. Knowing that Jesus was Jewish and in my life made God more tender and more gracious. I was able tangible, and concrete instead of a distant spirit from my childhood. What did this change mean to my life? Well, although I had just received the greatest gift, the rest of my family condemned me as crazy. Through this and other struggles, I was forced to rely on Jesus. I was learning to look at people as Jesus would, at his character and at myself. One of God's many blessings was a newfound relationship, the mother I always wanted.

My introduction to the Loving Redeemer family was in November of 1992 through a friend of my mom's. My eagerness to learn about my newfound gift and to share it with others led me to participate in a wonderful home fellowship group and business professional outreach. I was beginning to learn about myself, and I began to see how Jesus worked in other people's lives and how he could work in mine. On January 9, 1994, I was baptized and became a member at Redeemer Presbyterian Church. Today, I am filled with gratitude with the changes taking place in my life. What a joy and relief to have found the truth and that I am also one of the chosen to serve and to love others. Thank you.

I guess this is going to be a slight change of the mode here, but our testimony is based on, if you haven't figured out, I'm pregnant. I'm pregnant. And it's about what happened during my pregnancy. And I've been a Christian for several years now, and throughout my Christian life or Christian walk, God has tested me, I guess, in different ways. But just about a month and a half ago, I really felt for the first time the real test of faith. About a month and a half ago, I had taken a test and the results came back, and it was a preliminary test. But it said that my doctor called me and said that our baby might have Down syndrome. And I'm sure most women who become pregnant start wondering if your child will be normal, or perfect, or something like that. And when I heard this news, I was so shocked. And I kind of, actually I went hysterical, and a little bit out of control. And I wasn't thinking of anything except, my goodness, what am I going to do? What are we going to do if our baby's not perfect? What are we going to do if our baby has Down syndrome? And I was really distraught, and just, I didn't even look at God, really. I knew though, by training, not to blame him though, and not to say why. So even though I might have thought it, I never said it. What ended up happening is though, that evening I went home and I met my husband. You know, he came home, the really crazy thing is that my husband's a student, and he was supposed to be at class that night until 11 o'clock. So I was afraid I was going to be home all alone until that time. But I guess this is through God's guidance. John came home out of nowhere. And he said that for some reason he felt like he should go home. And he didn't know why, but he just thought he should go home. So he came home and I was really shocked, but I was thankful. And at that time, I was really a mess at that time. And amazingly, I mean, I married my husband because I knew he's a strong type of person, strong in faith, and strong in mind. And he really proved that to me that evening because I was really a mess, but he was so calm. And he was able to, the first thing he did when he came home when I told him what happened was he opened up the Bible. And he looked up the last chapters of Job, and he was reading it. And just reading the verses calmed me down so much. And he just reminded me that we have to trust in the Lord, and that he has reason. And he has reasons for why everything happens. And I had some friends there who came to my aid, sort of, and they saw me change overnight to a different person. I mean, Thursday I was a mess. I was just really, I was hysterical, and not really looking towards God, even though I knew that in my heart that God had reasons for everything that happened. So the next day when we had to go for another test, I was a total different person. I just completely was at peace. I was able to trust God for the first time 100%, not worrying about what the results may be, whether our baby will be, will have Down syndrome or will not. I just said, you know, whatever is God's will is what we'll accept, and that I can live with it. And that brought so much peace into my life. And it was the first time that I guess I've experienced that. And I felt that it was a big spiritual warfare, going on in my life, and I felt that I won that battle. And John's testimony is going to be sort of like mine, but it's a little bit different, because his is a letter to that he was writing to his brother in Korea who is not a Christian, but I'll let him speak now.

Actually, I have to admit that when I came home, I was shaking inside, but I think God led me to look at the book of Job for guidance, and for assurance. So as Helen said, this is a letter that I was writing to my brother Jim when the news from the doctor came in on a subsequent test and told us that our baby was going to be healthy.

To my dear brother Jim, whom I love and pray for with all of my heart, that you will soon look to God through Jesus Christ. As you may have heard from mom and dad, your little nephew-to-be, Isaac, was diagnosed with Down syndrome. Of course, Helen and I were initially distraught, because we had been so overjoyed with our new life, and had looked so forward to raising our firstborn, and now this. What could we do when medical evidence pointed strongly to a genetic defect? Who could we turn to? Even before I had finished asking myself this last question, something compelled me to look to the book of Job. There, Helen and I found a man who was a Christian, and he was a Christian, and he was a Christian. He was a man who had so much faith and love for God, that he refused to scorn God even when he lost all he had, including his children. Perhaps this means a fiction to you at this time, Jim. But we pray that someday soon you will come to know the kind of strength that can only be obtained by relying on God. As we read the last three chapters, we felt our burdens being lifted from us, and I knew what God wanted me to say to Helen. I said, "'Jaggy',

God wants us to rely on Him, and whatever His will, we must accept it." We realized what this meant, that even with a Down syndrome baby, we would have to continue with the pregnancy. What about Helen's feelings? After all, wasn't she the one carrying the child? Furthermore, what about the consequences? Greater financial hardship? A decreased quality of life for ourselves and our subsequent children? So many questions, and no certain answers. The only thing I was certain about was that God, in His infinite wisdom and mercy, would provide us with an answer greater than anything that we could ever foresee. The next day, Helen underwent amniocentesis to confirm whether her child had Down syndrome or any other congenital deformities. Of course, the procedure was not successful. The procedure was not without its own risks of miscarriage, due to the invasion of the uterus with a needle. But again, we relied on God for His mercy, love, and protection.

During the course of the next week, while awaiting the results of amniocentesis, we prayed unceasingly from morning to night, during every waking hour. What did I pray for? First, I thanked God for drawing Helen and me closer to Him, and giving us the opportunity to pray for her. I thanked God for giving us the opportunity to undergo this suffering, so that we might rely on Him, even if that meant losing the life of our baby, Isaac. Second, I thanked God for allowing Isaac to play his little role in God's plan, for Isaac's life is not ours, but that of our Father in Heaven. Last and most importantly, I thanked God for giving His Son, Jesus Christ, who suffered and died on the cross, so that we might live and come closer to God. I felt that I understood just a little more of what God must have felt, seeing His Son being crucified on the cross. It was out of this recognition and gratitude that we found ourselves witnessing to people, those we knew, and even those who we didn't know. The results were astonishing. Rather than needing the support of others, we discovered that God was giving us the strength to support others. People who profess not to believe in Christianity, began to pray for us. Their actions professed the road that they were taking. People who claimed to be nominal Christians were seeking our assistance with issues in their lives. Our Christian friends were renewing a commitment to God, to seek an even deeper and more open relationship with Him. So what was the result of the amniocentesis? We heard late today that our son-to-be, Isaac, is healthy. Praise be to God.

You may ask whether our feelings or decision to have the child would have changed had amniocentesis confirmed the initial diagnosis. Would we have cursed God? I don't believe so, because we had decided to follow God's will, regardless of the test results. I write to you, brother, not to show how strong I am, but how strong, merciful, and wise God is, even at times we may doubt His love. I pray for you, Jim, that you will take a step towards Jesus by, first of all, listening to the tapes that I've been sending you of Dr. Keller's sermons. I pray with all of my heart that you will consider the very real possibility that Jesus Christ is the way, the life, and the truth. So why the name Isaac? Just look in the book of Genesis, chapter 22, with God's love, your brother, sister, and nephew-to-be.

Good evening. In 1981, many men in Greenwich Village began hearing about a new and what sounded like an extremely frightening disease. The disease had no name and wasn't even mentioned in the newspapers. So scary were the things I was hearing that almost immediately I became 100% abstinent and have remained such for the last 12 years. I've tried to convince myself that the absence I stuck to so loyally justified my desire to believe I had to be HIV negative. For the next four and a half years, I tried to keep the fear of the HIV test tucked away inside. Though hidden, the fear of being positive ever continued upon my conscience. Between 1981 and 1982, I fell to a level of depression and hopelessness that had some people worried. Weekly, I made long-distance calls to whine, groan, and moan. To my mother, who never once showed anything but compassion and love. Then, in 1982, I slit my wrist. The ambulance came and I got a momentary taste of what down deep inside I was starving for. Help. I found myself again on the phone. Mother, please, I'm above and beyond your Christianity. Let's change the subject. I'm an intellectual. I live in Greenwich Village. I reiterated these words to my mother every week for the next three years. It was during this period that my mother met a gifted pastor from New York. Over the same three years, he repeatedly assured her that he'd love to speak to me any time here in Manhattan. One night, I was prompted to call my mother and to ask for his number. The next day was a glorious, bright, and beautiful August day in 1985. I received an invitation to come to his office. He talked to me of things that held my attention like nothing before. We talked for an hour, and by the end of our meeting, a joy had taken a grip upon my heart. An answer I had desperately been seeking since adolescence was given to me. About nine to ten months followed of God assuring me and showing me that he was real. However, still tucked away inside was the burdensome question, positive or negative. Then, in 1986, it seemed to all come together. Having been absent for about five years, I had become asexual. I was riding on a train to Pennsylvania when, suddenly out of the blue, came a new desire unlike anything I'd ever experienced. It was the desire for a woman. I was certain this was but a yet another blessing from God. Now I could get tested. I'd find out I was negative, get married, have two kids, move back to Pennsylvania, and live happily ever after.

Once back in New York, I got the blood sample drawn and anxiously waited for a week for the results. I tried convincing myself that God was leading me in this so I could finally put my past behind me. The weekend came. Down deep, I was scared to death. I apprehensively called the clinic. I gave my identification and waited for the voice to return. With a tinge of sorrow, I heard, Sir, the results show HIV positive. Immediately, I hung up the phone and grew violently angry. How could God do this? I was now dealing with something I had never before faced, death.

After this day, which was one of the most devastating of my life, I picked myself up and became ever more involved with the fascination I'd found in God. In 1986, HIV symptoms began surfacing. One was called dementia, which numerous times brought me to such a level of fervor that I'd smash things all over my apartment. By 1988, I was experiencing tinges of tiredness and anxiety. I was experiencing memory loss and other various symptoms associated with the second stage of HIV, which is referred to as ARC, or AIDS-related complex. The third and most difficult stage came in 1989. I was full-blown. My body's main source of immunity centered in my T cells. A healthy person usually has a level of about 1,000. Mine had dropped to 200. Currently, I have a blood count that is chilling. I don't even go to the doctor. I sometimes spend eight hours a day waiting in the clinic for what might be a five-minute appointment. There are countless blood tests. At times, I've been required to take up to 12 different medications a day, and that's only the morning dosage. My body ever withers away. My T cell count is now around 40. Yet living with AIDS has built in me a strength to endure, along with greater patience, self-control, and a true sense of what love is. It's been 12 years, but you know what? I've come by God's blessing to a new growth through all of this. I feel closer to God. I can truly feel his presence, and I know and trust that all I've been dealing with, God has a reason for. Is it to punish? No. All I know is I don't feel like I'm dying. My newborn self keeps growing. Love and prayer and trusting God's word kept my mother totally steadfast in never losing hope that my life would be a better place for me. She knew God could make right that which went wrong. The deep friendship I had with my mother is a joy like few I've ever experienced. As Paul explained the need for God to place a thorn in his side, so there's a reason for this very thorn in my side. Corinthians 12 9 reads, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. I have a blessed trust that I know not only intellectually, but more importantly, in my heart. It is from God who says, I will never desert you, nor will I ever forsake you. Such has been my case. At times, depression, loneliness, and disappointments seem insurmountable. Yet with God's helping hand and the countless prayers I've been able to, up to now, always get back on the path set before me. In doing so, I'm experiencing a spiritual depth in my relationship with God that I could not have imagined eight years ago. Amen.

Yvonne Dodd asked me a few weeks ago if I wanted to speak in front of you tonight about my involvement with Bailey House. My initial reaction was, Are you kidding? Why would I want to speak in front of 500 people? I've never done this before. But then I thought I would be doing, if I didn't talk about Bailey House, I would be doing a disservice to the other members of the ministry and to the people that the ministry serves. You might be wondering what Bailey House is. Bailey House is a church in the United States. It's one of the few hospices around New York City that exclusively treats men and women who have AIDS or are HIV positive. It is a residential facility in the West Village where 55 men and women live there. There they receive medical treatment, counseling, and other services. Redeemer, through the Friends Ministry, has been providing a dinner for the residents there on the fourth Sunday of every month. I have been involved with the ministry for the last two years, and I'm one of the people who plan, prepare, and serve the meal to the residents. I have realized that this ministry is part of the vision of our church for a strong commitment to the city and its people. By serving on this ministry, I have become an agent of God's love to those who suffer from the AIDS virus. I have gotten to know and form relationships with some of the residents there. And whether it's through conversation about their lives or a comment about the meal or just a simple eye contact when I serve them, I have been able to make a connection with someone who is in a great deal of pain and despair. One of the reasons I was attracted to this ministry was that the population we're working with has been castigated by society and very little help is available to them. Jesus always sided with the ones who were dying, with the weak, and those who needed him the most. I feel that by preparing and serving a meal to the residents at Bailey House, it's the least thing I can do for Christ and one of the very simple and humble ways to honor him and his graciousness. It is my prayer today, being Easter, that the message of hope and love that one can find, and Jesus' death and resurrection is given and heard of by those who are dying of AIDS and all those who love them and care for them. Being involved with Bailey House has also provided me with the opportunity to meet and enjoy fellowship with other Christians and non-believers as well. Cooking ability is not a requirement for someone to join us on a Sunday afternoon, and I am a living example of that. I'd like to mention here that the first thing that I want to say is that the Friends Ministry will be joining forces with another ministry you heard about last week, the Bowery Mission for Women. It's a center for homeless women, and we're in the process of coordinating our efforts so some of the women can come and help us preparing the meal. This is a great opportunity for the two ministries to work together as well as for the women to start giving back to the community. Finally, another aspect of working at Bailey House is that we're able to work together to prepare this meal for around $100. Now, where else in this city can you take 55 people out to dinner and pay less than $100? I am asking you for a contribution during this Easter sacrificial offering in order for us to continue to serve those AIDS patients, and I'm also inviting you to come and volunteer your time on a Sunday afternoon for a really fun and worthwhile time. Thank you. I'd like to share with you just briefly about the nature of the faith in the risen Christ that is the foundation for the testimonies that you've heard tonight. You hear a testimony about a couple saying, this is how we were able to handle impending disaster. And then you hear a testimony from beyond the grave from a dear friend of ours, John Degott, saying how he was struck and strengthened to face actual disaster. And you hear the various testimonies about how lives have been changed, and it's because not just that Jesus Christ was risen from the grave, but because in faith, those people connected with the risen Christ. They had faith in the risen Christ. It's faith which is the connector. When you flick on the switch, the light switch, the light comes on not because the switch necessarily has this great power, but the switch connects the light bulb with the source of power. Faith is like that. You don't have to have a lot of faith. You just have to have it. Faith is grabbing hold of the risen Christ so that his resurrection power comes into your life and enables you to do the things that we've been talking about. Now just to give you a couple principles of what that is, because I know some of you are out there saying, what is that? How do you do that? Let me just read to you two examples of people who connected with the risen Christ by faith. Let me just draw out a couple of the principles of what resurrection faith is, and then we're going to continue on with our service by actually seeking to connect by faith to the one we're talking about in the Lord's Supper. But listen, here's two instances, and they're very close together in John chapter 20. In John chapter 20, verse 10, we read, the disciples went back to their homes, but Mary Magdalene stood outside the tomb crying. As she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white, seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. They asked her, woman, why are you crying? And they say, you know, it's funny, but she says, they have taken my Lord away and I don't know where they have put him. Talking to an angel now, right? He says, I don't know what happened, she said to the angel. At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, and she still did not realize that it was Jesus. Woman, he said, why are you crying? Who is it you're looking for? Thinking he was the gardener, she said, sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you've put him and I will get him. And Jesus said to her, Mary. And she turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. And just a few verses later, now Thomas called Didymus, one of the twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, we have seen the Lord. But he said to them, unless I see the nail marks in his hand and put my fingers where the nails were and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it. A week later, his disciples were in the house again and Thomas was with them. And though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here, see my hands, reach out your hand, put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe. And Thomas said to him, my Lord and my God. And then Jesus said, because you have seen me, you have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Look, just the principles, not much else. Number one, resurrection faith is always a transfer of trust, not a creation of trust. That's the first principle. Resurrection faith is always a transfer of trust, not a creation of trust. Many people say, I'd love to believe, but I don't have the faith. You have faith, that's great. Nonsense. We all have faith. And we have fierce faith. Becoming a Christian, getting connected to the resurrected Christ, is taking that fierce faith off of where it is and putting it where it should be. See, look, Mary and Thomas and all the disciples had seen Jesus once. They had seen him work miracles, seen him walk on the water, seen him raise the dead. And every single thing he ever said, not a word of it didn't come true. And he had predicted that he would rise from the dead on the third day. He had predicted it so often and so well that his enemies had heard about it and had posted guards. And here on the third day, Mary comes to the tomb, sees it open, and what is her first response?

She's seen miracles, she's seen everything he ever said came true. Everybody knew he was supposed to rise from the dead on the third day. She sees the tomb empty, and what is her first response? Wow, what happened? They must have stolen the body. Now what's the matter? Here's what's the matter. Unbelief in Jesus Christ is never simply the absence of faith, it's the presence of something else. Our faith is already fiercely attached,

irrationally attached, to a sense that we're complicated, to a sense that we're incompetent to judge for ourselves and we're competent to run our own lives. The reason it's so hard to believe that Mary Magdalene couldn't believe and John and Peter couldn't believe and Thomas couldn't believe, the reason that belief is so difficult is not because we are incapable of belief but because it's already locked on. We're fiercely capable and we believe, irrationally, that we have the competence to call the shots, we have the competence to decide what is right and wrong for us, we have the competence to be our own masters, we are the competence to live our own lives.

It's impossible to complete, to study, by the way, it's impossible to study what the Bible says objectively about Jesus. It's hard enough to study and be objective in studying various molecular structure theories, but the trouble is when you read the Bible, you know that if Jesus is who he said he is, you have lost control of your life. Now, who in the world can be objective about that? Nobody can, because your faith is already completely, completely wrapped up in your absolute belief that you have the competence to run your own life. And therefore, if there's anybody out there who says, I'd love to believe in the resurrected Christ, but I am doubtful, I'm a skeptic, you see. I'm a thoroughgoing skeptic. Some of you have faith, some of you are more gullible than others, not me, I'm a thoroughgoing skeptic. Well, be thoroughgoing for a minute. If you're a thoroughgoing skeptic, you're skeptical of yourself, you're skeptical of your skepticism, you're suspicious of your suspicion. In other words, doubt your doubts by being suspicious that your doubts about Jesus may be based on an irrational faith in your own competence and an irrational passion to keep control of your own life. How do you know you're competent? How do you know you're competent to run your life? Who says you should have control of your own life? Were you created by yourself? Did you create yourself? No. And so, don't you see, faith is so difficult because it's already fiercely grounded in something else. If you're really going to be open-minded, you have to examine the evidence for the resurrected Christ by being willing to be skeptical of your own skepticism and doubt your own doubt and be suspicious of your own suspicion, look at your doubts and wonder whether or not they're objective or whether they're really based on faith in something else. So first of all, resurrected faith is always a transfer of trust, not a creation of it. You've already got lots of trust in yourself or you wouldn't be doubtful that Jesus is who he said he is. You wouldn't be scared that Jesus is who he said he is unless you already were sure that you could be your own master. And secondly, the second thing you see is that resurrection faith is always faith in what Jesus has done, not in what he said.

Resurrection faith is always faith in what Jesus has done, not in what he said. If you look at Mary and you look at Thomas, why did they have to meet the risen Christ before they could have triumphant lives? Their lives were a mess before they met the risen Christ. Why? They had his teaching. He gave wonderful teaching about how to love our neighbor. He gave wonderful teaching about how to, about love and equality and justice and compassion. And many people, and I'm sure some of you are here, you always are, you say, you know, I don't know what I believe about these old legends about Jesus' birth and his death and his resurrection, but that's not important. The important thing is his moral teaching. The important thing is to live as Jesus lived and love people the way Jesus said to love. That's not enough. It wasn't enough for them. They had their teaching. Mary and Thomas and James and John, they had the teaching. And their lives were a mess. Why? Common sense. It's not abstract principles that change a person's life. It's a personal relationship. Always. It's a historical fact that whole towns have been changed by the power of the gospel. Men have stopped beating their wives. Do you remember that? Do you remember the testimony? Any of you were here the Sunday morning that we had a testimony from a missionary in Africa that said the reason that the women in the African village loved it when the gospel moved through the neighborhood because their husbands started treating them in a different way. Men stopped beating their wives. People stopped mistreating slaves. People stopped wiping out races that they thought were inferior. People's lives are changed by the gospel. Now, what is the gospel? Does somebody come into the middle of town and get up and say, this is the gospel. We should love one another and live better lives and work together to make the world a better place. And do the men just fall down and say, I never thought of that. Now I'll stop beating my wife. No. Was Mary and Thomas, were their lives changed by the teaching of Jesus Christ? No. It's not abstract principles. It's relationships. And it wasn't until they actually had a personal experience, until they actually could know the risen Christ who was still alive, their lives weren't changed. Christianity does not tell you, believe in Christ's teaching. Christianity does not tell you, believe in these principles for living a better life. Christianity says, there is a person from outside of time who entered time, who died for our sins and is now risen. He will return to judge the living and the dead. He can be known right now. He's your king and he's your savior. And if those facts are true and you believe into them, that'll change your life. Resurrection faith is always faith in what Jesus has done, not simply in his teachings and his principles. Lastly, if you look carefully, in spite of what it says on the front of the bulletin,

Thomas said, I won't believe unless, I will believe if I can touch him, if I can see the nail prints in his hands. Jesus shows up and says, look at my nail prints. Put your hands in them. What does he do? Does it say he touched them and then? No. He may have touched them afterwards, but he didn't do this first.

He had laid conditions down. He had said, I'll believe if. I'll believe if Jesus does this for me. I'll believe if Jesus does that for me. That's silly. And when he realized what he'd done, when Jesus showed up and said, look at my wounds, look at what I've done for you. The first thing he does is refuse.

To proceed. He drops his conditions. He doesn't say, let me touch and then I'll say, Lord, my God. He immediately says, my Lord, my God. In other words, you know, a fly doesn't decide to have an elephant for a pet. And a human being doesn't say, well, I'll believe if God does this and does this. And if he shows me this and he shows me this.

Resurrection faith always means you drop your conditions. Why? Well, don't forget our first point.

Because you see, resurrection faith is getting rid of that faith in your own control. Transferring over and saying, I drop my conditions. I believe in you because of what you've done for me. I believe in you because of who you are. I don't believe in you because you'll do this or that for me. That's conditions. And as long as you're thinking like that, you haven't connected with a resurrected Christ. He turned, he turned Thomas into a witness. He turned Peter into a courageous man. He turned Moses the stammerer into a great prophet. There is a blueprint with your name on it. Ah, it would be so wonderful to see. And you'll only see it over time. It will be revealed to you. If you connect with the risen Christ by faith, how do you do that? Realize that you've already got plenty of faith. It's in your own competence to control your life. Secondly, look at what he's done. Believe in what he's done. Believe into what he's done by dying and rising from the dead. And then thirdly, drop your conditions and say, my Lord and my God, I will not obey you. If anything, I will obey. I will not believe in you. If anything, I will believe because I see those wounds there for me.

And the first thing he says to you is not slave. Go do this and go do that. If you believe in him, he doesn't start to order you around. He says, Mary, he calls you by name. He tells you who you are. He enters into a personal relationship. He calls you by your first name because he wants a relationship with you. Now, do you see? Look at yourselves. Doubt your doubts. Believe on what he's done. Drop your conditions. And as you do it, as we take the cup and the bread, as they come around, you can connect more deeply to the risen Christ now and begin to experience the same power that was testified to tonight. Let's pray. Father, we really ask that we might meet your son in a new way, the risen Christ now. We don't want to be like Mary and we don't want to be like Thomas. Mary just didn't want to give up control. Things weren't going the way she expected.

Thomas wanted to lay conditions out. We drop our conditions and we want to meet you. We say to you, our Lord and our God, come in. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.