We're looking at the life of David in these summer months, and every week we're looking at another incident in the life of David. We have a short but exciting, I mean, this is the kind of, this is one of the passages that will probably someday be made into a summer blockbuster movie.

This is from 2 Samuel chapter 23, verses 13 to 17.

During harvest time, three of the 30 chief men came down to David at the cave of Adulam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. At that time, David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. David longed for water and said, Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem. So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem, and carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out before the Lord. Far be it from me, O Lord, to do this, he said. Is it not the blood of men who went at the risk of their lives? And David would not drink it. Such were the exploits of the three mighty men. This is God's Word.

Now, we're looking at the life of David, the anointed prince, the anointed deliverer. And every week, we're going to look at every incident with this principle in mind. Let me just remind you of it tonight, because tonight is such a pristine example of it, and I'll refer to it again. Again, when you read these passages from the Old Testament, famous ones and ones that aren't famous. There's David and Goliath, Abraham and Isaac, Jonah and the fish or the whale, whatever it was, Daniel and the lions and so on. There's a tendency for people, I guess naturally we tend to read it, read these as stories like Aesop's fables. A story with a moral. Examples. And most of us, when we read it, we say, okay, now we're supposed to read this and we're supposed to be like David or be like Abraham, or in some cases, not be like David or not be like Abraham, as the case may be. But we have a tendency to read it as examples, moral stories. However, when Jesus came back from the dead, Luke tells us that when he met his disciples on the road to Emmaus and when he met his disciples in the upper room, you can read about this in Luke chapter 24. He says, you know, it's interesting that you've read the Bible for years and years and years and years, and you've read it over and over and over again, and yet you're confounded, you're amazed that the anointed deliverer of Israel, me, would die and be raised from the dead. In other words, they had read the Bible and read the Bible and they were totally astounded. They had no idea that the anointed deliverer was supposed to rise from the dead. The reason they were amazed and confounded and confused and upset history, Jesus says, is because though you read the Bible, you don't understand the Bible. You don't know what the Bible really teaches. And in Luke 24, it says, beginning with the law of Moses and all the prophets and the Psalms, Jesus showed them what was said in all the scripture concerning him. Jesus said the reason that you can't handle life, the reason you don't understand how God works is because you've read the Bible for years only at the moralistic level. you don't realize that every prophet in the Bible is pointing to me, the true prophet. Every priest is pointing to the true priest. Every king is pointing to the true king. Every servant is pointing to the true servant. Every wrestler is pointing to the true wrestler. Every hero is pointing to the true hero. Every liberator is pointing to the true liberator, and so on. In other words, you can either read the Bible as mainly about us, that every one of these stories is mainly about us. It's an example for us. And if that's how you read the Bible, when you've read it or when you've heard it taught, you'll leave here feeling crushed. The Bible for you will be like a great big finger wagging at you all the time. In fact, a lot of you have grown up thinking you've heard the Bible, thinking you've understood religion, thinking you've had it. You've been exposed to church and religion and all it does is make people feel bad. It's the big finger wagging. It could be that you're just like those disciples. You can either read it moralistically or you can read it redemptively. You can either read it as mainly about us or mainly about him. Mainly about what we're supposed to do or mainly about what he has done for us in history to save us, to redeem us.

Unless you understand every one of these Old Testament passages about Abraham and Isaac and about Jonah and about the prophets and about David and about Moses, about Jesus, you will not really find your life changed. You have to see not only what it tells us about what we're supposed to do, but also about what He has done. And only when you see both of those things, not only what we're supposed to do, how we're supposed to live, but also what He has done for us, does the life-changing impact of the Bible really, really make a difference in your life. Now, let me show you how that works tonight. We've been actually doing it every night, but let often I ought to recount that. And now let me show you how that works. Let's take a look at the story first, and then we will read to see what it teaches us. But first, we have to understand it. And the story is a little bit difficult to understand unless you do some reflection. What is this? Who are the mighty men? What is the situation? Well, it goes like this. As we have seen here in previous nights, when King Saul became aware that David had been anointed by God to be the next king, his rage and his jealousy got the better of him, and he began to openly try to kill David. And David had to flee into the wilderness. When he was out there, a number of men gathered around him, 400 at one point or even more, some texts seem to indicate. And these men, he whipped into quite a band, quite a group of soldiers. And as we know, of course, Saul never succeeded. These men became David's guardians. They became David's companions. They became very, very skillful men of war. And eventually, they did save David's life. And eventually, of course, Saul dies and David becomes king. king. Now, after he became king, these men rose up and became David's military elite. They became his military leaders. I mean, think about the incredible training they'd had. They had become a team. They'd become a family. They knew each other. And not only that, they were battle-hardened and they were skilled through actual combat situations. So they rose up and they, many of them, not all of them, but many of them became leaders in David's army. They were called his mighty men. It was a military elite. They were called the mighty men. Now, this incident, though, is not happening when David is on the lamb from Saul. Rather, this happens early on in David's career as the king. Almost as soon as he, just about as, just within a few months after he was crowned king, the Philistines, the arch rivals of the Israelites, decided that they would invade Israel and try to knock this new king down. They thought that perhaps they could capture him or at least weaken him terribly, nip his new kingdom in the bud. They were afraid of this new kingdom getting strong, so they invaded. Now, what do we know about this? This was a very, very, very dark time. It says here, during harvest time, three of the 30 chief men came down to David at the Cade of Adulam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the Valley of Rephaim. At that time, David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. Now, here's what we can learn. Actually, you learn quite a bit from this. First of all, the Philistines had, it says, were encamped in the Valley of Rephaim, just a few miles southwest of Jerusalem. And they had taken over Bethlehem itself. That was their headquarters. And Bethlehem, of course, was David's hometown. But they had gone all the way into the heart of Israel. They were just a few miles from Jerusalem and were told that David, as a result, had to flee. And he had set up what it says is in the stronghold. He'd set up his headquarters in a cave. This shows how weak Israel was. This shows that the Philistines had essentially run David out into the wilderness again. And we see also that they were there during harvest time. And they were on of a disaster because if the Philistines came in and either destroyed or plundered the harvest, it would mean that Israel, at least in that part of Israel, would be out their annual food supply. So things were in terrible shape. David had really been run out of his capital. David was out in the wilderness as a king. The Philistines were in the heart of Israel. They were essentially about to overthrow him. Now, you have to understand that if you're going to understand what he says. In verse 15, David longed for water and said, oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem. Now, the first thing you have to understand is David wasn't thirsty. Well, someone says, what do you mean he wasn't thirsty? He's longing for The fact is, we know that he wasn't thirsty because no way you could have headquarters. There's no way you could have your own camp unless there was a spring there. And there was a spring there. David was not thirsty. He couldn't have been thirsty. What in the world is he doing then? David is not longing for water exactly. He's longing for something more. And that's the only possible explanation for what the mighty men did. See, here's what David is doing. not physically with physical thirst. He's wrestling spiritually with the promise of God. God promised that he'd be with David. God promised him that he would be the deliverer and the ruler of Israel. God promised him that he would rule. God promised him that he would set David up and that his line would be a very important line of descendants. That his line and his people in Israel would fulfill some tremendous destiny in the world history. All these promises were there. God said, I'll be with you. I'll do all that. Now here's David, and he is so weak that he can't get a drink of water from his hometown. He is an utter weakling. It looks like his defeat is absolutely inevitable. And what he's saying is, he's really saying, will I ever be able to drink from that well again? Will I really ever be king? Will I ever be able to defeat the Philistines? Is God really with me? he's wrestling with the promise of God. He's saying, how do I know God's with me? How do I know God's behind all this? Why am I suffering like this? What of God's promises? How do I know?

You see, it's not a command. This is a sigh. This is a cry. And probably it wasn't so much heard as it was overheard. The sweet water, we know that the water from the gate of Bethlehem was to David, it represented the favor of God. It represented the grace of God. It represented the promise of God. Oh, that I might have the sweet water from Bethlehem's gate. Now, what we find out that happened is of the 30 chief men, there were three who were the mightiest of the 30. Their names are mentioned in the, if you're interested, you can read the passage immediately before this in 2 Samuel 23, and you will read there the three guys' names were Josheb, Eleazar, and Shammah. And they're all mentioned in the passage before. They had all were men of valor. They had all accomplished certain great heroic military feats. Now, this is what happens. They hear their king's longing. And they realize, and I'm going to show you here in a second, they realize the significance. David is not, he's not doing a dare. You know, women know that there's a streak of this in us, and you know, us guys, and when we're little, boys do stupid, dangerous things because of it. You know, David is not saying, which of you is man enough to get me a drink from the center of the Philistines' camp? And all the three guys say, oh yeah, I'll do it. No, none of that. You know. No, none of that. That's not it. They know what he's after. after, they realize that he is saying, will I ever be able to drink from Bethlehem? Will I be able to defeat the Philistines? Will I ever see my home again? We're told, look at verse 16, so the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David. Now, this is so frustratingly minimalistic. This narrative gets so undetailed. Don't you want to hear more? So, you know, it's what it just says. So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem, and carried it back to David. Now, just a footnote, a footnote. You know, It is astonishing in the Bible how some of these great heroic deeds are spoken of so briefly and so matter-of-factly. The Bible understands the shallowness and the temporariness of human glory. It just does not puff. It does not hype. If you just watch an NFL film of any of the Super Bowls, they've got this incredible music and there's drums and there's horns and the camera angles. and they make every touchdown pass, you know, seem like this feat of heroic glory. We love to puff and hype any of our accomplishments. The Bible doesn't do it. The Bible knows that all human heroes point to the real hero. So it doesn't romanticize. The Bible never romanticized military actions. It never romanticizes blood and guts. You never see it. Not at all like the Greek myths, myths, not at all like the other ancient myths. It's revelation. This is not the aspiration of the human heart. This isn't just human poetry. This isn't just human art. This is revelation from God. Anyway, footnote. Anyway, back to the point. What actually happened here? Verse 16. Here's some of the things we know would have happened. First of all, if you read back in 1 Samuel, you'll know that before there was a Philistine camp, there was always a garrison. You can read 1 Samuel 14 tells you about how Jonathan and his armor bearer did the same kind of thing. And there was garrisons around the camp. It was sort of an early warning system. And every garrison had 20 soldiers. So first of all, we know that these three guys would have had to cut their way through a garrison of 20 men. Then finally they get to Bethlehem, and Bethlehem was the headquarters. They get to the lines. They broke through the lines. The Bethlehem's gate was up a hill. So they fought uphill, broke through the lines, get to the well, then two guys would have had to fight off the rest while one guy was filling the water skin. And then, can you imagine the Philistines' faces as they fight their way out with a water skin? Three guys.

What are they doing? Why are they here? Where's the rest of the army? me. What are they after? Gold? Hostages? Water. And of course, everybody knows, they knew that there was plenty of water out there. They knew there were other wells. They knew there were other springs. And then we're told they brought it back to David. And he was thunderstruck. And he was astounded. And he was filled with joy. And we see what he did. He refused to drink it. Instead, Instead, he poured it out before the Lord. Far be it for me, O Lord, to do this, he says. Is it not the blood of men who went at the risk of their lives, and David would not drink it? Such were the exploits of the mighty men. Here's why. Now look at what happens. They risked their lives. It's incredible. They went out there and they risked their lives. They stared their own death in the face in order to bring back this water. They hand the water to the king. The king looks at it. He pours the water out. almost died for, you know, onto the ground, formed a little puddle, then it sank in without a trace. Would you think they were angry? Would you say, I don't believe that he did that? We risked our lives and didn't even drink it? No, absolutely not. They would have bowed their head. They would have been just as amazed and just as honored because we're told he didn't just pour it out. What does it say? He poured it out before the Lord. He turned this into a drink offering. He turned this into a thank offering. He turned it into an act of worship. And here's what he was saying. What he was saying is, I realize because of the sacrifice of these men, through the sacrifice of these men, through the risk of their lives, now I know God is with me. I mean, actually, God had spoken a word of grace to David. David knew that if these three guys could break through the Philistine lines, he could defeat them. And not only did David know, but the three mighty men knew. Not only did the three mighty men know, but the whole army knew. For all we know, this was the turning point. This could be the reason why the story has come down to us. Can you imagine how demoralized the other army would have been and how incredibly excited and filled with confidence the Israelite army would have been? The three mighty men were not just daredevils. They weren't idiots. They weren't macho daredevils. They knew what they were doing. They knew that they had to do something to turn the war around. They knew what their master was after, what he was longing for, assurance that God was with me. He says, We're going to show that he is. And they bet their lives on the promise of God, and they showed total devotion to their master. And when David came back, David said, Because this is the blood of these men, this is a life poured out, and it has proven to me that God is with me, that God will save us.

Thus, such were the exploits of the three mighty men. What's it mean? It's a great story, isn't it? It's a great story. But what's it mean? Well, let's remember what we said before. First, you have to look at it at one level, what it means about what we are supposed to be doing. How it is an example for us. I mean, it is. It will tell us some ways that we should be living. But then we have to look above that and say, what does it tell us about what God has done for us? Not just how we should live, but what God has done. First of all, let me show you several lessons for a moment that this tells us about how we should live. There's a lot of them, but let me just mention four. And fairly briefly. First of all, look at the story and you'll see. When he pours out that water, the first thing this story tells us is anything you think you earned is really a gift of God. Anything you think you've won, anything you think you've earned is a gift from God. God. What he was doing with that water, when he poured it out before the Lord, he was saying is, this is not your trophy. This is a gift of God. He says, you haven't really won this. It was only by God's grace that you broke through the lines. Don't trust your prowess. Don't look at your strength. Don't look at your skill. Don't say, we did that. Pour it out before the Lord. It's It's an absolute gift. I've been reading, it was an article in the Washington Times. No, it wasn't the Washington Monthly. The Washington Times is a newspaper. Washington Monthly is a kind of semi-liberal, sort of a neoliberal monthly magazine. It's a very good magazine. And it had an article entitled, well, I wrote it down. Oh, yes. Where Have You Gone, Andrew Carnegie? And it's a story about, pardon me, it's an article. about something very interesting, that the super-rich of former generations gave away far greater percentage of their income than the super-rich today. Now, I won't name any names. It's in the May 96 issue, so you might want to take a look at it. But he names a number of people who are worth billions of dollars, and he points out that people today, the super-rich today, only give away chump change compared to the super-rich years ago. It doesn't mean he's saying the super-rich years ago were necessarily more virtuous people and so on. It's just that they had a sense of duty that people today don't. And the implications in the article were, we live in a meritocracy now. In order to get in the best school, in order to get the best jobs, in order to make the money, you just about kill yourself. And if you actually do make your billions of dollars, you feel like, hey, I earned it. If I want to spend it on myself, I can. These guys killed themselves almost. They like to kill themselves. They were mighty men. They had just done something that surely took skill, surely took prowess. David poured it out. He says, what is he saying? He says, did you earn your skill set? Did you earn the fact that you're six foot five and 250 pounds? Did you earn that? Did you earn your brain? Did you earn your talent? It was a gift. And I tell you what, I don't care how skillful you are. If you get in and get out camp. All it takes is a stray arrow. All it takes is one pebble that you slip on, you fall down. You're dead. I don't care how great you are. What is he trying to say? David is saying, whatever you've earned in life, whatever you think you've earned, it's not a trophy, it's a gift. Pour it out before the Lord. If you get wealthy, if you get a little wealthy, if you get very, very wealthy, you have to be humble and sharing with it, not proud and selfish.

Let's see. Anything you think you've earned, pour it out before God and say, this is a gift from you. Secondly, there's a second thing. You can't miss these things. These aren't the main points of the story, but boy, they're important. Here's a second point, a second lesson for us at the how to live level. Christian leaders have to point their people to God and not exploit them for their own profit. Now, what am I... That's the most visible Christian leader in this room right now. The only one in the spotlight, I suppose. I better be careful that I don't get struck with lightning as I say this. But this is actually a lesson for all of you. When these men bring this water to David, they show their absolute devotion to their leader. David pours it out. What does he say? He says, I'm not worthy of this. He pours it out before the Lord. And so this is really a lesson for all of us.

people. The Christian church, it's also a lesson for the leaders in the Christian church, both the people and the leaders. And this is it. First of all, what is he saying to them? He is saying, it's right for you to serve me, but you're serving me for God's sake, not mine. You're serving me because you're here to serve God's kingdom. And I happen to be the one that God has chosen for now to be a leader in it. But you're not serving me for my sake. You're you're serving me for God's sake. And don't you forget that. Look beyond me. Look behind me. Now, that's very important. You may have a Christian friend who has led you to Christ or a Christian friend who you look up to and you admire. You may have Christian leaders you admire. You may have a pastor or a preacher you admire. But you've got to look behind. You have to look beyond them. You must get beyond their approval. You must even get beyond their example. You have they have. It's the message they have. It's the gospel. It's the gifts. It's God. Otherwise, you're going to be so disillusioned. Your faith is going to be so hurt. You've got to look beyond. But also, and I'll say this real briefly because this would be boring since most of you aren't in this position, but a lot of ministers get the tapes of these sermons, I've noticed lately. And here's what it's saying. David is giving us all an example, all of us who are Christian pastors or leaders. David is saying, when your people bring their devotion to you, God right away. Don't drink it. You know, what does it mean? It means whenever somebody does, gives you some kind of adoration or some kind of compliment or anything like that, what we've got to do is we've got to say, Lord, the reason that they like what I'm saying is because you put the love of your truth in their heart. And then you gave me a gift to communicate that. And therefore it's all from you. Don't let this go to my head. Here it is. You know, you got to pour it out. Now, Now, some of you certainly can apply that across the board in other ways, but let's move on. So the second point is Christian leaders and Christian people have to be very careful. People don't let leaders exploit you. Okay? Leaders don't exploit. Thirdly, and this is really the chief lesson at the, you might say, the living level.

Their king's wish was their command. They were so totally devoted to their king that there was no difference between a command, a suggestion, or just a sigh. David's sigh was their command. Now what does that mean? This tells you the big difference between an ethical religious person and a Christian. Christian. Christians respond to the Lord the way these men responded to David, who of course is a picture, a type of the Messiah all through the Bible. These people responded to David the way we're supposed to respond to the Lord. How do Christians respond to the Lord? There's a big difference between being a Christian and being a religious person. A religious person basically says, what does God require of me? I need help. I need power. I need strength. I need wisdom. I need forgiveness. I need things. Okay, what do I have to do to get it? And you concentrate on the rules. But a Christian is somebody who concentrates on God's heart.

See, a religious person says, what are the rules? What do you want me to do? But a Christian looks at the heart of the Lord and says, what do you love? What do you rejoice in? What do you glory in? What gives you pleasure? The goal of the religious person is to do what God wants in order to get some kind of reward. But for a Christian, the reward is the joy and the pleasure of God. His delight is your reward. It's not a means to an end. It's the end. end. Religious people use God to get something. Christians know that what I really need is the love and joy of God himself. His delight is your delight. His joy is your joy. And if you want to see that absolutely, absolutely perfectly illustrated, you have this little word that's been really working on my heart for a couple of days. Verse 15, it says, oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate at Bethlehem. So.

Oh, that someone would get me a drink. So. The word so, you know why it's been working on me? They didn't have a discussion. They didn't sit down and say, what do you want to do about that? They didn't say, oh, my gosh, I guess it's up to us. We're the three. I mean, you know, there's the 30, but we're the three. Oh, my word. Absolutely not. not. Their devotion was spontaneous. Their devotion was automatic. Why? There was dynamite in their heart. There was a dynamic. There was such a love for their master that they looked for it. They were excited. He sighs, so they went. You know, one more time, occasionally I've used this illustration. When you're working for a boss, you find out what the rules are and you relate to The rules. But when you're in love. You do research. To find out. Anything. That will make that person. Happy. You go. You're a detective. You look for hints. You look for size. You overhear things. And when you get something. You say. Oh. I know. How to make that person. Smile. I know. How to give that person. Joy. You're active. You're not passive. You don't wait. For the rule. You go. Look for it. And you're not. Just after rules. You're after. The heart. You're after the spirit. You want to bring, and therefore there's such a love for your master that so energizes you. At the minute you get even a whiff of something that will please him and bring pleasure to him, you say, I got it. The opportunity. Anything. See, there's no difference for a Christian between a command, a suggestion, and just a sigh. You want to find out what his heart beats for. That's what you're doing. The relationship between a Christian and God is so radically personal. The relationship between a religious person and God is very impersonal. That's the reason why Jack Miller, my old friend, used to say, the way I can tell if a person's a Christian or religious, I listen to them pray.

Oh, I don't mean he doesn't listen for eloquence. He listens for intimacy. He listens for the personal touch. Is it there? Is there a connection?

Spontaneous, total devotion. we're supposed to live. Now, if we stop there, if we end there, don't you see what's happened? If we just look at this like a moral, if we just look and say, this is how you're supposed to live, courageous and bold, serving God, always acting like everything you have is a gift, spontaneous joy, abandon, courage, live like this. Just a big finger wagging, okay? Everybody goes out saying, yeah, yeah. You sing that last hymn and you go out saying, yeah. No, you don't. You go out saying, oh my gosh, I don't think I can handle this Christianity. It's not good enough. And you don't have to go out that way. Because remember what we said? We said, if you read stories simply as about us, you'll be crushed. But if you remember that every hero is really pointing not to you first, but to the great hero, as Hebrews chapter 12 says, the arch hero, the pioneer and perfecter of our faith, Jesus Christ. Here's what we have. When David saw, this is what it tells us about God. When David saw that the mighty men had broken through, he had assurance through their sacrifice that God was with him. He had absolute assurance because they risked their lives. Through their sacrifice, he had assurance God was with him.

But the Bible tells us there is somebody who's overheard your sigh. There is somebody who has overheard your heart sighing for the water of life. There is somebody who has overheard your sigh for home. Just like David. He sighed for water. Someone has overheard your heart. Your heart wants home. You don't even know what that means. You just know that you're not built for what you've got here. There's a restlessness in our hearts. There's a desire for something called home. There's a desire for some kind of water. We experience a thirst. There's a restlessness. There is somebody who overheard your sigh and your cry for the water of life. And that somebody spontaneously girded himself and went toward the enemy. For you. And here's the difference. He broke through the lines. But he didn't break through the lines of the enemy at the risk of his life. He broke through the lines at the cost of his life. At the price of his life. life. And now, his life poured out gives us far more assurance that God is with us than David had. We should be every bit as thunderstruck. We should be every bit as astounded. We should be every bit as joyful. We should be every bit as absolutely confident. Far more. Because David just had this temporary sacrifice. Three men at the risk of their lives proved that God loved him, proved that God was with him. But we have the Son of God himself, set his face like a flint, heard the overheard our hearts, broke through enemy lines, died. He knew the only way that he could possibly triumph was to die. The only way we could possibly ever have the water of life is if he paid the penalty of our sins and died. So he went in there knowing that his triumph would be his defeat and his defeat would be his triumph. But he went anyway. This, don't you see? Only if you see that he has done that for you, he's the mighty man. He's the hero. He's the one who girded himself and he went out and he died to show you that now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Now, you see, what made the mighty men so absolutely devoted to David? Probably because all those guys had probably risked their lives and died for each other, you know, in a sense. They'd given their lives for each other, and then, of course, God was willing to give them back. Many times they risked their lives. They put their lives in line for each other. That's the reason why they were mighty for each other. Father, if you see the mightiness of Jesus, if your heart is just always bubbling with the memory of it, the remembrance of it, the sweetness of it, if you're always thinking about it, if you're continually filling your mind with it the way we are right now,

you'll break through any lines. You'll take on any task. You'll pay any price because it's small compared to what he did. There'll be a joyousness about you. There'll be a heroic spirit about you.

I know that's true.

Lastly, just at the very end, don't you see how these all go together? Only if you see what he's done for you. Only if you see him as the great mighty man will you be able to pour out everything at the Lord's feet. Generous, you see, instead of selfish. Only then will you be bold. Only then will you be joyous. You see, only if you see his mightiness for you will you be mighty men and women of your own. You know, you'll all be Joan of Arc ladies. You'll all be brave hearts. You'll all be noble. You'll all be mighty. One last thing. David was in a cave when this word of grace came to him. You know what that means? It means that even though God did follow his promises and even though God did do everything he said he would do, he didn't do it the way David thought. He didn't do it at all. David didn't think that this invasion by the Philistines was part of the plan. David didn't think that being on the run from Saul all of his life was part of the plan. You know, again and again, David found himself in caves instead of on the throne. God was constantly saying, I will make you king. I will set you up. I will make you this great man. I will make you this great ruler. And David's always running away, always in a state of weakness, always in a state of suffering. And he's saying, how could this be? If you have given your life to Jesus Christ, if he is your Lord and Savior, In other words, if you see that the water of life comes to you because he broke through the lines and brought it to you, not because of your good deeds. If you're a Christian and he's with you, there is no condemnation for you. And if you're suffering, if you're in caves, if there's problems in your life right now, you will see, just like David saw, that these are ways in which God actually answers your prayers. These are ways in which God actually makes good his promises. made him that great king he promised to make him. And he will with you. In other words, look at Jesus' life poured out and just say this to yourself. Say this to God. If Jesus has done this, I have nothing to fear. If Jesus has done this for me, then why would God let me down now? If Jesus has done this for me, then he will be with me. This is the word of grace. grace. Far be it for me, O Lord, to do this, he said. Is this not the blood of the one who went at the cost of his life? Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us that all heroes are about the great hero. All warriors are about the great warrior. Some of us are in caves right now. We pray that you would help us look at the poured out blood of Jesus Christ as proof that you'll If we have you, we have nothing to fear. We will serve you, and we will serve you diligently. Give us lives of total devotion, joyous, spontaneous devotion, loving devotion that arises from a grasp and a realization and an enjoyment and an appropriation of what Jesus Christ has done for us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
