There are a lot of questions I'm trying to sort through here and see if I can come up with a semi-logical flow here. But let's just dive in and just grab the first one that came in to me earlier today. The question is, if Adam is the one who essentially brought on the fall, right, he's responsible, why would God put men in the authoritative position in the church? So with so many men abusing their positions of leadership within the church, should we reconsider having them be the ones with the teeth? They should be fired. Right. Yes, I think all sinful men should be fired from all of their positions, and we should only put sinless women in them. Oh, honey, that was irony. I am so proud of you. Yes, I know. One of the things I'm actually struggling with a bit is that, is when I think about, are we going to be able to do this? I think about our marriage in which we both agreed I would be the head, and we worked on this together. And neither one of us liked our role, man. Right, that's the point. To be perfectly honest. This is not a marriage talk, but neither one of us was gifted for our role. I think what's behind the question is, you're kind of, see, in our home, and this should be in your homes too if you are, if you have two, a Christian husband and wife, and you're wrestling with this, I didn't want to be head because that put, at certain places it put, there's a couple of things I didn't want to be head for. There's a couple of places where we just could not agree on some very big life decisions. And when I said, well, you know, if you don't see it that way and I see it this way, well, I don't want to, you know, make you do something you don't want to do. And some of you know this story, right? Kathy rightly, this is in the Meaning of Marriage book, isn't it? Kathy rightly said, oh my goodness, where do you get off? I said, there's a tie. You don't want, I want to stay in Philadelphia. You want to go to New York. And so I said, well, we can't make a move if, you know, I can't get you to understand. And, you know, I want this to be an answer. And she says, be a man. And it did make me be a man. And she says, make the call. We can't agree. You make the call. If we're going to stay, go. And it was enormously helpful. But the point is, neither of us wanted the roles we have. She often felt in the very beginning, I don't want to have to listen to him at times like that. And I often said, I don't want the burden of having to make the call. And there's one other thing that really needs to be said about this. And that is, talk about importing the world's definition. We have so badly and so deeply imported the world's definition of authority into the church. Jesus redefined what authority meant when he washed his disciples' feet. He said that the one who is the teacher is the one who is the biggest servant. So having men in the positions of authority, if it's according to the world, then, yeah, we're getting a raw deal, ladies. But if it's Jesus' definition of authority. Which means that the men get to do the sacrificial work, the scut work. I mean, Ephesians 5, which we didn't treat. You get to die for your wife, men, to make her perfect. You don't get to have the remote. You don't get to pick, you know, the vacations. And it's not all about the perks. It's about who sacrifices more. And we're just sacrificing two different ways for each other. Yes, we sacrifice in two different ways. Everybody gets to play the Jesus role. I get to play the Jesus role in submission. Tim gets to play, or the elders get to play the Jesus role. In sacrificial leadership. But you see, so far we've played a trick on the questioner. Because the questioner was asking about the church. Yes. And what I wanted to say is. I put in elder. Well, this is. It's an elder. Well, I wanted to say something more negative. Okay? That's a real reversal, isn't it? Yeah. I want to say. Pollyanna married to Esbenizer Scrooge. If this works out. If men take authority in these. See. See. In these two communities. Here's the home. Here's the church. In these communities of men and women together say. For us to get in touch with our maleness and femaleness. We need to have the principle of male authority. We're going to work it out like this. We both agree. On we go. The men should be, in a sense, submitting to that as well. Because I submitted to that. Just like you did. Now, what I don't see often in the church is men. I see men enjoying their authority. Just saying, oh, yeah. I'm a man. I'm a pastor. I'm an elder. Yeah. And that's not right. That doesn't work. I'm not talking about. I'm not talking about redeemer. I'm saying, in general, if the men. No, it's not completely unapplicable. No, it couldn't be unapplicable to any church. The point is, unless the. That when I said one of the keys to working this principle out. So we get in touch with our gender. Our gendered. And yet women aren't put down. The key is pastors and elders, but especially pastors who don't. Who see taking authority as something they were asked to do as a servant. Not as something that they have the right to because they're men. And see, that attitude difference makes it. I think the women can tell the difference when they talk to a pastor or an elder. They can see the difference between somebody who sees that they have the right to it. And they're kind of enjoying it to those who have taken it on as a servant. Yeah. When you get ordained. We're old enough that we've seen this happen in generations of younger men. I am the ordained man here. I am ordained. Is that supposed to be a low male voice? No, that's supposed to be an egotistical male voice. Where ordination somehow means that you now don't play by the ordinary rules of humanity. Right. You're not a human being. But the other thing that I would say is when we were first getting ready to choose elders, I spoke to a guy who was an elder at our church in Philadelphia where we were members, Jack Miller's church. And one of the things he said, and I repeat this and it's on seminars. It's been heard. You may have heard it before. Is that the danger is in choosing elders that one chooses the competent, the confident, and the successful. Thinking that those will be the really great elders. And this is what he said. He said, what you really need is a man who's been broken by the knowledge of his own sin and restored by an even greater knowledge of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's who you want for an elder. Because under that rule, you're not going to come to any harm. You almost got applause and you scared the baby. And you also scared the baby, so let's go. Move on. That was Roger McCarty, by the way. He got his first name wrong, but never mind. Go ahead. Okay. I remembered McCarty. I feel like I need to start sitting in between the two. Keep on asking questions. Or just keep talking if you don't want to start with another question. All right. So as long as we're talking. Be a man, Abe. Be a man. All right. So as long as we're talking about the role of men. Because we've been talking mostly about gender roles, which oftentimes impact. Women in particular, right? But in light of this conversation about gender roles, what are some dangers that result from men not grasping their biblically defined role in the midst of our kind of gender neutral culture? And how can the body of Christ encourage men to step out in their role? So how would we have that conversation on that side? Yeah. Yeah, there is a danger. Because, well, I think the implication is in the question. I'll bet you it's from a woman. But the implication is that, if you don't have a gender neutral culture, if you don't, in a way,

men check out. They're not relational. They check out. They're highly individualistic. And do not, that's our nature. It's pretty wired in. We actually, you know, I think this is fairly right. Some years ago, I read a book by Larry Crabb that said, and it was based on research. It wasn't just a Christian. He's a Christian counselor. But he said that women, see themselves as maturing as they move to interdependence. And men see themselves maturing as they move to independence. That is, and I think that's basically right. If you, if the, you might say, if the church, if the church doesn't, or if the community doesn't, say to men, this is your role for the community. This is, you have a responsibility for the community. Men tend to check out. This is one of the reasons why you do have a lot of churches, in which is 80% female, by the way. There are a lot of them. This is one of the reasons why increasing numbers of men aren't going to college. Why you're going to see more and more people who are getting degrees. Eventually, I think you're going to see 60, 70, maybe even higher percentage of, of college graduates being women. And, and to some degree, it's because men aren't being asked to step up and take their role inside the community. If you just say to men, well, you know, we all are the same, and we all are the same, and we all, you know, there is no such thing as a male role in the community. They're just going to get, they're going to leave, just head for the exit. And that's wrong, and it's bad, but it could be one of, it could be part of God's common grace that he put these ideas of the institutions, of the, of the, of the family and the church, and gave the, there, there gave a male role in it so that men actually, in some ways, had to mature, moving toward community instead of away from it. I was, I was just going to say, gosh, I wish you remembered the title of the book Michael told us about. Is it The End of Boys? Is that what it was called? No, there's a bunch of books like that. Yeah, but which one is that? The End of Men, probably, right? No, this is something about boys. Anyway, it's, it was talking about the fact that, the point I want to make, I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you, then I'll tell you. The point I want to make is that men have to submit to their role as servant leaders as much as women have to submit to their role. And our culture is making it very difficult to actually want, to, or be able to take on risk. And this book was exploring the fact that there are now artificial ways in which men can experience a sense of accomplishment through video games, where you're not accomplishing anything except hitting the high score or slaying the dragon or anything, but you go out feeling like, ah, I really accomplished something. Or, and you also don't have to experience the risk of getting into a relationship because, whoa, internet porn, you know, fun with no commitment and no real person you have to talk to. And so with those diversions sort of bleeding off the traditional male, you know, learning curve where they learn to take risk and learn to enter relationships and learn to actually look for achievement, the church is one of the few places left where that is supposed to be encouraged. Take the risk of getting into a relationship. Guys, date a girl. Ask her out. You know? Quit just eating her like a friend. Take her on a date. That actually wasn't part of the talk, but I like to get that in. That's great. Okay, here's another question. And so this question is somewhat abstract, but I feel like it's an important one. So I'll read it and then maybe see if I can unpack what I think the question is getting at. It says, is biblical teaching on male and female primarily or essentially about function and role instead of about function and role? Instead of fundamental essence. So is the biblical teaching on gender, male and female, more talking primarily about varying societal roles or social roles, and does it not speak about difference in essence? Or does it also speak about essence from which those roles derive? Did that make sense? I tried to put both of those things in to talk about the ontological equality of women and creation and yet the differentiation of role. So is the differentiation, only in role, is the sense that I'm getting. So the essence we have shared. Yeah, in Christ there's neither male nor female. I mean, as objects of God's saving grace, as objects of his love, as bearers of his image, we are totally ontologically equal. There is no difference in our essence there. But in terms of role, yes. Now, if you're asking about the gray area, about abilities that go with the role, that Tim was talking about interdependence being a way that women see, see themselves maturing and independence being, those things are actually being proven more and more strongly day by day by secular researchers that there are differences in the way women and men are wired. And you can go at this from both a secular or as a Christian point of view. The secular research is showing that babies that are five seconds old, boy babies respond to jazz and girl babies respond to classical music. And boy babies respond to, respond to abstract images and girl babies respond to facial images. There's some kind of hard wiring going on. Now, my version of that is, God has gifted, has given us roles. Why wouldn't he give us gifts to better fulfill those roles? Not that they're better or worse than each other, but just that they're more useful. Like he gives the Arctic hair the ability to change from brown to white when the snow comes, okay? If he's gonna help a little bunny, why wouldn't he help me by being, you know, giving me that oxytocin thing so that I love my baby instead of throw him against the wall whenever. Anyway. I've babbled another. The way we work is I babble while he thinks and then he has something intelligent. Well, no, I think Kathy and I would both say that it's not just the difference between men and women is essence as well as function and role. It is true the Bible doesn't say much about the essence thing. It's more of an implication. We are, one of the questions, because we are going to be ourselves after life. We're going to be ourselves. We're not gonna, we'll still be ourselves. Our bodies will be resurrected. Jesus was himself afterwards. And so it seems the idea that gender is just an accident and our true selves are neither male nor female doesn't make sense. It doesn't go along, I think, with the implications. There's a mystery there though because all of us men and women are sons of God and that's really important. We're not children, we're sons. And all of us men and women are bride, the bride of Christ. So the reality of heaven is gonna be multidimensional in ways I'm sure we don't really understand at the moment. Jesus also, when the Sadducees asked him a question about, you know, a man who, a woman who had seven husbands because each one of them died. And he said, who will she belong to in heaven? And he says, there will be neither marriage nor giving in marriage in heaven. And so that's the reason why it's not a nice simple thing other than to say that I do think we still ourselves and I think our gender is part of who we are. So maybe there's a difference between essence where we're equal in value. There are maybe gender traits that maybe trend at least along those genders. There are gender roles which are assigned societally. And I think I would add to that, there's a different status within different societies. There's a different status that go along with gender. So biblical talk about the son means the same status is conferred as with bride. Yes, I wanna actually, can I just expand on that? I've taught this gender role seminar five, 10 times. And one of the first times I taught it was in a classroom situation with Francis Bragdon Nelson and I think Kate Lemmer, but I forget. Anyway, when I got to the part about we're all going to be sons, you know, in Galatians and we are all sons of God. There was a young Asian woman there. A lot of the Anglo women are going, sons, I don't know, you know, we're children. I'm a daughter of the king, you know, and you hear that a lot, you know, sons and daughters of the king. No, it says sons, we're all sons. And she started to cry. She said, in my family, in my Asian family, my brother was everything. He got the Ivy League education. He got all of the tutors and everything. And I got the crumbs. And you're telling me that in Jesus, I get to be a son. I'm not gonna be just, the second class daughter. For her, that was empowering to the limits. For her to say, you are a son, was empowering because the culture she came from was, you know, very negative on daughters. And for us, in our culture, it's like, sons, wait a minute, you're leaving half us out. But it's, you read it through the lens of your culture and it makes a difference. And actually to call, it's also true, by the way, in patriarchal cultures, to call all men brides. We're all brides of Christ. There's also a way of knocking guys down off of their, you know, their little tin God understanding of masculinity. So the idea that all women are sons, I mean, all Christians are sons, including the women. All Christians are brides, including the men, is a way, Kathy's right, of, I think, knocking down the sexual stereotypes to some degree, the extreme understanding of femininity and masculinity. Or giving us the richness of both, rather than leveling them, saying, you both get to be both. Yeah. Great. The next couple questions, I think, are a little more practical. We only have three or four minutes before we move on to the panel. But practically, here's one. Can you describe an appropriate example of a woman teaching the Bible within the context of the church? So put a little more flesh on it. We talked about not ordained male. What are examples of things that you feel like are appropriate context for women to teach? Hello. What have I been doing all day? I'm not sure. Women teaching Sunday school classes, women teaching fellowship groups, women teaching seminars, women teaching anything you can think of, women teaching. I mean, the Bible is replete with lots of examples. Women discipling, women leading connect classes, women leading ministries. I don't see any limitation on it other than the one that, if it's calls for ordination, then no. But other than that, I don't see any limitation on it. I think that anything a non-ordained man can do, a woman can do. Ten-nighting dad. Well, we generally have, I think, elders or pastors teach the membership class. There might be some things where you say, only if you've been through, only if you've signed off on things. But you know, actually, deaconesses also get trained and have to subscribe to the Westminster Confession, don't they? So, but right now, I think we've decided the people who are in charge of discipline and membership should be the ones who do the membership. But there's very, Kathy's just trying to point out, it's a very, very tiny, there's almost nothing that's so-called forbidden to women as far as teaching is concerned. Right. Okay, so here's a question that kind of follows up on that and maybe just presses it just a little bit. But it says, given the non-ordained male principle, does that mean that women should lead worship on Sundays? So, is that an area where women should be allowed to? Is that something that's not allowed to do, currently, that Redeemer-only men do? I had to ask him. Yeah, well, there's a plenty, there are plenty of, there are plenty of churches in which Redeemer, because it's so big and because it's in the middle of New York City, we have actually always been more control, we've, we've, we had tighter control of who does the worship leading and who's doing the confession of sin. And we basically have felt that it's something that's more important to us. It's so easy to misspeak that we wanted people who have been through the theological training. And so right now, it has been ordained ministers are the ones who are leading worship in that sense. It doesn't mean, by the way, Or men who are on their way to ordination, who are in process. Yeah, women who are, men who are in an ordination track on their way. That however, is something that, you know, obviously the elders and staff could rethink. I don't think, biblically, there's some kind of hard, to me, biblically, a woman can't be an elder. But it doesn't, that is a, in some ways, a judgment call. But that's, that's our policy right now. And worship services different from, differ from denomination to denomination. There's worship services which are pretty much all music all the time. And they have female worship leaders. Yeah. And. I don't, I wouldn't say that's the essence of Redeemer's DNA. No. Okay, great. And then one last question before we move on to our panel. Wait, I just lost it. Where'd it go? Oh, it's this. And I think this will maybe get into a little bit about what you're trying to get at, Sim, in your talk about. Yeah. About agreeing to disagree well. So the question is, if a believer agrees that the authority of teaching position is reserved for men, should that be a deal breaker as far as choosing a church goes and why or why not? Well, yeah, let me. There have been people who felt that way. Right. I mean, if you, you actually believe that it's male ordination and, but you're going to a church you really like that doesn't agree with that. Right. Could you actually join that church? Let's say there's a woman who's a pastor. Yeah, a woman pastor. Right. So you do not stay at that church. So teaching is solid, biblical. This is the one area you're a complementarian. You go to a church, there's a female senior pastor. Is that a deal breaker? Yes or no? And why not? I think one of the verses that would apply to this is that you have to give your leaders respect and, and the, where is that Hebrews 13? 17. 17. Yeah. Honor the leaders who are over you, who are keeping watch over your soul. So it's, I think it would be, um, partially whether or not you were able to respect the person that whose care you are under in their church. One of my six women, well, there's six women friends. You all know the people that we dedicated the meaning of marriage to my dear friend, Adele is an ordained minister. She got ordained in response to the request of her elders because they wanted to have a female ordained woman on staff. And now she co-pastors a church with her husband. Um, if that was the only good church in town, I might go to it. Yeah. I mean, a gospel preaching church is more important than who is leading it, I think. No. So we're saying no, it's not a deal breaker. Right. Okay. Great. Uh, great. Thanks for the Q and A. Thanks for all the questions that were texted. We didn't even get to the ones that came to my phone. And so really appreciate that. What's that? Was how many questions? I mean, oh. I think there were maybe three or four others. Yeah. Um, but what we're going to do is we're going to transition to our panel. So I'm going to invite, uh, Bethany Jenkins and Jessica Hong just as they come up. Jessica's coming up here. She is an Eastside community group intern. Uh, she's a tent. She attended an all women's college, Bryn Mawr, and then has received her masters of divinity from Westminster Theological Seminary. Uh, so she's coming up there. And then Bethany Jenkins is a lawyer who worked on both Capitol Hill as well as wall street. And she's also the founder of the park forum and is currently writing a book. The working title of which is having all that matters, which is meant to be a gospel response to the question. Can women have it all? So that's who's on stage. So Tim is going to lead us and moderate this panel. Yeah. The tables have turned. A as indeed. Yeah. Let me see if I can exercise my headship properly here. My bald headship. Um, I actually, can I ask what, I mean, I'm going to ask. I'm going to ask a question. We only have so much time, a question of each of you, but I have a question to ask all of you to start with. Okay. So everybody should weigh in. Um, I think even though I'm not sure Kathy actually gave you a picture of the spectrum, there clearly is a spectrum. It's not just, you're either egalitarian or complementarian. I don't know if Kathy pointed out the fact that we're so old that complementarianism as a term came up when we were like in our late thirties. Somebody coined it. So we've suddenly got people telling us you're a complementarian for about five years before I even knew what it was. Um, and to some degree the w the words, um, uh, as soon as you start asking people, are you a complementarian egalitarian, you see that there's a spectrum of opinion inside those two positions. So uh, where do you put yourself on the spectrum? You want each person to answer that? Each one of you. Yes. I think I'll, and I don't care who goes first. I'm not going to go through that way. I'm not going to be, you know, too authoritarian. I can go first cause I've been doing a lot of talking, give the rest of you time to think. Um, recently, as recently as just this week, I ran across a term called new wave complementarianism. Bethany was the one that sent me the blog post with that. I like that term and it describes pretty fully where I would see myself on the spectrum. New wave complementarianism. You have to block. You'll have to Google it to see what it says, but. Kind of moderate then moderate. Um, complementarianism with a big dose of encouraging women to be active in ministry. I think that's how that would be described. Okay. Who else? Um, well I went to an all women's college, so I think it's a miracle that I hold to a complementarian view. Um, so I went to a very liberal, very empowering women's college. From very liberal. grateful for. And then I went to Westminster and I was very conflicted. Like, should I become an ordained pastor? Should I not? And I was really conflicted. And in my studies, I realized, oh man, I think what Paul is saying should be true. Like, I think the complementarian view is right, but I really didn't want to believe it until I saw my pastor's wife who tried to, I guess, sway me from the egalitarian to the complementarian view. And I saw her actually live it out. So it was, when I studied it alone, I really didn't want to, even though I was convinced. But it was once I actually saw it lived out as well, I was like, okay, I think she convinced me, not through her words, but also in action. So. So are you, where are you in the spectrum though? I mean, is. Well, I don't like the term new wave complementarianism, because it's more. It should have already been that way, but. Complementarian. Let's call it something else. Complementarianism as it really is meant to be. Yeah. Then yes, I fall into that category. I actually like the term new wave complementarianism, partly because I've more recently become more of a feminist. In college, actually, I wrote a group paper on the role of women in ministry. And there were six of us and three of us disagreed with it and three of us didn't. So you can imagine writing a group paper together where half of you fall in one camp and half of you don't. And I was more conservative in college, actually, than I am now. And with the research for the book I've been working on, I've been thinking a lot about feminism post, I guess, 1848 and looking at the different waves of feminism. And now when people ask me, am I a feminist? I say I'm not a feminist in today's terms, but I am a feminist in 1900. So I like the new wave because it's a nod to the feminist movement a little bit. The good parts about it. I think on the spectrum, I would say I'm a very moderate complementarian. So my own background, you know, I grew up in a home where a lot more of the more traditional structures were in place. So it's very much a, I mean, father-led home. And the churches that I grew up in, which is largely Korean American, like immigrant churches, I don't think I've ever actually even met any of them. I was a female pastor until I was in seminary. So that was kind of the background that I grew up in. It was in seminary. I went to Gordon Conwell, which, as you know, is kind of broadly evangelical. So they're complementarians, egalitarians, they're men and women who are professors and that sort of thing. And I had very good class, close classmates who were women studying for full time ordained ministry. And so it was in that context that I was really forced to wrestle with the question. So it was no longer an academic or a cultural question. It was a question that had to do with the Bible and these particular people that I knew and had relationship with, these women who were gifted and intelligent and that sort of thing. And it was in that environment that I ended up choosing to write a paper in one of my systematics class on the issue of women's ordination and really feeling like I need to wrestle with it, even though I was a man and I was going to get ordained regardless of where I landed. But it was an important enough question. So it was in that context that it came out, I think, like Jessica was saying, I just think this is what the texts are saying. And then since then, both in my marriage and also in a ministry context, really trying to clarify what I was saying. And I think that's what I've been doing for a long time. I've been trying to clarify what exactly does that mean and how do we, like Kathy has been saying, how do we fully empower women? How do we fully recognize the fact that the Holy Spirit is poured out fully upon women as they are men? How do we fully live out that vision of the church within a complementarian framework? So that's probably where I am. Okay, good. That's helpful. And actually I'll go right back to you, Abe, because I'm asking each of you now a single question. And I put a lot of pressure on the pastors here, didn't I? You kind of exploded my inbox, I think, and we get lots of emails. Right. I guess male pastors, if they're going to function this model, you should walk around saying, gee, I wish I wasn't even a man, really. I wish I wasn't a pastor. I'm sorry. Okay. What I really had written down to ask you was how do you intentionally affirm gifts of women here at Redeemer? How do you do it? Yeah, that's a great question. I think I actually begin my thinking on it more on the question of why. So some of the categories that I use, so as a more, like a racial minority, like I feel like I have a certain perspective into some of the issues of power, marginalization, and that sort of thing. And I also know to some degree the dangers of like tokenism. So putting a minority up on stage merely for the sake of having colored faces up front. And there can be a similar dynamic. There can happen with women when you have just all men and you just put up a woman, just kind of a tokenism. And so one of the ways, the reason I bring that fairly controversial preface is that when I think about it, what I have to do in my own head is to say, do I really believe that God has, first of all, made men and women different and has also gifted women in such a way that without their giftings, I am inherently incomplete and distorted as a believer? So that to me is where it all begins. Where do I really believe I actually need this person and this perspective and this person's differential gifts? Otherwise, my own faith becomes distorted and incomplete. And if I answer that question, yes, I think that to me is what guards against a tokenism to say, well, we just need to put women up front for the sake of putting women up front. But it says, no. There is a genuine interdependence here where if I'm not thinking appropriately and improperly about my need for women, I'm not going to be able to do that. And so when I think about women and their gifts and their perspectives, we're doing damage to the church of God. And so that's the kind of thing that I think about. So that's kind of behind the scenes. How do I therefore proactively, I think, pursue women driven by this real deep sense we need one another and we need the differential gifts all expressed together in interdependence? For me, it's a matter of necessity to find women who are leading community groups, who are doing all the things that non-ordained men can do because we desperately need that. Without it, we're going to be incomplete. That's the kind of thing I think about. And so I think that's probably what drives my understanding. I think the other piece, too, again, from some of my familiarity as coming in as a racial minority, that oftentimes people who feel disempowered or on the margins oftentimes do need an additional encouragement or an additional drawing out to be able to say this is a safe place that even though you may feel disempowered, this is a safe place where we need you. We need one another. And it's not just tokenism and that sort of thing. So I think there needs to be more proactive approach. I think there needs to be more proactive approaches as well to be able to recognize there is a power differential here. Let's just acknowledge that and do what we can to try to overcome some of that power differential. Great. Thank you. Bethany, now that you've come out as a 19th century feminist. Very liberal. Well, one of the things that I have said in the past here is I said, well, at Redeemer, if you're a woman, unless you really want to go into the vocational ministry, you're going to have to be a woman. And there's really nothing you couldn't do here. But what if somebody, what if a woman comes to you and says I really feel sincerely called by God to be in the ministry or even just to be an elder? I feel called that God wants me to be in leadership, to be a minister or an elder. How would you counsel her? Well, interestingly, I am in ministry. So I don't work in the church. But I do. I write theology. I write daily devotionals. So I would first start off with kind of a commonality to that feeling. But one thing Kathy said, well, it kind of goes off of what Kathy was talking about, about how scripture interprets scripture. I would also say it's kind of a cycle about, well, how do we interpret scripture? It's the Holy Spirit. And how do we interpret the Holy Spirit? It's by scripture. So we always have to go back to what the authoritative, is the scripture sufficient? And there are lots of feelings we can have that are not necessarily the Lord. So I used to lead, I'm in Gotham this year, but I used to lead a women's group and I would have women come to me and say, I really feel like I should be dating or marrying this non-Christian. And I would say the same thing. Well, it's not, that's not the way it works. It's not the thrust of what the scriptures teach. And so we have to test our, I mean, 1 John chapter 4 talks about testing the spirit by doctrine. And so I think that it's important to go by what the scripture is teaching. So that's the first thing I would say. The second thing I would do is I would affirm her gifts for ministry purposes. One thing that we've talked about, a few of us have talked about, is that not all women are called to child care. There's nothing. There's nothing against child care and doing some of the more traditionally feminine type words. And I use that in quotes because that's a cultural determination. But lots of women, including in this room, have intellectual capabilities and intellectual gifts. They thrive on intellectual challenges. And I think that they should be celebrated for that, for those giftings and not made to be, not relegated. One of the quotes that Kathy has in this, is something about that it's not women. The ordination of women is not a justice issue. But the dismissal of women is actually an injustice issue. And so I think we should celebrate the gifts of women. The last thing I would do is actually I have a quote. I put a little sheet of paper thing like Tim does. Are any of y'all? Have you read Lean In? Or been paying attention to the conversation? I would say? like a lot of women probably have. One of the things that I've been looking at in my research is the importance of mentors or sponsors. New research that's coming out has been showing that, and this is in the corporate world, 22% of women are more likely to ask for stretch assignments at work when they have a sponsor. And they're 27% more likely to ask for a raise if they have a sponsor. And the difference between sponsor and mentor is basically a mentor is somebody who's a counselor and they're kind of asked questions on a basis, you know, like it's a mentee's proactive ability to ask the mentor what they think. But a sponsor is very different. A sponsor, instead of just talking to that person, they'll actually be their cheerleader when they're not there. And I think that one of the things that's helped me in my role as a ministry is I have great sponsors. Abe is a huge sponsor for me. Whenever roles come up or opportunities come up at church, he'll call me and say, will you help out with this? Kathy's a huge sponsor. She talks about me writing this little book project to all of you guys. And I think that if you're a woman who feels called into the ministry, find a sponsor. Any of us would be happy to help you, like, figure out, like, what roles you can do under the teaching of the church. Because we do want, like, I brought up those statistics because we want women to take risks, to do what they want to do, to do these things, and to contribute to the fullness of the church. I don't know if you guys would have anything different to say. Time's running out, so that's great. And also, a very well-balanced answer. I'm just, instead of going back and forth, let's go on. Sorry. Just, I would, it's hard for me just to go on because I want to talk about everything, but anyway. Jessica, you have, you went to, you already confessed that you went to Westminster Seminary, got an MDiv, right? Okay, so there's no backing out of that now. It's on the record. In light of that, how prevalent do you think this view is in the Christian world? The non-view? I think would be very rare at Westminster. So let me just clarify. I love... Because you went to a real, what was your undergraduate? Bryn Mawr. You went to Bryn Mawr, and then you went to Westminster. Yeah. Okay. So you went to a very conservative seminary after going to a very liberal art school. Yeah. Okay, so are you okay? It's really a miracle, I think, that I'm in the PCA and that I'm a complementarian. It really is. I think it really comes with sponsors. I think my pastor's wife back home, she was a sponsor and a champion for me, and she really pushed for me to be able to even teach adult Sunday school in an Asian-American context. And my pastor received a lot of heat because from other Korean-American pastors and even other Asian pastors just saying, how can you allow Jessica to teach adult Sunday school or be a young adult, small group? And most of the pastors in Philly usually either graduated from Westminster or biblical, and it was tough. I think, like I said, I didn't want to be a complementarian because experientially what I experienced from my male peers was really tough. I think just a few anecdotes. Once again, I loved what I studied. So I loved the training that I received from Westminster, but I think one guy in a more conservative Presbyterian denomination was like, well, do you want to be an ordained pastor? And I was like, no. And he was like, then what's the point of you getting your MDiv? And, well, I didn't say anything out loud, but I had... You said, mind your business. And then, or another comment, he was just like, well, you know, Westminster only allowed female MDiv students because they would lose their accreditation otherwise. And I was like, oh. Well, I'm glad I'm here. And I guess, I think this third comment really, I think, drove me to study hard. And I think it was genuinely out of place. I think it was really out of pride, really. But a guy, a pastor who I really respected, told me, Jessica, for you to have an MDiv, it's not the same for a man to have an MDiv. For you to be considered an equal with a guy with an MDiv, you have to get your PhD. And I think with that statement, it really... Was he saying that in a mean way or as a supportive way? It's just realistic. He was just being, yeah. He's just being realistic. He's like, you won't be considered an equal. And so I studied, you know, I studied really, really hard, but not because I wanted to glorify God, but I wanted to prove that I was smarter than the guys. It was wrong. It was pride. Don't clap. Public confession is good. But I loved what I studied, and it was, at the end of the day, I think through academics, but also through seeing a sponsor live out the complimentary view. I'm just 100%. I'm convicted. But you are saying that the position that Kathy's been laying out here, we've been laying out here today, is fairly rare then. Oh, yeah. All right. I think I told someone... Well, one more story if I have time. A friend of mine who's just graduated from Westminster is going to be actually applying for the New York Presbytery. And I was like, he's like, yeah, I don't even know if a woman should lead a small group. And I was like, well, Kathy just came out with a book. You should read it. He's like, yeah. He's kind of ambiguous, like maybe. And then I was like, he's like, well, based on what I studied, I just, I think it's very clear, like certain roles. And I was like, well, what have you studied? I tried to press him on what he read. And he was very vague and ambiguous. And then he ended up just saying, well, the pastors that I talked to, they seem very convicted. And I was very hurt by that comment because we were close friends, but it seemed that he didn't put in the hard work to really come up with a conclusion on his own on affirming women in his ministry, especially since he's going to be a head pastor. And I was just really shocked that he based his decision of women in ministry based on conversations with pastors rather than just studying it for himself. That was really hurtful. Okay. Actually, Jessica, you do make me think of one thing I would like to add, and that is that though we occupy, not unique, but rare space, Kathy, I really like when Kathy pointed out that the Herman Yates, Eudyx of a man like Mr. Webb, who says, well, look, in New Testament times, the world was patriarchal. And now, of course, things have changed. And we have to get basically, you know, we have to see that God is moving. The one thing you keep, the problem that Kathy hinted at is that's a Western way of looking at things. There are a lot of non-Western cultures that are, yes, they get patriarchal, but on the other hand, they are trying to get people to believe and they're trying to get in touch with the importance of, they're not individualistic. And a lot of those cultures are not going to be individualistic, even when they move to America. And one of the reasons I like the space we're in is it actually opens up to non-Western people. It says to them, we take the idea of male headship important. You know, it's very important. We're not individualistic. We haven't just gone over into the Western way of thinking of things. Yet at the same time, we're trying to be, we're trying to be really biblical. And we're not, we want to keep your conscience. If you're Presbyterian, Westminster Confession, chapter 20, which says, where God's, where the Bible has left my conscience free, the church may not bind it. And if the Bible itself doesn't come and say, women can't lead a small group and women can't do this or that, then we're not supposed to be setting those things up. So I, it's not, I'm not, I'm happy with where Redeemer is, not just because we like to be balanced in some general way, but because I really think it respects the Bible. I think it really respects a variety of cultures. I think it shows a great deal of flexibility. I really hope that we can, in some ways, stay in this space, even though there's a tremendous amount of pressure, as you're saying, on both sides to leave that space. And Kathy Keller, you know, when I, when Kathy in the, in this morning, wait a minute, before I ask her a question, this morning she got up and she said, how do you do this all the time? And I said, you know, these talks and going up and having to, you know, deliver this is hard work. And then I said, now you know what it's like. And she says, you're good. You're wonderful. And then I said, you're wonderful. And then we hugged and kissed and things like that. And I just really thank you that you've given her a chance to see what hard work I do every week. And by the way, she was wonderful, right? Right. Give her a hand. She was wonderful. You're the moderator. You're not supposed to be talking. Ask, ask a question. Let these people go out in the nice sunshine. I'm trying to exert my male headship here. And you're making it hard. I don't like it. I don't enjoy it. We've kept these people cooped up all day. I don't enjoy it. I mean, I just, it's something I have to submit to. Let's let these people go. I have a question here. Should Kathy Keller have even spoken at all today? I kind of addressed that already in the talk. You can go out saying that's the stupidest thing I ever heard. Nothing bad will happen to you. I promise. In junior high school, I learned a really good technique. If you were asked an essay question that you didn't know the answer to, or you didn't like, you could say, but the more important question to answer is, and then you answered that one because she knew the answer. And your teacher always thought you like, you're really, really smart. So the more important question to answer is not, should I have spoken today because yes, women can have public ministries of the word all over. I hope that I haven't wasted all my time and you don't really already know that, but what should I be doing going forward to help Redeemer stay on task as far as keeping women's ministries encouraged, keeping women encouraged and getting women on track for theological education. And I guess my answer is, I have, I've always seen myself as having the ear of power, which was you, but you're not really the power anymore. Um, with the congregationalizing and the decentralizing, et cetera. So I can yak all I want to you about, we need to do more, blah. So I'm going to have to find ways in which I speak to the session or speak to the lead pastors. In fact, some of them have already asked me who said, I can't be there today. I'd like you to come in and give me the cliff notes to the talk and tell me what I need to know about empowering women. And I'm just going to tell you that it's going to be my self appointed ministry to see that Redeemer stays on point with this and makes sure that women are encouraged and to use their gifts and, and honored for the ministries that they use them in. So that's my answer to the question. Sounds like a mission. But my own, I have a question. It's two 30. And it says time to close. So am I supposed to, I want to say something before you close. I want to thank everybody here for giving up their, um, their weekend, their Saturday and more than just their weekend. A lot of work went into this leading up to this starting months and months ago. And Abe, thank you. And Bethany, thank you. But Jessica is the rock star. We would just show up at meetings and she would have everything laid out. We have to do this. We have to decide that everything that we needed to do. If this would not have happened, if it wasn't for Jessica today would not have occurred. These flowers are for Jessica because she is the one that really made today happen. So thank you very much. All of you and Jessica in particular. And thank you all. You're very kind of you to closet yourself here on such a beautiful day to listen to such a dusty subject. So, um, go out and have fun in the sun. Yes, you can pray. It's always good to pray. Let's just pray. Our father, I thank you for the willingness of, uh, hundreds of people here in our community to come together, uh, to give up such a precious part of the week to think about what your word says, to think about our community, uh, to listen to one another, to stir each other up to love and good works. I do thank you for, um, my wife and for how much she has, uh, discipled me in the ways of the heart over the years and encouraged me to be, uh, who you've called me to be. I thank you that, uh, you have preserved redeemer over the years, uh, giving it the ability to walk a kind of balance beam in a lot of different areas. And, uh, Kathy and I, I certainly know it's not due to us. We've played our part, but it's only been because many other people also have, uh, come together under your hand and with your guidance. And we do pray for the redeemer's ministry in the future that we would be a, a light, uh, a non paternalistic light to the country, to the city, uh, to the men and women in our church, uh, helping them also to find their callings as men and women. And as, uh, priests and Kings doing your work using their gifts, ministering to all, uh, and we pray Lord that you would help us in the future as redeemer goes through many changes because the times change and we pray that you'd raise up a whole new set of leaders of men and women who can take, uh, what we've done in the past, build on it, grow and continue to, uh, share the gospel, uh, in the city for many decades to come. And we pray all this now in Jesus name. Amen. Thanks for coming.
