To use a, believe it or not, to use Jonathan Edwards' categories to understand that film, Edwards always believed that there was essentially two faculties in the human being. There's the head and the affections, he would say.

That video, which I love, is not giving you new information. It's not telling you, well, what is all the Renew campaign about? What are the bullet points? It's not giving information to your knowledge. It's engaging your affections to either give you for the first time or to re-evoke your love of the city, a desire to have the threads of your own life narrative interweave the story of the city, to live your life out here, and to seek the renewal of the city.

And I think it does a terrific job.

It's evocative, and I'm really kind of excited about it. What I want to do tonight with... Do you have your handouts? Oh, by the way, we're actually a little pressed for space, which is really good. Would you mind scooting together and creating community? So that when people walk in, which they still are, there's a room to... Just scooch in so that people near the aisles, there's a... That's it. Isn't that nice? Don't you like those people? Right? Instant community. That's better. Okay. Get a hold of your handout. We have to stay on a tight schedule tonight. And you have heard, or you will hear, the details of the campaign this fall.

Every so often, Redeemer does a covenant renewal season, does a campaign that goes with it, and we've done it in the past, and we're doing it now.

And either... Especially if you're here tonight, you may have already gotten a lot of information about it. You might have been to a... A meeting. If you're an elder or a deacon or a staff member or somebody else, you may have already been to a meeting that rolls out and explains what the campaign is, what we're trying to do, what we're trying to accomplish. If you haven't been to one of those meetings and you're at this meeting tonight, you'll probably be at one. So I'm not going to actually turn this into one more place where we just talk about, well, what is the campaign and what is covenant renewal? I want to give you the underpinnings. I want to give you the theological and theoretical... The theoretical rationale behind the very idea of what we're trying to do over the next three years and ten years. And this campaign is a way of enlisting the congregation, unifying the congregation around the plan. I want to give you... Because you're leaders. I want to give you the more theoretical, the more theological, the underpinnings. And at the very end, I'll show you how it ties somewhat to the renewal campaign, though, again, I'm not going to belabor the details. Here's the basic idea. We want to transition Redeemer into being more of a movement than it's ever been since perhaps its early days. Redeemer has always believed three things. The gospel changes everything. The city is the place where we need to live our lives out and do our ministry. And we don't want to just be a church but a movement. We've been saying that for 20 years. But it's that third thing that it's crucial for us to move into that space and to say, what does it mean to be a movement? We want to transition Redeemer into being more of a movement than we've been since the early days. We want to transition Redeemer back into being a church planting church right in our own neighborhoods. Now, what does movement mean? That's what I want to talk to you about. It's a very biblical idea, even though it's not necessarily a biblical word. And I want to get you right into the idea of movement dynamics and why that's what we're trying to enhance at Redeemer by turning... having you turn right away to page four. Go to page four.

The difference between just a church, an institution, and a dynamic movement consists of three mega factors. Now, I'll get back to these a little bit, but I really want to just drill down tonight into one of the three. If you want Redeemer, if we want Redeemer to be a movement, not just a church, first, there has to be grace renewal dynamics in it. There has to be the Spirit of God moving because we're applying the gospel to your life. We're attracting people to Christlikeness, not by coercion, not by putting pressure on the will, but by renewing the heart with the gospel. Okay? We spent a lot of time in this Leaders at Seven talking what that is. We won't go any further on that. But that's one of the things that creates vitality and dynamism. It's crucial. The second thing that creates vitality and dynamism is contextualization. That is to say, we're never going to be a dynamic movement in a place like New York City unless, despite the fact we call people to repent. In spite of the fact we call New Yorkers to repent. But in other ways, we've got to engage. We've got to be part of New York. We've got to be like New Yorkers. We've got to be incarnate. Jesus became one of us in order to reach us. And therefore, secondly, we have to truly be contextual. And that's another whole subject. We're not going to go there either. Though in many ways, Redeemer is. It's not like when you come into Redeemer and you look around and you say, these are New Yorkers. And when a New Yorker who's not a Christian comes into Redeemer and looks around, they ought to be able to see what they would kind of look like if they became Christians. If a New Yorker walks in and sees people that aren't like anyone they work with or anyone they live with culturally, then you're not going to be a movement. Got it? You're just going to be a very small little... ghetto. That's another subject. We're even not going to go there, though I may refer to these. The third thing you need in order to be a movement is you need to be called what we call here an organized organism. Now, what in the world is that? To show you real specifically what that is, turn over to the top of page five. In fact, is there some way for you to look at five and six together? I don't know how you do that. Are they behind? I've got mine. Yours are back to back, aren't they? Never mind. Just follow me. Mine are not. That's why I'm the senior pastor. I get... You see, mine aren't back to back. That's okay. I'm sorry. My privilege. However, on the left-hand side, if you think of this as a spectrum, that every one of these dualities, on the one hand is the marks of a movement, which is another way of saying an organism, a vital thing, and on the other hand is the marks of an individual. If you think of an institution, which is more of an organization, a more formal and mechanical thing, then let me show you the four dynamics that are characteristics of a movement and what it looks like in the organic and the less organic form. One of the marks of a movement is oneness from common vision and beliefs. One of the main things, maybe the basic thing, that turns an organization into a movement or a church into a movement, is there is a clear vision for a particular kind of future reality. It's based on common beliefs and it says we're going to get this done and it's a compelling vision. The marks of a movement or an organism, everything is organized around that common vision for the future. In an institution or an organization, it's organized around bylaws and rules. You know you've got an organization, not a movement, when everything gets done because of the rules, not some kind of a movement. It's a great common vision. Go down to number two. In a movement, all leaders and key players share the same goals. The marks of an institution, each leader and department presses for their own differing agenda. They don't really like the other departments. They don't think much of them. They don't actually support overarching goals for the whole. They actually only go after their own department agenda because they want to say, we've achieved our goals, sorry about yours. Because the common vision isn't there. Number three, marks of a movement. Forward movement through arriving at consensus or near consensus on the next stage in reaching a vision. That's how you move ahead. Everybody wants the vision. There's just a little bit of disagreement about how we get there. And we work until we get consensus and then we go. In an institution, forward movement comes through negotiated compromises to form agreed upon strategy. In other words, what happens is people really don't want the same thing. They don't have a common vision. They actually have different sorts of departmental goals so you negotiate. We'll give you this if you give us this. This is, frankly, this is called politics. And the reason is, it's more than ever that in America and most western democracies, there is no consensus over what kind of society we want. No consensus at all. We don't have a vision for what we think a good society should be. And therefore, it's all done through negotiated compromise. I'll give you a little bit of this, you give me a little bit of that. So none of us are all that unhappy. In a movement, there's a common vision. And you really work not so much through negotiated back and forth and close votes and this side wins and the other side is very grumpy. But you develop consensus over where we're going to go next. The second dynamic is, in a movement you not only have great unity of vision, but there also is an emphasis on cooperation. A movement is peopled by folks who put the vision ahead of other differences. Which means you'll work with people of other preferences, of other temperaments, people who have secondary beliefs. As long as we're all for the same vision, we'll borrow, we'll think, we'll listen, we'll learn from each other. Now, let's go down. The marks of a movement, leaders have a high tolerance for ambiguity. They don't mind messiness. What matters is the cause, is the vision. And therefore, there's a lot of cooperation. People get a lot of different ideas. They're willing to be creative. The marks of an institution, leaders have high need for clarity and compliance and everything being done right. And the result is, you don't deal with anybody who doesn't believe everything like we believe. Because it's the rules that are holding that organization together, not the common vision. And therefore, there's a tendency to demand that we only work with people who have our credentials, who have been through our processes, who do everything exactly the way we do. They don't like messiness. And so, I think, well, I think I've already talked about number five, basically. Now, turn over to number six, you poor people that have to turn your page. The third mark of a movement rather than an institution is the willingness to sacrifice. A movement is filled with people who put the vision ahead of their interests and needs. So, the marks of a movement, number six, great sacrifices are tolerated. People work for low pay, long hours, poor conditions. Leaders need less approval and encouragement. They tend to be self-starters. They don't need a lot of strokes. They don't need a lot of perks. What matters is the vision. The marks of an institution is individuals need, your need is more important than the progress of the whole. You're there because there's benefits to you. You're there because it helps your career. You're there because it gets things done for you. Workers need lots of rewards, a lot of accountability from the top to do their jobs. Because they're not that vision driven. Another way to look at it, in seven, because of a willingness to sacrifice, there's a high level of trust. Because you know everybody else is sacrificed. So, you see people out there making incredible sacrifices for the vision. And that creates a bond. And there tends to be trust. And you don't need lots and lots of close supervision and everybody checking up to make sure everybody's doing their job. But in an institution, there's not a lot of trust. You need lots of meetings. You need time consuming reporting. You need long approval processes for everything. And lastly, you notice because of the vision, there tends to be more cooperation and creativity. A willingness to color outside the box, you know, think outside the box, color outside the lines and get it done. Because of the vision, people are willing to sacrifice and trust each other. And last of all, because of the vision, a movement constantly generates new ideas, new leaders, and new leaders. And new initiatives across itself. Not just waiting from the top. People don't wait for permission, technical support, or money from the top before they get it done. They start to do it. They come up with ideas and they do it. So, number eight, a movement spreads through recruitment from related networks. It's just natural that new leader type people are being drawn into the movement. And they bubble up as leaders. And then we put them into their place. Whereas the marks of an institution, you actually have a lot of trouble finding new leaders. You have to have very formal processes by which you go out and you create incentives and you recruit them that way. Number nine, new ideas are solicited and incorporated quickly in a movement. But in the marks of an institution, innovation is seen as threatening unless it comes from the right people. Number ten, relationships are strong. And an awful lot of the planning is not. And the new ideas come offline because the vision creates friendships. See, in an institution, the reason why you're working next to the person next to you is because it's a job. But in a movement, you're there because of the vision. And what that means is you tend to become friends with the other people who are there. And lots and lots of the planning happens informally. It happens getting together, you know, over a cup of something. And you talk about it and you're thinking about it. And that's one of the reasons why movements are so efficient. Why they come up, you know, for the number of hours and the expenditure of money and so on. So many great ideas come. Where in an institution, you have very few friendships. You have little happening outside of meetings. Almost everything happens through very formal processes.

Now, let's think a little bit more. And this is... You don't have to look at the... I'm going to say something now for about three minutes that will cover pages seven and eight.

The key is the vision. So on page seven, I give you a couple of examples of the difference between a movement and an organization. I give you two examples that some of you may... One of them may make you a little bit squirrely. But look at AA or the 12-step movement. The 12-step movement is a great idea. The information has been put into various forms. It's accessible to anybody. And you don't have to wait for somebody from 12-step headquarters somewhere to say, You can start a 12-step group. You can start an AA chapter. You know, and here's your funding and here's who you have to report to. That's an organization. This is a movement. And it's just happening all over the place. And people are doing it because the vision is so compelling. And it's accessible to them. The other example I put in here is Al Qaeda. Or I don't know if I'm saying it right. Nobody seems to know who's American anyway. One of the reasons why the terrorist movement is very effective is because it gets its vision out there. And people are able to pick it up and form their cells and do it. And they don't need orders from headquarters. In fact, they don't have orders from headquarters. And as a result, it's very hard to trace what's happening in your particular country. Now, let me just say something interesting. Let me just say something. Some of you would like me to say something negative about terrorism. Before you blog about it, let me just suggest. Here's what's interesting. Did you see the article in the paper yesterday? I think it was. Remember how I told you that contextualization is one of the mega factors? And this idea of unity, of compelling vision, cooperation. Spontaneity and sacrifice is what it means to be an organized organism. But it's only one of the three mega factors. Remember what I just said? What it said in the New York Times is maybe hopeful. And that is the radical jihadism and Al Qaeda may be becoming less and less popular with the grassroots in Muslim countries. Did you read that? That it may be starting to slide out of favor. Because it may be losing its connection. And I told you what I said here is, a couple of other places here. If Redeemer was filled with vision, sacrificing, but we were culturally not at all attuned to the people around us. We were really, we were a ghetto, the way I was talking about before. Then the organism and movement dynamics is not going to help. So you have to see on the one hand. That these movement dynamics are one of the three mega factors. And by the way, of course Al Qaeda doesn't have spiritual renewal dynamics either. But they had contextualization. They were well, they were definitely meeting a need in their cultures. And maybe their time has passed. Who knows? I hope it is. The second feature, this is on page seven. Of a dynamic movement is openness to cooperation and openness to communication. One of the things that has always made Redeemer dynamic. Over the years I have had people say, I would like to join Redeemer. But I don't think I am a Presbyterian. Do I have to become a Presbyterian to join Redeemer? You know what I have always said? I said, theoretically, when you join a Presbyterian church, I guess that makes you a Presbyterian. But basically what we have done, and I think it is written down here. Redeemer is a pretty diverse church. We have people who come from a faith when they were six. And those who come out of faith six days ago. We have people of many different political perspectives, socio-economic backgrounds, racial heritage. And we actually do have people who are more charismatic, less charismatic. More Baptist, more Anglican, more this, more that. We have never pushed, we have never beaten people over the head with our denominational distinctives. And some people would say, well then you don't really love your Presbyterianism. Actually I do. But I am a movement leader. We want to be a movement. As much as possible. We want to say, do you have this vision? Is this your understanding of what the gospel is about? Do you want to see this happen? I am not going to bang you over the head to make sure that you fit in, you believe all 50 things that Presbyterians believe in order to be part of the movement. That would be to push the institutionalization of Redeemer down faster. See how this works? Number three, sacrificial commitment. I would have to say that in the end, I think I put it down here in this paragraph, the bottom of page seven. The willingness to sacrifice on the part of workers. That is lay people and staff people. Yeah, the willingness to sacrifice on the part of workers and members is the most practical index of whether you have a movement or you have become institutionalized. You have to be careful that you don't get into a position where you just assume everybody is going to sacrifice. And in one second I will show you why. You can't, that can be exploitative.

It can be exploitative. Nevertheless, that is probably the right thing to do. That is the right thing to do. That is one of the reasons why we attach a pledge of commitment of finances to covenant renewal. It is not the heart of the covenant renewal. It is not the heart of any campaign. Frankly, the heart of a campaign is when you double the number of people in small groups. That shows that you are moving away from being an organization back to being an organism. Because instead of a few people understanding the vision, a greater number of people understand the vision. It is renewal. Nevertheless, you have to put the money in there too. Why? Because for an awful lot of us, I am not sure you can really be certain that we are sacrificing unless you are willing to sacrifice doing things, buying things, going places, financially sacrifice for the sake of the vision. That is how you know whether we are a movement or whether we are just an organization. Then lastly, we have spontaneity. Maybe in some ways the most important to take my last ten minutes to talk about how this fits in with the renewal campaign, the renew campaign. Spontaneity means that ideas and leadership naturally bubble up from the grassroots.

Instead of always having to have a formal process for everything, there just are organic natural pipelines of ideas and innovation and new leaders. A good example inside Redeemer is the small group system itself. I mean, ostensibly, what is the purpose of the small group system? Ostensibly, and this is right, this is true, I should not say ostensibly like that is not the real. No, the real purpose of small groups is to care for each other. They are ways for us to care for each other and create deeper community and be the church. One another membering, right. But, it is an incredible leadership pipeline. Because what happens in the small groups is people who otherwise would not exercise teaching, caring, pastoring, leading gifts, start to do it. Some of them like it and some other people see it and so up you bubble into, that is how a lot of you are here. You do not start the small group system to be a leadership pipeline. But it is, and when something is a leadership pipeline, even though that is not its main purpose, you have got something organic. An example I put in here, which I think is intriguing, is years ago when the Presbyterian Church in America started its campus ministry, RUF, Performed University Fellowship. What was the reason for RUF? It is to reach and care for college students, to evangelize and disciple college students. Right. But what has happened over the years is that almost naturally if you have been, if you are involved as a student in RUF, a few people who really love it want to be leaders. So they become staff people. And they become interns and then they become staff people. And it is almost natural that if you have been a campus staff person, you have been working with young people, you are working entrepreneurially where you are doing things kind of, you know, very informally, you are doing everything yourself, you are being an entrepreneur, you are working with the cutting edge of where the culture is going because you are working with college students. It is almost natural for people who used to be on staff at RUF to want to go into ministry by planting a church. They do not want to just take a church. They want to plant a church. Everything about the campus ministry pushes them in that direction. As a result, a huge number of our denominations, new church planters and new churches comes from RUF. And other denominations, many other denominations of our size that do not have any such organic pipeline. And as a result, some of these denominations actually have to come and they have to recruit to get young church planters who can reach urban populations and, you know, cultural centers. They have to come to Redeemer and they have to take them. They have to, that is fine by the way. It is a free world. It is a free market. But they do not have their own pipelines. That is why they have to come after ours. That is why they have to come after ours. And we never even thought of that as a pipeline, did we? It was not done that way. But that is how it has worked out. And that means there is some movement dynamics in our denomination. I can go on. The point is, and here is where we are. What I try to say on page, now I am going to be fast. I have got five minutes. On page 9 and 10, I try to show that there is theological reasons to say, that the church is both a dynamic organism and yet at the same time does have organizational structure. You know why? The Bible says that some people should be officers. Prophet, priest and king. Jesus was a prophet, priest and a king. And some people specialized in prophetic ministry, were called preachers, pastors and teaching elders. And some people specialized in priestly ministry, they are called deeks. And some people specialized in kingly ministry, they are called elders. And the church, if it has officers, will have structure. There will be some rules. There will be some codification. There should be. If a movement is going to stay a movement, it cannot just be chaotic. You cannot live in chaos all the time. There has to be structure. But the Bible also says that every believer is a prophet, priest and king. The stuff is in there if you want. I want you to read it. The Bible says every believer is supposed to look at the world. You have to know how to evangelize. How to speak the word of God to friends and neighbors. Every believer is a priest. You have to care. You have to listen. You have to counsel. And every believer is a king. You have to come up with new ideas. You have to lead. You have to disciple. You have to give oversight. Now is there a tension between that? You have got some people who are gifted and they are appointed to do the prophetic priestly kingly ministry. And yet every Christian out there has got to do it. They have got gifts to be a prophet, priest and king. Is there a tension? Yes. My old teacher Edmond Clowney used to say that the church is characterized by both order and ardor. A-R-D-O-R. Nobody uses the word ardor anymore. In other words, there is structure and there is passion. And it is biblical. It is just the way it is supposed to be. And that is the reason why on page 11 I show that you see this spectrum? You see this spectrum? Spectrum from movement to institution? From organism to organization? And I think you can tell that as time goes on, those are the same, you know, they are not two really different spectrums. They are the same spectrum. As time goes on, it is just natural that your church, Redeemer, tends, because it gets bigger, you need detailed people, you get organized. There is a tendency to move more and more toward the organization. And every so often you have got to push it back. We do not just need to renew our hearts, we need to renew our church. Now how do you do that? Well, every time we have done a campaign, we have done that. You know why? Generally speaking, in the old days of Redeemer, almost everybody who came could articulate the vision. Not just that, oh, I like the preaching, I like the music, I like the programs. But Redeemer is here because the gospel is you are saved by grace, not by works. That changes everything. We are here to change the city. In the early days, almost everybody could articulate the vision. What happens at Redeemer now is because lots of people are in and out, until you have a campaign every so many years in which you bombard people with a vision, a smaller and smaller number of people can articulate the vision. Only the leaders can articulate the vision. Everybody else is just coming. And when you have a campaign, next thing you know, 40, 50, 60 percent of the people, they know what the vision is. What is that? That is pushing us back. Because the vision is so much. So we have continually had to do this kind of renewal. But in the Renew campaign, we are announcing, if you haven't already heard it, you will, and it is in here, that over the next three years, we want to go to three Redeemers. Each with their own dedicated staff. Each with a separate lead pastor. Each with their own elders team, deke team, and so on. And they are going to be rooted in their neighborhoods. And from there, they are going to start planting churches. And they are going to also be training up lay leaders to get together in their neighborhoods and to think how are we going to reach out. And to do all the stuff that used to happen at the grassroots, but now tends to happen centrally. That is the goal. You are going to hear more about that. But now you see, what we are really about here is not just raising money. And we are really not just about reorganizing the church. You know how some ministers just always like to say, I am going to do this. And then they just have to reorganize things. And maybe that is actually not bad. One of the best ways to just push from being an organization back to an organism is just create chaos for a little bit. But we are really more thoughtful about it. And here is how I want to conclude. I want you to see what we are about over the next three years and ten years is that we are going to renew ourselves as a movement. We are going to become more of a movement than we have ever been. And the goal ten years from now is to not just have these three Redeemers. We are going to have more Redeemer churches. But out of them to have sites and congregations coming. So that ten years from now there would be seven to nine places in New York City, sites where we are worshiping together. And maybe in twelve services or so, nine or ten thousand people. And probably in a hundred or a hundred and fifty neighborhoods, Redeemerites meeting regularly to say, how do we reach out to our neighbors and friends? How do we do evangelism? How do we do our service? How do we do service? Right now that isn't happening. Because basically lay leaders and staff people are doing things centrally. We are pushing this back down. That is what everything we are going to be doing is about.

Now, we have twenty minutes for questions and answers. And some of you, as I said, will hear more about the Renew campaign in the future. And so if you ask me a question that I will probably be talking to you about it at an advanced commitment meeting or at the Q&A's after the services. I may say, I will be brief but you will hear more about that later. So let's talk about this. Let's ask questions. I am trying to get you across the idea of what it means to be a movement. Why it is a biblical idea. How crucial it is to constantly renew ourselves corporately and organizationally, not just individually. And how that underlies all that we are trying to do over the next three years and ten years. Over to you Chet. I am sorry, you are too old. You are too young. David, Chet. Chet Huntley. David Brinkley. Never mind. Do you know, Joe? Do you know Chet Huntley? Yes. All of us over 80 remember that. You are 80, aren't you, Joe? I am. Yeah, I am close. Okay. Questions?

Yeah, it is a lot of you. So stand up, ask, and my old ears I hope can hear. Where are the lights?

Where? Oh, okay. Come forward. Can you come to the mic? I am sorry. I will try. Yeah, you are at the worst spot, so I will try to listen to you. Go ahead..

Oh...............................

or four years, consider staying even longer, and consider staying here and raising your family here. Now, this is a very delicate balance. I know most churches, and this is not movement-oriented, this is rules-oriented. I know a lot of churches that say, you've got to stay in the city. This is where the Lord is working. You've got to be in the city. And so they kind of coerce people to stay. And when some, you know, people are inevitably going to go. A lot of people say, well, I'm sorry, I got another job, or it's too expensive. And then they can sense the coolness from all the others who feel abandoned. I think it's been very rare that I've heard that. Basically, what we have done, and this is part of our vision, you're here to be leaders to get this, because you've got to be able to do it too, is you talk up being in a city, and you say, the more people stay longer and the more people stay longer, the more people stay longer. And so, you know, I think it's a very delicate thing to say. I think it's a very delicate thing to say. I think it's a very delicate thing to say. long time. The easier it's going to be for Redeemer to do this, but there's nothing in the Bible that says you've got to stay in a city. Maybe your couple of years here at Redeemer are equipping you to be an incredible agent for good, some incredibly great red corpuscle in some other body, and we want that. But we want you to consider staying here. Now, I have found that when you are that positive, you're still pushing and pushing. But when people say they're leaving, we say, oh, we're going to really miss you. It'll be exciting. Where are you going? In other words, this combination of all carrot and no stick,

it actually does slowly but surely increase the number of people who are staying. And by the way, I can prove that it's working, because we have taken surveys every so many years for many years, and we always ask people, how long are you planning on staying in New York? Now, admittedly, when you ask people to fill it out, you get 50, 60, 65 percent of the people, those are a little bit more committed. Nevertheless, you can watch over the years, there's one box that says 10 years plus. And that's really a way of saying indefinitely, okay? It's not lifetime, just 10 years plus. That number has been going up all the time. I remember a time in which no more than 5 percent of the people that came to Redeemer would check that box. Last I saw, it was over 20 percent. Wasn't that right? Who's here that knows? Bruce, can you remember? Yeah. But in other words, what's happening is that we're going to be a little bit more committed. We're going to be a little bit more committed. What's happening is it's working. It's working. There actually are an increasing number of people who at Redeemer are saying, we're here longer term, and there's more people staying longer. And so I'm actually quite pleased with it. If on the ground, you can, you know how in a pool, there can be hot spots and cold spots? Or you get into a lake, there can be hot spots. And you can find yourself in a very transient part of the pool, and it can feel very cold. Because one of the things I used to always hate about the early days of Redeemer, was constantly having to redo my friendship networks every two years. I hated that. But what happens is as you stay, you pick up a few people every so often that you know are here long term. And so you get your long term people plus your new people. So basically, you have to cast the vision. You have to do it winsomely. And actually, it has been working. But we have to keep it up. Otherwise, we will, you know, we will lose that movement dynamic. That's a great question. Next question. Get to the mic if you can. You know what, Beth, could you get to the mic? Because you have a clear path. Our sister over here didn't really have a way out.

I've been at Redeemer for 15 or 16 years. Congratulations. But that's not the point. No, it's great. Yeah. And I still wonder how we can help facilitate a movement from consumer mentality, to movement mentality.

Consumer to movement. Well, actually, I didn't use the word consumer, Beth. But no, no. But actually, that's at this end of the spectrum, that organizational end. And the people who understand the vision and who are sacrificing and are committing, it's natural that you have a pool of consumers who you're recruiting from. As long as that pool doesn't keep getting bigger and bigger. Now, actually, it's, I would say, a great example of this was in 2005, we had 100 small groups and through the beta groups, we doubled that. Isn't that right? Tell me if I got that right. And what we did by doing that was we went from something like 20% of the people come in small groups to 40%, almost 40%. Almost like that. And that was what, that was, that was incredible. That was what we wanted to do. And what that meant was our number of consumers shrunk and we had more people who are, you know, sacrificing and giving instead of just consumers. I don't think we can ever completely, you know, that fight will never be over. However, here's the plan. Let me take one more minute. Let me use Beth's question as an excuse to tell you. If you get people... We want to start new sites. You know, in this model, we go to three churches, as it were, congregations. They should almost immediately begin to start sending out 100, 200 people to other parts of Manhattan to do churches. They have their own team. They have their own staff. Why do we do that? In 1994, when we sent out something like, I think, you know, somebody's going to correct me afterwards. You do that, but afterwards, okay. We sent out something like 30 or 40 people to Westchester County to start the Trinity Church. We sent out probably 75 to 80 people to the village to start the village church. We had about 1,000 people in church on that Sunday. They stood. We stood up. We said, God bless you. We're sorry to see you go. You know, God be with you. Everybody wept. The next Sunday, they met in their services, you know, their places. Redeemer had exactly the same number of people as they had the week before. The village church and the Westchester church had double the number of people that next week that had left. People in both those situations were not elders. They were not deacs. They were not small group leaders. And they... They immediately became that. Immediately. They all gave twice as much money as they were given to Redeemer. They all did twice as much work. They all did twice as much reaching out to their neighbors and their friends to bring people. That's the only way you can explain why 30 people here and 75 people here the very next week became 60 and 100 and, you know, 120 or something like that. Just like that. It was... Was it magic? No. People who were semi-consumers and consumers became workers. And that's the only way it works. You can do these campaigns. You can do these campaigns. You can do these campaigns. You can bombard people. And that's work. It has worked. We have become less consumeristic and then we start to grow back and then we become less and we grow back. But the real answer is to do what we're going to do. Raise up a new generation of pastors and ministry staff, a new generation, and push them out and take lay leaders and people will have to basically step up and they will. And we'll have a lot less fat, frankly, if you want to think of consumers as the fat on the body that if we will... If we are 9,000 people in 9 sites and 12 services across the city, there's going to be far less consumerism than there is having even 5,000 people in one place. So that's a couple answers. Next, you have already made it to the mic. Go ahead. I'm excited because our small group has been studying about revival and renewal and prayer and the role of prayer and just how these things have happened. And I'm excited to know that it's going to be a big part of the history of this community. And I was sitting by someone back there who went on a mission trip to Honduras with his small group or a small group had went. And I'm just wondering, based on what we were talking about, how prayer and our love for Christ plays into this. And I was thinking, I have a reflection, I guess, on Ephesians 2, 12 through 14. I feel like it's pretty appropriate. It's a very important passage. It says, at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace who has made both one and has broken down the middle wall of separation or in other versions, the wall of hostility. So I'm wondering out of our love for Christ. And since we're all believers here, we're all leaders, how we are going to be sharing the hope for the world that we have through either, you know, prayer and, you know, evangelism training and other, you know, methods. I'm sure, I don't know if it's in here, but I just had a question about that. That's great. You could say that's under that first mega factor, spiritual renewal dynamics, that you don't have a movement just by. Renewing the organization into an organism and just by contextualization and renewal dynamics, if you all remember, were communication of the gospel and extraordinary prayer. That's from a couple of years ago. So that was actually in there, but not very, not very overt. But let me, let me give you, let me encourage you. You may hear me. If you come to these or these, all these incessant meetings I'm having around the city, you'll hear me. I'm sure you'll hear me maybe tell. Is Glenn here? Where's Glenn? Clank Connect, are you here? Yeah. Well, Glenn Clank Connect, who was one of the first four elders and one of our, you know, original members of Redeemer, he's very frank about the fact that the first four or five years there was much more desperate, extraordinary, there was more of a corporate, there was more of a culture of prayer. And the reason was, honestly, because we were attempting things that we felt were beyond our ability. And also because it wasn't just the staff and leaders, but actually everybody was sticking their neck out. Everybody was giving, everybody was talking to their friends, they were bringing people to church. And what Glenn was, Glenn says is that probably we're never going to get back to that kind of extraordinary prayer till we start to stick our necks out in the same way. If we do this, I can tell you, by the way, that what we're about to do is not something we've done before. For the last 15 years, I could get up every day and say, every year and say, what we're going to do at Redeemer is basically more of what we know we can do and we've known we can do it since the first three or four years. Now we're talking about something that I think is beyond our ability, is very scary, is absolutely the right thing to do. It's almost like turning Redeemer into a set of church plants and I believe that our prayer life is going to go through the roof. It's sort of natural that only if you do this will you pray. I mean, technically, you ought to just pray like crazy and then you pray. But if you do this, you're going to be praying like crazy. And then you're going to be praying like crazy. And then you're going to be praying like crazy. And you do this. But what really happens is you're doing this because you know it's the right thing to do will enhance the prayer life, which then will give life to what we're doing. And so there will be an enormous increase in prayer and prayer is at the heart of it. And it's also under that first mega factor. Yeah, go ahead. Hi. You mentioned the contextualizing to the culture. And in New York, in one sense, there's a unique culture of New York. In another sense, there's a unique culture of New York. And there are a lot of different cultures in New York. So I just wondered, you know, how I think the last statistic I saw was that Redeemer has about 90 percent of people that are either white or Asian. White or Asian, right. Yeah. And so, you know, how does the diversity of New York affect the way we try to do things? Well, we're contextualized for Center City pretty well. And there's Center City. And the Center City is the area where, generally speaking, professional people live and work. I sometimes wonder whether we have more corporate professionals than creative professionals. I don't know. I mean, to me, the big divide in the Center City area is not so much race as much the difference between the corporate professionals and the creative professionals. And so you very often, when I got here, I noticed that you had artsy churches and you had the corporate churches and they had very different approaches to things. And I put down in the book that, you know, Redeemer, for example, has not turned out to be, like some evangelical churches, a strictly Republican church. It has not turned out to be a strictly corporate professional or creative church. For our culture, which is the Center City part of New York and Manhattan, and also, by the way, the studies show that still the vast majority, you know, at least two-thirds or more of the people who come on Sunday come from Manhattan and not from outside. I'd say we're actually relatively well contextualized. The big question that comes up is, should we be reflecting all of New York City? And that's a harder question. It's hard to reflect the makeup of Queens, the Bronx, and Brooklyn when you're in Manhattan unless you become an all-city church. And there are churches in Manhattan that are kind of as much for the boroughs as for Manhattan. We've never done that. We feel like it's better to be a little more tied to our neighborhood. So I'd say we're doing okay, but I would love to have far more racial diversity. There's so many different churches in Manhattan. There's so many different churches in Manhattan. There's far more black and Hispanic professionals out there than we have, percentage-wise, than we have in here. And in that sense, I don't think we particularly yet reflect the diversity of our Center City world. But I'm still thinking more of the Center City rather than the whole city. So that gives us both something to shoot for. So we don't sit down and are complacent with our contextualization. But at the same time, it's realistic because we're not trying to reflect the whole city. We're trying to reflect the center. That's my best on that. I think I've got time for another question. Finally, somebody on the right. Sorry. Go ahead. Okay. Our small fellowship group is comprised predominantly of young families. And they've expressed the desire to stay in this city. But the constant concern that comes up is as their family grows and the financial demands grow. I'm just curious if there's any way to concentrate the pool of people who've committed to the Center City. And I think that's a good question. But I think there's a lot of people who've committed to staying here in this city to help mentor them so that it's more sustainable to have families like this remain. That's the easiest question I've had so far. Thank you very much. No, no, it is. The answer is absolutely we should. Now, it's a little unfair because it's the devils and the details, right? But not everybody who stays in New York City long term gets married and has kids. Plenty of people do not. But there's a fair number of people who do. And traditionally, that's where people leave. Okay. In other words, not when they're single, but when they get married and start having children. And therefore, if we're really going to reach the vision, we have to support families. And I could give you all the reasons why that's not as easy as I'm making it sound. But the fact is that in most of the cities, most of the churches of the world, there's no center city. There's no center city. There's no center city. There's no center city. So we can't even create a place for singles. So we can't even create a place for singles. In New York, it's always been the opposite danger is that the singles so dominate the ethos that the families don't feel like we're making a place for them. And we can't let that happen. Though we have. And sometimes we do. And some families are happier than others. But actually, the less happy families are the ones we should be listening to right now because they probably want some things that we don't want. So we can't even create a place for them. So we can't even create that will make for a greater embrace of families than we do now. So the answer is yes. But I have to now give it over to Bruce because the time is up. So we'll be back and talking more about these underpinnings of our 10-year plan a quarter from now. Thank you, Tim.