I'm going to read in John chapter 10 from verses 1 to 15. It's printed in your bulletin. Since I'm not going to deal with the last couple of verses, if you have burning questions about those verses, you can come to the question and answer time afterwards. John chapter 10, 1 to 15. I tell you the truth. The man who does not enter the sheep pen by the gate, but climbs in by some other way, is a thief and a robber. The man who enters by the gate is the shepherd of his sheep. The watchman opens the gate for him and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own he goes on ahead of them and his sheep follow him because they know his voice. But they will never follow a stranger. In fact, they will run away from him because they do not recognize a stranger's voice. Jesus used this figure of speech but they did not understand what he was telling them. Therefore, Jesus said again,

I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. The hired hand is not the shepherd who owns the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it. The man runs away because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep and my sheep know me. Just as the father knows me and I know the father and I lay down my life for the sheep. And right there we'll end our reading. Now, in these weeks up to Christmas, we're looking at the great I am statements that Jesus makes regarding himself in the gospel according to John. And the one we looked at last week, I am the light, focused on who Jesus was. And the ones we're going to look at in the future weeks, I am the bread and I am the vine, they focus more on what Jesus does or gives to us. But this one is special because of all the illustrations, of all the images that Jesus evokes in the great I am statements, all of them are impersonal, like light, bread, vine, resurrection, life, and so on, except this one. And of all the various kinds of animal husbandry Jesus could have chosen, as we're going to see, raising cattle, raising camels, raising horses, raising chickens. The most intimate and comprehensive of all the relationships between a master and an animal is that between a shepherd and a sheep. And therefore, the most intimate and comprehensive, and therefore, Jesus is not so much telling us who he is, though he does tell us that, and what he offers. He, in here, is giving us a really wonderful insight into how he feels, not just what he does for us, but how he feels about us and why he does it. It's really quite remarkable. So what we're going to do here simply is, first of all, look and see how Jesus is the great shepherd. What does that mean? You know, what does it mean to say Jesus is a shepherd? Then secondly, we'll just look at what does it mean to me, to you, to us. How does that practically work out? What must we do? So how is Jesus a shepherd? What does that mean? And then what does it mean to me, to you, to us? First, when we say Jesus is a shepherd, it means actually, as we're going to see here, three things. First, when he says, I am the great shepherd, I am the good shepherd, first of all, he's saying, I know the sheep. Verse 14 to 15, I know my sheep as the Father knows me. Now, what's the picture? Let's get the picture, and then we'll be able to get the point. The picture is, shepherds know their sheep in a way that would shock outsiders. It's always good if you're going to preach on one of these passages, like Luke 15, the shepherd who goes off and brings back the lost sheep, or John chapter 10, or Psalm 23, or all those places. It's always good and fairly easy to find somebody who wrote a commentary or preached some sermons on these passages, ministers, pastors, Bible teachers, who used to be shepherds. And it's always fairly easy to find. And I found one, a man named Douglas McMillan, who was a shepherd for years, and he gives plenty of stories in his exposition that helps us understand that. So, for example, he remembers one day he was on a train with a friend of his who was a shepherd. Doug McMillan had become a minister, but he was on the train with a friend who was a shepherd. And three weeks before, he had sold a number of his lambs. And they were going past, as the past a flock of sheep, which you could see not too far away, but it was some distance away, quite a few number of yards away. And the shepherd looked out and he said to Doug, he says, look, there's four of my lambs in there. And Doug McMillan did not look at him and say, sure. He knew. Shepherds know their sheep. He could spot his four lambs in the flock. McMillan himself says that when he would go out with his flock, it was of utmost importance when they started spreading out that he'd be able to make eye contact with every single one. And therefore, what he would do is he'd go up on a ridge, which is fairly high up, so he could actually make eye contact with every single sheep in his flock. And whenever he would see a fox coming, which happened all the time, he would watch until he got closer, and then he'd whistle real loud, and he'd throw a rock, and the fox was off. he could take a look at every sheep. He watched every sheep every second. Why? Why does a shepherd have to know a sheep in a way that a horse trainer doesn't need to know the horse or certainly doesn't have to watch the horse every single minute? Why do the shepherds need that kind of comprehensive and absolute and complete knowledge of their sheep? It's not a compliment. Because sheep are the most helpless of all the animals. In fact, if you lose a sheep, or pardon me, if you let any animal loose, chicken, dog, cat, horse, camel, if you let any animal loose, they all do one of two things. The one thing they may do is they may kick off their shoes and pull off their hair and go running barefoot through the grass singing, born free, and they just are so happy to be wild again. That's the one thing they do. They may just sort of go like E.T. and they go home, home, home. And off they find their way home. They either go wild or they come home. But sheep don't do either. You see. You know, Macmillan puts it this way. Doug Macmillan puts it about it. He says, you know, he says, sheep are very stupid animals. Sheep follow each other and lose their direction in ways that cats and dogs and no other animal, in a way that cats and dogs do not. and even when you find them, it's very difficult to round them up. Lost sheep run to and fro in a panic. You've never seen a herd of wild sheep. When the settlers come to the new land, they don't have to, you know, go hunt them down because, you see, sheep are too slow, sheep are too defenseless, sheep are too weak, sheep lack any, they're not nimble. Sheep are the most helpless of all animals. Now, what is his point? What's he doing? Jesus is saying, here's his point, that you are spiritually helpless, utterly unselfsufficient, completely dependent. You are spiritually dependent. He says, I know you. He says, you think you're the only one. You're trying to hide it. You think there's something wrong with you. You are utterly spiritually dependent. You lack self-sufficiency. Now, how can I get this across in sort of non-religious terms? Let me give you two examples, just two ways, in which every human being is spiritually utterly dependent. First of all, we're dependent in our understanding. We are continually overestimating or underestimating what we're capable of. And so we're constantly making bad choices and constantly making wrong decisions. And, of course, the best way for me to illustrate this, and this is, here's our situation. The way I most enjoy illustrating it as some of you have heard is this. Your present self looking at your past self say ten years ago. Your present self thinks your past self was a fool. Your present self looks back and says back then I needed guidance. I didn't know. I didn't understand. I was so naive. I was so silly. I did this and that. Back then I needed guidance. So your present self always thinks of your past self as a jerk. Well the problem is that your future self think of your present self as a jerk. Ten years from now, you'll look back now and say, back then, I thought I needed guidance. Back then, I thought I understood, but I was such a fool. But now, well, you know what that means, of course, is? See, this is what Jesus is talking about. You're always a jerk, but you always think you're just getting over it. And see, that's the essence of sheepness. See, Doug McMillan says, the thing that's so awful about sheep lost, but when you show up, they just run to and fro. He says, you can't even round them up. I mean, sheep do, you know, the sheep are lost, right? And the master shows up. What do they do? Do they go, master, master, I'm found. No, they just, they're panicking. They're running around. You got to tackle them. See, sheep, not only, see, sheep means we're not only spiritual jerks, but we think we just got over it. And that's the depth of our sheepness. In understanding, we always need someone to help us. We're always going to be making the wrong moves because we always think we've just arrived. That's what you thought when you were 15 and you look back at your 12-year-old self. Now I've arrived. Boy, what an idiot I was when I was 12. I'm ready for the world now. By the time you're 20, you say, that 15-year-old was an idiot. You are always an idiot and you think you're just getting over it. In understanding, we are utterly dependent and we don't know it, of course, is what makes us dependent. But then secondly, let me give you another example. Not only are we so utterly dependent spiritually in the area of understanding, but we're also so dependent in the area of our self-appreciation, of our self-image. It is typical. Boy, it's so typical today to hear people say this. It shouldn't matter what other people think. it doesn't matter what other people think of you, it doesn't matter what other people say about you all that matters is what you think of you it doesn't matter what other people think all that matters is you live up to your standards and you do what you think is right it doesn't matter what other people think of you all that matters is what you think of you I suggest I propose that is utter nonsense Can you imagine a poet now tell me if this is a high self-image imagine a poet who says, well you know I've been writing poetry for ten years And I've let two or three thousand people read my poems. Everyone has hated them. Everyone. Everyone says, this is stupid. This is terrible. This is bad. You ought to get another job. But it doesn't matter what they think. I know I'm a great poet. Now, what would you say? Well, there's a man with a great self-image. Yeah. Of course, that's a man who's also really on the verge of insanity. That's a person who's really on the verge, you see, of really not being functional. And you know the reason why? That's an extreme case. But here's the fact. We cannot bless ourselves. We cannot feel beautiful just because we keep saying, I'm beautiful, I'm beautiful. You cannot bless yourself. You cannot name yourself. You cannot say, I'm somebody. I have a name. Somebody from outside has got to tell you're beautiful. Somebody from the outside has got to tell you're a good poet. Somebody from the outside has got to bless you. Somebody from the outside has got to name you. You can't do it yourself. And that means you are completely dependent, or you will be completely dependent on somebody else spiritually. Your whole being is going to rest on somebody, whether it's the critics, or whether it's your parents, or whether it's somebody you hope to marry, somebody you have married. Everything, like a little teeny sheep, a little lamb, you're going to be comprehensively and completely dependent on some shepherd. You're a sheep. I'm a sheep. We're spiritually impotent. comes psychologically, mentally, intellectually, we are sheep. If you don't know that, go read any book on history. You say, what idiots those people were back then. And just realize we're jerks now. And we think we just got over it. Now we've come of age. Jesus says, not only that you're sheep, but he says, now let's be real specific. He says, I happen to know your personal sheepness. in other words remember he goes to Nathaniel and he says I saw you under the fig tree he goes the woman at the well John chapter 4 says I know all the men you've had Jesus comes to you and to me and says I have seen your stupid moves every one of them I have seen how insecure underneath you really are I have seen beneath all that swagger and you know bravado I've seen sheep you really are and how insecure and how dependent you are. And not only have I seen every dumb thing you've ever done, but I see in your heart right now all kinds of dumb things you haven't done yet. I see idiotic things you're going to do next year. I see incredible stupid things you're going to do five years from now. I don't just see everything you've done that's dumb. I see everything about you. I see you to the bottom. I know you. You're my sheep. I'm the a shepherd. The doctrine of sin is the first thing. He says he knows you. That's what it means, first of all, to say he's a shepherd. Secondly, he not only knows you, but he also lays down his life for you. This is amazing, especially in light of what we just said. I remember a woman once said to me, if my husband knew the things that go on in my heart and my mind, he would utterly leave me. He would absolutely leave me. But you know what? She was, I guess she thought, I'm telling this to the counselor. You know what? Let me, can I say something? Every minister in the world, I'll be real personal here, even the best ministers in the world know something. If you knew the things that went on in our head, if you knew the thoughts we had just during the week, you would never come back to listen to another sermon. You wouldn't. But you see, you know that's true of yourself too. We all know that if anybody saw us all the way to the bottom, they would turn on us. You know that. I know that. And yet here's Jesus saying, I know my sheep, I know you to the bottom, and I lay down my life for you. Now, what he does here, secondly, look where he says that. Very important. Verse 13. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. The hired hand is not a shepherd who owns the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it. The man runs away because he's a hired hand. And look, he cares nothing for the sheep. Now, Jesus Christ, here's the picture. First of all, we said one thing that's weird about sheep was they're the most helpless of all animals. But you know what the second thing is about sheep? They were the most valuable of animals. That's the reason why it wasn't so unusual for a shepherd who had 99 sheep here to go after the one that was lost. That's the reason and why you're always having robbers and thieves. You know why? Because every sheep, every single part of the sheep was valuable. They were pound for pound the most valuable animal you could have. I mean, he had the wool that was grown and the skin and the meat. Every single part of the sheep was of value. The shepherds did not have their money in a bank and then they raised sheep. That was their treasure. That's where their worth was. That's where their wealth was. The sheep were incredibly valuable. He contrasts himself with the hireling. See? The hired man, though, he goes beyond this, is only in it for the money. But not me. What's he say? Jesus is actually going way beyond. Way beyond the real image. Because, listen, as much as you might love your sheep, as much as you can get close to an animal, there's a limit, is there not? I mean, if my cat fell into a burning furnace, I would weep, I would wail, I would gnash my teeth, but I would not jump in. My wife, who is the greatest animal lover I know, even she would not jump in. But Jesus Christ says, when the wolves come, the people who are in it for the money, they run. But at this point, Jesus Christ actually breaks the banks, you might say, he bursts the banks of the metaphor. for. And he says, I love my sheep so much that when the wolves come, I become a lamb myself. And when it says, I lay down my life for the sheep, that little word for, you can't get it across in English the way it needs to be gotten across. He chooses a particular Greek preposition that means in the place of. And so Jesus Christ is saying, I am the shepherd who becomes a I am the shepherd that when the wolf comes, I would lose anything rather than see my sheep die. I would lose my life. I would lose my glory. I would lose the universe rather than see my sheep perish. Now here's where... This is pretty amazing. How amazing. The son of God is saying, I'm a shepherd and you're the sheep. See, the first point was that's very insulting. If he's a shepherd and we're sheep, we're fools. We're jerks. We're totally impotent. We absolutely need him. But the second point is, if he's a shepherd and we're the sheep, we are his treasure. He owns everything in the world, everything in the universe. On all the galaxies and all the solar systems and all the planets, he owns everything. All the gold, all the wealth, all the treasure. But he says, I have bound my heart up with you. I am ready to die for you. I did die for you. Isaiah 53, tells us what he was thinking on the way to the cross. In Isaiah 53 we read, He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter as a sheep before her shearers is silent. So was he. And on the cross, you know what he was thinking? What was he thinking? He quotes Psalm 22. On the cross, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? But you know what? He was thinking about the whole psalm. And in the psalm we read this, Roaring lions open their mouths wide against me. Dogs surround me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. When he was on the cross, it was the wolves coming. And he quotes Psalm 22 because he's saying, I'm dying for my lambs. Now, there has never been a stronger statement of the dignity of the human person. There has never been a stronger affirmation of any person's value than to hear this. Jesus Christ looks into our heart all the way to the bottom and he says I see something so infinitely precious that I'm going to die for you know there's a number of reasons why Jesus died on the cross the holiness of God the justice of God but those aren't brought out here what we're really seeing is his own inside psychology and we're told that Jesus sees something of such infinite worth and value and he's so attracted to us that he would die for us look there's an old the Conan Doyle stories, one of the short stories of Sherlock Holmes, the original short stories, one of them is called The Musgrave Ritual. In The Musgrave Ritual, it's about a man named Mr. Musgrave who comes to Sherlock Holmes with a terrible mystery. Now, Musgrave was a head of a very old British family, and they owned a very, very old estate. And on that estate, they had found a treasure of sorts, they thought, but nobody could figure it out. They found a bundle deep down inside at the bottom of a lake. And somebody had died for this. Somebody had been murdered for this. And they were saying, they looked at it, and it just seemed to be filled with debris. Just seemed to be filled with, there were some coins in there, and they were pretty valuable. There were four or five coins in there from the reign of Charles I, the British king who had been beheaded. However, the other thing that was in there was just a kind of somewhat twisted, dark, old circle of metal. And Sherlock Holmes is thinking about this, and he's looking at all the clues, and this is great. This is vintage Sherlock, all right? Vintage Holmes. Suddenly he realized, and these are his words. He says, I could understand his regarding it of such small importance when I looked at it, for the metal was almost black in the form of a double ring, but it was somewhat bent, and the stones in it were lusterless and dull. I picked it up. I rubbed one on my sleeve, however, and it glowed like a spark in the dark hollow of my hand. I must congratulate you, most grave, on coming into the possession, though in such a tragic manner, of a relic of great value. What? he gasped in astonishment. What is it, then? Holmes said, It is nothing less than the ancient crown of the kings of England. Now actually, the police had been out there and the whole family had been out there and they're trying to figure why would anybody be killed? Why would anybody die for this? And they've been looking at it and been looking at it but Sherlock Holmes understood. Why would anybody die for this? He looks, he thinks. It's so vintage, Holmes. He picks it up and rubs it on his sleeve and he sees underneath the surface and he says, this is the lost crown of the kings of England. Now look at yourself in the mirror Ask yourself, well, you know, why would anybody die for this? But Jesus Christ has looked under the surface. Jesus Christ is a son or daughter of the King. And Jesus says, I'm going to die in order to make you into a beautiful crown in the dark hollow of my hand. There's never been a stronger statement of someone's value right after the strongest statement of your imbecility and stupidity. together we're getting the gospel. This is the gospel. If you are unwilling to see how stupid you are, you will never see how valuable you are to him. Now, that's not all. Lastly, there's three things about his being a shepherd. First of all, he knows us. That's the doctrine of sin. Thirdly, secondly, pardon me, he values us to the sacrifice of his life. That's the doctrine of substitutionary atonement. I die for my sheep. Voluntarily, I lay down. But then thirdly, what does he do? He finally actually gives us the things that we need. Because he dies for us, he can be our shepherd. And look in verse 3, he puts them together. The two things we said that as sheep we can't do. He says, the watchman opens his gate for him, for the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own by name and leads them out. He calls them by name, leads them out. First, leads them out. It's very important to realize that Western shepherds drive the sheep. They use dogs to do it, or they get in there and they kind of wrestle. They drive the sheep ahead of them, but Eastern shepherds led them. That's the reason why Jesus does not say he drove them out. He leads them out. He goes in front of them. And what this is saying is, first of all, when you believe in Jesus Christ he's right there with you. He doesn't give you a map and say follow it. Here's the treasure map. Find the treasure. He's not sitting on the porch watching you and when you make the wrong turn you say what are we going to do with him? The Bible says when you become a Christian it says in Romans 8.14 as many as are led of the Spirit of God they are the sons of God. Do you hear that? It doesn't say some of the children of God are led. If you're a child of God you're led. being led. What this means is no matter what you do, he's right there with you. You say, well, what if I make a wrong mistake? Well, he's there with you. He didn't give you a map. He gave you himself. And it means that even you make a good decision, fine. You make a bad decision, he's there weaving your bad decision into his loving plan for you. He's there to polish you, you see. He's there to turn you into the beautiful thing that he knows you are, which he put into you when he created you. Your Redeemer is your creator. And therefore, he's with you even when you don't feel like he's with you. Even when you feel like, I've got to make this decision. I've got to make this decision. Tell me, tell me. You know, Jesus says, flip a coin. I'm right here. Either you'll make a wise decision and then I'll be great or you make a foolish decision and I'll use it to prepare you for something greater that you could not really be, you know, foreseeing at the moment. So he leads us out. Then secondly, he calls us by name. Now, you know, I don't know anything about sheep firsthand, of course. And to some degree, I've got to rely on what all the reference books tell me. But the reference books tell me this, that it is true that sheep in general know the voice of their shepherd. The picture here in these first three verses is Jesus, the shepherd, comes to a pen and the watchman is watching overnight all the sheep. Say five or six families all have their flocks in there. And when a shepherd comes to the gate, the shepherd will whistle or make a noise and the sheep will know the voice of their shepherd. And the four or five, I mean the 40 or 50 sheep will come out. And that, of course, was typical. But the reference books say one thing is not typical. In fact, one thing that was absolutely unprecedented would be the idea that a shepherd would have a separate name for every sheep. come up and he'd say, okay, there's a hundred sheep here. So he'd say, you know, Dasher, Dancer, Prancer, Vixen, or whatever he would do. And they would come out one at a time. And yet the text, the Greek text there definitely says, he calls them each by name. And what this is telling us is something the Bible tells us over and over and over again. Jesus as a shepherd will give you the name. Now in the Old Testament, in the Bible, the word, a name is much more than a label. First of all, a name meant status. significance. Remember in Genesis 11, why were they building the great tower of Babel? They said, let us make a name for ourselves. To get a name meant significance. But secondly, your name also meant mission. When Simon's mission in life was changed, he was named Peter because he was going to become a rock. When Abram's mission in life was changed, he became Abraham because he was going to be the father of multitude. And you see, your name also means your distinctiveness. What makes you distinctive, what God has got for you in store for you. And the Bible says that when you become a Christian, what God does is to you, what Jesus does, is he names you. That means, first of all, it is from him that you will finally get what you've been looking for. It's from him. And if you don't look to him to name you, you know what you're going to be doing? In fact, I hope that right now some of you will realize what's been going on in your life because of this paradigm. It's great to fall in love. It's great to want to be married or to get married. But if you look to your spouse to be your shepherd, the one who takes care of you, the one who makes it all right, the one who always affirms you, that finally gives you a name, if you look to your parents and say, my parents should be the ones out. If you look to ministers, if you look to anybody to do this kind of ultimate naming and this ultimate leading, you will find some of them are like the thief. They'll just use you. But a lot of them are like the hired man. They'll just run when you most need them. Because they're human beings. They're sinners. They'll never give you what you need. And when you come to him and when you follow him, you will find that your particular name will become revealed to you over a period of time as to who God is turning you into and who Jesus is making you and the particular good deeds and the particular people whose lives he wants you and you alone to touch. So you see, first of all, he knows us. Secondly, he values us to the point of sacrifice. Once you're willing to admit those first two, once you're willing to admit you're not just, you know, up to air as human, no, you're a sheep. If you're willing to admit your need. And then secondly, if you're willing to be melted by the thought of what he did, then he can come in and be the leader you need because we're a sheep in our understanding and the namer you need because we're a sheep in our self-appreciation. And that's it. Now, what does that actually mean practically? Two things in conclusion. First of all, follow this man. Follow the great shepherd. That's the first thing. Well, you say, how? Well, let me be real practical. First of all, if he's a shepherd, you have to follow him comprehensively. What does that mean? If you're sheep, Jesus is calling you to complete lordship. If he's a shepherd, then he's not just a king. You know, he calls himself a king. And you say, yes, I'm supposed to obey. But when he says, I'm your shepherd king, what he's saying is, that there is not any area of your life that you're not supposed to bring to him. I mean, shepherds took care of everybody. The sheep needed a shepherd for every area of life. They needed a shepherd as a physician, a shepherd as a provider, a shepherd as a feeder, as a protector. Now, what does that mean? Well, it takes most of us years. We almost always come for the first time to Jesus because there's an area of our life that we're saying, come on in and rearrange it. come on in. But the rest we keep away. Oh man, let me just give you the perfect example. Sometimes we come to him because of our career. It's falling apart. Lord, come in and help me. But stay out of my love life. We don't think about that. But a lot of times we come to God because of our love life. We say, come in, help me. Oh, it's a mess. But stay out of how I spend my money and what I do at my work. And Jesus says, I'm sorry, I'm a shepherd king. You must obey, you must follow me comprehensively in every area of your life. Also, to follow him as your shepherd means not just follow him comprehensively, but follow him unconditionally. Remember, I told you Doug McMillan said, the trouble with lost sheep is not only they get lost, but when you find them, they're just, you can't even round them up. They don't jump up and down and say, master, master. You know, they don't follow you home. This is what Doug McMillan says you have to do when you find a lost sheep. Listen, even when you find them, it is very difficult to round it up. Lost sheep run to and fro in a panic. When you find it, you must seize it, throw it to the ground, tie its four legs and its hind legs together, put it over your shoulders, to get it home. Now, you know, I mentioned this, I guess, last year. That beautiful story in Luke 15, the shepherd sees the poor little lost lamb and he goes after it. And it says he brings it home. Remember, he puts it on his shoulders and he brings it home rejoicing. Isn't that sweet? But you realize what he did? The little sweet little lamb. And he goes out there and there's a sheep. And what does he do? He grabs it. He throws it to the ground, stunning it, you know. He ties up the hind legs, ties up the fore legs. It's going all like this. He puts it on the back and he comes on rejoicing. Well, now listen, here's what Jesus is saying to you. He's saying over and over and over again, you're going to think you're getting treatment that's too rough. Over and over again, you're going to say, look at the things that are happening to me in my life. If I had a shepherd, this would never happen to me. He says, but you're a sheep. Your understanding is very limited. So often the loving thing that a shepherd has to do it home to save its life. The sheep doesn't understand. Not at the moment. The sheep says, what's going on? I can't move. I've been hurt. Why did he hit me like that? Why did he throw me down? What's my master doing to me? Now, some of you are exactly in that position this minute. And Jesus says, don't just follow me comprehensively as your shepherd king, but you must follow me unconditionally. That means that when it looks terrible, looks like it's not practical, it looks confusing, it looks awful, you have to follow me. Because you're a sheep. You'll die if you don't. Obey me. Listen to me. Trust me. Stick with me. You see. But then lastly, if you're going to follow him, you must also follow him, not just comprehensively, not just unconditionally, but personally. The reason that Jesus Christ calls himself a shepherd is he wants a personal relationship with you. He wants personal communion. Every other founder of a major religion died and leaves you the teaching. And therefore, all you can do is follow his teaching. But Jesus is the shepherd who was struck but now has been raised from the dead and he wants you to follow him personally. He wants to have a relationship with you. Do you think it's just an accident that when you get to Psalm 23, it starts off, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in a green pasture. See, he's a shepherd. He leadeth me beside still waters. He restores my soul. He's still a shepherd. He leadeth me to pass the righteousness of the name of the Lord. Yea, I walk through the valley of shadow and death. The rod and staff comfort me. Wait a minute. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup runneth over. The sheep has become a friend. You see, in fact, Jesus is the shepherd who became a sheep so that his sheep could become people. Jesus Christ was the great one who became a little lamb so that us stupid little lambs could become great ones. He doesn't just want you to be a sheep. He wants you to be his friend. What does that mean? What do friends do? Friends talk regularly. Can you imagine if all you ever did, a relationship in which you only went to that person when you needed money? Would that be a friendship? No. And some of you would have to say, I only pray when I'm in trouble. I only go to church when I'm in trouble. You've got to pray and meditate on the Word of God, and you've got to get to know Him regularly. You have to also get underneath the surface. Don't just do gimme prayers. Lord, help this and help that. Repent. Get beneath the surface. You don't have a good friendship if all you ever do is talk about superficialities. Get down. Get underneath. He wants your friendship. He wants you to feel his love in your life. He wants you to open your heart to him. He doesn't want you to just sort of follow the rules. He wants personal intimacy. Personalize your relationship with him. So follow this shepherd by obeying him comprehensively, following and obeying him unconditionally, following and obeying him personally, In fact, one more thing. Be shepherds yourself. This shepherd became a little lamb, so little lambs could actually become shepherds. The Bible says when you finally grow up, when you get over this need, this insecurity, this need to have just the right body, this need to have just the right person on your arm, this need that... When you stop having to go to the rest of the world to name you, there'll be this incredible source of security in you and people will be attracted to you and do what was done to you. Get to know people. Show them how much you value them. Spend time with them and point them to the one who named you. See, eventually you haven't come full circle. If you just are a sheep, you have to become a friend and then it's not even in there enough, but you have to eventually become a shepherd yourself to other people. Comfort each other with these words. Let's pray. We pray, Father, that as we think about Jesus our shepherd, might come to understand what he wants from us. He doesn't just want obedience. He wants fellowship. We pray that you would help us to understand that and to give that because that would be the thing that we most need. Jesus Christ stands forth and says, I am the great shepherd. This is what you've been looking for all your life. I pray, Lord, that we might find him today. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
