James 4, 11, and 12, along with James 5, verse 12. Brothers, do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you're not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it. There is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. But you, who are you to judge your neighbor? Above all, my brothers, do not swear, not by heaven or by earth or by anything else. Let your yes be yes and your no, no, or you will be condemned. This is God's word. Now, let me remind you that the book of James has a dynamic. The pastor who wrote this letter, that there's a particular dynamic, there's a particular method to his madness. James, if you read it superficially, looks like almost a harangue. James looks like he's saying, he's just got this long list of things that he wants us to do as Christians. And we've been going through that list. He says, care for the poor, control your tongue, don't be taken in by the glitz of the world, don't be caught up in the spirit of the world. Here tonight, he's talking about speaking the truth and not slandering. So he's got this long list. And it looks like... He's simply... He's giving us mere exhortations. It looks like he's just appealing to the will and saying, don't do this and don't do this and do this and do this. But if you look carefully, there is always a particular method. And it's very, very important to see it because there's a sense in which the single theme... There's one theme to James and a million case illustrations of it. But there's really one theme. And that one theme is this, that the secret... Of practical and effective Christian living is the ability to preach the gospel to yourself. The ability to inflame your own heart with the history and all the dimensions of redemption. You see, look, in James chapter 1, verse 23, which I think is probably the critical illustration to this whole basic theme. James is the one who says, faith without works is dead. In other words, he says, the secret of a real... Effective Christian life is a living faith. Well, what's a living faith? Well, he gives an example. In chapter 123, he says, if you look into a mirror and then walk away and forget what you see, that's dumb. He says then, in the same way, he says what you should do is you should look into the law of God and remember what you see by going out and living in accordance with it. And here's what he means. He says, what does it mean to live a Christian life? Not merely to just do this and do this and do this. He says, the secret of the Christian life is to take a truth and lay it on your heart and ponder it and taste it until it ignites in the center of your life. And if your life isn't radically changed in all the ways that he mentions, you have never taken it in. You see, when you look in a mirror, you see yourself in and through the mirror. And what James says is, here's the difference between a religious person, a moral person, and a Christian. A Christian is somebody who... Looks into the word of God, into the truth of God, and doesn't just see rules. You see yourself. You have a whole new way of understanding yourself. You see yourself in and through the truth. And see, James never simply says, do this, do that. What does he do? He says, who is Jesus? And who are you now because of what Jesus did? And who is Jesus to you? And who are you to Jesus? Think. Weep. Get excited. Get sad. Get sad. Think about it. He says,

Don't just look at the rules. See yourself. And therefore, he never, ever, ever... And I'm going to show you how he does it here. He never simply says, don't slander. He says, don't slander because there is a judge who saves us. He doesn't say simply, don't be biased against the poor. He says, don't be biased against the poor because if you know the Lord of glory, you won't be... You won't be... If you know the real Lord of glory, you will not be... You won't be... Taken in by earthly glory. He always, always goes to the heart, not to the will directly. Always. This is the secret of the Christian life. See, what he's going to say here is, are you a slanderous person? Are you a judgmental person? That's the theme tonight. He says, if you're a judgmental person, yes, of course he's saying stop it. Of course he's saying stop it. But what he's really saying is, if you can't stop it, it's not just because you're bad. You don't get it. You don't get the gospel. You don't get Christianity. Your heart has been untouched by the core of the gospel itself. See, James will not let you off the hook by just saying you're a bad person. He's saying, you don't understand. That's the secret. All right, now let's take a look at tonight. What he does is he starts off and says, here is good communication. And he does lay out a blueprint. He does lay out a blueprint for our behavior. But then he shows us not just, he doesn't just lay out the blueprint and says, now do it. He lays out the blueprint and says, and here's how you can become a person like this. Here's how you can melt and change the shape of your very heart, the deep structures of your thinking, the deep structures of your feelings, the deep structures of how you go about looking at life. Here's how you can change yourself in such a way that you live like this. Okay, so first let's see the behavior. And then secondly, let's see the means to the change. Okay? Let's look at the behavior first. And then, and then he shows us how we can lay the truth on our hearts in such a way that these deep changes happen. First of all, here's what he says. In 5.12 and 4.11, you have got a comprehensive and complete Christian theory of communication. And it's typical because you see it many other places in the Bible. What is the comprehensive theory of communication? Well, Paul puts it in the nut of shells in Ephesians 4.15 where he says, Speak the truth in love. Speak the truth in love. 5.12, you've got an exhortation to speak truth. But then in chapter, that's 5.12. But in 4.11, there's an exhortation to use the truth lovingly. So let's take a look. Let's look at 5.12 briefly because I think that the main thrust here tonight needs to be not so much telling the truth but how to use the truth properly. So look at 5.12. Above all, my brothers, do not swear, not by heaven or earth or anything else. Let your yes be yes and your no. You'll be no or you'll be condemned. Now, James here is actually quoting Jesus almost word for word from his Sermon on the Mount where he says, I say, swear not at all. Don't swear by heaven or swear by earth or swear by Jerusalem or swear. Don't swear. Don't take oaths, he says. But let your yes be yes and your no be no. Now, over the years, a lot of Christians have been confused and a lot of churches have been confused. And superficially, it seems like Jesus is saying, never take an oath. I mean. It looks superficial like Jesus is saying, never put your hand on a Bible and say, I swear by the Bible that this is true. Never say, I swear by God. Never say, I swear. Never say, by oath I do this. Never do that. That seems to be what it's saying, right? Except that can't be. Why not? Well, because Jesus took oaths. Because St. Paul made oaths. And because God, the Father, made an oath. I mean, for example, in Matthew 26, during his trial, the high priest looks at Jesus and says, I charge you. Under oath, by the living God, are you the Son of God? And Jesus says, yes. He takes an oath. You can see Paul taking oaths in 2 Corinthians 1.23. You can see Paul taking an oath in Galatians 1.20. And you can see God himself coming before Abraham and taking an oath in Genesis 15. To say, I swear. To say, I swear by this or I swear by that or I swear. You know, to say, I swear on the Bible, there's nothing wrong with that. Why? Because you see it happening in the Bible all the time. Well, so what does Jesus mean? What does James mean? Simply. This. Not that taking oaths for a Christian are wicked, but taking oaths for Christians are non-consequential. What he's really saying is, there must not be any difference. There must not be any difference from an oath on a stack of Bibles and your simplest yes and no. What James is saying, what Jesus is saying, what Paul is saying is this. For a Christian, there can be no levels of truthfulness. For a Christian, every yes and every no. When somebody comes and says, will you call me this week? Okay. I don't know why in the world I'm saying this to you. I don't know why. You know, why am I inviting the judgment of God? I don't know. When somebody says, will you call me this week? And if you say yes, God says, don't you realize I'm there? I'm there. You are saying something before the face of God. Your hand's always on the. Bible. You're always swearing by God. What it really is saying is, don't you dare as a Christian think that when you take an oath, you have to tell the truth and the rest of the time while you can fudge. That's what he's saying. He says, as far as you're concerned, there's no such thing as an oath anymore. Sure, if people want you to swear in a stack of Bibles, fine. Jesus did in a sense. Paul did. And you can see all that. He says, every yes, every no, everything you say is you're saying before the face of God. God holds you. You're responsible to be utterly truthful in every little thing you say. No levels of integrity. No levels of truthfulness. Truth. Speak the truth. Let your yes be yes. Let your no be no. And if you don't know, say, I don't know. All right. Now, but that's only one side. Because when you look at James 4.11 and 12, especially 4.11, he says, Brothers, do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law. And judges it. Who are you to judge your neighbor? Interesting. James says that Christians must not be characterized by a judging spirit. A judgmental spirit. I cannot tell you how important this is. Now, the reason I balanced this together is, first of all, we have to see that slander and judging is not falsehood. A lot of people will think, okay, here's this word slander. Well, James is saying don't tell lies about people. No, there is another Greek word for a lie. That's not the word that's being used here. What James is saying is not don't tell lies about each other. Of course you're not supposed to tell lies about each other. That's not what he's talking about here. In 4.11, he is saying you can tell something that is absolutely true, absolutely accurate, and still be slandering and judging somebody with it. But James is not talking here about telling falsehoods. He is forbidding using the truth in a certain way. Now, what is that? Well, let me give you another. Let me give you, though, another qualification. Some people think that slander, what he's saying is, well, just don't tell a lie. That's not what he's talking about. He's talking about don't tell the truth in a particular way. Being a Christian and your communication, your communication entails more than just telling the truth. What is your purpose in telling the truth? How are you using the truth in the conversation? Now, what does it mean? Well, let me just tell you one other thing that it doesn't mean before we get on to what it does. Many people think that slandering and judging means any kind of moral evaluation at all. I've got to say something about this because modern people today say, oh, yes, that's right, don't judge. But what they mean by it, what they think James means by it, what they think Jesus means in Matthew 7, in Matthew 7, you know, Jesus says, judge not lest ye be judged, which is almost exactly what James says here. Don't judge. Well, a lot of people say, well, that means don't make moral evaluations. It's very, very typical for people today to say, that's what I don't like about Christians. You know, this has happened to many of you, has it not? Somebody says to you, well, now, okay, let me ask you a question. Do you think that? Do you think that person is lost because they don't believe what you believe? Do you think that person is doing something immoral? And if you sit there, no matter how nicely you say, well, yes, I do. Oh, that's what I don't like about you Christians, is the retort. You're judging. That's the problem with you Christians. Don't you realize that though that may not be right for you, it could be right for someone else. You must never, this is the way it goes, you must never, say somebody else's religion is wrong, somebody else's behavior is wrong. You must never judge. Never make a moral evaluation. Is that what Jesus is talking about? Is that what James is talking about? No. What can I say about a view like that? Well, at the very best, it's utterly contradictory. And at the very worst, it's absolutely hypocritical to talk like that. And you know what the rejoinder is. I hope you know how to do it. When somebody says you must not make a moral evaluation, that is a moral evaluation. As soon as you say you mustn't call anybody else wrong, that person is doing the very thing you're saying you can't do. When you say you must never call someone else's religion wrong, but they're doing that to you at the very moment. They're saying, wait, moral evaluation is wrong. They're moral evaluating moral evaluation. You see? Well, you mustn't evaluate, but that is an evaluation. As soon as you say must not, you're evaluating. It's absolutely contradictory. You can't avoid making moral evaluations. You just can't do it. And James doesn't. He doesn't try. I mean, the whole book is filled with moral evaluations. He says, don't do this and don't do this and don't do this. This is right, this is wrong. No. What James is forbidding is how you do your moral evaluation. Now, let me put it to you this way. The word slander and the word judge are kind of used interchangeably. The word slander literally means to belittle, to talk down to somebody, to treat someone as small. The word judge, judge means to condemn. And here's what we got. You notice, for example, judge is being contrasted with brothers or sisters. You see, you're a brother, you're a sister. Act like a brother or sister, not like a judge. Don't belittle. Don't talk down. Let me put it to you in this kind of summary. Slandering and judging is telling the truth to punish rather than redeem. Do you hear me? You can tell the truth. See, people say, I want to tell the truth. I went and gave criticism. James says, that tells me nothing about whether you've done it as a Christian. Well, shouldn't a Christian tell the truth? James says, sure. But why did you tell the truth? And how did you tell the truth? Slander and judging is using the truth to punish. A judge is not a parent. A judge is not a brother or a sister. A judge's job is to get rid of the truth. A judge's job is to get rid of somebody. A judge's job is to repay. A judge's job is to eye for an eye. That's a judge's job. Slander and judging is to use the truth to punish rather than redeem. Or let me put it another way. Slander and judging is speaking from a morally superior position to talk down, see, belittle, rather than as an equal. Let me put it to you one more way. Okay? Slander and judging is telling the truth to push a person away instead of pull them in. Push them away instead of getting them closer. Slander and judging is telling the truth to pay somebody instead of wake them up, redeem them, reclaim them. You have to ask yourself when you're telling someone the truth, why you're doing it. This word, slander, kataleo, means literally to not just talk down and treat a person as small, morally superior, but to make a person small. In slander, you may be telling the truth, but the reason you're doing it is you're doing it to make that person weightless, to make that person small in their eyes or in the eyes of others. You are doing it to make them lose respect for themselves or to make other people lose respect for them. You're doing it to drain them of social capital. You're doing it to drain them of influence. You're paying them back. You're punishing them. Are you telling the truth to build them up or are you doing the truth to tear it down? Are you telling the truth to push them away, to destroy the relationship, or are you telling the truth to reclaim the relationship, to wake them up? Are you telling the truth as a morally superior, a judge speaking to someone in the dock, or are you doing it as a brother, you're doing it as a sister, you're doing it as an equal? Those are the questions. Now let me tell you why this is so incredibly important. Because our secular world thinks that, any kind of moral evaluation is judging, which I tried to show you is at best utterly contradictory and at worst terribly hypocritical. Nevertheless, because of it, Christians clearly overreact. And the world sees churches filled with a spirit of judging. I mean, churches either see, the world either sees churches filled with legalistic judgmental spirits or else they see churches that are afraid to call anything wrong at all. There's almost nothing. Listen, there's almost, there are no churches, I don't think even ours, that is characterized by this absolute commitment to truth and an absolute absence of moral superiority and a judging spirit. Well, somebody says, how can we avoid a judging spirit? Well, first of all, just two ways. First of all, recognize it in yourself. Let me first of all help you do some diagnosis. How do you know if you've got a judging spirit? Well, let me give you a few signs, all right? These are symptoms, these are signs. Look at yourself. The shoe fits. First of all, well, listen, you have to be careful with this first sign. The first sign you have a judging spirit is that when you criticize a person, they are destroyed. They are crushed. They are thrown away. Now, listen, you have to be very careful because there are people, if you speak the truth and love to them, they will be deflated no matter what. They will be angry no matter what. And the relationship may unravel no matter what. So you have to be careful about it. But if you find that continuously and regularly over the years, the people you criticize are made to feel little, are made to feel drained of social capital, lose their own self-respect, they're crushed, they're deflated, they're broken because of it. If that happens continually, you've got a judging spirit. Let me give you a second sign. You've got a judging spirit if you have a fault-finding habit of mind. In other words, if you tend to jump into judging before you even have all the facts, if you feel like all around you people are such jerks, they're such fools, everybody around you feels like they deserve, you know, somebody to come and tell them about it, that's a fault-finding habit of mind. It's a spirit of judging. You have to remember something. James not only depicts a judging spirit as a violation of love, but also as a violation of humility. He says, who are you to judge? You see? And if you continually feel superior to all the people around you, and you can only be irritated constantly with people if you feel superior to them constantly. If you have a habitually irritable spirit, if you have a habitually fault-finding spirit, it's a sign of a judging spirit. Thirdly, let me give you another one. A sign of a judging spirit. A sign of a judging spirit is that you actually enjoy not only telling people about their faults, but hearing about them. Now, this is very, very embarrassing to me. Let me give you an example. It's very humiliating. I didn't realize that I'd hid this from myself. But over the years, as a minister, it happens fairly often that people will come to me and they will tell me about awful things happening in other churches. And they'll say, oh, there was a fight, and there was a split, and there was a scandal, and they'll tell me about the stupid things that the leaders or the pastors did. And I'll sit there, and on the outside, not only to them, but even to myself, say, oh, this is awful. I hate hearing this. But underneath, I kind of like it. Why? Because deep, deep down inside, I say, boy, a long time ago, I knew that you can't do that as a pastor. I mean, years ago, I realized that's the stupidest thing in the world. Why do we enjoy hearing gossip? Why? It's a judging spirit. You know why? Because it's a judging spirit. Because it makes you feel righteous. It's a self-justifying impulse. It makes you feel like you're patching up your own righteousness, like you're a pretty good person. That's a spirit of judging, to not only enjoy telling people about their faults with a certain glee in it, you know, take that, but to even hear about other people's faults is a judging spirit. Let me give you another sign of a judging spirit. When you go beyond, when you go beyond the facts and impute motives to people, you go beyond the facts and impute motives to people. I'm going to give you an example. This has happened in a church very, very far away, very far away. A friend of mine who is an elder said that there was a man who was an elder and he chaired a committee and he tended to be an indecisive leader. And there was a couple on this committee and they wanted to do all these great things in the church and this elder was always a little bit intimidated by their ideas and he was very, he tended to be indecisive and he tended to be timid, you know. And so he was saying, well, I don't think we ought to do that. I don't think we ought to do that. And he was very frustrating to them. Finally, they said, we want to talk to the secretary. The whole elders. So they came to the board of elders and with the man there, they sat down and said, here's what we want to tell you. This man does not have a passion for Christ. This man doesn't want to do great things for Christ. He doesn't love Jesus. He doesn't have passion for Christ. He shouldn't be a leader in this church. Now, you see, the pastor looked at them and said, rightly so. I said, look, if you came and said this is an indecisive leader, he's an ineffective leader, perhaps you're right. But when you come in and say, say something that you aren't sure about at all, this man lacks a passion for Christ, you are showing me that you are here to punish this man with the truth, not wake him up. You're here to push him away, not to bring him closer. You're here to slander him. And I demand an apology. And he was right. Do you have a judging spirit? Do you speak down to people? Well, how do we avoid this? How important it is to avoid this? How important it is to avoid it? Well, look what James does. Here's what James does. He says, when you judge the law, you are not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it. I don't have time to go into that. What he's really saying is the law itself says not to judge. You know what? You know the place where Jesus says, you've heard it said to me, you've heard it said, thou shalt not murder, but I say if you call someone a fool and if you call them a rocker, which means you know one, if you slander, if you accuse, if you swell with anger, if you try to defame that person, you're also guilty of judgment. Do you realize what Jesus is saying? He is saying slander is not a subheading underlying. Slander is a subheading under murder. How is it possible for the Nazis to kill the Jews? Well, they were able to kill the Jews because for many years they called them no ones. They looked down at them. They thought of these people as sort of sub-me until they could kill them. Jesus says, when you are able to assume any position of moral superiority to condemn people, to write them off, to give up on them, to demonize them, that's a seed of murder. That's murder. It'll happen. It can happen. You better hope it doesn't, but the seeds of murder are in your heart. Slander is not a subheading of lying. Judging and condemning people and writing them off is not a subheading of lying. It's a subheading of murder. And Jesus says when you do it, you're judging the law that condemns it. You're saying, you're much more wise in the law. But ultimately, here's what he says. He says, you're forgetting something. Lay this truth on the heart. You are standing in the place of the judge of the universe, and there's only one judge. Now, don't have much time, but I'm going to show you. He says there's three things about God that make him alone the judge. This is going to be brief, but look, first of all, he says there's only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. That word, destroy, means this. He is able to be a judge because he's the creator. If I create a chair in my apartment and I look at it, I in my mind know what this chair ought to be, and so I and I alone can decide when it's done, it's a failure, and I can break it apart and start over. Nobody else has the right to do that. Nobody else has the knowledge to do that. Nobody else can come in and say, this is a failure. You don't know what I made it for. I say, hey, I like it that way. That's exactly what I meant. Now, listen. You do not have the wisdom to judge other people. You have no idea what they deserve. You always have enough knowledge to take the truth to build up, to take the truth to wake up, to take the truth to shake up, to help a person, but you never, ever, ever have enough knowledge to know what this person deserves to use the truth to punish them. You know why? You have no idea what they deserve. Here's a person that looks less patient than you. All right? You have no idea what kind of background she had. You have no idea how her parents treated her. She could be twice as patient as she used to be, and you never have improved in your whole life. She could be a far better steward of the deck that life has dealt her than you have been with the deck that life has dealt you. You have no idea what she deserves. You have no idea. You have no idea that she could be destroyed and that she should be destroyed or punished. You have no idea why. You're not smart enough. Don't you dare ever say, I know what this person deserves. This person deserves a tongue lashing. This person deserves a thrashing. This person deserves to be embarrassed. You have no idea. Only God has enough wisdom to be the judge. Secondly, only God has enough righteousness to be the judge. He's the lawgiver. Why? He didn't make up the law. He is the law. See, lying is wrong, not because God said, hey, I think I'll make lying wrong. It's because God is a God of truth. You are the only, he is the only one who has the right to judge because he's the only righteous one. Why do you think Jesus said, he who is without sin cast the first stone? There's only one person who's righteous. But here's the third thing. He's the only judge. He's the only one qualified to be the judge because notice, he's also the one who's able to save. Here's the most incredible thing about Jesus Christ. He is a judge who is willing, who is willing, who is willing to come and be judged to save us. How can a judge save? The only way a judge can save, he can't do it by stop, to stop judging. Any judge that says, well, I know you're guilty, but oh well. Let bygones be bygones. I mean, you throw a judge like that out. And the judge of the universe cannot possibly stop judging to save. It's on the cross, my friends, where Jesus Christ was able to save through judgment. Don't you see why truth and love can be held together? Only when the deep structure of the gospel, the deep structure of the cross comes into your life because on the cross, the truth and love met. They eat each other up apart from the cross. How can God be holy and just and loving and salvific at the same time? Only by punishing Jesus on the cross. Jesus Christ is the judge who saved through judgment. He never stopped judging. He never stopped being just. But he passed the judgment and then he walked into the criminal's dock and he took the ax as it came down. He saved us through letting himself be judged. And therefore, he is the only one that deserves to judge. How in the world can you possibly, how can you possibly say this one doesn't have the right to judge if he was willing to do that for you? And therefore, when James says, who are you? Here's what he's saying. When Jesus looked at the woman caught in adultery and he says, he who is without sin cast the first stone. Now, Kathy and I always get excited by this one place in the story, the greatest story ever told. It's not the greatest movie in the world, but when Jesus, Max von Sydow, does that scene, he looked, he has a stone. He says, he who is without sin cast the first stone. And everybody says, oh gosh, I can't do it. I can't be judged. Remember what, you know what he does? He casts the stone. Why? He's without sin, but he casts it into the ground. And here's what, what James is saying. How dare you? Who are you to do something that even Jesus didn't do? Jesus, when we sinned against him, absorbed it and didn't pay back. And when someone sins against you, are you, are you going to do the very thing that even Jesus didn't assume to do? See that? Jesus absorbed the sin and did not pay back. And are you now, if someone sins against you, are you going to pay back? Who are you? Don't you see? If you're a sinner saved by grace, you can't think about that and what he did for you and have a judging spirit. Oh, could we be a church that never forgets this? This is not just the judge. This is the judge who saves through judgment. This is the judge who was judged so he could save. And if you keep that in the center of your heart, on the one hand, that means you will make moral evaluations everywhere. You will not be afraid to say, yes, that's wrong, yes, that's wrong, yes, that's wrong. And no one will ever feel judged by what you're saying. Could we be a church absolutely committed to absolute truth without an ounce of self-righteousness, moral superiority, or a judging spirit? James says, here's how to do it. It's up to us. Let's pray. Our Father, help us to see. Help us to take into our heart the judge that was judged. Help us to lay him in our heart. Help us to think about him. Help us to put what he did on the palate of our soul until it takes all the self-righteousness out so we love people enough to tell the truth but to never do it destructively. Father, some of us are very loving but we're afraid to tell the truth. Well, we're forgetting the cross. But some of us are very truthful but we don't use it in love. We're forgetting the cross. Heal me, Lord, and I will be healed with the knowledge of your cross. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.