Let's hear God's word. Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me everything I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with them, and he stayed two days. And because of his word, many more became believers. They said to the woman, we no longer believe just because of what you said. Now we have heard ourselves, and we know that this man really is the Savior of the world. After the two days he left for Galilee, and Jesus had pointed out that a prophet has no honor in his own country, but when he arrived in Galilee, the Galileans welcomed him. They'd seen all that he had done in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, for they also had been there. Once more he visited Cana in Galilee, where he had turned the water into wine. Now there was a certain royal official whose son lay sick at Capernaum. When this man heard that Jesus had arrived in Galilee from Judea, he went to him and begged him to come and heal his son who was close to death. Unless you people see miraculous signs and wonders, Jesus told him, you will never leave, you'll never believe. And the royal official said, Sir, come down before my child dies. Jesus replied, You may go. Your son will live. The man took Jesus at his word and departed. While he was still on the way, his servants met him with the news that his boy was living. This was the second miraculous sign Jesus performed, having come from Judea to Galilee. This is God's Word. And a marvelous thing it is. it's inevitable isn't it that if you we travel through any book of the bible you get to these great passages on faith on belief because it's one of the great themes of the scripture now we talk a lot about it today we just don't use the word we talk about failure to cope and that's why uh you see that it's a very practical issue jesus at one point says to his disciples, who are riddled with anxiety and riddled with guilt, he looks at them and he says, oh ye of little faith, they're failing to cope. Oh ye of little faith, oh ye failing to cope, same thing. So you see, it is a preeminently practical issue. What is faith? Now faith, well, let's start this way. Let's ask, what do people who do not have faith think about it? And a lot of you, I know, would agree that you're probably in that category. You have little faith, or maybe no faith, or you struggle with faith. What do people who think they don't have any faith believe about people who think they do? Now, it kind of, I think, divides into two categories. People who think that they don't have much religious faith or Christian faith. They have a couple of different attitudes. The one attitude is this. I hear a lot of people say, well, faith, yes. need that. Faith is for a certain type of person. Faith is for people who just need that crutch. Recently, one of you gave me an article from a British newspaper that was covering the spectacular growth of a particular Anglican church somewhere in England that was now filled, overflowing with young converts enthusiastically saying, I now know Christ personally. The article was a little skeptical, as you might guess, and it quoted an old Etonian. It quoted a man who, you know, obviously graduated from Eton College, Cambridge, right? Or is it Oxford? Don't tell me. I should know that. But anyway, it quoted a skeptic. And the man says, he says, well, yes, I have friends that have gotten into that kind of Christianity now. And he says, most of them are the kind of people that need other folks to give them direction. And a lot of them are not amongst my friends. And you know, you can hear what he's saying. You can hear him sniff a little bit as he says it, and you can hear him say, yes, faith is wonderful for a certain kind of person, but I am a sensible, rational, self-actualized adult. But my friend, if you even feel that way at all, you are altogether wrong in thinking that you don't have faith and they do. You see, the difference between religious people and you is not that they have faith and you don't. The difference is where you're putting your faith. And on the other hand, you have people who really also, you know, say, I don't have faith, but they long for it. They don't sniff at it. There was, when I was a pastor in Virginia, there was a Christian family in another church, not in my church, but another church, that had a tremendously tragic experience. The young mother had strapped all three of her children, all under the age of five, in the backseat of the car, which is a safe thing to do. Then suddenly she remembered something. She went into her house. When she went into the house, the car rolled backward down the driveway into a pond, and all three children drowned by the time that she could get them out. And, you know, this is the sort of thing that everybody says, wait a minute. There's a Christian family. And people marveled. People came from all around to the funeral, and people marveled for months. because of the way in which that Christian family handled that tragedy. The fact is, for example, that instead of being bitter against God at all, both the Christian couple continually testified to a sense of being upheld by the loving hand of their father. Not only that, everybody was marveled to watch a mother who must have been every day getting a lethal hail, a dose of bullets and boulders of guilt from the conscience into her heart, right? It must have been a tremendous avalanche of guilt and regret that would have come into her life. And of course she struggled with it, and yet she was continually able to deflect it in faith. She was continually able to forgive herself and to understand that and to trust God in it. And you know, today they have three more children, and they're raising a Christian family. And I've had people, and not surprising, people look at that and they say, say, if only I had faith in God like that, if only I had a faith that could pull me out of the depths like that. I could never possibly weather such a storm. And you see, whereas these people seem to have inferiority feelings in front of people with faith, they say, oh yes, yes, I wish I had faith like that, I just don't have it. They seem very different than the people with the superiority attitude. The people that sniff and say, yes, some people need faith. That's for people like that. Both types of persons are making the same mistake. They believe that faith is for a certain kind of person. They believe that faith is like a temperament or like a talent. They talk about faith. You know, the inferiority people say, I wish I had that kind of faith. It's like saying I wish I could sing like her. I wish I could. You see what I mean? As if it's something that's inborn and that's just not something that I have. In the same way, the superior person says, yes, some people are emotional types. Some people need that sort of thing. Some people need direction from the outside instead of from the inside. But they're both making the same mistake. They are assuming that faith is for a certain kind of person, for a certain type. They assume that. And they assume wrong. They assume incorrectly. They assume improperly. Every conceivable type of person in the world is represented in the church of Jesus Christ. And if you want to understand faith, you have to understand that it's not that way at all. Well, what is faith? Come and see. It's right here. This whole passage is about belief. You see how many times the word belief shows up again and again? Essentially, this passage teaches us three things that I'll just knock off and hopefully give us a good overview of what the Bible says faith really is. It's very important. You must not go with your street smarts about faith. You must not go by what you've heard on the street or what you've heard from people. The Christian understanding of faith is utterly different than what you probably imagine. The Bible says that faith starts. It's born of thinking. It starts with thinking. It's essentially at the bottom. At the first step, faith is thinking. Secondly, though, faith grows through the will. it's born of thinking. It's born out of thinking. Secondly, it grows out of the will. But thirdly, it only matures out of trouble. It's born of thinking. It grows out of the will. But it only matures in trouble, unfortunately. But let's look at that. First of all, it's born of thinking. This is where I really want you to think. Please. The Scripture tells us something utterly different than what most people believe about faith. Many times I hear people say, well, it makes no sense, but I guess that's where faith comes in. And to a certain degree, it's possible to say that, but ultimately that's an unhelpful statement. Because there is a sense that people would believe, therefore, that faith is opposed to reason. Is that what the Bible says? Is that what Paul says? Paul does not say that. For example, St. Paul says we walk by faith, not by sight. He doesn't say we walk by faith not by reason. He doesn't say we walk by faith not by rationality or thinking. He says we walk by faith not by sight. When somebody or something is born, in most of the animal kingdom, things are born when one organism penetrates another. other. And when one organism penetrates another, that creates an explosion of cell growth, and the cells grow into a new being. How is faith born? Is it by saying, ah, I just really need to believe real hard, I don't want to look at the facts, I don't want to think about it, but I just want to believe. Is that? No. That's actually, that's really, really like a person just saying all by themselves, I want to have a child, I don't want to have to do with anybody else. I just want to have a child right here. That can't be done. The Bible says faith is born when the truth penetrates the heart. Let me go, let me be as blunt as the Bible is. When faith, faith is born when truth impregnates the heart. It says in 1 Peter chapter 2, it says we're born again. You've heard that before. It says we're born again of imperishable seed. What is that? that. We're born again of imperishable seed, the Word of God. Truth. If you look through here, it comes up again and again. For example, in verse 39, it says, they believe because of the testimony of the woman, the truth, the message, the evidence. Verse 41, it says, they believe because of His words, because of what Jesus said. Listen, you cannot live a day without faith, and faith operates like that. Faith always starts with information. It starts with thinking. a good example. Somebody, let's say a doctor says to you, your doctor says, you need minor surgery. I can probably do it in an outpatient situation, but you need minor surgery. Are you going to do it or not? Well, it takes faith, doesn't it? Now, maybe if you've known that doctor for years and years and years, you have no problem. But it's more likely this is what you're going to do. You're going to get a second opinion, maybe. Or you're going to talk to other people who've had a surgery. What are you doing? You're studying. You're thinking. You're getting evidence. You have to do that in order to get up enough faith to go to the doctor on a Saturday and have them do the surgery. That's natural. How do you develop your faith? You develop your faith through thinking, through reason it out, through getting the evidence. Isn't that right? How do you develop faith in a doctor? How do you develop enough faith in somebody to marry them? What do you say? Now, well, I suppose there are some fools that do this. You look at her and you say, she's gorgeous. I don't want to know anything else about her. I don't want to talk to people about what kind of person she is. I don't want to spend time with her to find out just really what kind of character she's got. I don't want to know the facts. I believe that she's the woman for me. Don't, you know. There are people who have done that. It's a sad thing. And that's not a joke. But the fact is, everybody knows that you do need faith in order to marry somebody. And the stupidest thing in the world is trying to build your faith by closing your mind to the facts. The smart thing is to develop your faith. And that's the natural way to develop your faith. By thinking. How do you decide whether you're going to have minor surgery? You get up enough faith. You do this. You say, I don't want to know. I don't want to know anything about it. I don't want to know why I need it. I don't want to know what the effects are. I don't want to know the side effects. I don't want to know that. I just want to do it. but nobody actually operates like that. In order to get faith enough in the doctor and in the procedure, you study it. And let me ask you this. On Saturday morning, if you wake up and you say, oh my, I agreed to have this surgery, but now I just can't. And you call in sick, or you say, I can't do it, or you postpone it or something like that, you've lost your faith. Well, how did you lose your faith? Did you get new information that shows you that it wasn't a good idea? No. You lost your faith because you stopped thinking and you started reacting. Do you see that? You stopped thinking. You didn't get new information. You stopped thinking. You just got up and said, oh, it's going to be painful. It's going to be hard. I'm going to be off. We'll work for three days. And instead of saying, but wait a minute. If I don't do it now, this is going to happen later and I've studied all this. No. Faith starts by thinking and when you lose your faith, it's because you stop thinking. Why do you think Paul says we walk by faith, not by sight? He means as you walk by what you know, you stick with what the truth is, and you tell your moods and your feelings and your fears where to get off. That's faith. We walk by faith, not by sight. We go on what we know, not on what we see. Not on what the appearances are. Not on what the feeling is. Not on how it feels at this moment. We walk by faith. We know. Three people all say, do not fall in love with that guy. break your heart, and you believe those people, and they've never let you down before, but suddenly you fall under his spell, what have you done? You've lost faith in what they said. And what happens when he breaks your heart? You wake up and you say, why didn't I think? You walk by faith? No, you walk by sight. Faith, therefore, is not the absence of thinking, not at all. Faith is the highest and its most complete kind of thinking. Psalm 42 says what? Why art thou cast down on my soul, and why art thou disquieted within me? Hope thou in God. We've talked about this before. You're talking to yourself. The difference between faith and doubt is this. Unbelief is listening to your heart. Faith is talking to your heart. On the morning of the surgery, you can get up and your heart says things like this. There's going to be blood. You knew that. There's going to be sutures. what if I'm not good what if I'm not better in time to fly to Florida for so and so's anniversary party now you can listen to your heart I mean your heart can say all kinds of things that day or you can talk to your heart and you say okay if I put this off I won't be able to have this again for three months if I keep putting this off the situation might get aggravated all the authorities all the people who have been through it everybody says I must get it's foolish for me not to get it you're talking to your heart that's faith and if you ever hear somebody who says faith opposed to thinking. Faith is a mindlessness. God does not say, come unto me and check your brains at the door. Most of us would agree that it wasn't until we came to him that we even began to use our brains. Until you become a Christian, you have a tendency to react. You react to things. You say, I think this way. I do this because I'm Italian, because I'm Jewish, because I'm a wasp, you see, because I'm from the Midwest, because it's the way my parents taught me, because this

and this is how the people in my particular field think. You know, you react, you don't think, and when you become a Christian, you say, wait a minute now, I have got a standard of truth here by which I can judge anything and everything. I cannot just go along. God does not say, check your brains at the door. Faith starts with thinking. But secondly, faith continues and grows through the will. Another way to put it is, faith starts with thinking, there. I'll put it this way. You can't have faith without thinking, but you can have thinking that doesn't proceed to faith. Martin Luther has the perfect definition of faith. He used Latin terms, and he said faith has got three parts, notitia, assensus, and fiducia, which means notitia, information, assensus, assent, and fiducia, commitment. So what he says is you first learn but then you act on the truth. So for example, what happens is the first time you go to that doctor, somebody gives you information. He's a great doctor. He will do the surgery well. So you have to finally commit yourself. It's not enough just to say, I will do. I know it's right. Then faith goes beyond the thinking to commitment. You trust yourself to Him. And when you trust yourself to Him and the surgery goes well, what happens is you're getting new information. So you see, the truth leads to an action, but then the action leads to new truth, and that new truth leads to more of an action, and after a number of years, you are totally committed to that doctor. Why? Because you believe in him. Why? Because you have faith. Why? Because you've been going through, on a human level, on a non-spiritual level, the very same thing that Luther talks about at the divine level. Notitia, Ascensus, and Fiducia. Let me put it another way. You become a Christian, you hear some person, which sounds, you know, some guy getting up in the middle of Manhattan culture and saying things like this. The Bible says chastity, frugality, forgiving your enemies is the way to live. And you go, yeah, you know, I live in New York. But after a while you start to read and you start to say, okay, I see some coherence. Maybe I'll live like that. So you start with the information. It's notitia and the essences, but now you do it. now you start to discipline yourself now you start to refrain you don't pay back you forgive you don't spend every cent on yourself you start to give away you don't sleep with a person just simply because you like him or her and what begins to happen is you are trusting yourself you're sitting in a wheelchair you're sitting to the doctor and the more the truth leads to action but then the action leads to more truth and bit by bit your faith grows it's really shifting of gravity. The only other illustration I can use would be this. Have you ever been in one of these, I don't know how therapeutic it is. And it's a little silly, but it's a good illustration for me. Have you ever taken one of these games at a retreat where they make you get blindfolded and then you have to stand like this in the middle of a circle of people and they blindfold you. And they say, now, without moving your feet, just let yourself fall. Keep your body stiff. Let yourself fall. And we'll catch you. Have you ever been in one of those? It's called a trust exercise. Now, I don't know how good it is for building trust in a group, but it's a mighty good illustration of what faith is. Because when you start to move and you start to feel yourself falling, you instinctively realize at a certain point your center of gravity has left, you might say, the cylinder of space in which your body is. In other a center of gravity has left your body. And when you get over to a certain spot, you realize that if this person doesn't catch me, I'm going to hurt myself. Because I have shifted the center of gravity from myself to that person. If that person collapses, I collapse. That's commitment. And so whenever you're in this particular kind of exercise, the tremendous temptation is to spread your feet. Because the minute you spread your feet, you've actually kept the center of gravity inside. So if you sense that person's not going to get there, you can recover. Faith is not holding on to that center of gravity. Faith is refusing to spread your feet. Faith is no escape hatches, no prenuptial agreements. You see, our culture teaches you, spread your feet, never shift the center of your gravity to someone else, and especially don't shift it to God. But there's no faith unless you move beyond thinking, to the will, beyond thinking, to fiducia, to fidelity, to commitment. Now, that's the way it goes, but unfortunately there's a third step, and that's what we have to at least address. We're told here, first of all, you have got this situation in which belief starts because of the truth. We saw that. Then secondly, belief grows because of commitment. when the man, when this nobleman, this basilikos is what he's called, he's a person of royal power, comes to Jesus. He asks Jesus to come with him to heal his son. Now, if you read the text carefully, you'll see that Jesus was in Galilee and the man's son was in Capernaum, and the man's son was 25 miles away, and he walked. That's a long way to walk. And therefore, when he left his son, just about ready to die, last chance. He expects Jesus to be a magician. And he says, Jesus, you can't heal him unless you come. I mean, in other words, you don't expect a doctor to be able to heal your son unless the doctor comes along. Jesus says, I won't come. I can heal your son from here. Well, that's a hard thing for the guy to believe. You have to remember this man at least had enough faith to believe that his son was, that Jesus could heal his son. But he didn't realize that what we know, and that is Jesus Christ doesn't heal because he's a white magician, you know, with white power and with good vibes. He's the creator God. You never see Jesus exercising a demon or healing somebody and working up a sweat. Never. You never see him roll up his hands, roll up his sleeves and go... You never see him perspire. Why? It's not like the exorcist. It's not like, that was tough, but I did it. None of that. He's the creator. He created. He keeps the world together with the word of his power. He's almighty. He's omnipotent. And so he says, my dear friend, I am not what you think I am. I'm far greater than that. Go, your son is healed. Now that took guts because you see, this man was sure that Jesus could heal his son if he came with him. He also knew that this was his last chance. If Jesus was wrong, by the time the man got home, his son would be dead. And what does it tell us in verse 50? Jesus at his word. He moved from thinking to commitment. But I want you to realize that even this man's faith, and by the way, did you notice that when he committed himself, he obviously believed Jesus in verse 50 or he wouldn't have committed himself. And yet down a couple verses later when he gets home and sees that Jesus actually did heal his a son. At the moment he spoke, it says he believed. Don't you see how faith just increases? You move from truth to commitment and from commitment to more truth and from truth to more commitment and so on. But I hate to tell you this. The setting in which this is happening to this man is a setting of suffering. The reason this man is willing to believe and able to believe in moving toward Jesus is because tremendous suffering has come into his life. What would possess a man of his stature and royalty to walk 25 miles to see an illiterate carpenter? The only thing that moves us toward Jesus, in most cases, is suffering. I think we need to be honest about that, and here's why. Remember how I started? I said, in the beginning, most of us would like to believe and do believe that we really don't have faith. Some religious people have faith, but not us. We're self-reliant. Hmm? We don't shift the center of our gravity anywhere. We keep it in ourselves. It's not until we suffer, usually, that we finally see that we are deeply religious. It's not until we suffer that we actually see that we have shifted the center of our gravity to other things. That we laugh at people who say, those people need a crutch, and yet we've got crutches. Every one of us. There are things that we rely on for meaning and for identity and for peace and for direction. We crumble. And we want to deny the centrality of those things to ourselves, and we want to deny the religiosity of our hearts. And we want to deny that we have put all of our faith in some things, and it's not until suffering that shows up that we realize what those things are. You see, when a person says, I wish I could trust God, the answer is, you can. You're just refusing to mistrust yourself. And you're refusing to question those things that you have put your trust in. God would let us go into that fantasy world and keep in that fantasy world. But he doesn't. Instead, he sends suffering into our lives. And when the suffering comes in, we begin to see for the first time that we really are religious. That we are trusting things. And our life hangs by a thread. That we have put our faith in things far less reliable than God. Far less reliable than the word of God. things are subject to the vicissitudes of life, and when they crumble, we collapse. And until you suffer, you can really believe that you're a person without faith. You can really believe you're a person who's self-sufficient and self-reliant, and it's a lie. You must see it. You must see that your life is fragile. Don't you see it, friends? Won't you admit the fact that this week, because you got a particular compliment from the right person,

Or this week, because you got the wrong kind of statement from the wrong kind of person. Or you got a note. Or you got an idea. Or you heard a rumor. Or you got a letter. And your life's destroyed. What are the things that you've been tossing and turning over? They're probably not the big weighty issues of life, are they? You are fragile people. We are fragile. Our lives are based on approval and appearance. Our lives are based on many, many things. And not until suffering comes along are we willing to see their centrality. Not till then. Now, what does that mean for us? What are we supposed to do about it? Suffering means that you're supposed to take your nest, the nest of your heart, and build it in no tree, because every tree is coming down, you've got to build it on the rock. Look at yourself. What are the things you build your life on? Your smarts, your looks, they're fading. I know, I'm 40. A lot of you don't know because you're not. that person that you hope will come into your life or that person who is in your life, they will disappoint you. They're just like you. Secret. They're just like you. You think they're going to give you meaning in life? They're thinking you're going to give them meaning in life. Friends,

I like to tell jokes. I'm having trouble laughing at these now. Most of us who really experience great faith in our lives reality of God in our daily living. We'll admit that it wasn't until things like this came into our lives that we even began to be able to trust. Trust tends to mature. Faith matures in trouble. Some of us were tremendously skeptical. We thought we were independent people till suffering came in and we saw that we were religious people all along. And the gods and foundations that we had were not worth our lives. And some of us thought we were Christians until we got so angry because things had come into our lives and we were praying and God wasn't answering our prayers. And one day suddenly realize God was saying, okay, how did you, who'd you get into this religion? What did you get into this religion for? Did you get into this religion for me to serve you or for you to serve me? We began to realize that we had never trusted God, but we were using God for our own ends. And it wasn't until that happened because of suffering that we even began to trust in Him. I hear somebody saying, oh my word, this sounds awful. You mean God has got to send troubles into our lives so that we see these things. He's got to crush us so we see these things. My friends, this is mercy. And if you don't think it's mercy, you haven't begun to doubt yourself or get the freedom that comes from doubting yourself. The things you're building your life in are sandcastles and the tide is running. The thing you're building your lives on are trees and the lumberjacks on the way. And you know it. And when you're young, is going to last at least for a few years. Friends, build your tree on, build your nest in no tree here. They're all coming down. Now, what should you do about it? Those of you who are in suffering at this moment, who are really in the middle of this, begin to argue with yourself and then begin to obey. You see, this is what the nobleman must have done. Jesus gives him a rebuke. He says, you people all seem to need, you know, signs and wonders or you won't believe. That's a rebuke. What does the said, look, I don't need this. Some of you are backing out of Christianity right now like that. You're saying, I don't need this. Look, I've given my life to Christ and things just aren't getting any better. Or look, I've been professing faith and going to church off and on for years and God doesn't seem to be answering my questions, my prayers. This man comes to Jesus. He has an agenda. He says, if you do this, my son will be saved. And Jesus says, uh-uh. Now, are you going to trust me own competence to understand how your history ought to go. You have to argue with yourself. You have to say, who am I to call God into account? Where was I when he stretched out the heavens? Where was I when he brought out the shining stars and gave them all the names? That's arguing with yourself, and that's faith. Somebody says, but what if he asked me to do something that will be awful and hard and terrible? Friends, anybody in your life who's smarter than you, who's got authority in your life, your parents, your teachers, your coaches, whoever, always asks you to do things that are going to be hard. But as, you know, remember in the Narnia tales when the children found out that the king of Narnia was a lion, and Susan says, ooh, a lion, is he safe? And remember what the answer is? Of course, he's not safe. But he's good. He's the king, I tell you. Who else are you going to trust? The real problem is, not that you can't trust in Him, but you're refusing to mistrust the things that you believe will give you that meaning and identity. In fact, go further. The real problem is that you won't doubt your doubts. Remember? You won't doubt your doubts. Why should you be cynical and skeptical about everything in life except your cynicism and your skepticism? Why should you be suspicious of everything except your suspicion? Is that fair? you have no problem with faith it's just that you've got tremendous faith in your ability to make judgments about what is true and false you have tremendous faith in your skepticism who else are you going to trust besides the Lord? yourself? since when? pour out your heart to him the nobleman came anybody here, no matter what your problem is the nobleman came and said I have a problem. My son is dying. I suffer. I hurt. And what does Jesus say? Almost always this is what he'll do. Anybody in this room who comes and pours out his need to Jesus, what Jesus is going to do is, first of all, he's going to say, I'm not going to do things the way you expect. I want you to shift the weight of the gravity of your soul to me, away from yourself. And if you're willing to do that, then he'll say, of course I'll heal you. And if you're willing to do that, get the truth, argue with yourself, obey and commit. Someday, there'll be people in this room today that'll come back to me, and they will say, now we believe, not because of your words, but because we have heard him ourselves, and we know that this indeed is the Christ. the Savior of the world. Let's pray. Our Father, as we listen to the music, as we give our offering, as we offer our hearts to you, would you enable us to look at ourselves? Some of us are in suffering and in trouble now, and we're really angry at you. We're not really responding in faith. This is a tremendous opportunity for us to grow and develop faith and even come to you for the first time. And so we do so now. we ask that you would heal us and help us and we know you may not immediately respond as we expect but we give ourselves, we shift the center of our gravity to you Father, there's some people here who we've been Christians a long time and we're mad at you because of things going on in our lives and we are now beginning to see that we have not trusted you but we're continuing to trust in ourselves we give you that as well Father, help us

help our unbelief And even as we cry out that, we know that you're saying, thank you, my son, thank you, my daughter, for coming to me. We thank you that you knock on our door. We don't knock on yours. And Father, we give ourselves to you in Jesus' name. Amen.