But, yes, but whose career takes the hit for child rearing is what Tim is saying. Why don't you let somebody else bring up these thorny questions? I'm sure they will. That wasn't what I was going to get into, but I'll be glad to answer that later on. I think you can probably see where the answer is coming from. But the form and the freedom is what I wanted to emphasize, is that within the form, there's a lot of freedom as to what that means to the individual couple in their marriage. headship and submission means may be different from different periods of your life, when your children are small versus when they're in college, when someone's sick versus when someone's well. It takes an awful lot of creativity to keep a marriage going over a 20, 40, 50-year time span. And who you are as a person, how your role develops, changes. There's not a hard and fast kind of thing that says, actually I won't say who told me this, that the man always gets to choose the menu, the TV program, and what night you have sex. I mean, that those are his prerogatives from the day of your marriage to the day of your death, and that's never reinvented or discussed even. You don't even tell your husband. I had one woman tell me, if he makes a wrong turn in the car, it wouldn't be submissive of me to tell him that. I said, I don't think that's what it means by being a helper, to keep your mouth shut and wander around in the darkness all the time. But that's why we have to be really careful when we talk about these things. And I guess the last thing I want to say by way of personal testimony, and I think we really do want to devote a longer time to questions tonight, because you're coming from such a wide spectrum of places, places either in your thinking, in your Christianity, in your hostility level, that we would rather deal with that in questions than try and guess at it. Because this was so hard for me to come to as an understanding of my role, the person that I had to look at most to inform my understanding of what it meant to be a helper and to be submissive was Jesus. He was equal with God, and yet he didn't count it some kind of demotion to be the one that had to be incarnate and go and perform all the sacrifice that led to our salvation. So he's the image that I look to when I'm trying to see what does it look like to be submissive? What does it look like to put your own concerns and your own needs lower than those of someone else? were equal, yet he said that he didn't do anything but what his father told him. He didn't say anything but what his father told him. And yet he's not ever been characterized as a weak person. I think I said to somebody last week that you can only take a servant role if you have a very strong self-image. And we aren't talking about some kind of femininity that's frilly and gone with the Windish, and I don't know nothing about barren babies or whatever she said. You know, this

abdication of your gifts. It's a weird feeling to not know whether you should call yourself a liberal or a conservative, because in some circles, when Tim and I try and talk like this, we get looked at like, well, you know, what's going to come out of your mouth next? You want I want to go back to women not having the vote and all kinds of other ultra-ridiculous things. In other circles, for instance, our church when we were down in Virginia, the women really did have a very low expectation of what their gifts were. They didn't know what they were. They'd never even tried to find out. Me, lead a Bible study? Oh, I don't know. And it keeps you guessing whenever you're trying to be biblical, not to fall into the patterns of worldly understanding that the world passes off and tries to categorize everybody. So rather than ramble on any longer, you stand up here too so we can pass on. The only way we're going to be able to incarnate this is to start getting specific questions. You've got to tell us what the cases are. So let's go. Let's start. Yeah, I am, but see, I have a louder voice than you, so I don't need to move it toward me. First of all, there's most all... The question. There's two questions. The first question was, why don't you back up some of what you just said about the gift of independence and interdependence from the words of Jesus. Jesus mainly, I'm not sure you have much teaching, by the way, didactic stuff in his teaching where Jesus talks about the role of men and women. On the other hand, I do think that there's an awful lot of examples in which Jesus' attitude toward women who were pariahs in the society, like Jesus at the... See, Jesus speaking, for example, to the woman at the well, a Samaritan woman who was also of a lower station in life because of her sexual activity and so on. that was just an example again and again that Jesus was trying to break the extreme polarization and cultural stereotypes. That's all. There's a lot of stuff. I've seen some marvelous articles and some books written that Jesus' attitude toward women and his discussions with women and so forth are far more radical than we know, because we're reading as American middle class people, we read it, and we say, sure, he talked to women at the well. well, sure, Mary and these people were parts of his band. Fine, what's so big about that? The only thing that some people get upset about is the fact that when Jesus chose his 12 apostles, they were all men. And they overlooked the fact that Jesus was very radical in his treatment, but you don't get a great deal of didactic teaching from Jesus on the subject. The second question was, what if a man decides he has the gift of interdependence, the woman has the gift of independence? independence. I don't think that hardly anybody comes to a conclusion like that in the abstract, right? In other words, they make, for example, a woman may decide that in my marriage, I think that I'm more capable and I don't want to submit to my husband, or a man may decide. So I don't know that anybody can come to those kind of conclusions in the abstract. What they may do is they may decide that what the Bible says about male-female roles, for example, the Bible says homosexuality is not a way, it's not God's design for human relationships. The Bible says that women and the husband and the wife, there should be a, what we were describing, there should be an authority structure inside the marriage. And some people look at that and say, that doesn't fit me. and at that point what I would say is just what we've already said and that is when we found that in spite of the fact that our background, our upbringing or whatever seemed to make it hard for us personally to fit into those roles we found that when we submitted to those roles we got into touch with something very deep in us that showed that the Bible was right now you want to respond to that and maybe ask Pam to I'd like you to follow up that second question after Kathy. Just wanted to make clear that we're not trying to say that there is a very rigidly compartmentalized set of feminine characteristics and masculine characteristics. I mean, you run into trouble when you do that because culturally those sort of things are so arbitrary. In some cultures, men show their masculine headship off in that they sit around and write poetry and paint pots and the women do all the hard physical labor. I mean, Betty Elliot talks about the Alka Indians. Everyone knew women were physically stronger, so they pulled the plow and planted the corn. And the men exercised what they considered to be their probably twisted rites of headship by sitting around and drinking palm wine and painting pots all day. Because in that culture, that was an expression of their headship choose that set of characteristics. So we're not trying to talk about a set of characteristics that says, well, men like to go out and chop wood and women like to stay home and bake pies. Or some kind of arbitrary bunch of characteristics that characterize men and women. Those things overlap. I mean, your preferences, your hobbies, your native personality traits. those in men and women. I don't think we're trying to say anything about those kind of cultural... For example, a lot of evangelicals believe this will work. A lot of evangelicals believe, for example, that women, wives should not work. If they're married, they should stay home with the children. Now, maybe Kathy can say something about the fact that our understanding of the way in which the scriptural roles work out is that when it comes to the child-rearing years, my wife's We figured that out as a way we were going to do it. We did that mutually. Now, that doesn't mean that she sacrifices everything. It just means that when... It's one of those places where when it's a tie vote, when it's one-to-one on that sort of thing, that we've decided to put that up there. But when it comes to... There's nothing in the Bible that says women should cook. I mean, you see, for example, until the Industrial Revolution, men and women worked together. They were both in the field together. They were both craftsmen. The idea that the woman kept the kids is a very modern idea. We're trying to get beyond those kinds of cultural stereotypes. But maybe you're talking about something more profound too. We went through that once. We do not want to set ourselves up as the paragon. Yeah. As the paragon. But we were in the same spot. You're giving us a hypothetical case. We were in the same spot. And we said, I'm not sure that we do know ourselves better than God would know us. Because you see, every 10 years, we look back and realize we were fools 10 years ago, and we really didn't know what we were talking about. You've heard me use that before. And therefore, we were at the same impasse. We said, we don't fit these roles. But we also, here's what the other thing, we had to say, you know, the Bible's right on everything else, dear heart. What happens is when I get this close, there's all too much, you hear that? All right. It needs to be down here. I think. I think it needs to be down here. We planned this ahead of time. Case study. Oh, listen. You tell me. Yeah, that's okay. I understand. I think we got there in that case. Now, give me another case if you want to, and somebody else should give me another case. I'm just saying that we went through that, and I would just urge those folks. I'm not going to say just because. I would say that couple's mistaken. It doesn't mean that's the end of their life. I just think they're mistaken. It's honest. I agree. In that first rambly part, remember when I was rambling at the beginning, I said something about the economic trinity. There's a sense in which male and female roles on earth are also economic. They're for the purpose of living on earth as male and female in marriages and in relationships. You cannot go beyond, though, what Galatians says about in Christ there is neither male nor female. You can't expand that so that it means we're neuter and we make no allowances for the gift that God has given us in making us masculine, feminine, male and female. But you also can't overlook the fact that our dignity in Christ, our worth as souls, our value, our intrinsic being is on an equal level. And how we get things done economically, you were referring to that, I just didn't repeat that, is very much a part of why God's given us the roles he's given us. I mean, that's what the economic trinity is about. out. They have roles because of our salvation and we need to work that out. Theologically, we say the ontological trinity. The trinity in their three persons, in their essential being are equal. Economically, that means the way in which they function in a family system to get a job done, which is salvation, there's subordination. So we talk about by ontological equality and economical subordination. Now, many people say that's impossible. It sounds to them too much like the old separate but equal kind of argument. The problem is, theologically, if it can't happen in human relationships and it can't happen inside the Godhead, then Christianity is impossible. I mean, it destroys the heart of Christianity. The heart of Christianity is that Jesus is not inferior in being, took a role inside a team in the dance in which the father led, you see. And that's so intrinsic to Christian theology that a lot of people who are so upset with male oppression, that they would say that what we're doing here is conceding too much to male oppression. And they realize when they start to study Christian theology that the problem goes all the way back into the Trinity, And there's absolutely no way to get rid of male authority in human relationships without going all the way back and attacking the Trinity. There's no other way. You've got to go all the way back and basically say the traditional biblical understanding of the Father and the Son has got to be discarded as well. Okay, now listen, we've got a number of questions. We'll try to be more precise so we can hit more people. Over here, tell us a story. You probably have read this story more recently than we, so why don't you recount it? Is there people who can't hear her? I'm sure there are, yeah. The story that she's telling is David and Abigail and Nabal, where David required supplies for his troops from Nabal, who, as a liege of the king, was required to give it. But Nabal was very hostile to David's cause, refused to do it. So David says, great, we're going to wipe you out. You won't give us what we need whenever we need it. So that's the end of you. the fact that her husband has been so rude and is about to pay for it, and organizes lots and lots and lots of supplies, more than had even been asked for, and rushes out to David and appeases his wrath so that her husband doesn't get slaughtered. Your question is, how does that... Tim can have the second one. The two-part question... Think while you have the chance. The two-part question was, how do you reconcile Abigail's behavior been submissive to her husband and let him take it on a chin. And then the second part question was, what about women, particularly in the modern day, who have a very negative image of Christianity because of the oppression of men that they've experienced? I did make a study of Abigail. In fact, I studied a lot of these passages,

very in-depth at one time. Not to use my own personal history inappropriately, but at one as a minister. I was under care of the United Presbyterian Church and was headed for ordination, was going to seminary and all the rest of it. Whenever I became convinced of the truth of scripture, which I had not grown up believing and felt as though that meant that was not a role that was open to me and at that point had to do an awful lot of talking to my pastor and people who were expecting me to go to ordination. And that's a long story. I can tell it some other time. But all these passages because I had to know why did I think what I thought. I don't have any problem with what Abigail did. If your husband's being a jerk, your best ministry to him is to help him. He would have been killed at that point. How submissive and helpful are you being if you let him get killed? I mean, keep him alive so he can yell at you to borrow if you want to. I'm not trying to be flippant, but not only would it have been Nabal, but the other people at risk all of the male members of the household would have been killed in the retribution raid. And at that point, her submissiveness, her help-mateness was offering her best gifts at a point where her husband didn't have them and wasn't ready to even ask her for them. And they might have had a big fight later on. Well, as a matter of fact, what does happen later on is Nabal gets killed anyway. And David has a good sense to marry Abigail because he respected her wisdom and her

wifeliness in a sense. Did you want to answer that? Yeah. Every good example in the Old Testament of a godly woman is a very assertive woman. It was perfectly submissive for her to say, my husband's killing himself and the whole family. And the best way for me to be a helper at that point is to just do an end run around him

in a sense, put him back on the throne, put him back where he comes into his right senses, if possible. You know, the Proverbs 31 woman, there's a great chapter on what is a godly woman, and she's a real estate merchant, and she's a trader, and she takes all of her power and builds her family up and so forth. But you see, I would certainly hope, for example, for example, if your husband is an addict, would submission mean, well, I'm not going to go tell him, I'm not going to take all his friends to intervene, I'm not going to haul them off, I'm going to continue when he tells me to call in and tell his employer that he's sick instead of drunk, I'm going to keep doing it. That's not submission. That is the sinful distortion of submission. That's you're desirable for your husband but he will rule over you. Now, the second question, which my wife left for me, is much, much more difficult. And the second question was, if a person who is not a Christian is considering Christianity, and A, perhaps has been familiar with certain very conservative Christians who have the traditional understanding of male-female roles that doesn't take into consideration male oppression, and if that person has been in a situation where a woman has been subject to male oppression, and then they come in and they hear that Bible-believing Christians still believe in male authority, and they feel that the only real protection they have against male oppression is complete. We're for equality. We're not for equivalency, you see. Feminist lobby is for not only equality but equivalency, And fundamentalist lobby is actually for subordinationism, and we're for equality but not equivalency. Nevertheless, a woman could come in and listen to me, and what I'm trying to say is that in a couple of areas, the men and women are supposed to submit to dramatize the richness of the Godhead and are supposed to show forth the rule and submission of the Trinity, not in every decision, but just in certain areas. she might still react very negatively. What I'd have to tell her would be this. I'd have to say, as hard as it might be, you have to consider Christianity on the whole and not put this up front. In other words, you cannot say, I'm going to accept or reject the gospel on the basis of whether I think the people that are teaching it are right about male-female roles. What I would say to women who are listening to me preach the gospel, but they really don't like my view already in marriage, is to say, well then, why don't you just assume that I'm wrong about that? But you shouldn't, therefore, assume that everything else that the gospel preaches is wrong. Just assume I'm wrong for now. I won't even argue with you. Just look at everything else, because whether you're saved and going to heaven or not, whether your life's turned around by Jesus or not, doesn't depend on that view. That's secondary. It's not at the heart of the gospel. Now she may think it's primary to her, But I would just say, okay, then just assume that I'm wrong. Assume that I, Tim Keller, am wrong about this and listen to the other things and accept or reject them on their own merits. I just try to tell people to try to separate the two. That's the best I can do. It's a major problem, I find, because in many cases, because when people hear me talk and they hear me speak and they say, hmm, you sound like an evangelical Christian. Yes. Well, what do you think about women? What do you think about women's role in this and that?" When they find out that I even smell a little bit at all like a non-feminist, they'll say, well, I can write off everything you say. And I just have to ask, for example, is it really true that here's your doctor and the doctor says, if you take that, you'll have a heart attack in two days, but I also believe that women shouldn't work. Does that mean that though the doctor has an oppressive view of women, therefore I shouldn't take his advice in any other area? Does that make sense? So I just say you've got to divide those things, and that's what I would say. Later on, if you want to argue about it, after you've accepted what I think is the truth of the gospel, we can talk. But right now, let's agree to disagree. Okay, right here, Tara. Sure. I think your career ought to take the hit, and the wife says, I don't see it that way. Is that what you're saying? What would you advise a couple like that? A lot of wrestling and praying, everyone looking at their motives. You can't resolve some things with logic and working it out like it was a chess game. We keep using examples, and I don't want to overdo that, but when Tim began to feel called to New York, I did not want to come here. And I had a tantrum for about a year, saying I am not going to come here. I am not going to come here with my children. I am not going to live in New York. No, no, no. and the wrestling was, the pressure on me was all from God. Tim said, fine. I mean, he didn't say anything after the first no. He said, we won't. If you can't do it, we won't do it. He kept coming up here because his job required him to, and I saw the interest, but he never said a word about we're going to go whether you want to or not. However, God knew I had drawn a line in front of my feet and said, Don't you ask me to step over this, God. It wasn't Tim saying, You have to do this and so. It was God saying, You mean to tell me there is some issue, any issue, whether it's moving to New York, whether it's having a fourth child, I mean, whether it's anything, that you're allowed to draw a line and say, Thus far I will go and no further, God. You can't ask me to do this. You can't require this of me. No, I won't. I could say no to Tim, and that was fine, but saying no to God sort of put my spiritual life on hold. And I think you have to, if you come to that kind of impasse in a marriage, there's a lot of things that both parties can do, but the first one is to really wrestle before God as to what is motivating both of you. And at one point, I think it would be appropriate for a husband in his leadership, and I mean, looking at Ephesians 5, how the husband is supposed to lead like Christ leads his bride, the church. I mean, there's a marriage to look at, Jesus and the church, if you want to see a role model for marriage, that he died to make her perfect and spotless. In an occasion where a wife is maybe not able to do anything but just say flat out no, it may be the husband's leadership role to say, okay, we won't then, it would be too harmful to our marriage for me to push you. submission is something that a wife gives to her husband it's not something he requires of her and leadership is something that a wife or that a man gives to his wife it's not something he orders her to take you understand what i mean you explain that better no i was going to say what i how we would counsel that person we would counsel the man and the woman differently we would counsel the man to say the bible's understanding of headship is that it's a model of Christ, which means a head may never, ever demand something to please himself, ever. It says in Romans 15, 1, Jesus did not please himself, which means if I ever, in the six or seven times that there's been a two-to-one vote between us, in no case am I, in New York wasn't one of them, in no case am I ever allowed to demand my wife to do something simply because it pleases me. Never. See, I can only overrule my wife if I believe that what she wants is hurtful for her. It's not one of these things where I want a big car, she wants a small car. We can't agree. And therefore, since I'm the husband, I get the big car. There is nothing more repulsive to the biblical concept of headship than that. If we can't agree, then ultimately has to come down. I am obligated as the head actually to seek to please her and to do what I think will build her up and nourish her. So the first thing is I can never ever demand my wife give in where she disagrees with me. I'm not allowed by the Bible. I'm not allowed. I have got to earn the headship from her by loving her and making her trust me implicitly. I am not allowed to demand it. That's the fundamentalist lobby. That's the absolute the curse. That's what I would say to the man. I would say to the man, you can't demand this from your wife. Now, I would sit down and talk to the woman, and I would say, it's kind of interesting that the so-called the second wave of feminism, people are beginning to realize that a lot of women are pretty bitter. A lot of women are pretty bitter about the fact that when it comes right down to it, the women end up with the children because the men don't care. And the women are finding out that part of their giftedness, their gift mix, is that they can't walk away from their kids. And they end up having them around their neck. And of course, there's just tons and tons of single women. Why do the women end up with the kids? Because of what we said is the gift mix. And that means that there is something, I think, about gift mix, which means that though my wife and I together have to raise our children, and we've taken turns. When I wanted to jumpstart her career as an editor, what I did was I took a particular job so that I was there in the morning, I took the kids to school, I got them ready, she had to get out earlier. We switched roles for a while so that she could jump start being an editor. I became a teacher. Because I was a teacher, I had much more flexible hours than when I was a pastor. And there was a period of time there in which I thought the best thing for me to do was to jump start her career. And so at that point, I submitted to her. I submitted my needs and desires to her career. However, in the end, we both decided that when it came right down to it, on the basis of our gift mix, she should be the one whose career took more of a hit during the childbearing years. I would counsel a woman to do that. I think, in the long run, if you want to have children, that's still the best way to do it. I think the kids benefit, I think you get into touch with something deep inside your femininity and your husband with his masculinity, but I would never say that a Christian husband can demand that from his wife, never. Never. So I would counsel the man and the woman differently. I'd say to her, I think your husband's right. I would say to him, if you demand this of your wife, if you ask her to do this until she is completely and totally ready to do it, you have moved out of biblical headship. You've moved out from under the concept totally. In other words, I've talked with many couples that way. I've counseled them that way out of the scripture, and it always works. Because you know what usually happens? Several things. When the man decides to handle it biblically, the woman, A, either says, fine, thank you, I'm not going to give up my career, and it turns out that instead of there being a kind of anger slowly over a period of time, he becomes more trustworthy to her. And even though right away there may be still a lot of tension, the fact that he will not press his demands on her, over a period of time she is able to trust him and actually, in many ways, give him more leadership. In some cases, it happens almost immediately. As long as the guy is willing to understand that sin will make him an oppressor unless he is careful not to demand anything that pleases himself, things will work fine. If the man does not see that, and many men do not see that, there's no end to the problems in the marriage. John, you had your hand up. Go ahead. I was just going to say, that's wonderful. That's a very good point. And just to finish the story of coming to New York, because it illustrates both what you said, John, and what Tim was saying, when Tim took the pressure off me from him saying, I want to do this, then God and I fought it out. And God was not being near as understanding as Tim was as far as saying, oh, whatever you want, dear. and coming here, submitting myself to what I felt to be something very frightening and nerve-wracking has led to the greatest freedom and the best time I've ever had in my life. I love being in New York. I just want you to all get that straight. But it wouldn't have come if Tim had kept up the pressure because then I would have been fighting with Tim and rather with God. And you can prolong a fight with another person indefinitely. You can't fight with God very long. He wins. Yeah. Okay. actually happened there, was I originally said, we won't go to New York unless you want to go. She says, what's the use in me being the woman if you're going to abdicate? You just put me in charge. That's no fair. You make the decision. I'm frozen between the two situations. I said, okay, here's what I got to do. We're going. However, if you really begin to scream and yell and bite the rug, I'll change my mind. But until you do, we're going to go. If you're just scared, we're going to go. If you're just anxious, we're going to go. If you're fritzing out totally, we will not go. And at that point, listen, it worked. I didn't want to make that decision because I was definitely afraid that if I took her up here, this is one of the biggest tests of my hatred for this role that God's given me. I didn't want to have to come here and find that within a couple of years we had to come out with our tail between our legs, and I didn't want to have that responsibility. My wife said, what's the use? That's your job. It's your job to take the responsibility. So I took it. By the way, John, the other thing, humanist, you're absolutely right. Democracy does not grow out of Eastern religion. Never has. It grew out of Western religion, grew out of Christianity. You're right. You're absolutely right. But Rousseau and those people believed in democracy because they felt every human being was so wonderful that no man," Rousseau said, "...no man is fit to be a servant." But the reformers, the Protestant Reformation believed in democracy for a very different reason. It wasn't because every human being was so wonderful we need to have democracy, it's because every human being is sinful. And so what it was Rousseau said, we have to have democracy because no man is fit to be a servant. what happens is Luther and Calvin said, no man is fit to be a master. That's why we have to have democracy. And therefore, that's the reason why in the world, Christians have always been for democracy. We also realize that there's got to be some very controlled conditions in which we get into touch with the masculine feminine. And that's the reason why we say in limited ways inside the marriage and inside the church, we practice that. But in general, we have to go for democracy. absolutely. Okay, I saw a hand. See, the best way to put it is you really don't get, you really, actually, this is a response to what John said. The question is for singles, how does this masculine feminine role thing play out? You've been talking about marriage. It's really in marriage that you have the one safe place to really play out the role. There's really no other place that's very safe. And that means that out in the world, outside of marriage, amongst singles, the roles are there. You have to recognize it, but it's muted. It's in relationship. See, for example, inside this church, if we decide we're going to start a ministry to homeless people, do we say, therefore, only a man can lead that? No, of course not. We probably recognize this, that if a man's leading that, he needs to realize he'll probably lead it in a different way than a woman will. A woman will probably have a tendency, in general, to be better at getting goal ownership amongst a group of people. And there's a sense in which inside that team, the men and the women can recognize these roles that we're talking about, but in a very muted way. It's more general. It's definitely informal. It's never formal. mean, for example, in my Bible study, in my small group, every woman is supposed to be submitting to every man. They have to say, well, we're going to go eat after the Bible study. Well, we better let the men do it. Well, there are places that talk like that. There's nothing in the Scripture about it. You'll see when you get outside, for example, of the family in the church, you have women as judges, you have women as generals, you have women in the Bible doing virtually everything. everything and therefore there's no reason for you to formally try to work those things out. They're more informal, for example. Not for example, but something else I would say to singles is when you're single, unless you have decided that God has called you into a life of celibacy and singleness forever and ever, amen, you are relating to the opposite sex a good bit of the time with relationships in mind. And therefore you're kind of in a fuzzy no-man's land where you're not married, you're not in a formal relationship of headship and submission, but you are operating out of your masculinity or your femininity. And I think that's a very landmined area to go through in this culture and in our day and age because the twistedness that the roles have undergone Makes it a very dangerous thing to be vulnerable to one another. Men can very often abdicate that headship in a relationship so that it never even gets to marriage because their fears of taking the leadership and the headship prevent them from ever making the commitment to be the husband in a relationship. And it never even gets to that level. a woman can also find that her femininity is twisting her into a manipulator in a relationship where instead of being a straightforward godly woman who looks to Christ for her fulfillment she's using all kinds of subtle ways to exercise kind of a power behind the I'm not sure what I'm trying to say but she's using manipulative tactics in order to move the relationship where It leads to all kinds of distortions in the relationship before it even gets to marriage. And believe me, if you start out a relationship that way, you don't say the vows and then suddenly the mist's clear and you're on the right footing. You know, your relationship tends to go on as it begins. And therefore, I don't think it's irrelevant for single people to hear a lot of stuff about the roles of men and women in marriage. Because most of you don't really plan on being single forever and ever. I mean, I can't say that's a generalization. Any number of singles I've spoken to don't plan on being single forever and ever. And even if you do, if God is calling you to a lifetime of singleness, I don't think that means that you somehow have been neutered and can't get in touch with that part of yourself. And look for ways to exercise those gifts. I mean, singles can have ministries to children and to one another that very much draws on their particular gifts as a man or woman. But the biggest stress of being a single adult is that you are called upon in that situation more than any other situation to be both male and female. In other words, you have to call upon skills from the entire spectrum from masculine to feminine. And that's part of the stress of being a single person. Part of the stress of being a single man and being a single woman is that you're really not allowed ever to relax into one role or the other. Again, there's one other hand that was waving a long time and we have to stop, but no. remember who you might be? Yeah, okay. It's a good transition question because the week, not this month, but the question is especially, well now this is actually a question being asked by a woman for women actually. How, since we're in the work world, the work world has been shaped by masculine values for ever since the Industrial Revolution started, okay? So we're not talking about the farm or the craft shop, but since the last 150 years, the values of the workplace are male work values. You come on in and I... Since coming to New York, this has been the eye-opening thing for me, since coming to New York, I've talked to so many career women who feel that tremendous tension, that they are being forced into certain kinds of patterns that they feel don't really fit the deepest parts. That doesn't mean they shouldn't be leaders, but they're forced into a certain kind of leadership. There's a certain sense in which, and this is the last answer, so we're ready to split up at this point. It's a good transition question because the next time we meet here on these Monday night things, we're going to be talking about the workplace. We're going to talk about what does it mean to have values in the marketplace. place, but in a very informal and general way, the same thing happens, can maybe happen in the workplace that happens in marriage. When we come into marriage, I said there's a sense in which I'm both too masculine and not masculine enough. And by being married to my wife, I'm continually seeing the world. I'm being forced to see the world through a woman's eyes. It's a very interesting experience. You never really have to do that. Your mother can't make a boy do it. Your sisters can't. Your girlfriends can't. Your females who are friends can't really do it. But in marriage, you're forced to. And what that tends to do is it means that I come together. There's places in which I can see that she makes me more masculine because I'll be a wimp, or she makes me less masculine because I'm being a Marlboro man. By having her show me what I look like through her eyes, there's a sense in which she helps me become more masculine biblically. Now, occasionally in the workplace, the woman can call. This is very hard, and I think it'll take years for this to happen. The woman can start to call the bluff of the firm and say, you know what, you are not doing business in necessarily the most efficient way. You are doing business in the most male way. and the way in which you are the most comfortable. And when you stop and think about it, sometimes a woman, at least in this country, can go pick out the Japanese. The Japanese, in many cases, have management styles that would be things that women are a little bit more comfortable with. You can go and say, look, it works here, it works there. Sometimes women, in a sense, can make their male co-workers look at their business through a woman's eyes. The trouble is, in marriage, you're really forced to do it. I mean, marriage is the intense relationship. relationship, I would say at this point, nine times out of ten, there's not enough women in the workplace, or they're not in the policy-making centers. And as a result, it's hard for that thing to happen informally that happens in marriage formally. And if you could, eventually what can happen is you can really begin to show, you know, the firm that there's more than one way to skin management techniques. And you don't have to, for example, a lot of times women have to say, that you do not have to have an adversarial management style. Why are you doing this? And therefore, you see, as an evangelical Christian, I'm really not against women in the workplace. So that can happen, but now that I said this, I'm realistic. I realize, especially in a place like New York, there's a lot of guys out there who are in charge of your lives who are definitely living out the curse that God put on men to rule over women. to make it hard for you. They want you out of there. They don't want you to succeed. I know that. I've talked to enough women to realize just how bad it is. In the long run, it would be good for the firm for them to actually begin to see life through a woman's eyes the way it's been good for me to see life through my wife's eyes. You want to say something? I was just going to give a balance to the very last comment you made. There's also a politically correct form of feminism around attacking and hostile to men. I mean, we all realize that. I'm just trying to say that the sin's not always all on one foot. Both men and women have got to... Do you want to read that quote? We'll have to close it. Okay, we'll read that quote. If I read it, will you close in prayer, please? Yeah. This is an example of the shoe being on the other foot. Patrick M. Arnold, Society of Jesus, who teaches Old Testament at the University of San Diego, has written a timely an important and not anti-feminist article on masculine spirituality and liberal Christianity. Of course, he applauds the main themes of the feminist movement, but then he criticizes the anti-masculinity of male and radical feminist liberal Christianity, and he sees it as dangerous. One often hears in the literature that men are naturally violent, that masculinity is inherently patriarchal, that maleness is basically the source of all violence, and that only women can be authentic Christians, that males are not naturally religious, or that men are only interested in power and money. And if you object, you hear, well, now you know what sexual oppression feels like, or you're a man, you ought to be able to take it. Some men grovel and agree. Some resent the statements but keep silent as radical feminists form power centers in academia and elsewhere. Male students are on the defensive. What is emerging is a new sexual manichaeism, which, by the way, was an early Christian heresy, that essentially holds that equals life and nurturing, while the masculine archetype equals violence and domination. This author does not want to take away anything of women's suffering under static or rigid maleness, unbending laws, disembodied principles, unemotional judgments, and oppressive violence, but men have also suffered under these things. That's a distortion. That's sinful masculinity. The inability to see that there also exists a deep or dynamic masculinity that can lead to extraordinary and everyday heroism constitutes a tragic and at times deliberate blindness to the good that lies within the hearts of men. The result, men stay today at the fringes of Christianity, standing apart at the back of the church, if they come at all. Theologically, God becomes a warm fuzzy, and their meek and mild Jesus no longer calls them to radical discipleship in the cross, but only to nurturing and gentleness. Their liturgy, once a powerhouse of transformational symbols, often degenerates into a butterfly banner and balloon affair with much fussing and fluttering about. What happens to men then thus cut off from the spiritual experience of their manhood? Poet Robert Bly sees them as unhappy, lacking in energy and life-preserving, but not exactly life-giving. The newly neutered Christianity is beginning to produce a generation of men with no wildness and no fight left in them, a blow-dried Gucci-shoed and suntanned lot whose primary moral achievement is being nice. Unbalanced masculinity, the male suicide rate is 300 times that of women, a life expectancy 10 years less. Will the Christian church help or hinder this journey that they need to make men? So what Kathy is just trying to say is that it works the other way around, that a kind of unbalanced moral bromanness can definitely oppress women, and there is the possibility of an emasculation, you know, emasculizing of men by women who are really trying to, you know, trying to correct the excesses of the past. We promised to stop. Could you close the door, please? Heavenly Father, we are not ashamed to pray to you as our Father, although that involves a gender title, because you have revealed it in your word that you are a father to us and a husband to each of us, male and female. One day we'll find ourselves married to you. We ask that as we are on earth that you would give us the wisdom and the guidance through your scripture to understand what you have done in creating us as men and women. Help us as we minister to one another.
