This summer, next 14 weeks I guess, or 13 weeks, we're going to do something in the evening service we don't usually do, and that is, we're going to do a series, all of the preachers, all during the summer is going to do a series in which we're going to go through a narrative section of the Old Testament. We don't do that very often here at Redeemer. And by a narrative section, we mean a historical section. We're going to look at the life of Moses out of largely the book of Exodus, but some other places as well. And to do that is a little different. Instead of microscopically looking at verses and learning the relations between the clauses and all that, you take nice big sections of it and you look at the sweep of things. And the reason it's so important and good for us to do that every so often is because the Old Testament is not really inferior to the New Testament. You know, you can say, when somebody says, well, isn't the Old Testament incomplete? Not really. Is an acorn incomplete? I mean, a tree is far more grand than an acorn. And yet the whole tree was in the acorn. It's not like the acorn was incomplete. It was all there. It just wasn't unfolded. And there's really nothing in the Bible, nothing in the New Testament that isn't in the Old Testament. It's in its seed form. It just has to unfold. But not only do we look at the Old Testament because everything in the New Testament is in the Old Testament anyway. It's not a matter of incompletion. It's a matter of unfolding. There's some ways in which the Old Testament is even more helpful than the New Testament because when the New Testament gives you a principle, the Old Testament gives you a story. When the New Testament gives you a concept, the Old Testament gives you a concrete illustration. And you know, God in his wisdom gave us two parts, two sides of a brain. One side does analysis. One side is intuition. One side looks at the analysis. It breaks things down. The other looks at the whole. One side, you might say, is your logic. One side is the imagination. And you really need both. You need not just the principle but the illustration before the penny drops. The illustration without the principle. The principle without the illustration. You don't really have it. And that's why we need the Old and the New Testament. And what's really lovely. In the New Testament. You know. You can read. In fact. We've done this. We went through the book of Ephesians. Where it says. He has redeemed us. By his blood. He has brought us out. Of the slavery. Of sin. And death. And he's redeemed us. Well. Here. In the Old Testament. You actually see. God. Actually. Redeeming. A historic. Group. Of people. have a picture. So the New Testament gives you a principle. The Old Testament gives you a picture. You need both. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to show you the first part of the story of Moses. And I'm going to look at, I'm going to sweep through Exodus 1 and 2, tell you the story, and then draw out the principles so that you can see both the illustration and the principles. Now, I know I've only, I put one key text in the bulletin where we usually put it. and that passage is written for you there. This is sort of the heart of it all, Exodus 2.10. This is the story of how God prepared Moses to be the great leader and deliverer of his people. And the key verse of the two chapters is, when the child grew older, she took him, that's Miriam, his sister, to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she named him Moses, saying, I drew him out of the water. Now, what's behind all this? What's the story? Well, it goes like this. The beginning of Exodus 1, we read that the children of Israel, who originally were from Canaan and had come down to Egypt during a famine, they grew and they multiplied. And we're told they became very, very numerous and they didn't go back to Canaan. They stayed in Egypt. Egypt is a great place to live. However, at a certain point, the Egyptians, or more specifically, the ruler, Pharaoh, and the leaders of the Egyptians felt that Israel was getting too powerful, was getting too big. And so what did they do? Well, we're told here, first of all, he says, this is Pharaoh, and the new king sees the Israelites. And in chapter one of Exodus, it says, look, the Israelites have become far too numerous for us. We must deal

Now, what happens after that is we're told, the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, were Egyptian women who were midwives for the Hebrew women. They helped them deliver babies. And he said to them, I want you, whenever you help the Hebrew women in childbirth and observe them on the delivery stool, if you see it's a boy, kill it. If it's a girl, let her live. So take a look and see what happens. Verse 17 says, the midwives, however, feared God and did not do what the king of Egypt had told them to do. And when the king of Egypt summoned the midwives and said, what's going on? Why are you doing this? They said, well, Hebrew women are not like Egyptian women. They are vigorous and give birth before the midwives even get there. And verse 20 says, so God was kind to the midwives and the people in Greece more and more. We'll get back to that. Finally, Pharaoh turned around and said, all right. And he gave this decree. he gave this order to all his people, Egyptian and Israelite. He said, every boy that is born, you must throw into the Nile, but let every girl live. Now, you know, in those days, it wasn't that normal. Infanticide was not that unusual, but almost always it was girl babies. We have some awful and chilling archaeological evidence. There's an example of an Egyptian businessman who was on, this really comes more around the time of Christ, but still, he writes, we have a letter from an Egyptian businessman who was in Rome writing his wife, who was pregnant back in Alexandria, and he says, hope things are going well because she was pregnant, and he says, if the child comes before I get there, fine. If it's a girl, kill it. It's in the letter. And by the way, if it's a girl, kill it. Now, there's a lot we could say about That attitude toward children in the pagan world was widespread and was utterly changed when the old Greco-Roman world became Christian. However, in this case, you have the boys being killed, at least trying to be killed. They're trying to kill them. And so the question is why? The answer is they wanted the Hebrew women could be assimilated very easily into the Egyptian population. If the next generation was largely female, they would be picked up. They'd be married, they'd be picked up as mistresses, concubines, servants, and wives. And so essentially what they were trying to do was annihilate Israel's identity and just assimilate them into the Egyptian people. That sets the stage for civil disobedience. Of course, many, many of the people, the Egyptian midwives already have already done civil disobedience. And now we see something else that happens, and that is that in a widespread way, Hebrew families find ways of hiding their boy children. But probably first prize for creativity of civil disobedience went to a lady. Chapter 2 says, now a man of the house of Levi married a Levite woman and she became pregnant and gave birth to a son. And when she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him for three months. But when she could hide him no longer, she got a papyrus basket for him and coated it with tar and pitch. Then she placed the child in it and put it among bank of the Nile, and his sister stood at a distance to see what would happen to him. Then Pharaoh's daughter went down to the Nile to bathe, and her attendants were walking along the riverbank. She saw the basket among the reeds and sent her slave girl to get it. She opened it and saw the baby. He was crying, and she felt pity for him. This is one of the Hebrew babies, she said. His sister then ran up and asked Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and get one of the Hebrew women as a wet nurse for the baby? Yes, go, she answered. And the girl went and got the baby's mother. Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this baby and nurse him for me, and I will pay you. So the woman took the baby and nursed him. And when the child grew older, she took him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she named him Moses, saying, I drew him out of the water. Now, what Moses' mother does is very, very cagey. She puts him into a basket, sort of a cradle boat, covered with pitch made out of papyrus reeds, puts him into the banks of the Nile where the Egyptian women came to bathe. Now, down comes Pharaoh's daughter, and that's not as unusual as it might sound because Pharaoh would have had dozens and hundreds of both wives and concubines, and as a result would have had plenty. I mean, his house, though to be a member of Pharaoh's house was a great honor, was not a small thing. It was a very large thing. the Egyptian princess, and it doesn't take a genius to realize, even though she recognized this as a Hebrew baby, that her heart would go out to the child. I've just spent a weekend with a little baby, and I don't like children in general, but it's hard not to like babies. Your heart goes out, okay? She looks and says, this is a Hebrew child, but look, up comes Miriam him and says, I can get a wet nurse for you. And very clearly, I think Pharaoh's daughter knows what's going on. Everybody knows what's going on, you know? The mother knows, the Pharaoh's daughter knows. Pharaoh's daughter says, okay, I'm going to say this is my child, and I am going to send him to have you raise him. And so for the first probably eight or so years, something like five to eight, we're not totally sure how long, he was raised by his own family. He was able to therefore understand who he was. He was able to get his Hebrew identity. If he did not, if he had not been raised by his own family, he never could have been a leader of the Israelites later because he wouldn't have had any racial identity. But when he did go to Pharaoh's, because he was protected, he went to Pharaoh's house and there he got training and there he got education and skills and he got learning and he became a great leader. And that also is amazing because the Israelites were an oppressed people. the corridors of power. They weren't allowed into the educational institutions. They had no access to learning and education. He could never have been the deliverer of his people, leader of his people, unless both of those things happened, and they both happened. Now, the rest of the story goes like this. One day after Moses had grown up, he went out to where his own people were and watched them at their hard labor, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew. Now, he was all grown up. He's a prince in Egypt but he also knows he's a prince in Israel. And you know when Joseph years before was a prince of Egypt and a prince of Israel that was possible because there was a friendship between Israel and Egypt. But now that Israel was a depressed people Moses had realized that it was going to be impossible for him to be a day, the decision was upon him. He saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his own people. Glancing this way and that and seeing no one, he killed the Egyptian and hit him in the sand. The next day, he went out and saw two Hebrews fighting and he asked one in the wrong, why are you hitting your fellow Hebrew? And the man said, who made you ruler and judge over us? Are you going to kill me the way you killed that Egyptian? And then Moses was afraid and thought, what I did must have become known. And when Pharaoh heard of this, he tried to kill Moses, but Moses fled from Pharaoh and went to live in Midian, where he sat down by a well. And we know out there he spent 40 years being a shepherd in a desert. Now you know what happens here? Moses was both a prince of Israel and a prince of Egypt. He had two people, and he realized at a certain point he was going to have to choose between the two. And the moment came, and he chose, but he chose in a very foolish way. way. A prince, a pagan prince is allowed to lose his temper and kill somebody. It happened all the time. That's one of the reasons why he did it. He was raised in a pagan culture where nobility, we know from the rules, we know from archaeology, we know from history that the nobles could get very upset with a commoner and kill him and generally get sort of a hand slap. Now, now, now, you know, mustn't play with the, you know, with the citizenry, you know, what are you doing? There might even be a fine or something like that, but it wasn't all that unusual. Here he is trying to function as an Israelite, but he's thinking like a pagan. He means well, but there's a pride, there's an arrogance, you know, and there's also a temper. He hasn't gotten control of his temper. He's got, in some ways, the heart of an Israelite, and yet he's still got a tremendous number of habits of thought and action. and he kills somebody. Now, when he realizes that the Israelite has rejected him and that the Israelites have rejected him, that they're not going to follow him, that doesn't win their hearts. Naked power. He has a choice. He could go to Pharaoh and say what happened. He could make up a story and the Pharaoh would not have gotten upset. Because as I said, this is the way royal people acted all the time. He could have made up some kind of story. But Moses decided, here's what's so weird, Moses had two peoples, and now he knows that if he stays true to his Israelite identity, he will have none. He could go back. He could go back to the Egyptian culture. He could throw his lot back in with that and just say, I don't want to have nothing to do with my ethnic roots. But instead, he decides, and the book of Hebrews chapter 11 said, he's decided to stay identified with his people even if that meant complete exile. So he obeyed. He had decided to be an Israelite and he'd first step, he'd blown it pretty badly. He obeyed and realized that he'd blown it but then he did not go back. He did not turn back. He'd made a commitment. He'd started off poorly but now he says, I'm not going to go back. As a result, 40 years later, he's 80 years old. All of that training looks like it's down the tubes. He's a shepherd in the desert. His career has gone nowhere. He doesn't have a people. He's not a leader of anything but scrub brushes and sheep. And so it looks like his whole life is a ruin because he tried to do the right thing. And the way the chapter ends, the people of Israel are crying out under their bondage, college and Moses himself is just a man, his career is at a total dead end and it looks like he tried to do the right thing and where did it get him? And that's how the chapter ends and that's as far as I'm going tonight. Let's close in prayer. No, I won't. What do we learn? Here's what we learn. We learn several things that are very, very important. I'm going to give you one that's real brief but I ought to give you this one because I hate to go by it. There's not many other places This is in the Bible. I can show this to you. There is a biblical basis for civil disobedience. Oh, yes. It's right here. The midwives lie to Pharaoh, and God commends them. Why? What's so interesting is when a human government commands what God forbids or forbids what God commands, we are duty-bound to obey God rather than them. Christians have always been strange looking people to all the political ideologues of the world and here's why in Romans 13 Paul says Christians submit and respect to the governing authorities because behind and above the governing authorities is the authority of God the state is not a human invention it's a divine invention and God's authority is behind and above it cuts two ways, and Christians know it. On the one hand, it means that unless we have to disobey the government, we mustn't, even if we think it's stupid. I mean, you have to remember that Paul was writing about Nero at the time in Romans 13, and he was saying you must obey it because God's authority is behind it. You must respect it. God's authority is behind it, but because God's authority already is behind it. If it commands you to do what God forbids or forbids you to do what God commands. You can see this in Daniel 3, where Nebuchadnezzar commands to worship an idol and they don't do it and they're thrown into the furnace. In Daniel 6, where he forbids anyone to worship the Hebrew God and they do it anyway. Whenever the government commands what is forbidden or forbids what is commanded, we have to disobey. And if they don't do that, we must submit. it. And as a result, Christians are very radical. We look to, you know, in the eastern block, in the communist countries, Christians have always looked very liberal. Why? Because Christians will not undergo, will not go under a totalitarian state. Christianity is radical and says to a totalitarian state, you are being judged by the word of God. You are not the Lord of my conscience. God alone is Lord of my conscience. And therefore, I am most free. And if you read any of the histories about the fall of communism in the Eastern Bloc countries, you will see Christians were behind that. Christians were the liberals. Christians were the ones who were saying, we've got to be free. Christians were the ones who were saying, the individual cannot say to the state, you're God. But in the West, in a highly individualistic society, we look conservative. Because Christianity also says there is an authority. The individual heart is not God. Don't you see? To the anarchists, we look ridiculously traditional, and to the totalitarians, we look ridiculously liberal. Because we will not say like the West, the human heart is God. We will not say like, as has been said in totalitarian countries, the state is God. There is a very strong basis for civil disobedience. We don't obey the government for our sake. We obey for God's sake. If you obey for your sake, you're going to obey the government too little or too much. That means if you obey for your sake, when it's practical, that means you're going to be doing all kinds of cheating, and a lot of us are. You cheat all over the place when you know you can't get caught, and it's not in your best interest. It's not advantageous for you to obey the government. If you obey out of self-interest, if you obey for your sake, there's going to be times in which you obey too little. You're not going to respect the civil authorities. And there's also going to be places where you're going to obey too much. In Germany, plenty of those folks knew what was being done to the Jews and to other people. But it wasn't advantageous for them to stand up and say, you must not command what God forbids. You obey government for your sake. You will obey too little or too much. Christians won't do either. Christians have an attitude toward the state. It's totally different. We obey for God's sake, and God alone is Lord of our conscience. And so we look very, very traditional from one side. We look very, very radical from another side. Why? Because we're Christians. Because we are not sheep. Because when the Lord is Lord alone of your conscience, most free. Okay? Secondly, the other thing you learn here is you can't really muck up your life. You think Moses' life was ruined because he obeyed? Here's what's so interesting. First of all, if Pharaoh had not tried to kill the little babies, Moses never would have been able to have this unique background that made him, and him alone, a leader capable of leading an oppressed people out of a major world power. If Pharaoh hadn't tried to do all that awful stuff, Moses never would have been put in that situation of both knowing his ethnic roots and having a world-class education and all that leadership training. Not only that, if Moses hadn't blown it the way he did to spend 40 years in the wilderness, he needed those 40 years in the desert to humble himself. self. We're told later on in the book of Numbers that Moses was the meekest man on the face of the earth. How did he get that way? See, his arrogance made it impossible for him to have, though he had the leadership skills, he didn't have the ethos. He didn't have the leadership character. He couldn't command respect. He needed his time in the desert. But on the other hand, we also see, though he sinned if he hadn't obeyed at the very end at the very end when it looks suicidal to obey and go back to the Egyptians otherwise he was either dead or totally exiled and he obeyed anyway he said I've made a commitment I've already obeyed in a foolish way I'm not going to disobey now and he obeyed when it looked suicidal if he hadn't done that he would never have been a leader Look at all the awful things that happen. Look at all the bad things he did. Look at all the good things he did. God wove it all out into exactly what needed to happen. When the Bible, there's a place where the psalmist says in Psalm 57, O Lord, thou performest all things for me. When you read Romans 8, 28, where it says, God works all things together for good to them that love God, here's what it is. You can't muck up your life. If you give your life to Him. Here's the great irony. What does it mean to give your life to Him? It means to stop saying. I'm the center of the universe. It means to stop saying. God. I want everything to go my way. I've got an agenda. I've got a way. Which I think the world ought to go. See. Until you're a Christian. You basically have an agenda. And you want everything to go your way. You want things to revolve around you. And you get mad at God. thy will be done. Being a Christian is to say, I no longer want to be the center of the universe. I make you, O Lord, the rightful and true center of the universe. And here's what's so ironic. When you finally say, I don't want to be the center of the universe anymore. That's when the Bible says, you can know that you are. All things work together for good to them that love God. To them that love God. God is working everything out. He's weaving everything. He's weaving your mistakes and your triumphs. He's weaving your obedience and your disobedience. He's weaving terrible disasters. You know, the action of Pharaoh to try to wipe out the new. He is weaving everything in. He says all things work together for good to them that love God. Once you say, I don't want to be the center of the universe. Only when you say, I don't want to be the center of the universe do you actually become. There's a sense in which everything is happening for you. I ought to close with this point. I guess every couple of years I tell this story, but it's kind of ironic and weird. When I was in seminary, I wasn't really sure what kind of church I wanted to go into. I didn't know if I'd be a Baptist or a Presbyterian or Episcopalian or whatever. And a man came to my seminary and taught two courses, and I was convinced to be a Presbyterian. I wouldn't certainly be here if I decided to go into a mainline church and kind of do a good work there, but I decided not to go that way. I went into a church where I could be a church planter. If I hadn't, I wouldn't have planted a church. I wouldn't be here. Why did that guy teach those classes? Well, because Mike Ford, the president's son at the time, helped him get a visa to come because he was British and having trouble getting overseas. Well, why could Mike Ford do that? He was a Gordon Conwell. And he had that clout. Why did he have a clout? Because his father was a president. Why was his father a president? Because of Watergate. Remember that? Watergate happened. somebody, one of the Watergate burglars left a door open one day. I wouldn't be here if that door wasn't open. And you know what's so weird? A lot of you wouldn't be. The psalmist says,

the Lord performs all things for me. Is there anybody who feels right? Here's what's the problem. problem. It's very easy, in a sense, to see a little slice of my life, and I love to tell that story because everybody says, well, of course, isn't that amazing? Isn't that amazing? Watergate happened for you. Watergate happened for me. Watergate happened for my family, you know, and all sorts of things. Wow, isn't that interesting? But you see, here's the problem. Chapter 2 ends with Moses sitting on a rock, his life over, 80 years old. I mean, you know, He's 80 years old before God finally calls him and shows him how everything's going to work together. And he's sitting around saying, why did I obey? Why did I obey? But he did. Now, maybe you're in that situation right now. Maybe you're in a situation where you're saying, I've been trying to do the right thing and I've blown it a few times. And now I'm wondering, what's the use? What's the use of continuing to obey? Well, here's the great thing about stories. Here's the great thing about the Old Testament. Moses only saved his people because he was rejected. Moses only became a deliverer because he was utterly rejected, because he lost, and he was the type of the one to come. Jesus Christ was only able to save us because we trampled on him. That's the way of salvation. Because he lost, he won. Because he lost and yet obeyed, he won. He triumphed through losing. He was resurrected after a death. And I'll tell you something. Obeying God very often looks like a death. It looks like the end of your career sometimes. It looks like the end of your love life. We're absolutely sure. It looks like, right? It looks like you're in a desert right now. Don't you believe it? God will draw you out and he will deliver you to make you a deliverer oh yes you are his workmanship he's preparing you pride says Esau Denison is faith in the idea God had when he made you to know that he had an idea to know that everything in your life is weaving together to make you someone who can do something for him just because you're in the middle of the story doesn't mean you should despair. Think of the one who, when he was in the desert, when he was in the garden, when he was in despair, did not go back but said, Thy will be done, and look what God did through him. Same thing with Moses. It can be the same thing with you. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that it's possible for us to see your hand in these great stories. We see the way you save. Salvation came through a deliverer who was rejected, Jesus Christ. Salvation came through a Savior who seemed to be destroyed. Salvation came to these people through a mediator who also was rejected. Help us to see that you are behind everything, that you perform all things for us. Help us to see that you're a God of history and you're working your wise and loving plan out through that history. And help us to live lives in accord with that knowledge. Give us the confidence and the humility and the love and the hope that should come from knowing that. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.