So, James chapter 2, verses 14 to 26, and here's what we read. What good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? Suppose a brother or sister is without clothes and daily food, and if one of you says to him, go, I wish you well, keep warm and well fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is that? In the same way, faith by itself, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. But someone will say, you have faith, I have deeds. Show me your faith without deeds and I will show you my faith by what I do. You believe there is one God, good. Even the demons believe that and shudder. You foolish man, do you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless? Was not our ancestor Abraham considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar? You see that his faith and his action were working together, and his faith was made complete by what he did. And the Scriptures was fulfilled that said Abraham believed God, and it was credited to him as righteousness, and he was called God's friend. So you see that a person is justified by what he does and not by faith alone. In the same way was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction. As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead. Now, the summary of what James is saying is there in verse 24. He says, so we see that a person is justified by what he does and not by faith alone. Now, somebody says, uh-huh, see, the Bible contradicts itself. Now, in fact, many of you know that James is stating this in a way that seems, sounds diametrically opposed to what the whole book of Romans is about. Let me summarize what Paul says in the book of Romans, in particular in chapter 3 and 4. Paul says, we are justified by faith alone, not by what we do. And James says, what we do and not by faith alone. See? Well, there you have it. You know, it's the end of our church. It's the end of Christianity as we know it. You know, people will say, I mean, you know, what more do you want? That proves that the Bible has divergent views. They contradict each other. The Bible is not a uniform body of teaching. It's not an infallible guidebook. It's like any other ancient body of teaching. You can't accept all of it. You're either going to accept what James says, you're going to accept what Paul says. Now, we have to start right off. I don't want to keep you in suspense about whether we're, you know, whether we're quitting the church tonight or not. No, we're not. Because really, there is no possibility that James is contradicting Paul. Well, I mean, you know, each of these eyes, you know, if you only look at things through one eye, you'll lose depth perception. You need two eyes looking at the same object to have depth perception. Why? Because each eye is looking from a slightly different perspective at the same object, and as a result, you see it better. In the same way, James is looking at the same gospel from a slightly different perspective than Paul. I'm not saying that he's not supplementing here, but here's the important thing to see. James, and I really figured this out recently in reading a couple of commentators who said James knew all about Paul's teaching. In fact, James is actually being mischievous here. One commentator put it that way, and I thought that was so intriguing. He says, James knows that the way he's putting what he's saying sounds outrageous. That's the way he puts it. I mean, doesn't he go out of his way to sound like Paul and yet to sound like he's contradicting Paul? Of course. You have to, listen, before you say, oh, this is a contradiction, First, you have to realize that at the end of the first century, when the church began to assemble the writings of the apostles as the apostles were dying out, they put James and they put Romans together. They slapped them together, and they didn't have a problem. They didn't see the teachings as being diametrically opposed. Give them a little credit. And not only that, the book of Acts chapter 15 tells us a historical fact, and that is in the very early days of the church, there was a great council, the Council of Jerusalem, and James and Paul and all the apostles got together and talked about this very issue. And they all came away with consensus. James certainly knew what Paul said. We are justified by faith alone and not by anything we do. And then he comes and says, now don't you see that we're justified by what we do and not by faith alone? He's trying to get our attention. Kathy and I used to do this with a particular, let me give you an example. When we used to be in the South, every so often somebody would ask us, do this if we were in a public place and it was in a public situation and somebody says, do you believe that the Bible allows interracial marriage? And so, you know, if either Kathy or I would do this, if we were in a public place, what would our response be? We'd say, oh, no, absolutely not. The Bible totally forbids interracial marriage. And of course, everybody stops and eyes get big. And especially since most of the people who were there knew that sounded like it contradicted what they've heard from me before. So everybody would pause say whoever was saying it, we say, on the other hand, you know, the Bible says there's really only two races in the world. There's the children of God and the people who are not children of God, and intermarriage between those two races is forbidden, but outside of that, there's no problem. And of course, you see what I was, you know, and the people who were listening, they knew they'd been snookered, you know, with a rhetorical device. What was it? I was using the word race in a little different way than they were used to. And I used it a little differently so that it sounded absolutely contradictory to what it and figured out what I was saying, they realized I'd gotten my point across by getting their attention by sounding that so outrageous. Same thing here. James is using the word justified in a somewhat different way than Paul uses it. You know, words have their original meaning, and then they have their more common usage. Like the word awful in English. The original meaning of the word awful meant to be full of awe. But now the word awful just means to think something's terrible. They're related, but they're not quite the same. The original word justify, dikei asunai, means to make yourself right, to be made right. And therefore, literally, if you justify something, let's just say you have a debt and you make that debt good, what have you done? You have made yourself just or right with your creditor, you see? But the word justify can also mean then and now to prove yourself right. See, for example, Justify that statement. What am I saying? Am I saying make it true? I don't know. What am I saying? I'm saying demonstrate that it's true. Prove to me it's true. Give me evidence that it's true. I'm not saying make it true. Well, the same thing is with the word justified. When Paul says we're justified by faith, he means we cannot be made right with God except through the merits of Jesus Christ and the works of Jesus Christ. We can't make ourselves right. It has to be done through him. But when James says we're justified by works, he means that it's our works that prove that we're right with God. See, now Paul would say the same thing. Paul is saying, right, when Paul says you're justified by faith, he is saying you're made right with God only through the work of Christ. But when James says you're justified not by faith but also by works, he's saying a mere profession of faith isn't enough to prove that you really are right with God. you have to show some concrete changes in your life. And therefore, you know, Philip Melanchthon, who was the protege of Martin Luther, put it perfectly. He took the two things, what Paul is saying, that you are made righteous only by faith, not by your works. But then what James is saying is that you're only seen to be and you're only proven to be and you're only known to be with God because of the fruit and changes that come into your life. So what Melanchthon did was he put these two things together. He said, what is Paul saying and what is James saying in one sentence? He said, we are saved by faith alone but not by a faith which remains alone. There it is. We are saved by faith alone but we are not saved by a faith which remains alone. James is not saying that you are made right with God through your works. Everything about the whole book assumes the apostolic and the Pauline teaching. is one of the problems because it's been a month since we looked at the first part of James. So, let me remind you, earlier in the book of James, I mean, earlier in the chapter, James says this, up in verse 5. He says something, you know, a perfectly good example. He says, Christians are rich in faith and inherit the kingdom promised to those who love him. You see, a Christian is an heir. Do you know the differences between wages and an heir? let me just show you how James assumes it. Wages come to you because of what you do. Inheritance comes to you because of what you are. Wages come through your efforts. Inheritance comes because of a relationship you have. Wages are things that only come after you've done something, but an inheritance is money already in the bank. Wages come bit by bit that's not in the bank until after you're done, working for the week or working for the month, but an inheritance is already in the bank. It's guaranteed. James says, we're not earning our salvation. We're heirs of salvation. Big, big different, total different. Absolutely, he is saying, we are saved by grace. When you become a Christian, you become an heir. That means you're adopted into the family, and you become heir of the wealthy father that is now the God who is now your father. There's no way he means, therefore, that you're saved by your works. What he's saying is you're justified by your works. you're proven to be saved by your works. There it is. Therefore, you see, what James is really saying is he's trying to get our attention, and he did, didn't he? Did he get your attention? I mean, he knows what Paul says. He knows what the apostolic teaching is, and he gets their attention. He says, you're not justified by faith alone, but by what you do. Well, that gets our attention. And then you read and you see he's actually making a different point than Paul to some degree, and here's what he's saying. He's saying, I want to show you how you can know you're you're saved, not how you get saved, not how to become saved, not how to become right with God. I want to show you how you know that you have a living faith. You see what he keeps saying? If you say you have faith, but these things are not in your life, your faith is dead. What does that mean? Dead. It means it's not alive. It means it's not saving faith. It means it's not real faith. That's what he's saying. How do you know you have a living faith? How do you know you're you're alive. How do you know we're at with God? He gives us four examples here, and by giving us these four examples, he shows us both what are insufficient signs that you really have a living faith and what are unmistakable signs that you have a living faith. Let me show you what the insufficient signs are. In chapter 2, well, we read it. In verse 19, he says, you believe there is one God, good. Even the demons believe that and shudder. Now, right here in a negative illustration, he shows us what it's possible to have and still not have saving faith. Back in the middle of the 18th century, Jonathan Edwards preached a sermon on this verse, on James chapter 2, verse 19. James chapter 2, verse 19. You believe that there is one God, and Shudder. And he preached the whole sermon on it, and you know what the name of the sermon was? The name of the sermon was, I can remember this, yes, True Grace Distinguished from the Experience of Devils. They don't make titles like they used to, do they? Okay, True Grace Distinguished from the Experience of Devils. And what he does when he looks at this verse, and this is a very frightening thing. The first part of Edwards' sermons are always frightening. And he says, let me show you two things that demons have that are fine. They're perfectly good. They're perfectly wonderful. They're fine. But I want you to see that you can have them and still just be a demon. Okay? There's nothing wrong with these things. But having them doesn't mean that you're even more than a demon. You know, it doesn't even qualify you more than that. So what are those two things? He says, first of all, sound doctrine. See, this is where it gets kind of scary. He says, you believe that God is one. Good. So do the demons. And then Edwards goes on and points out that the devils have been to the absolute greatest seminary in the universe. That's a quote. He says, the devils have all been to the greatest divinity school in the universe. They've been in the heaven of heavens. They've been in the throne room of God. They know more sound doctrine. They know more about God than the greatest saint that's ever lived. He says, but, and there's nothing wrong with that. Edwards says, get all the knowledge you can. Get all the accuracy you can. That's fine. to realize that having that doesn't necessarily qualify you to be anything more than a demon. You can be a demon and have that. And then he goes on one step further, and he says, the demons believe that, says James, and they shudder. Now, here's where Edwards really gets kind of close. And he points out, he says, you see, they don't just believe this. They respect the power of God. They respect the greatness of God. They're scared of God. They know what he can They move about, you might say, basing their life on what they know about what God can do. Now, he says, if that's true, then it's very possible for human beings to know God is great, to believe God is great, and to be scared of punishment, and to be afraid that they'll be punished, and to even alter your behavior and become a very moral person, even an incredibly moral person, even an incredibly religious person, says Edwards, and all of your religion and all of your morality is nothing but shuddering. You're hedging your bets. It's insurance. You know that there may be a God or there probably is a God or you certainly can't prove there isn't a God. And you know that if you displease a God like this, that you're in tremendous trouble, and therefore you better start to do these things, and you better start to do these things. All of your religion, he says, it's possible to have an incredible amount of morality in religion. It's nothing but shuddering. And he says, all it does is qualify you to be a demon. He says, no, there's nothing wrong with having conscience pangs. There's nothing wrong with actually realizing that if there is a God who's a great creator, then I have to obey him. There's nothing wrong with that, he says, Edward. And there's certainly nothing wrong with understanding doctrine and understanding about God and the attributes of God, the nature of God, and the unity of God, like it's mentioned here in this verse and so on. There's nothing wrong with that, but you have to see, he says, that doesn't prove that you've got any faith at all. Living faith, real faith, saving faith. You see, a person with saving faith will have these things, but a person who has these things does not necessarily have saving faith. So there, by one negative example, we see what are insufficient signs. Well, how do you know, then you have a living faith. And here's what's so wonderful about it. James, with the other examples, shows us the two signs of a real living faith. The reason I keep using the word living is because he keeps saying that it's possible to have tremendous doctrinal accuracy and also to have a very religious life, but it's a calculating life. It's a life simply of adding things up, pluses and minuses, you know? Profits and debits, and I guess I better live like this. In other words, it's a life in which there's no life and vitality in your faith. If your faith is dead, it won't bear fruit. Dead things don't grow. Dead things don't reproduce. But living things do. And so he goes on and says, if your faith is alive, it will produce these fruit. And here are the two things. First of all, he says the sign of the living faith is it's alive toward other people. In verse 14 he says, what good is it, my brothers, if a man claims to have faith but has no deeds? Can such faith save him? brother or sister is without clothes and daily food, and if one of you says to him, go, I wish you well, keep warm and well-fed, but does nothing about his physical needs, what good is it? In the same way, faith by itself, if it's not accompanied by action, is dead. Now, what is he saying? If you get into the presence of poor people, of broken people, of hurting people, of people very different than you, and you respond either with scorn or indifference, you don't have a living faith. How can he say that? Now, we have to be so careful. We have to penetrate to the principle because I can hear some of you saying, oh my gosh, I'm a Christian and I don't do anything for the poor at all. I'm not involved. Where was that bulletin insert? Where are those phone numbers? You know, gosh, I missed that. All that stuff that happened at Christmas. You know, I could have been involved. There are so many Christians. There are so many things at Christmas for the poor. And you say, I better do something about this. This says that if I don't do this, Christian, stop, stop. Look, far be it for me to stop you from getting at that bullet insert or going to those meetings. But listen, be careful. It could be that all that work with the poor is nothing but shuddering. What is he saying? He says faith without works is dead. Faith without a care for the poor is dead. What's the opposite of dead? What's the opposite, you see, of fear? Fear. Faith that is just shuddering, just being scared, isn't real faith. What's the opposite of shuddering? What's the opposite of fear? Not courage, love. In other words, he is saying there has to be an organic, not a mechanical. There's got to be some organic way in which your faith is touched by the presence of the poor. The poor and broken people and marginal people and messed up people, or people who are just very different than you are. If you have a living faith, the presence of the poor trips the switch, accesses a file, you see, activates a principle. And what is that principle? What is the principle? Here's what the principle is. You go back up to chapter 2, verse 5, and this is what James says earlier on. He says, He says, has God not chosen the poor in the eyes of the world to be rich in faith and inherit the kingdom promised to those who love him? Has not God chosen the poor in the eyes of the world? Now, listen, I can't recap that. We went into that in great detail over a month ago, and if you want to go back into it, take the tape. But here's the main thrust. James is saying, if you have a living faith, you know that you also are spiritually poor. If you're a Christian, you know you're spiritually poor. We're going to sing a hymn during the communion service, which is a perfect example of what that spiritual poverty is. Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling, naked come to thee for dress, helpless look to thee for faith, foul eye to the fountain fly. Do you know what all that is? You notice what's going on? The author of that hymn is showing you that repentance is not just saying, oh, yes, sin, I shouldn't do that anymore. Repentance is not just saying this or that thing is wrong, I need to stop it. Real repentance, real living faith is seeing that spiritually you're bankrupt. You see? Repentance is expressed in terms of poverty. A real Christian is somebody who says, I was homeless, I was naked, I stunk in the nostrils of God, and I have been saved strictly by grace. And therefore, when you come upon somebody who actually stinks, or who is actually homeless, or is actually marginal, you see the connection. Oh, I'm not saying that Christians are always walking this way, and it's automatically, but there is a principle, there's a living principle down there. If you do not find that as you grow in Christ, and as you get in touch with who you are and what He has done for you, that people who are very different than you trip that switch, Access that principle of grace and love. If you don't find yourself growing in graciousness toward people like that, if you're scornful or indifferent, James says, you may say you think you're a sinner saved by grace, but you don't believe it. You may say, naked, come to thee for dress, help. You may sing that hymn, and you don't know what you're talking about. You think you're saved on the basis of your works, and as a result, you will not care for those kinds of people. A living faith is alive to other people. There's another example he uses, and that's Rahab. Rahab, in the same way, was not even Rahab the prostitute considered righteous for what she did when she gave lodging to the spies and sent them off in a different direction. What was Rahab doing? Rahab was a Canaanite woman, and she was in Jericho. And when the Israelite spies came, she believed that their God was God, and so she hid them. She risked life and limb. There was courage. But you see, that is also a sign of faith. There's this great place in Galatians 6, 14, 15, where Paul says this, I glory in the cross of Christ through which the world is crucified to me and I to the world. I glorify in the cross of Christ through which the world is crucified to me and I to the world. You know what that means? You see, if you actually have faith not in the grace of Christ but in yourself, you're going to be condescending to people who are a mess. That's the first sign that your faith is dead. If you have faith in anything besides Jesus Christ, you see, Paul says, I used to have faith in my career. I used to have faith in comfort. I used to have faith in these things. But when I saw that my glory, my meaning in life is Jesus Christ, that means there's nothing else out there in the world. Comfort is crucified to me, you see. Money is crucified to me. Approval is crucified to me. It doesn't mean I don't care about these things, but they no longer animate me. They no longer are my life, you see. They no longer control me. And therefore, what is James saying? Courage. If you believe you're a sinner saved by grace, if Christ is your life, then these other things you used to be so scared to lose, you'll be willing to take a risk. Are you living a life of growing compassion to people who are different than you? Are you living a life of growing courage? Is there a principle that these things are getting at? James says, if you don't see that happening, you may say you believe, but you don't. Now, the other side, and one more thing. We said the first sign of a living faith that's alive to people, but ultimately, the sign of a living faith is alive to God. Because here we have the ultimate example of faith. Not only does James use it, of course, Paul uses him. And it says, you foolish man, you want evidence that faith without deeds is useless. Look at Abraham. was considered righteous for what he did when he offered his son Isaac on the altar. You see then that he was God's friend. He was called God's friend. Let me say this is the bottom line. It's the bottom line, by the way, of Jonathan Edwards' sermon on this passage. It's the bottom line of what James is trying to say. James says, you want to see the difference between a dead faith and a living faith? A dead faith may obey God for what you get out of it or what you avoid. It's possible to be very religious and just be doing, and all your religiosity is just shuddering. But he says true faith wants friendship with God. True faith longs for God. Jonathan Edwards said false faith can see the holiness of God, can see the wisdom of God, can see the greatness and power of God, can even see something of the love of God. But the one thing that false faith can never see, he says, is the loveliness of God. True faith wants to please God just because of who he is, not for what you get, not for what you avoid. One of the things you're going to find out, some of you do know this, when you have teenage kids, when your kids have friends, when they find some friends, you say, where are you going? Out. Well, where are you going? I don't know. Don't you have any goals? What time are you going to get in? I don't know. Where are you going? I haven't figured that out. But what are you all dressed up for? You don't even know where you're going to end up. Are you going to do a movie? What are you going to do? I don't know. You know why? It doesn't matter. I want to be with my friends. If you have a friend, a friend is somebody you admire and you just want to be with. You don't, it's not like I want to go see a play, so I got to find a friend to go with it. Oh, no. I want to be with a friend, and so I got to find something to do. A friend is somebody that you love for who that person is, and you live for their smile. You live for their relationship. You live for the friendship. If the friend knows what you really want is to avoid this or to get this, that's not friendship you're just using. And that's the words at the conclusion of this amazing sermon, it's been an amazing sermon to me, he says an amazing thing. He says, and this is a paraphrase, he says, the demons and human beings who share their level of faith may have a strong sense of the awesomeness of God, they may have a strong sense of the wisdom of God. You know, a person might say, wisdom, look at the law of God, it works, crime doesn't pay. You know, I think I ought to obey. He says, the one thing they do not have is a sense of the beauty of God. And this is a quote, the wicked on the day of judgment will see everything else in Christ but his beauty, his amiableness, and his divine loveliness. and he puts it this way he says when Christians come to see Christ's divine loveliness it's not difficult to conceive how the blood of Christ should be esteemed so precious as to be worthy to be accepted as a compensation for the greatest sins the soul when you see the beauty of what he's done when you come to long for it he says just because of what he is and what he's done he says now you properly see the preciousness of Christ and Christian also properly sees and understands the very ground and reason of your acceptableness of God Edwards says people who just do not get the idea of grace. You tell them, you know, you're saved by grace alone, not because of your works. And some people say, that just can't be. I don't understand it. Edward says, that is a refusal to see the beauty of Jesus. When you find your heart going out, he did this for me. That's the essence of living faith. And when you see he did this for me, and you see him as lovely, amiable, you see. And you say, if I see this much of the loveliness of Christ, how much more does the Father see the loveliness of Christ? And therefore, Therefore, when he sees me in my advocate and my meat eater, what a ravishing thing I must be. Edwards says that when you see the loveliness of Christ, then you want to live a good life just because you want to know he's smiling, just because you want to rejoice the heart that's done this for you. God's friend. And that's the reason why the ultimate, ultimate justification by works, the ultimate proof that you're a Christian, the ultimate proof that you have a living faith is what Abraham did. God said, sacrifice your son. And do you see, there's no law anywhere that says you have to sacrifice your son. Why did God do that? And because of this, when Abraham lifted the dagger, he says, now you don't have to slay him. What does he say? He says, Abraham, do not slay the lamb. Why? For now I know you love me. Because you did not withhold your son, your only son, whom you love from me. God was after his love and Abraham responded in love. There was no law there. You see, there's no rule. It's not one of the Ten Commandments. God was saying, I want you to love me. I want you to do this because of who I am. I want you to love me first. That's living faith. It responds to that. I'll tell you what really changes you. I'll tell you. Is your life, all your religiosity, just a lot of shuddering? Or is it a transformed desire for friendship that comes from seeing a greater one than Abraham? God the Father walked up a mountain with his son, and he sacrificed his son, and he went through with it. And a Christian looks at God sacrificing his son and says, now I know that you love me, for you did not withhold your son, your only son, whom you love from me. Now, does that give you goosebumps? That's living faith. Does your heart go out to that? Do you say, oh my word, I don't care what he does for me. All that matters is that I please and know and that I rest in the bosom of the one who did this for me. I want his friendship. That's a living faith. Have you got that? What we're going to do right now in the Lord's Supper is this, gaze upon his beauty. You know, in Psalm 27, verse 4, David says, one thing I want, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and inquire in his temple. David was king. He couldn't dwell in the tabernacle. What it means is he continually went back, and he gazed on the beauty of what God did. And Jonathan Edwards says, and James is saying, it's a desire for friendship with God, a love for who he is, a dwelling on the divine loveliness that is what really is the fuel for your life. It's what you need. If you don't realize, if you're down on yourself self-hating, or if, on the other hand, if you're off living a life you shouldn't live, you don't see the beauty of God. Don't you see it's the thing that heals everything? Let's gaze on the beauty of the Lord. Let's inquire in His temple. Let's ask for the one thing that's necessary, okay? First thing I'd like you to do is turn in your bulletin to the prayer of confession.
