The verse and the passage that we get to tonight is printed in your bulletin. It's about patience. Be patient then, brothers, until the Lord's coming. See how the farmer waits for the Lord, waits for the land to yield its valuable crop and how patient he is for the autumn and spring rains. You, too, be patient and stand firm, because the Lord's coming is near. Don't grumble against each other, brothers, or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door. Brothers, as an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. As you know, we consider blessed those who have persevered. You have heard of Job's perseverance and have seen what the Lord finally brought about. out, the Lord is full of compassion and mercy. And this is God's Word. Maybe the way we printed it there at the end was trying to visibly show patience. You know, we notice how at the end, you know, we say, have patience, have patience. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. I'm showing the patience that we're supposed to have. Be patient. First, let's stand back enough from that command to remind ourself, before we even look at what patience is, to remind ourself what James is continually showing us. I want to move back just far enough because over the last three or four weeks, we've been looking at worry. We've been looking at impatience. We've been looking at a condemning attitude. We've been looking at self-indulgent lifestyles and use of money. The thing that James is teaching us, and it really struck me as I was looking at this passage for tonight, when here he's going to warn us about the sinfulness of being impatient, the sinfulness of grumbling, complaining. James is showing us that, in a sense, the big spiritual battles are not at dramatic, historic, spotlight kinds of moments. The big spiritual battles for your soul, the thing that's going to determine who you are in the end, who you are a billion years from now, and everybody in this room will still exist as a personal being a billion years from now. That's what the Christian understanding is. And what will determine the kind of person that you are is not in the big dramatic battles and events. of life, the spotlight times, unfortunately for us, it has more to do with the small choices that come from attitudes that happen every day, moment by moment, in the most mundane corners of life. That's the reason why, if you think about sin as lying and robbery and forgery and murder and that sort of thing, you can feel pretty good. But if you read what James is talking about, he's talking about patience. He's warning us against impatience, pettiness, jealousy, jealousy, forgetting God. He's talking about attitudes, things that really have to do with the way in which you live every minute. To put it another way, what James is getting across is what Tom Howard, recently listened to Tom Howard, he's an English professor in Boston, and the way he put it is, the Bible teaches us, James is teaching us, that heaven and hell are under every bush. bush. Under every bush. What does that mean? Well, at any moment, you can either follow the way of heaven or the way of hell. The way of heaven is my life for yours. The way of hell is your life for mine. The way of heaven is the way of Christ. My life for yours. I'm going to serve you. The way of hell is your life for mine. I'm only going to work with you if it profits me. me. I'm going to suck out of you what I need. The way of heaven, as a result, means a lifestyle, you see, of courtesy and kindness and thoughtfulness and generosity in everyday life. The way of hell is pettiness and jealousy and self-pity and harshness. Let me go a little further. For example, what happens to you on the way into this service,

there are choices you make who to talk to and how to talk and attitudes that really, heaven and hell is under every bush. It's decisions and choices and attitudes and stances and things like that's going to determine who you are a billion years from now. You see, for example, now let me be frank and specific. There's a lot of people here who you want to see and you want to know and you want to get to know. And you want to spend time with. People who profit you. To know. For example. There are good looking members of the opposite sex. And there's a lot. There are people. Who are at the same place. Now. That. You. Want. To. Get. To. Career. Wives. Or. In. Your. Life. And. You. Like. To. Know. Them. Too. You. Like. To. See. Them. You. Like. To. Network. With. Them. You. Want. To. Be. Around. Them. You. Want. Relatable. People. That. Let. Us. Well. You. Don't. Say. To. Your. Self. Like. Us. No. Of. Course. You. Deceive. yourself. People that profit you to know and to spend time with and to hang out with. In other words, your life or mine. But then there's a lot of people who really don't profit you at all. They're not relatable. They're not at the place where you want to go. They're not good-looking members of the opposite sex. They're not the people that you want to see. And your attitude toward them. How well you listen to them. Whether you give them the time of day. How motivated you are to serve and be warm and accept and embrace people like that, that's the place where you decide which path you're going toward. Whether a billion years from now you're going to be conformed to the image of Jesus or conformed to the image of the devil. You see, heaven and hell are under every bush. That's the point. Your life for mine or my life for yours. Which is it? You see? A gracious life? A warm and embracing, open? Anyway, that's pretty frightening. I know it's pretty frightening, but I thought I would... Misery likes company. I'm frightened, and now you are, too. Not frightened. Convicted. All right. So, first thing we see, heaven and hell is under every bush. The way to heaven or the way to hell is chosen not in the big battles, but in the everyday attitudes toward people, how you treat each other. Anyway, unfortunately, some of you, if tonight people are particularly nice to you, you'll say, oh my gosh, I'm one of, never mind. That's just awful. Why the change? I don't get it. So, you know, don't think too hard, all right? Now, let's look at patience itself. Be patient. Now, Now what is it? Patience. What James is saying. You can put it positively. He's saying a spirit of serenity. A spirit a quietness. Under any circumstances. A spirit a fixedness. And firmness. And steadfastness. Can characterize your life. And he's warning us against a spirit a restlessness. A spirit a irritability. You see a spirit a always a complaining. Always a being a unhappy. unhappy. Always being upset with the way things are and the way people are treating me. Now, so he's warning us against impatience and he's commanding patience. He's exhorting patience. Now, there's really two kinds of impatience he talks about. One of them he's warning against is impatience with people. And the second kind is impatience with God. And actually, there's two different Greek words that are used here for patience. See up here in verse seven and down in verse nine and eight, where he says, be patient. He's talking about

Don't grumble against each other, you see. Be patient. And the word there, the Greek word there is makrotumia, which literally means long to anger or slow to anger. You put up with a lot, and you don't revenge yourself. But then when you get down further, in verse 11, where it talks about, you know we consider blessed those who have persevered. You've heard of Job's perseverance. That word, some of your translations will say patience, and the reason the NIV uses the word perseverance, it's a different Greek word. And there it's a word that really means to fix yourself. To stand firm and not budge. To obey immovably. No matter how hard life gets. No matter how messed up. And how senseless. The circumstances of your life get. You stand firm. Now those are two kinds of patients. Because there's two kinds of impatience. Impatience with others. Impatience with God. And his ordering of your life. And the way your life is going. Let's look at them both. And see. The way to develop patience in both areas. First of all. about impatience with people. And this is the frightening thing to me. Again, it's very convicting. He could say, don't be impatient when people mistreat you or when people are irritable and so on. And in other words, he says, don't revenge yourself. Don't punch them out. Don't harm them. That would be easier for us to say, well, I don't do that. Because an awful lot of us don't. A lot of us have enough self-control. But that's not what he does. He says, don't grumble. don't grumble. Need I say it? Yes, I guess I do need to say it. This is very easy to do, grumbling. Grumbling is just complaining. Grumbling is scorning. Grumbling is zinging people. You know, grumbling is griping. Grumbling is just always finding fault. You know, grumbling is nitpicking. Grumbling is nah all the time. And he doesn't say, well, you know what? so bad, but try to avoid it. He says, don't grumble against each other, other brothers, or you will be judged. The judge is standing at the door, grumbling. You will be condemned for grumbling. You'll be judged by the judge of the universe for grumbling. You know, what's going on here? Is this just a great, another, a great example of Christianity being unrealistic in its standards? You know, come on, don't sweat the small stuff. What's so bad about that? Everybody grumble. In New York, there's something funny about grumbling. You expect to be grumbled at on the streets. If you don't jump into the subway as soon as the door's open, somebody's going to grumble at you. And in a way, what's funny about New York and kind of nice about New York is, in a way, people don't mean anything by it. And you can kind of grumble back and you don't mean anything. And yet, the frightening thing is that cannot become comes, something settled in your heart. Why God, why James says this is so serious? Grumbling is a seed of something terribly poisonous and toxic. It is so bad that I want you to see the judge will judge you for it. Now, you see, God is not like, how do I put this? God doesn't condemn things just because you enjoy them or because they're easy or because he just wants to give you busy busywork. A doctor doesn't forbid a patient from eating something because it tastes good. A doctor forbids a patient from eating something that even though tastes good is undermining his or her health. And God, there's something, you have to remember, God is absolutely organic in his judgment. There's nothing mechanical. God only condemns those things which are eating away way at the fabric of the peace of your heart or relationships of the world, God invented the world to be at peace. God invented the world to be at harmony. God created the world for peace and serenity. And anything he condemns is something utterly destructive to you. Now, there's absolute, therefore, grumbling. What's so serious about grumbling? Ah, C.S. Lewis's Great Divorce, maybe Kathy and my favorite passage. Great Divorce is a fanciful book, fiction, by C.S. Lewis, and it's a dream. And in the dream, the author dreams that he has gone to a place on the outskirts of heaven and bustloads of people from hell take excursions out of hell. And they come up to the outskirts of heaven and the people come down from heaven and they try to talk the people from hell into going to heaven. They try to talk them out of hell, but they generally fail. And there's a lot of things that C.S. Lewis tries to teach this way. He doesn't believe this really happens and that sort of thing. It's fiction, but he gets some great things across. And in the book, the people who are from hell are called ghosts because you can hardly see them. You can see right through them. And the people from heaven are called the bright people. And the author or the person whose dream this is has a guide or a teacher, George MacDonald, his name is, an old Scottish Christian writer, a guy who really existed, and Lewis puts him and one of the encounters is about a grumbler. And it goes like this. At this moment, we were suddenly interrupted by the thin voice of a ghost talking at an enormous speed. Looking behind us, we saw who was speaking. The ghost was addressing one of the solid people and was doing so busily that she didn't notice us. Every now and then, the solid spirit tried to get in a word without success, and the ghost talk went like this. My dear, I've had such a dreadful time down there, and I don't know how I even got here for this appointment at all. stone. And we'd arranged the whole things. And we were supposed to meet at the corner of Sink Street. And I made it perfectly plain. Because I knew what she was like. And she still didn't meet me. And if I told her once, I told her a hundred times. I would not meet her outside that dreadful Marjorie Banks woman's house. Not after the way she treated me. That was one of the most dreadful things that ever happened to me. I'm dying to tell you. Because I know you'd tell me I acted rightly. Now, wait a minute. Wait until I continue. I tried living with her. When I first came. And it was all fixed up. And she was to do the cooking. And I was to look after the house. And I did think I was going to be comfortable. After all. I'd been through. to be so absolutely selfish and not a particle of sympathy for anyone but herself. And as I once said to her, I do think I'm entitled to a little consideration because you at least lived out your time. I shouldn't be here at all. I was murdered, you know. I was simply murdered, dear. That man should never have operated. And I ought to be alive today. And they simply starved me at that dreadful nursing home. And no one ever came to see me. And the shrill, monotonous whine died as the speaker walked away. What troubles you, son, said my teacher. I'm very troubled, sir, because that doesn't seem to me the kind of person that ought to be in hell. She isn't wicked. She's only a silly, garrulous old woman who has gotten into the habit of grumbling. Ah, said my teacher, that's what she once was. But the whole question is whether she's now a grumbler. Well, I said, I shouldn't have thought there was any doubt about that. No, no, no, you misunderstand me, said my teacher. The question is whether she is a grumbler or only a grumble. If there's a real woman, even the least trace of one, still there inside the grumbling, it could be brought to life again. under all those ashes will blow till the whole pile is red and clear again, but if there's nothing but ashes, we'll not go on blowing them in our own eyes forever. They have to be swept up. Well, how can there be a grumbler without a grumbler, I asked. Well, the whole difficulty of understanding hell is that the thing to be understood is so, that hell is so near to being nothing at all. But listen, you'll have experiences. It begins with a grumbling mood, and yourself self still distinct from the mood and maybe even criticizing it. And then in a dark hour, you may will that mood and embrace it. But you can still repent and come out of it. But there will come a day when you can do that no longer. And then there will be no you left to criticize the mood nor even to enjoy it, but just the grumble itself going on for like a machine forever. But come, lean on my arm and we'll go for a little walk. There's a place in the front of a Paradise Lost. C.S. Lewis wrote a preface to Paradise Lost by Milton. And he says a vote for Satan is a vote for hell. And a vote for hell is a vote for endless autobiography. There is nothing more miserable than not being able to get out of your own needs. That's all grumbling is. There's nothing more miserable than not to be able to get out of yourself. Hell is endless autobiography. Absolute self-absorption. Concentration on nothing but me. Why aren't you doing this for me? And why isn't this happening for me? See, what is hell? Your life for mine. If you think that's draining to say my life for yours, which is the way of heaven, that sounds very draining. It's liberation. And there is nothing more enslaving than to be looking at every situation and saying, what's in this for me? What's wrong with me? Why? A vote for hell is a vote for endless autobiography. Haven't you ever been with people that even now are halfway to hell? They can't talk about anything but themselves. themselves. They're happy if you don't, but they couldn't stand to be with another person like themselves. In fact, other people like themselves are the people that they most hate. You see, grumbling will kill you and everybody around you eventually. God does not say, don't do this, just because he wants to give you busy work. He says, this is going to kill you. Now, how do you deal with impatience with people? How do you overcome this deathly toxic issue, this deathly toxic spirit of continually saying, why aren't people looking at me and thinking about me and doing all these things? What's wrong? Complaining, griping, zinging people all the time. Well, it's fairly simple for this one. Macrothumia, slow to anger. That's what God is. Remember? Remember, back in Exodus, he says, I am the Lord, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. Now, here's the trick, but it's not just a trick. There is a way for you to instantly melt your heart whenever you start to get irritable, whenever you start to get unhappy. And there's nothing more like hell than to be grumbling, always unhappy with the way things are for you. The way you can melt your heart down and start to become patient and radiant and loving that ordinarily would be irritable, irritating to you, the way you can do that is to think about how much you've taxed God's patience. You have to go back. You have to think about it. I'll never forget one time seeing somebody pull out, rescue a little cat, a little kitten really, out of a river, basically, and as the young man was rescuing the cat, the cat was biting and scratching and clawing, and bloodying that poor kid's hand. Now, unless, listen, if you want to become a radiant person, it's fairly simple. You have to think of all the places and times in which God was feeding you, and he was protecting you, and he was holding you up, and very most, at very least, you were ungrateful and indifferent to him, and totally ignoring and not forgetting him, and forgetting him, or at worst, biting and scratching him all during that time. him. Can you think about that? And here's what's so ironic. If you don't see how much you have taxed the patience of God, if the thought of what you have done to him and how you have tried his patience and how over the years he was holding you up and you were biting and scratching him, if you say, you know, I can't get into that. I don't see how I was doing that. This is the great irony. You don't see how bad you are. You don't see how sinful you are. And if you don't see how bad and sinful you are, you lack the main engine for becoming a radiantly good and loving person. To think about that and to be able to think about that instantly melts you down. And makes it possibly radiant and patient with almost anybody. And if you can't... You see the irony of this thing? You can't exhort yourself into patience. You can't beat yourself into patience. You can't say, I should be patient. You know, beat yourself. You can only repent

You have to see that he was slow to anger with you, and that will make you slow to anger with anyone else. And to the degree that you see that, to that degree, you'll be radiant and patient and safe from hell. Pretty simple. Until you see how bad you are, you lack the engine for becoming a radiantly wonderful, good, and loving person. Now, the second thing, and we'll have to be brief, but one more story, one more illustration. illustration. Notice, the second thing is patience under suffering. In verse 10 and 11, brothers, as an example of patience in the face of suffering, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. As you know, we consider blessed those who persevered. You heard of Job's perseverance and have seen what the Lord finally brought about. The Lord is full of compassion and mercy. Now, there's actually a lot to say here, but I'm going to try to give you the a nub. When he talks about the prophets, oh my word, it would be so much fun to pull this out where he says, take the prophets. Take the prophets. Look at the prophets. God comes to Isaiah and says, Isaiah, I've got a job for you. You can see this in Isaiah 6. He says, I'm going to send you to preach the gospel to a group of people over the next 20 or 30 years, and no one will believe you ever. He says, I want to send you to people who will never hear you, never see you, never understand, understand. Never. Get going. God comes to Jeremiah, and Jeremiah preaches at the time in which Nebuchadnezzar of the Babylonians is coming against Israel. And Jeremiah is told by God, God comes and says, Jeremiah, here's what I want you to tell the Israelites. I want you to tell them that right now it is my will that their country be taken from them, and that Nebuchadnezzar is right now going to be the instrument of my chastening. They're going to lose this battle. They're going to lose this war. So I want you to tell them to surrender. Surrender to Nebuchadnezzar. Obey Nebuchadnezzar. Of course, they don't want to do that. And so they don't. They resist. And of course, then they're destroyed. And then they're taken into exile. And when they get into exile, they say, well, God will deliver us. And we're not going to settle down in Babylon. And then God comes to Jeremiah and says, tell the exiles that they have to submit. They have to get involved in that city. They have to live in that pagan city and embrace that city. And they have to work for the peace of that city and pray for the peace of that city and so on. Jeremiah says, that's what I have to do for the next 20 years. Everybody's going to think I'm a traitor. You're telling me that I've got to say the Lord's will is that you surrender to this pagan king, give in, give up, accept the exile. They're going to think I'm a traitor. And they did. They were constantly. You can find. There's one place where all his friends in his hometown I think it's like in Jeremiah 11, decide to get together and say, we've got to kill this man. This man is preaching treason. But God told him to. And to the end, he had a miserable life. And you've got Hosea. I don't want to keep going, but it's, you know, God comes to Hosea and he says, Hosea, you're never going to be any kind of prophet until you understand what my life is like. And therefore, I want you to marry a woman who will never be faithful to you. Gomer. You're going to marry her, and she's going to continue to be unfaithful to you. She's going to continually commit adultery. You're going to have to continually forgive her and go get her and bring her back. And that's how your life is going to go. Because you're never going to understand what my life is like with my people until you go through that. You're never going to be any prophet unless you have a life of suffering like that. And Hosea says, Okay. Get going. He says to Hosea. Get going. Jeremiah. Get going. Isaiah. Their lives were a mess. Nothing ever went right to them. And God says, I want you to obey me. I want you to be steadfast. I want you to stand firm. I want you to obey. Now here's what's so interesting. If they had decided to do what looked practical, which would have been to disobey. To avoid the suffering. To disobedience. If they had decided not to stand their ground. You and I would have never heard of any of them. but the great irony was they couldn't sit down and say, oh, I get it. If I do this thing, which means I'm going to be beaten and I'm going to be hurt and nobody's going to listen to me. I'm going to have a bust of a career. But only if I obey God will I become one of the great figures of history. Will my writings and my prophecies survive for centuries and I will be used by God as one of the great religious figures of history. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea. and millions of people will be helped. Oh, I get it. That's what I have to do. No, you don't know that. But they stood firm. And because they obeyed, in spite of the fact that nothing was going right in their life and everything that God was sending them seemed senseless, they stayed put, and as a result, they triumphed. That's what James is trying to say to you. George MacDonald, 100 years ago, called The Princess and the Goblin. I was rereading it. And in it, there's a little princess. And she has a fairy grandmother. And the fairy grandmother, at one point, says, you're in a great deal of danger. And when the goblins come to get you, because there's goblins in this fairy tale. She says, I want you to come find me. And the little princess says, well, it's very hard to find you, grandmother. And she says, well, here's what I want you to do. And she brings a little ball of thread. And she gives the princess a ring, puts the ring on her finger and attaches a thread to the ring. Then she puts the other end of the thread in her cabinet. The grandmother's cabinet. Then she says, now when you're in a real trouble. Take a ring off. Put it under a pillow. Then you'll be able to feel a thread. Nobody else will be able to feel it. Then she tells me. Then leave the thread. You'll be lost. If you hold onto the thread, you'll find me. I'll be at the other end. And the way the story goes at one point is that it happens. And she's in danger. And she puts the ring underneath her pillow. And she feels the thread. And every other time she'd ever found a grandmother, she just went up in her own house to the attic. But the thread takes her out the door, takes her up the mountain, and right into the goblin's den. And she says, She says, I don't get this. And she tries to go back. But when you try to go back, the thread disappears. She follows the thread in. And it turns out that she actually ends up rescuing one of the heroes in the book, Curdy. Didn't even know he was in danger. Curdy says, how did you find? Well, the thread. But he can't feel the thread. How did we get out of here? And she says, I've got to follow the thread. At one point, she holds onto the thread. And it seems to be going in the wrong direction. He says, you can't go that way. I tried to get out that way. Nobody can get out that way. And she turns. And she says, I've got to follow my thread. It doesn't matter how stupid it looks. doesn't matter whether it's suicidal, I have to keep the finger on the thread. And she starts to cry. She's eight years old. And he says, all right, all right. And they get out. And finally, it brings her to the grandmother. Now, what's the idea about this? The idea about this is you cannot follow your wisdom. And very often to follow God's wisdom is to look like it's absolute suicide. side. But, you know, that's just not the case. And the only way for you to understand this is to look at the one who was filled with compassion and mercy. Who's that? When Jesus was on the cross, the Job behind the Job's, the prophet behind the prophets, the one who was filled with mercy, don't you realize when people saw Jesus Christ on the cross, you know what they said? The people who loved Jesus, they saw him dying and they said, this makes no sense. Here's the man who had such miraculous power that he had virtually banished sickness from Palestine over the last three years. And here's the man with such incredible wisdom. He obviously has enough wisdom to heal all the world's social and political ills. And here's the son of God. What in the world is the father doing? And they looked at the greatest act of mercy and the greatest act of wisdom in history. history, and many people, this is my guess, lost their faith that night. They said, how in the world could this be? Now, you know the reason you and I don't get real upset about the death of Jesus Christ? It's because we have a whole book to explain why. But you see, the fairy grandmother didn't tell the little princess why the thread was going that way. She said, you follow it. It turns out she rescues. You follow it. It turns out that's the right way. way. So God didn't tell Isaiah why he had to have such an unsuccessful career. He didn't tell Jeremiah why that he had to always be running around, you know, trying to basically running for his life. He didn't tell these people why. They kept their finger on the thread. They fixed their hearts. And you can too. If you look at the one who really kept his finger on the thread, Jesus Christ, the thread took him to the cross. It went away. It seemed to be going away from life. But life is on the other side of the cross. The resurrection is on the other side. How shall we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for granting us your patience and giving us your Son. And by looking at your patience with us. And by looking at his patients with you, oh father. We can become people of steadfastness and serenity. By looking at your patients with us, oh father. And his patients with you. We can become people of steadfastness and serenity. Make it so. We pray in Jesus name. Amen.