Remember this, whoever turns a sinner from the error of his ways will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins. And this ends the reading of God's Word. It also ends the reading of the book of James. There's a...we get to the very end of the book and James gives us two tools. tools that just fill me with fear and trembling and a great deal of...it just makes me very reflective tonight, and I hope I won't be so reflective that I lose my train of thought. The two tools are confession and reclamation. In verse 16 it says, V.16 Confess your sins to each other and pray for each other that you may be healed. Spiritual confession. Go to each other, confess your sins to one another, pray with each other that he may be healed. And then that's confession. And then down in verse 19 and 20, we have reclamation. Brothers, if any of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring him back, remember this, whoever turns a sinner from the error of his ways will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins. Now, these two tools we have to take up with great fear and trepidation. Fear and trembling is all I can say. And I'd like to talk to you first about importance of them, why we need them, especially here in a place like New York City. Then, what they are. Then how. The motive. The necessity. Then the motive. Then the necessity. Then the power. Then the necessity. Then the power. Then the necessity. city. And even though it wasn't a Christian city, it was a city of very conservative religion, a very traditional society. And yet James clearly assumes that these two tools were used. The references are so doggone tiny. You know, they're just so fleeting. It's obvious that James isn't explaining something to them they don't know. They're just reminders. And so he expects them to know the tools. But if they were necessary in Jerusalem, how much more in New York City? city. You see, in the morning services I've been studying the book of 1 Corinthians, and I'm just looking at chapter 13, and in order to get ready for it, I spent a lot of time reading the whole book and trying to do some background reading to get the gist of what Corinth was like and all. An awful lot of what I studied isn't getting into the morning sermons at all. It's really just background. But in some strange ways, what I studied about Corinth really gave me pause as I in James. In other words, the study for the morning messages in 1 Corinthians actually told me a lot about James, and here's why. Paul uses these same two tools on the Corinthians, but he gives a lot more space to them. And I think it's because Christians in Corinth had a lot more need for them than Christians in Jerusalem. And New York is a whole lot more like Corinth than it is like Jerusalem. Corinth was a place, there's probably, some of you have probably heard this last week, because some of the people here go to the morning service too, but Corinth was the wickedest city in the Roman Empire. Nobody went there unless you went to make money, or to make it, or to be successful. And it was the most lawless place, it was the most success-obsessed place, and sex-obsessed place. In the Greco-Roman world, they made up a verb, do you know? They made up a verb out of the name of that city. And the verb was, if you were a person living absolutely lawlessly with total self-indulgence, a person living the most morally depraved life, trampling on all the rules, just doing what you wanted to do to maximize your own fulfillment, and trampling on every rule and every person on the way to do it, there was a name for you. They called you a Corinthianizer, because the people of Corinth lived like that. And so it went into the vocabulary of the time. A Corinthianizer, the most depraved, lawless kinds of people. These people, many of them, became Christians when Paul went there, and in Corinth we had this incredible church grow up. And you know what's so interesting is there's no other letter, anything like the length of the Corinthians. The first Corinthian letter was 16 chapters. letter was almost as long. Every other letter to every other church is very short. Even the letter to the Romans is 16 chapters. But you have two letters to the Corinthians. The Corinthian church had more problems than any other church because it was the most vital of all the churches. It was the most exciting of all the churches. See, when Corinthianizers become Christians, you got something. When Corinthianizers become Christians, they are very active. They are brilliant. They're talented. They want to change the world. They're committed. And they also have incredible problems. They bring with them so many of their Corinthianized habits into the church with them. And so the Corinthian church had all sorts of disputes. They were constantly fighting with each other. And two, I'll just mention to you, in 1 Corinthians 5, one of the members of the Corinthian church, a convert, was living with, he was having an affair with his father's wife. Some commentators say, well, I guess that's incest. Other commentators say, well, at least means he seduced his stepmother. Either way, it was a terrible thing. It was a scandalous thing. Even the pagans thought it was scandalous. In 1 Corinthians 8, we have the fact that one of the things that Corinthian Christians had a problem with is, to what degree do they still have relationships with not only their pagan friends, but to what degree do they get involved with their pagan parties? One of the big issues was, can Christians who used to be pagans and now our Christians. Can they still go to these parties in which the pagans get together and they eat food that had just been offered in the temple sacrifices? In other words, can you go to a party in the fellowship hall of the pagan temple and eat the food? I mean, can you still be that involved? And the Corinthians were always fighting. They were having a lot of difficulties. To what degree can we still have interaction and fellowship and participate with our pagan friends? To what degree do we have to be separate? And there was a lot of

There was a lot of confusion, and there were continual moral lapses. Now, one of the things that always encouraged me,

Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones once said something about 1 Corinthians. He says there's very few churches that are vital enough to even need to read 1 and 2 Corinthians. In order to need to read 1 and 2 Corinthians, you have to be evangelizing so many Corinthianizers that your church is filled with disputes, filled with moral lapses, filled with people who still have pagan habits. He says, and this was interesting, Dr. Lloyd-Jones says, your average suburban church and your average church that's not evangelizing anybody, you just skip 1 and 2 Corinthians. You don't need it. Your church is not vital enough, he said, to have this amount of disorder in it. The reason there was so much sin in the Corinthian church, the reason there was so much confusion, the reason there was so much need for church discipline, discipline for confessing sins, for reclaiming backsliding people is this. The reason was because you always have the most wounded on the front lines. You see, you put your best people on the front lines. That's where the battle's the hottest, you see. That's where the action is, and that's where there's the most blood. Most people don't even need 1 Corinthians. I'm very happy to know, and I'm very happy to announce to you, that Redeemer Church does need 1 and 2 Corinthians. We desperately need these tools. And here, look at how Paul does it. What Paul does, he applies them to the Corinthians. And he says in 1 Corinthians, for example, in 1 Corinthians 5 verse 2, he talks about this man who's living with his father's wife. Again, it could be his mother. It could be his stepmother. We're not sure. But this is what he says. He says, shouldn't you have been filled with grief? He's written to the church. Shouldn't you have been filled with grief and put him out of your fellowship? Notice it doesn't say, shouldn't you have been filled with anger and put Him out of your fellowship. It doesn't say, shouldn't you have condemned Him. Shouldn't you have been filled with indignation. No. It says, shouldn't you have been weeping. Shouldn't you have been mourning. Shouldn't you have been filled with incredible sorrow and love. And put Him out of your fellowship. And then it's so interesting. That's in 1 Corinthians 2.5. In 2 Corinthians. Pardon me. That's in 1 Corinthians 5.2. In 2 Corinthians 2, 5, you see the reverse, probably talking about the same man, if not certainly the same situation. And this is what Paul says, Now if you've caused somebody grief, and the judgment is sufficient for him, now forgive and comfort him, that he will not be overwhelmed by excessive sorrow. Reaffirm your love for him, forgive him, so that Satan might not defeat us, for we are not unaware of his devices. places. And what he's saying there is, it's so interesting. He says, did you go to them? Did you go to the man? And did you, with grief and with tears, put him out of your fellowship? Confront him about his sin. And then in 2 Corinthians, he says, now you grieved him and you were grieved by him, but it was sufficient. Now, what does that mean? It must mean that he has come and confessed. He says, what happened was sufficient. Now, reaffirm him, because the whole point of having out was to bring him back. And so you see, look, Paul shows us, James shows, I mean, if James in Jerusalem needed it, boy, do we need it. We won't survive without this. We won't survive without Christians confessing their sins to each other. You see, in confession, you go to somebody and say, I've got a sin. I'm caught. Help me. I need help. But in reclamation, you have to go to say, you're caught, you need help. See? In confession, you go and say, I'm caught, I need help. In reclamation, you go to somebody and say, you're caught, you need help. And we've got to be doing this or we will never last. We will not survive. Praise God that in New York City, there are enough Corinthianizers becoming Christians that we need all this so badly. Praise God that we're vital enough to have the mess that we have. have. Praise God that we have, we need 1 and 2 Corinthians, we need James, we need all this stuff. But let's realize the importance of it. Let's realize the seriousness of it. It is pretty astonishing. Now, okay, that's the necessity of it and extremely important to see it. Now, what are they? So, secondly, what's the nature? What are these two things exactly, and how do you do them? Now, let's take a look at confession. First of all, verse 16, it says, I do not, pardon me, it says, therefore, confess your sins to each other and pray for each so that you may be healed. Now, at least it means this. There's a primary meaning and probably a secondary meaning. There's a little bit of difference between interpreters and commentators, people who study this passage and look at the Greek and all that, you know, the Greek in which it was written and so forth. And there's some difference, but here's the one. First, here to tell you the thing that everybody's in agreement about. Number one, this does not say confess your sins to God before each other. It says, confess your sins to each other. And the word to confess here really means, listen, to ratify or affirm. It's the word ex homo legeo, which is the Greek word, and it's not that hard for you to understand if you look at the English counterparts. Homo means the same. Logos, legeo, means to say, and here's what it means. This word means To go to somebody. And agree with them. But you see. When it says. Confess your sins. That must mean this. You're going to somebody. Who says. That you have sinned. You haven't agreed. And then you do. See. To confess your sins. To somebody. Means to go. And say. You were in the right. I was in the wrong. You were right. I did sin. I did hurt you. You were right. Pray for me. forgive me. That's what it means to confess. Now, so at least it means not go and just, you know, spill your gut about all the sins you have in the whole world and, you know, before somebody, because that would be confess your sins to God before others. It says confess your sins to each other. It means affirm, ratify, say, I was wrong, you were right, but now I say the same that you say. You're right. A good example of this, somebody, it means that you need to go to them and you need to say, I did it. It's not enough to say it to yourself. You have to say it to them. You know, an interesting example of this, it's a very famous example, though, come to, I don't think, I haven't heard it in a long time. When I was a younger man, I had heard it a couple of times. There was a man named Dwight Moody, D.L. Moody. And in the middle of the 19th century, in the middle of the 1800s, he was perhaps the greatest preacher in the world. He was acclaimed. He was famous. Everywhere he went. He spoke to throng. So he was a kind of celebrity. And he was, in a sense, at the height of his power. And he was giving, in some lecture hall, an address, a lecture, to a set of theological students, seminary students, you know, people in training for ministry. And in the beginning, there were some questions. And one of the questions that came from one of the theological students was very impertinent, really. It was trying to trip him up. It was really very rude. And everybody thought so. so. And D.L. Moody pretty much put the guy down, you know, snapped at him a bit, put him in his place. Everybody thought he got what he deserved. Then he went on with the lecture. You know, the little young whippersnapper coming after me, Dwight Moody, asking me a question like that. Who do you think you are? And everybody else was embarrassed, and they were happy. He was put down during the lecture. He sat there, you know, flushed, humiliated, you know, tears in his eyes. And at the end of the lecture, when it was all done, suddenly Dwight Moody looked down and says, I have to confess before all of you that at the beginning of my meeting, I gave a very foolish answer to my brother down here. I asked God to forgive me, and I asked him to forgive me, and he looked at him. And the guy was absolutely astonished, and his face began to beam, and before you knew it, they were in each other's arms. Now, in the day of TV talk shows, that may not seem like much, but I want you to, and not much at all. Listen, those of you, would you please just try to imagine, and understand a little bit about history. Those of you who have come from non-Western cultures, non-modern individualistic cultures, those of you who have come from, whose parents have come from traditional cultures, you know how important is faith. You know how absolutely impossible it is, the idea of confessing your sins before somebody else. And here Dwight Moody, at the height of his power, said, I should not have answered you the way you did. And notice a couple of interesting things about that. First of all, he wasn't confessing the other man's sin. He didn't say, you know, I did this, but after all, you did that. He confessed his sin. Secondly, and this is very important. If he had sinned to that young man and nobody else knew about it, he should have confessed to that young man, period. But he sinned against that young man in front of everybody. And as a general rule, if you have sinned only to God, you should confess only to God. That's secret confession. And if you've sinned against one person, you should confess only that one person. private confession. But if you've sinned against a whole community or in front of a whole community, then you should make public confession. Secret, private, public. The confession should be as widespread, as notorious as the sin. And here's what that means. It means, for example, if you go up to somebody and say, I want to confess that I've been very jealous of you, of your position, or of your beauty, or of the things that you have. I've been jealous of you. That's probably inappropriate. Unless you can say, out of jealousy, I've lied about you. I have cut you down. I've been unkind to you. But if you've just been jealous, what good is that? In fact, you know, see, the idea behind confession is to pray that you heal the relationship. If somebody has no idea you've been jealous of them and maybe even avoiding them a little bit, you haven't done anything to them. You haven't sinned against them. You've sinned against God. Going to them, what's your purpose? Exhibitionism, maybe. But your purpose is not to be healed. If a confession creates a wound rather than heals a wound, you're doing it wrongly or you're certainly doing it with the wrong motives. So there it is. Confession. If you've sinned against somebody, you've got to go. You've got to be willing to admit it. You've got to say, I did it. Now, let me go one step further. You need to go, the Bible says, even if somebody else thinks you sinned and you're not sure that you did or you don't even think you did. if somebody else thinks you sinned against them. In Matthew chapter five, it says, if you are worshiping and you realize somebody has something against you, go and make it straight. Now, somebody says, why should I do that? And I'll tell you why. If somebody thinks you've sinned against them and you don't think so, you've got to hear them out. Because very often when they've explained what happened, you see what you did in a new light. Sometimes you say, you know, I hadn't thought of it like that. I didn't realize that would be the effect very foolish. I was thoughtless. And sometimes you realize your motives weren't as pure as you thought. And so what this means is you've got to go and put yourself in a position where you can confess your sins. If you know somebody is unhappy with you, if you even realize it or even suspect it, you need to go and say, it's something wrong. Have I done anything? This has to continually go on in a vital church. And I go one step further before we're done. Somebody says, how? And I'll tell you, if you would like a model of confession, the best one I know is in the parable of the prodigal son. In Luke chapter 15, when the young man who has left his father, the prodigal son, he's out in the pigsty. He says, I was wrong. He comes to his senses, and he says something which is the model of a confession. He says, and he practices it. He says, I will go to my father, and I will say, quote, I have sinned against heaven, father, and in thy sight. I am not worthy to be called your son. Just let me work as one of your hired men. I've sinned against heaven and against, in thy sight, against you. I am not worthy to be your son. Just make me one of your hired men. Now here's what he's doing. Number one, when you confess, you say, first of all, this is a sin against God. And then secondly, but I've also sinned against you. In thy sight. But then thirdly, now look. He says, I'm not worthy to be called your son. When you confess to somebody you're wrong, you may not demand that the relationship be back where it was. You've hurt that person's trust. And you cannot coerce that person back. You can't say, I've confessed my sin. Now we should have tea as often as we used to. You should share as much with me as we used to. We should do all the same things we used to. Oh, no. The man says, look, I realize. I want a relationship with you. But I want you to take me back as far as you can. I want a relationship with you, oh, Father. But I'm not. I am not demanding that you put me back where I was. that's extremely important. And a lot of times people confess their sins in a way of coercing and manipulating people. So you come back and say, I want a relationship. I want to clear the problem. I want to ask for forgiveness and get forgiveness. But to the degree you can take me back in, it's up to you. But then lastly, he says, make me one of your hired men. And what he's doing there is he's saying, I still want to serve you. In other words, I want to undo what I did. You know, I took money and I wasted it. And I now owe you. And you see, the fourth thing you do when you confess. When you confess, you say, I know I sinned against God. Secondly, I know I sinned against you. Thirdly, I want a relationship. But I do not demand that you take me all the way back in. To whatever degree we can repair a relationship. That's up to you. And fourthly. Now, by the way. The person who forgives has a responsibility. But that's not the sermon tonight. And fourthly. You say. Let me show you some things I'm going to do. again. And that's confession. And if you do that, you will be healed. What will be healed? You will be healed. That's what's so interesting. It's very vague, isn't it? Your relationships will be healed, but your heart will be healed. And you'll very often find, I'll tell you, some of you will never get over the sin. There's some sins that you will continually fall back and continually fall back and continually fall back until you go through the bittersweet experience of confessing to a brother or sister who prays for you, and sometimes you'll find, finally, I'm getting healed of this thing. But now the other thing, the spiritual reclamation. I ought to say this, got to hit the spiritual reclamation, got to go on really quickly here, but some people say, does this mean that we can't just go to somebody, our friends, and confess the sins that we have? Do we only confess our sins if we sin against the person? And I think the answer to that is, definitely a place for not just confessing sins against another person, but telling another brother or sister about your sins. Why? Well, it says in Hebrews chapter 3 verse 13, it says, exhort one another daily lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Now, that means you have to have relationships with some brothers and sisters in the community that is so intimate that they know enough about your particular areas where you fall into sin. They must know Somebody's got to know from day to day that you can get very hard in a certain way. Or very deceitful in a certain way. Or you can get very impatient in a certain way. Somebody's got to know. Not just from month to month. Doesn't say exort one another monthly. Or even weekly. It means you've got to have some brothers and sisters. To whom you reveal enough about your sin patterns. that they're praying with you and for you that you may be healed and exhorting you. But that means you can still take this verse. That means you must never, ever, ever confess a sin to somebody, to another Christian, brother or sister, unless your purpose is to get healed of it. It's never just to say, look how complicated I am. Look at how interesting I am. Look at how neat I am. Look at how much more sophisticated and messed up I am. Look at how much more worldly I am. suffered than the rest of you. There's all kinds of reasons to confess your sins besides wanting to have prayer and healing. You must never confess your sins unless the reason is to be healed of it. Now, lastly, and it's kind of, it's last because, you know, you could either make a very, very long sermon about this. James tells us about something which we have a lot more information about in Matthew 18 and 1 and 2 Corinthians, and I already referred to it, and that's this. He says, Now, if a person, you see a person sliding out. Sliding out. If any one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring him back. Remember this. Whoever turns a sinner from the error of his way. Will save him from death. And cover over a multitude of sins. How am I. Let me be fast. First of all. Who do we do this to. People who have wandered from the truth. But more than that. If one of you wanders from the truth. Come back from the error of his way. This word wander and way means there's a pattern. that you hear somebody say something heretical in your Bible study. You know, you say, well, I just don't think Jesus is equal to God. I think Jesus is just the Son of God. Okay, well, that's not true, by the way. He is equal to the Father. And this is not the time to take and hit a person over the head with, you know, James chapter 5, verse 19 and 20. This is not the point. Wandering from the way means when a person's error has affected his way. When a person, Well, it says in Galatians chapter 6 verse 1, when you see someone caught in a trespass, when you see a pattern of coldness, a pattern of repetition, a pattern of spiritual indifference, a pattern wandering means this person is moving away from God, moving away from fellowship, moving away from Christians. That doesn't necessarily mean moving away from your local church. If a person's moving away from your local church into another local church because they don't like your local church, that's not wandering from the way. way. But if you see a pattern, this is a person who you have to do this with. Secondly, that's the object of reclamation. Who is the doer of reclamation? You notice up a little earlier, we saw this last week, when a person's sick, call for the elders. But here it says, if any one of you should wander from the truth and someone should bring him back, what's that mean? It means it's the job of every Christian. You're supposed to look around yourself, yourself, and you're supposed to look at every Christian. Thirdly, okay, this is the object of reclamation. Anybody who looks like they're moving away from God or Christians and so on, you see a pattern. Secondly, the doers, you see, of reclamation is every single Christian. This is not just for pastors, not just for ministers. Thirdly, the seriousness of it. If any of you should wander from the truth, now look at this. What's so strange is then he says, remember this, whoever save him from death. Somebody's going to say to me, and we're going to have question and answer time after the service, somebody's going to come and say, does this mean that a real Christian can lose salvation? And we'll talk about that. The short answer is no. Well, what is this talking about now? Here's what it is. You're a Christian, but when you start to wander, when you start to habitually sin, habitually move away, your heart gets cold, you lose your assurance that you're a real Christian. And you ought to. It's painful to lose your assurance. If God didn't allow the pain of lost assurance, we wouldn't have anything goading us to get back with Him. But the reason this is so serious is a person who's very involved in the Church and been very religious, it's always a possibility that a person who's been very involved and very active in the Church has not actually given his or her heart to the Lord. This has always been the case. We see it in Hebrews chapter 6. We see it in Judas. We see it in Demas. People that have been very busy very active. And when those kinds of people start to slide away, there's always a danger. If that kind of person actually leaves the faith and never really was born again, those kinds of people are in terrible condition, much worse off than non-Christians who never really got active in Christianity because they think they've heard it all. And that's the reason why when you see any person who's in the church sliding away, it's very possible that's just a person who, though they're going to be hurt very badly. God will bring them back. They will come back. You know, Charles Spurgeon says, you've heard me say this before. He says a Christian can't a real Christian can't lose salvation. A real Christian is like a person who's on a boat on the way to heaven. And a Christian can fall on the cannot fall off the boat. But you can fall on the boat, break all your bones and spend the whole trip in the infirmary. You've heard me say that before. And therefore, of course, when you see a Christian starting to slide out and slide back, you go after that person because you don't want them to spend the trip in the infirmary. than that, this is a hint. It's a broad hint, though, that it's very serious for anybody who's been active in the Christian community to fall out because there's always a possibility that person never really got it. The penny may never have really dropped. The second shoe may never have really fallen. And if that kind of person leaves, it's so exciting to see people at Redeemer over the years, every year there's a couple of you, who said, I've been coming to church for years and I didn't realize I wasn't a Christian. That my whole Christian life was nothing but duty intellect. I didn't realize. I didn't understand grace. I didn't understand the gospel. I'm new. I've been going to church all my life, and I didn't realize that. I'll tell you something. If before you found that new life, if last year, the year before last, somebody at church had offended you, and you left and decided Christianity is bunk, it would have been impossible to evangelize you ever again. You see why it's serious? It's serious when somebody slides out. It's serious. Be careful. Go after those people. You might be saving your soul from death. And here's the last thing. Scary. What's the reason for it? Look, if one of you should wander from the truth, someone should bring him back. Confrontation must be grieved. When you're grieved, not angry, when you're filled with sorrow, wanting the person back. That's your motive. And that's the only way you'll ever get the person back. You must never be saying, let me tell you about your heresy. Let me tell you about your morality. That's not reclamation. Reclamation is, I want him back. I'm doing everything I can. I may be even being kind of sharp with you, but it's only to get you back. And if the person senses that, it's the only way the person ever will come back. back. But last of all, when it says, whoever turns the sinner from the error of his ways will save him from death and cover over a multitude of sins, you say, I thought only Jesus can cover a multitude of sins. Yes, isn't this wonderful? Jesus uses us, and this verse points to the one who covers a multitude of sins. In the prodigal son, let me finish with this, in the parable of the prodigal son. The son comes back, and the father welcomes him. And he talks to two groups of people. He's welcomed back the penitent sinner. And he says to the servants, go get the robe, go get the ring, and kill the fatted calf. And we're told that the servants of the father in the parable of the prodigal son were very merry. That's the old translation. I don't even know what it says in the NIV, but I love it. The old King James says they made merry because they were the instruments. didn't really get the robe and the ring and the fatted calf. The servants did. The father let the servants take part in the reclamation of the returning sinner. But then, of course,

at the end, at the very end, the father turns to the elder brother of the prodigal son. And he turns and says, my servants have welcomed him back. Won't you come into the feast? And the elder brother won't do it. And the father's doing everything he can to bring the elder brother in to say, can't you welcome back this repentant sinner? Can't you share in the joy my welcome of penitent sinners. And the elder brother won't do it. And those of you who heard me ever preach this before surely know what this is all about. Jesus tells this parable to the Pharisees who are grumpy that Jesus is eating with sinners. And Jesus tells three stories. Jesus tells a story about the shepherd with a hundred sheep. And when one sheep is stray, he goes after the one and leaves the 99. And then he tells a story about the woman who lost a coin. She had a lot of coins. But the one coin she lost. So she went everywhere until she found it. of a lost son. Lost sheep. Lost coin. Lost son. And in the parable of a lost son, Jesus is trying to show the Pharisees that they're like the elder brother. And he's trying to show them, therefore, that he's like the true elder brother. The true elder brother. If Jesus had been the real elder brother in this story, what would he have done? He wouldn't have just come into the feast at the end. He would have gone out into the pigsty. And he would have put his arms around his brother. And he would have said, the only way I can get you back into our family is at my expense. You've squandered all of your wealth. It has to be my robe, my ring, my fatted calf. But you're welcome to it. When you go after a person who's wandering away, you represent the elder brother. You represent the good shepherd. You represent the father. And you're going after the penitent sinner because we have a seeking Lord. Lord. The Lord who loves the one stray sheep. The one lost coin. The prodigal son. And you see, you know that your elder brother did come and get you when you were a stray. And that's the reason why you're willing to go even though you could get scorned and you could be laughed at and you can get hissed at. Because of what your elder brother did, you're going to go. And sometimes you will actually find that you're taking part in the covering of a multitude of sins. sins. I will never forget. I had only been a Christian for two years. And I had actually confessed a lot of my sins to a good friend in our Christian fellowship. And I'd only been a Christian for two years. And it was my senior year. And I was going to be up to be president. And my best friend came to me and said, I'm not going to let you be president. I'm not going to tell anybody else why. But I know that you have not. You have not gotten to the place of maturity. You have not gotten on top of your sins. I'm not going to let you do it. I was a lot bigger than he was. And he was scared. And he should have been. I was the big one. He was the little one. But he was the elder brother. And he was acting like the elder brother. He was willing to come. To the one that might reject him. And of course. Many, many people. Have rejected the one. Who came to the world. To seek and save. That which was lost. Are you going to be like him? You're going to have people. Who are going to trample on you. But some. You will turn. a multitude of sins. Be like Him. Let's pray. Our Father, tonight as we participate in Your Supper, we ask that it would make it possible for us to see in the bread and the cup the one who is willing to come and seek and save that which was lost. And if that's true, then help us to be willing to seek and save that which is lost as well. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.