You can turn to a passage in your bulletin on which the teaching is based. I'd just like to add one thing to the announcement. We don't have our classes today at 1210. What we have instead is one of our two congregational meetings, as you just heard. We have one in the fall, one in the spring. Now, what I'd like to do is I'd like to especially invite not just the members who are expected to be there. We need members, so we have a quorum and we can do business. really like to invite regular attenders and even those of you who maybe fairly recently have begun, and here's the reason why. At this meeting, even though there's a number of housekeeping issues, the most interesting thing is that we present our year 2000 budget. It still seems very weird to say that. No, 19, it's gone forever. 2000. And the reason it's so interesting and important, and the reason why those of you who maybe are new to Redeemer could really benefit from it. Is first of all, number one. The budget is one of the best ways to understand the vision of Redeemer. What Redeemer's about. Our budget is not just a series of numbers. It really shows what we're trying to accomplish in the city. It's really an introduction of a budget. And our priorities. And our emphases. And therefore. Extremely. Fast. Way. To orient yourself. To what Redeemer's about. Now. The second reason. and I'd like to invite as many people as who are interested in learning about Redeemer as this. This year, we have begun to do, in the last year, 1999, a number of things that are right down the middle of our vision. One part of our vision is to become a four-site church, to have two worship sites on the east side, two on the west side, and we've begun doing that. We have started our west side evening service. Secondly, we want to be a church planting church, and we just planted in the last year a church in New Jersey. 150 people went out. Thirdly, we care about the communities of need in the city, and Redeemer and its members have significantly helped purchase and renovate, in the process of renovating, a building in a poor inner-city community in Harlem with the work of New Song Church of Harlem. Now, because we have begun to do these things right down the middle of our vision, the great thing is that's what we want to do. The bad thing is that we are probably further behind in our budget this year than we've ever been in terms of money to our operating expenses. Because we're doing our vision and because we're sending hundreds of thousands of dollars out. Now, the answer is simply this. We have hundreds of you who are new and you've been coming fairly recently, last few months or weeks, and you haven't begun investing in Redeemer yet financially. financially. And the only way we're going to reach our vision and still meet our regular obligations and needs is if lots of those who are new, those of you who are new, will intentionally think about giving, especially here at the year-end. We need a huge year-end financial giving in our last quarter. So would you consider coming, looking at the budget, and begin to invest? And even if you aren't able to come, we'd like you to consider investing in a church that invests in the city So that's one of the reasons why as many of you as can come, please do. It's here in the auditorium. I'll be leading the meeting, and it'll be at the regular hour, the 1210. There are no other classes. Now, let's read this passage. Luke chapter 4, 14 to 30. Jesus returned to Galilee in the power of the Spirit, and news about him spread throughout the whole countryside. side. He taught in their synagogues and everyone praised him. He went to Nazareth where he had been brought up and on the Sabbath day he went into the synagogue as was his custom and he stood up to read. The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him. Unrolling it, he found the place where it is written, the spirit of the Lord is on me because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoner and recovery of sight for the blind, to release the oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Then he rolled up the scroll, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were fastened on him, and he began by saying to them, Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. All spoke well of him and were amazed at the gracious words that came from his lips. Isn't this Joseph's son, they asked. Jesus said to them, surely you will quote this proverb to me. Physician, heal yourself. Do here in your hometown what we have heard that you did in Capernaum. I tell you the truth, he continued, no prophet is accepted in his hometown. I assure you that there were many widows in Israel in Elijah's time when the sky was shut for three and a half years and there was a severe famine throughout the land. Yet Elijah was not sent to any of them. but to a widow in Zarephath in the region of Sidon. And there were many in Israel with leprosy in the time of Elisha the prophet, yet not one of them was cleansed, only Naaman the Syrian. And all the people in the synagogue were furious when they heard this. They got up, drove him out of the town, and took him to the brow of the hill on which the town was built in order to throw him down the cliff. But he walked right through the crowd and went on his way. This is God's Word. Now, we have all fall, which I guess this is the eighth week, we have been looking at the stories, the narratives, and the miracles, and the ministry of Elijah and Elisha, Old Testament prophets. Now, the reason we've been doing that is because in Matthew 11, when John the Baptist asked Jesus, how do we know you're the one from God? Jesus says, the blind see, the lepers are cleansed, the dead are raised, and the poor have good news preached to them. And what Jesus is saying there is, look at the time of Elijah and Elisha and look at my time. Look at their ministry, look at our ministry. You'll notice there are four kinds of miracles that are there. And the way you know God has come near. And the way you know the spirit has come. Or the Lord has come down. Is that those are the four things. That always happen. When God is near. They always happen in the lives. Who are encountering. The living God. And that's what we've been looking at. You see. We've. We come to see. That the blind seeing. Means that when you really encounter God. You don't just get new information. But you get an experience. And a sense. Of the very reality of God. are open spiritually. Has that happened to you? Has there been a time in your life where you could see that has happened? See, if not, you have not actually met God through the power of the Spirit. And we looked at the miracles, the lepers being cleansed. And the lepers being cleansed does not mean that to find God you simply try hard to be good and hope that someday maybe God will take you to heaven? No. But rather, the cleansing of the lepers means that when you meet God, you suddenly realize at that minute that whereas you had been unclean and unacceptable, you are justified. You're accepted totally by grace. You come to realize that salvation isn't so much trying harder and hoping that someday, it's a standing now. It's knowing that you're clean in the sight of God right now. Has that ever happened to you? Have you ever experienced experience justification by grace? If not, you haven't actually met God through the power of the Spirit. And then the dead are raised. It simply means that to really meet God is not just turning over a new leaf and reforming your life. It's an inner transformation. It's an inner rejuvenation. It's an inner regeneration. Your heart isn't just restrained. It's changed. It's not just reformed here and there. There's an inner transformation, the new birth. Has that ever happened to you? If not, you haven't really met God through the power of the Spirit. Now, all those, in a sense, make certain amount of sense, though I would think that for a lot of you, they really give you an awful lot to think about. They may be very, very convicting or difficult or maybe disturbing or maybe confusing or maybe even irritating. When we come to the fourth one, the fourth of the signs always present in his ministry whenever God is really present. It doesn't seem to be the same. It doesn't seem to be parallel. The fourth of the things that Jesus points to is the poor have good news preached to them. And let's be honest about this. I think the first response is, well, you know, that's good for some people. I mean, some people like to help the poor. Some people like to minister and get into that. That's fine. That's okay. But no, what Jesus is saying is, whenever I am present, this is always there. This is every bit as present, as important, as intrinsic to the ministry of Jesus Christ as spiritual awakening, justification by grace, and the new birth. Isn't that wild? Well, then what does this mean? What does it mean the poor have good news? And we're going to actually take a look because in this case, Jesus actually talks about. Here you actually have Jesus Christ preaching about Elijah and Elisha. You know, instead of me. You actually have Jesus Christ preaching about Elijah and Elisha and explaining to us what it means when Jesus says, if you want to know the presence of God, if you want to have a real encounter, you will find out the poor have good news. Now let's just take a look at the story briefly. And then we'll draw out what Jesus is teaching. There's really three parts to the story. There's Jesus' sermon. There's a response to the sermon. And then there's Jesus' explanation and further exposition. Look, the very first part is the sermon itself. He comes to Nazareth, and he goes to a synagogue service. Now, we know that in a synagogue, one of the things that happened, in fact, a central thing that happened, was that someone would read a couple verses out of the Bible. Bible. And then those verses were translated into Aramaic because most people read, spoke Aramaic and didn't know Hebrew very well, even then. So first it was read in Hebrew, it was translated into Aramaic, and then the reader would sit down and expound the text. In other words, by the way, as far as I, if I understand, if I remember correctly, the listeners were standing and this that, and I've been thinking about maybe making Redeemer more biblical. But anyway, they were standing, so Jesus came and he read, and he chose a particular text from Isaiah 61, verses 1 and 2. And what he did was he deliberately chose one of the passages from Isaiah called the Servant of the Lord passages. The Servant of the Lord is a kind of mysterious figure, someone who's predicted who's going to come and put everything right. Someone who's going to come and bring God's kingdom. Someone who's going to come and bring justice and peace. The servant of the Lord. So he reads the servant of the Lord passage. And he sits down. And the reason every eye is fixed on him is because it's his job to explain it. But instead of going into a long sermon. Here's another place where I'm sure some of you would love Redeemer to be more biblical. His sermon is only one sentence long. wrong. If only I could be that concise. And what does he say? Now, here's the reason why the sermon is so short. He says, today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing, which means I am he. I have come. I'm here. I am the sermon. My life is the sermon. That's all you need to know. Oh. And that's his sermon. Now, what's the response to the sermon? You know, actually, it wasn't until this week that I suddenly realized how astounding. In fact, I didn't understand this text very well until I realized how astounding the response is. They liked it. Look, they are not outraged. Who do you think you are? They're not offended. They're not upset. They're not shocked. How dare he claim to be the Messiah? How dare he claim to be the coming one? No, they are happy. Look, it says, all spoke well of him and were amazed at the gracious words that comes from his lips. Isn't this Joseph's son, they asked. Now, here's what this, what does this mean? They had a grid. They had a way of understanding this text. And here's how they understood it. They said, we're good people. We're moral people. We're hardworking people. We believe the Bible. We come together every week to study it. try our best to obey God, but we are under the thumb of a foreign power. Bad people, immoral people, sexually loose people, idol worshipers, heretics, foreigners. And someday the Messiah will come. What's he going to do? Well, of course, he's going to lead the good people to triumph over the bad people. I mean, we're the prisoners. We're the oppressed. We're the poor. We're the ones who don't have self-government. We're the ones who are taxed, you know, into the ground. We're the ones who are under the, we don't have a sovereignty of our state. And therefore, when he comes, he's going to save us. Now, when they hear Jesus say this, they run it through their grid. Why? We're the ones who get the Messiah. We're the ones to whom the Messiah is sent. We're the poor. And they looked at him and they said, well, you know, this is Joseph's son, you know, carpenter's kid. Okay, but maybe he is. Let's go. I mean, they wonder about it a little bit. And by the way, notice, they ran through their grid. They say, well, that's us. We're oppressed. We're prisoners. I don't know why they didn't say, gee, how does that blind thing work in there? But no, well, that doesn't matter. Well, we know what that means. And they're very happy about it. Now, isn't it astounding that Jesus Christ sits down on the Messiah and everybody says, says, wow, this is great. Good. Let's go. When do we start? And Jesus Christ knows they don't understand the gospel. You know why? They like his sermon. He knew what was about to happen. He knew that as he got up and he walked to the door, on the way out, they were all going to say, wonderful sermon, pastor. And he knew there's no, in that case, they couldn't possibly understand the gospel. Because one thing he knows, and one thing you know, if you read the text of Matthew, Luke and John. People like the ones here, people that came out to services every week, people who studied the Bible very much, people who sought very hard to try to be very good and very moral, the people here, whenever they hear Jesus' message of the gospel truly for what it is, they are always angry, they're always furious, they're always offended, they're always upset, Always. And if you're a good person, if you've always been very, very decent, you've always been very religious, you've never missed church, you've never missed synagogue, you've never missed whatever. If you actually finally get to hear the gospel message, you'll find it offensive. And if you've never found it offensive, if you've never found it upsetting, you've probably never heard it. So what Jesus does the last part is he says, what? What is he trying to get at these last verses, verses 25 and following. What is he doing? Here's what he's doing. He is saying, let's define poor. He's saying, let's define who I'm sent to. Who is the Messiah sent to? Sent to the poor. Who's the poor? And he says, let me tell you how my salvation works, he says. Let me tell you exactly how it works. I go, just like God always sends his prophets, God always sends his salvation to the widow of Zarephath and to Naaman the Syrian. Look at their lives. Look at those stories. And then you will have a paradigm for how salvation works. And then you'll understand who the poor are. Then you'll understand who receives God's salvation. Then you'll understand who receives the spirit. And when they hear that, they try to kill him. They drive him out of the town. They try to drive him down the cliff. And of course, you say, isn't that interesting? It wasn't his time. why he walked through the crowd. God helped him out. But it's only a matter of time before these people finally get him. Now, what are we being taught here? Three things. You have to understand who the poor are or you don't understand Jesus. In other words, when Jesus spoke who he was and they didn't understand who the poor were, he had to enlighten them. So what does Jesus teach us about the poor? And the answer is this. I'll say it twice. I'll give you the three points. and then try to expound. This is what Jesus says. The gospel is for only the spiritually poor. The gospel is for especially the actually poor. And the gospel comes through only those who are willing to be both. The gospel is for, okay? The gospel is for only the spiritually poor. It is for especially the actually poor, and it only comes through to the world, only comes through those who are willing to be both. Let's look. Number one, first of all, Jesus is teaching that he only comes to people who are spiritually poor. Why does he choose, look at the widow of Zarephath and Naaman are examples of the poor. Now, the first thing you notice right off the bat is one is rich. Now see, don't forget, Jesus has chosen these two people to try to get not only across to them, but to get across to all of us who he comes to. And it's very important that he did not choose two actually poor people. One was rich. And that has got to mean simply this. When it comes right down to it, it means, no, you don't have to be literally poor in order to receive salvation. You know, some of the statements he makes almost sound like that. Nor does it mean that if you are poor, you're automatically in. If he had given you two poor people and he said, that's who I'm going to, then you might have believed that maybe he was actually saying, you have to be literally poor in order to receive him, or you're automatically receiving him if you're poor. But because he gives you both a, you know, a literally poor person and a rich person, and that gets rid of that misunderstanding. But what they are both is spiritually poor. They are spiritual outcasts. They are religious outcasts. They're moral outcasts. Look at them. Now, if you were here through the fall, this will help. You'll have a leg up on those of you who weren't. But hopefully everybody can follow. The widow of Zarephath was a Gentile. She was an idol worshiper. She was a heretic. And she was poor. And she was a woman. So she's on the outside of respectability. And she's certainly on the outside of all religious and moral standards. She's not living the right way. She's not believing the right way. So she's a complete spiritual outsider. But so is Naaman. Oh yeah, he's got wealth. But he's a murderer. He's an enemy. He's a killer. He puts people into slavery. And he's an idol worshiper. And so these two people are absolute spiritual outcasts. And what does that mean? The first thing it means, very, very simply, Jesus Christ is saying, the only people I come to are people who understand themselves to be spiritually and morally outcasts, people who know that they have nothing of value before God. In fact, look carefully how he pushes this. He is very careful to say, I don't want you to think that I'm coming also for spiritual outcasts, but only, only. Look, it says, yet Elijah was not sent to any of them. He says, there were plenty of good people in Israel. God went to a bad person. There were plenty of folks who went to church and went to synagogue and went to, and read the Bible and all that, and who had the, you know, did all the right beliefs and were living the right way. But he only went to Naaman the Syrian. Why this word only? Only. is saying this very radically. Only people who know their spiritual outcasts. Only people who are spiritually poor. Now, this is so important that we need to look at the text and understand the difference. Jesus is contrasting the people in front of him with the people he's sent to. He says, I'm not sent to people like you. I'm not coming for people like you. Now, who are these people that he's not going to, and who are the people he does come to. Let me just suggest a way. Let me give you a couple of signs of who they are so you can test yourself. One group is what I'm going to call the spiritual people who are spiritually poor. And the other is people who are spiritually middle class. By the way, you notice Naaman's rich. The widow's poor. No middle class. Do you think... I mean, listen. I'm being half facetious, but only half. Do you think that the smugness, do you think that the condescension, the religiosity of middle-class people is a coincidence? It's not. I'll show you why. First of all, if you're spiritually middle-class, you've got two marks that you can see in these people. The first is that when God is uncontrollable, when God does not act as if he's in your debt, you want to kill him. Look what happens. people. Every week they get together and they read the scripture and they study it and they discuss it. They're very good people. But the Lord himself shows up and says something that confuses them, says something that doesn't fit in with their expectations, and says something that basically says, I don't owe you anything. And they want to kill him. Underneath the veneer of the religiosity is hostility to God. That's the first sign of being spiritually middle class. Listen carefully. fleet. You remember the story of the prodigal sons in Luke 15? There's a man, a father that had two sons, and one son ran off to disobey him. He went off and he squandered his wealth, and he lived riotously, and he squandered his wealth on prostitutes. The other son, the elder brother, stayed home. And at one point, of course, the elder brother says, I have never disobeyed you. Okay. So one person has gone off. And is very immoral. The other person is incredibly moral. But at the end of the service. At the end of the. Pardon me. At the end of the parable. The elder brother is furious. With the father. For taking the younger brother. Back in. And for giving him. Part of the wealth. That really should go. To the elder brother. And so on. I don't want. Open all that up. But what's the point. Here's the point. The elder brother. Is furious. Angry. When. When the father. Doesn't act. The way. thinks he ought. When the father acts like he's not really in the elder brother's debt. Now here's the, why are they so angry? Why so much anger? There's two ways to try to control God. There's two ways to try to escape God's authority. There's two ways to try to be your own master. There's two ways to try to get God. One is by disobeying, saying, I'm going to be my own person. I'm going to decide how I'm going to live. And that's the way we all see that as rebellion. But there's another kind of rebellion. It's rebellion through obedience. If I obey, if I follow everything the Bible says, if I never miss worship, if I'm very, very good in every way, if I follow every one of the rules, then I've got God where I want Him. He owes me. He's got to give me a good life. He's got to answer my prayers. And the way you can tell that you have that same hostility, the way you can tell through your obedience, your rebelling against God, is that when he does anything in your life that shows he doesn't feel like he owes you anything, you go through the roof. You just anger and spews out. Underneath the veneer of religiosity is all this anger. That's what they did. Look at the nice people, the religious people, the people studying the Bible. And when the Lord of the Word shows up and says, look, I don't owe you anything, they try to kill him. Look at your heart. Are you spiritually middle class? When you go to prayer, do you come in and you say, look, Lord, you know, why is this person and this person having a better life than I? I've lived very well. I've tried very hard. I've lived a very good life. You're bringing your middle class values into your prayer life, into your relationship with God. It's got to stop. Because ultimately, you're being your own God. You're trying to be the king. You're trying to make Him the servant. You're basically rebelling for obedience. And the signature of it, the sign of it, is anger. The other thing you can see is they hate the very mention. These folks hate the very mention of outcasts. They hate the very mention of foreigners. They hate the very mention of the poor. They don't like the presence of them. They're uncomfortable around them. And that's another sign of being spiritually middle class. Someone comes into your midst who clearly isn't living right. And you feel the need to confront them right away. You feel superior to them. Okay. So there are the two. There's two signs. Are you spiritually middle class or are you spiritually poor? Who are the spiritually poor? First of all, the spiritually poor are people who will look under the surface. Because if you look on the surface, you can almost always find things you've done well. You know, I love my mother and I've done nice things for her. And I've tried my best. And sure, I've, you know, I've done some things wrong. But I've lived a pretty good life. Spiritually poor people have to look under the surface. If you look on the surface,

if you think God owes you, you're not spiritually poor. Spiritually poor people look underneath and say, You know what? There were times in which I was obeying. There were times in which I was disobeying. There were times in which I was moral. There were times in which I was immoral. But underneath, it was always the same. I didn't want God to have his clammy hands on my life. I wanted to be my own Lord. I wanted to be my own Savior. And a spiritually poor person is someone who looks underneath your motives. You're not looking at your behavior. You're looking at the attitude of your heart toward God. And you see. You see how much you just don't want Him there. You see how much you feel like you're more competent than He is to run your life. And you can try to escape Him through obedience or through disobedience. You can rebel against Him through obedience or disobedience. And you're never going to be spiritually poor until you see that. And then secondly, the second sign of a spiritually poor person besides looking underneath, is then you say, I can only be saved through a gift. I'll only be saved if God gives me a complete gift. If it's absolute mercy. God, you owe me nothing. If you want to cast me out, that's that's really your business. But give me the gift of salvation because of what your son did. You know what? That's how you cross the line. Some of you maybe have been here all fall and you've been wondering, okay, I can tell I'm not a Christian, but what do I do? That's what you do. See, all you need is need. All you need is nothing. If you come with something, if you come and say, I've really been trying. I've really, I hope my heart is surrendered to you. Please, Lord, come into my life. I'm trying to clean up my life. You've come middle class. You haven't come with nothing. You haven't come poor. You come poor. And Jesus says, only those people, only the spiritually poor, only the people who know that they're spiritual outcasts, in spite of how maybe, you know, well-oiled and polished and moral they may look on the surface, only people who are spiritually poor am I sent to. Only them. Nobody in here, only out there. Nobody here in the religious center. Only out there. On the spiritual margins. Now the second thing. He teaches us. Is not just that the gospel. Is. Only for the spiritually poor. Secondly. He teaches us. However. By these. These. These. It's only for the spiritually poor, but it's especially for the actually poor. Well, what do I mean? Well, one of the things, didn't you notice if you were here for the eight weeks? Haven't you noticed if you've been here for longer than that? Read the Bible. And over again, when you have the poor next to a powerful person, when you have a woman next to a man, when you have a racial outsider next to a racial insider, It's always the person without power. It's almost always the person who's on the outside who gets it, who understands. Remember, we went back over this, for example, a couple of weeks ago. We noticed, for example, remember, there's seven places in the Bible where there's resurrections, seven resurrections, seven miracles of God. Six out of the seven times, it's women who receive the ones back from the dead while the men are either home in confusion or doubt. Why? Over and over and over you have what? You have the little slave girl who understands where things are going, not the great general. You have the fallen woman who understands, not the proud religious leader. Over and over and over. I don't know how many times I've seen it. In the last five years, I've been overwhelmed with it. This is the reason why they can't believe that God would send Elijah to be saved. there to be saved to a poor Gentile pagan woman. How could God do that? Now, the answer is, in God's infinite mercy and his infinite wisdom, he has set things up so the people in this world who run things do not understand the gospel as a general rule, and the people who have been pushed out to the margins of power. Whether it's women pushed out by men. Whether it's blacks pushed out by whites. Whether it's ethnic people pushed out by dominant culture. Whether it's a wealthy and upper middle class people. Pushing out people who are lower middle class. Working class. And poor. Pushing them out. The more you're pushed out. The more likely you are. When you hear the message of salvation. To understand it. God. In his infinite wisdom. And his infinite mercy. Has set things up. Now. Ah, here's why. Careful. Listen. The doctrine of sin in the Bible means that there's no one group that is somehow less sinful than any other group. I'm not saying that. But the doctrine of grace is what? The doctrine of grace is that you're only saved by losing power, by a Savior who lost power. Jesus Christ actually shows us this, And surely these people, if they were listening, if they really knew their Bible, would have understood he was saying something extremely interesting. When he chose what to read, he reads Isaiah 61, chapter 1, pardon me, Isaiah chapter 61, verse 1 and 2. But he stops in the middle of the sentence. What does he say? He says, the Spirit of the Lord is on me because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim freedom for the prisoners, recovery of sight to the blind, release of the oppressed, a year of the Lord's favor. Now, here, there's a period, right? That's because our translation has to stick it down. It's a period. But if you go back into Isaiah, he stops right in the middle of the sentence. You never do that. If you do it, you're doing it very deliberately. You're doing it very intentionally. And you're doing it to make a point. You never would read a passage of Scripture and stop right in the middle of the sentence. You know what comes next? You know what comes after? And the day of the Lord's vengeance. This was saying that the servant of the Lord will bring the year of the Lord's favor and the year of the Lord's vengeance. And what Jesus is saying is, I'm not bringing that vengeance. Not at this coming. At this coming, I've come to take vengeance. Not bring it. At this coming, I've come to receive judgment. Not to send it. I've come not with a sword in my hand, but with nails in my hands. And therefore, here's what we have. We have a savior who say, I am going to save the world through a loss of power. And that's the reason why. I'm going to save the world by losing. I'm going to save the world by being tortured and dying for the sins of the world. Religious people can't understand that because their understanding is all about power. If I pull myself together and I'm very strong and I have self-control and I have willpower and I do everything right, if I can summon up enough power,

And Jesus says, no, I'm sorry. The gospel is all about the opposite. I came and saved the world through an utter loss of power. And therefore, you can only receive my salvation by giving up all claim, by being spiritually poor, by giving up all power, by surrendering. And then you'll find for the rest of your life, you'll be so filled with my love and acceptance that you can just basically give away the rest of your life and see people changed through continually giving up your rights for other people. By continually giving up your money for other people. By continually, not lording it over, but becoming a servant. Ah, he says. But the secret is, I have the ultimate power now because I gave up power. And you have the ultimate influence because you don't try to coerce. And you have the ultimate freedom because you made yourself a slave. That's the gospel. And therefore, Jesus says, Who are the ones who are going to understand that? It's going to be people who have been pushed out. Not too long ago. I read, I'm not going to mention the person's name because I'm afraid it's a political figure and I'm afraid somebody's going to think I'm talking about politics and I'm not. There was a political figure who was a white man who was very wealthy and he addressed a large convention of black ministers. And partly because I'm a minister myself, I read in some of the journals some of the response. Oh, they appreciated him coming and so forth. But one of the things he said was, isn't it great that we live in a nation where if you come to this nation really poor and you work hard, you can become rich. Well, his father and his ancestors were Scottish. And all these black ministers were out there saying, that's interesting. My ancestors came to this country at pretty much the same time that your ancestors came. And I think we worked a whole lot harder, 20 hours a day, under the lash. We worked harder than your ancestors. And gee, somehow we're not rich. And remember the point of the article, was. If you have made it to the top, you will certainly, certainly tell yourself it did it all through hard work and through savvy. But people who have not made it to the top realize it's more complex than that. The people who made it to the top have gotten there through grace. The people who once, say, was through works. But the people who are on the outside always know that they're in there through grace. And therefore, along comes the gospel and says, says, you're spiritually poor, and if you don't admit that, you can't know my salvation. You must live lives of sacrifice. You have nothing to merit salvation. You have to admit you're an abject sinner. Now, there's anybody here who just hates all that, and you say, that's not right. That's too primitive. That's too abject. I could never grovel like that. You're spiritually middle class. You don't understand the gospel. It's probably because you think the place you are in life is due to your work. And due to your savvy. When it's due to your grace. It's just due to the fact that God has made it possible. People on the outside understand that intuitively. And the people on the inside never do. And as a result, I can prove it. Well, I'm not going to. I could prove it to you statistically. I could prove it to you historically. I could prove it to you anecdotally. And that is this. Look through the history of the world. You'll see that ethnic minorities understand and grasp the gospel before the majorities and the dominant. Women before men. Poor before rich. You know it's true. And you know what's amazing to me? In this city over and over again, I've had people who look at the churches of Jesus Christ around the world. They see more women than men. They see more poor than rich. They see more minorities than dominant. And you know what they say? That means it's not true. the Bible says that means it is true. So the first thing Jesus says is the gospel is only for the spiritually poor. Secondly, he says the gospel is especially for the actually poor. But now thirdly and lastly, we also learn here that if you want to be a channel for the gospel, if you want to be like Jesus, bringing this incredible gospel to the world, you have to be willing to be both. both. Take a look and see what happened here. Jesus Christ is a channel for the gospel. Why? He became Joseph's son. You know, it's one of the reasons why they're so upset. I mean, not upset, but why they're a little dubious about him. They say, hmm, isn't this Joseph's son? Now, what does that mean? Jesus Christ was born into a very humble family. Joseph was just a carpenter. He was really very poor. When Mary and Joseph took Jesus to get circumcised, the offering they gave at the temple was two pigeons. That means that they were at the very, very, very, very lowest rung on the social scale. They were poor, dirt poor. And what does that mean? How did Jesus Christ reach the spiritually and actually poor of the world to bless them with the gospel? Heaven's son became Joseph's son. very literally had to give up his wealth. He emptied himself, and that's the only way he could be a channel for the gospel. You know what this means? This means here's the dialectic. You have to be spiritually poor, and it even helps if you're actually poor, to receive the Spirit. But once you've received the Spirit, what does it say? The Spirit of the Lord is upon me to preach to the poor. See, on the one hand, you have to be poor to receive the Spirit, but once you receive the Spirit, there is something that pushes you out. In Acts chapter 4, there's this fascinating place where it says that they prayed for the Spirit. The Spirit came down. That's Acts 4.31. And in verse 32, it immediately says, and they began to give away their possessions in such radical proportions that no one had any need in the community. Now, what that means is the way you know you really have become poor and receive the gospel, is you become radically generous. You become so radically generous that you may not become literally, literally poor. I mean, let's be careful here. If God wants us to help the poor, if God thinks that being poor is really difficult, if God thinks it's awful that you can't provide for your family, then he's not calling us to become literally poor. But what he is calling us to do is to lower our lifestyle and to begin giving so radically of our finances that other people in the social class where we reside will we have lost our mind. They will think, they will think by their standards that we're living poor. And that's until you find that the other people in your social class, who if they knew how much you're giving away, would think you're totally nuts. You haven't even begun to follow the footsteps of Jesus. Because you see, if you have become spiritually poor, you will impoverish yourself to a great degree. You will give away your money, and then you'll be channeled, as Jesus was a channel, to bless the poor of the world with the gospel. Now why would this be? Why would it be such an unmistakable sign that you have become spiritually poor that you're willing to give your money away? See, we all have to become Joseph's sons. Heaven's son became Joseph's son. Well, we're not heaven, but we all have to come down, just like Jesus had to come down in order to be nations. Now, why would it be? And I'll tell you here, let me just here at the end give you a couple reasons why. If you understand the gospel, it has to make you radically generous. If you don't find yourself every year giving away more money, or at least finding it easier to give away, you're not growing in the grace of the gospel. That's what we're being taught here. So here, for example, number one, if you know you're a sinner saved by grace, you will stop moralizing your social standing. You hear that one? You'll stop moralizing your social standing. You see, before you understand the gospel, your heart is just a little revving engine of self-justification. Before you understand that you're just completely accepted by grace, you're always having to prove yourself. And what that means is when you come upon people who are below you economically, you feel superior to them. You say, they're not working as hard or they're just not as smart. art. But the way you know you're a sinner saved by grace is you do not feel any bit superior to the most humble homeless man. If you understand the gospel, you look at the most humble, messed up homeless man without resources, and you say, apart from being clothed in the righteousness of Christ, that's exactly what I look like to God. That goes right through your heart. You don't feel in the slightest bit superior to people in need. You don't hold on to your money. In other words, you to stop moralizing your social status. Secondly, if you really understand the gospel of grace, you stop psychologizing your money itself. You stop psychologizing your money. What do I mean by psychologizing my money? Well, remember Naaman? I even mentioned this in the sermon. Remember Naaman? Naaman was very wealthy. The minute he understood he was cleansed by grace, he wanted to give a huge gift. Why? Before you understand the gospel, your money is more than money. It's your worth. It's your significance. It's your security. Let me give you an emotional test. Can I give you an emotional test? You know the Bible continually says that you ought to use as a general rule of thumb to make sure you're giving in biblical grace proportions 10%. You ought to give away to church and charity to the spiritually needy and the materially needy. Huh? That's our, 10% of your income every year. Now, some of you may say, boy, that's going to be hard. That's okay. I'm not talking to you. Some of you say, that's scary. Do you realize the things I wouldn't be able to do if I did that? And the answer, my question is, why is it scary? I'll tell you, I think why it's scary. Because you may say you believe that Jesus is your savior, that he's your significance and he's your security, but your money is. Your money is your significance. Your money is your security. And the great thing about the gospel is it turns money into just money. It just becomes money. And then it's easy to give away. It's not who you are. It's not your image. You may say, I believe in Jesus, but functionally, he's not your significance and your security. And therefore, the gospel, what does it do? It takes that away. way. It makes you stop psychologizing your money. Here we are at the end. What are you supposed to do? Well, I already suggested I don't think, you know, if you come to Redeemer, I'm not saying, by the way, that the church you go to or any particular local church should get all of your money. I'm not trying to say that. In New York City, people are always sure that's what the minister's really saying. You know, there's plenty of people in this room that should probably give us nothing. People who really have their, there's other places where you are, your money probably could do a whole lot better job than here. However, here's what I want you to consider. The Bible talks 20 times more about money than it does about sex. 30 times more. I don't talk about money 20 or 30 times more. You know why? Because people just wouldn't trust. I'm going to have to adapt to the lack of trust in this city or into almost any place. Any minister that's talking about money all the time, they're going to assume is out to get it. would be. But God must mean that greed is far more spiritually dangerous to you than sexual impropriety. Or he wouldn't talk about it 20 or 30 times more. So look at your attitude towards your money.