I jumped ahead in our sequential look at the book of John, and on Easter Sunday, we looked at the part of this passage that Jesus does teaching in, the famous discourse where he says, I am the resurrection and the life. However, today, we're going to be looking at the miracle itself, the raising of Lazarus. Back at Easter, we looked at the teaching. Now we're going to look at the miracle itself. and I want you to listen as I read from John 11. I'm going to have to read the beginning of the narrative and then leave out the teaching section, which we looked at before, and then read you the end of the narrative. So let me read chapter 11, verses 1-6, and then we'll turn and read, let's see, pardon me, and then we'll read chapter 11, verses 30-45. So if you're following, you can follow that way. listen and you'll see we have this story, the narrative of Jesus' last and greatest miracle that's recorded in the book of John, the raising of Lazarus. Now a man named Lazarus was sick. He was from Bethany, the village of Mary and her sister Martha. This Mary, whose brother Lazarus now lay sick, was the same one who poured perfume on the Lord and wiped his feet with her hair. So the sister sent word to Jesus, Lord, the one you love is sick. When he heard this, Jesus said, This sickness will not end in death. No, it is for God's glory, so that God's Son may be glorified through it. Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, yet when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was two more days.

Now moving down, and this is after Jesus has arrived, Lazarus is dead, and he has given them some teaching that he is the resurrection and the life. Verse 30, Now Jesus had not yet entered the village, but was still at the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who had been with Mary in the house, comforting her, noticed how quickly she got up and went out, They followed her, supposing she was going to the tomb to mourn there. When Mary reached the place where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet and said, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not be dead. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come along with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and troubled. Where have you laid him? he asked. Come and see, Lord, they replied. Jesus wept. Then the Jews said, See how he loves him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man from dying? Jesus once more, deeply moved, came to the tomb. It was a cave with a stone laid across the entrance. Take away the stone, he said. But Lord, said Martha, the sister of the dead man, by this time there is a bad odor, for he has been there four days. Then Jesus said, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. Then Jesus looked up and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you would always hear me, but I said this for the benefit of the people standing here, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said this, Jesus called out in a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The dead man came out, his hands and feet wrapped with strips of linen and a cloth around his face. them, take off the grave clothes, and let him go. This is God's word. This is the last of the great miracles that John records in his gospel. It's the climax. It's the big one. And here we see the point. This is a miracle that shows forth Jesus' glory, both of his power and of his love. of what this thing tells us. The heart of this passage is in verse 35 and 36, where we're told Jesus was weeping over Lazarus in a tomb. And the Jews looked at Jesus and they said, Behold how he loved him. Behold, see how he loved him. Now hear this. They were wrong. They were close, but no cigar. Because they said, behold how he loved him. Past tense. Friends, the teaching of this passage is that Jesus' love is never in the past tense. It means that if he has set his love on you, his love is always present. It's never in the past tense. It's an eternal love. And anyone upon whom he has put his love is also always present. Think of that. It never lets you go. So, Jesus' love is the richest, most powerful, most manifold, wealthy thing you can talk about. And as we study this passage and we see everything it tells us about Jesus' love, we see all sorts of facets, just like looking at a diamond. And I'd like to just mention several of them. I'm going to mention several of them. And I'm not going to look at each of them, take the same amount of time for each one. But I just would like to show you as we turn the diamond and each facet flashes in your eye. Just what a rich thing the love of Christ is. Listen. First of all, we're taught here the wisdom of Christ's love. You wouldn't think that'd be the first thing it tells you, but it does. The wisdom of Christ's love. When Lazarus was about to die, his sisters sent Jesus a message, and all they said was, the one you love, him who you love, is sick. Now here's the teaching. the love of Jesus Christ may include trouble for you. His loving plan for your life may and often does include the experience of trouble and suffering. Him whom thou lovest is sick.

A lot of people find this very difficult. I have been at the bedsides of people in hospitals who have fairly recently committed their lives to Christ and now the doctors come in and give them bad news. It's a tumor. I've had people look at me and say, I gave my life to Christ. If he loves me, I wouldn't be sick. And yet here it is in black and white. Him whom thou lovest is sick. Yea, sick unto death.

People that Jesus loves, people that Jesus loved, persons that Jesus loved, and who he loves dearly get sick. for this. Jesus comes right through and says, the reason that Lazarus is sick, he says in the next verse, is for the glory of God. This is so similar to what we looked at some weeks ago when we were in John chapter 9. That's the place where the, remember the disciples were looking at a man born blind. He was a blind man. And they said to Jesus, look at this tragedy, look at the misery and the pain in this person's life. Now, why does he have this kind of pain in his life? Was it his sin or his parents' sin? And what does Jesus say there? And what is Jesus saying here? He says, neither. What he's actually saying to his disciples and to us is he's saying, abandon your stupid linear thinking. Abandon your simplistic notions that good people would have good lives and bad people would have painful lives. Instead, he turns around and says,

I am saying to you that things aren't that simple. Abandon your lending your thinking. Instead, understand that if you belong to him, suffering may come into your life, but God has got great plans for what he's going to do in your life and in the lives of the people around you through that trouble. Now, I know personally and firsthand that Christians who say God always has a purpose in the suffering of a Christian, Christians who say that are sometimes accused of providing pat answers. But friends, it's much more of a pat answer to believe that only bad people should suffer. And it's even more of a pat answer just to say God's unfair if a good person suffers or a Christian suffers. Instead, the answer of the Bible is enormously complex. It's an enormously sophisticated one. The answer to the Bible is that every incident that happens to a Christian has got not one or two, but hundreds of purposes, and they're all interwoven with all the purposes of every other incident, and all of them are being woven together by God in such a way as to show forth His love and His glory and His power in your life, to you and through you. That's a pat answer? Of course not. It's the deepest, it's the richest, it's the most sophisticated answer possible. And that's exactly what Jesus Christ is saying here. He says in verse 4, this is for the glory of God. Now, somebody says, how in the world could that answer, how in the world could my pain, how in the world could my tragedy show forth the glory and love and power of God? I don't see it. One of the problems is this book. Look, see, whenever suffering is shown to us here, there's the explanation that goes with it. It's easy to see why Jesus let Lazarus sicken and die, isn't it? It's easy to see why Lazarus sickened and died because we see right here in the book that Jesus was then later on going to come, raise him from the dead, show forth his power, so we don't complain because we have it all here. The real problem is what about you and me? What about our disappointments? What about our pains and sicknesses? We don't have a book.

And therefore, the temptation is to pit your wisdom against God's and to say that the things that I'm experiencing are pointless.

And yet I can tell you that millions of people who believe in Jesus Christ will witness the fact that suffering in the life of a Christian is not pointless at all. Well, somebody says, what happens? I'll tell you what happens. For many of us proud people, we would be the first to say that if it wasn't for trouble, if it wasn't for pain, if it wasn't for suffering, we would never have known, never have seen that we're finite, that we're fragile, and that we're limited creatures. Many of us would say we never would have seen the truth. We would never have seen that we need God at all if it wasn't for this. When something is taken out of your life that makes you strong, when you lose your job, when you lose your health,

some other part of your life that's important for your safety and your comfort and your joy. The first thing that happens is you feel that you've lost control of your life. That's what happens. You get mad at the helplessness. You feel like, I was in control of my life, and now it's been wrested away from me. And you get very angry. But eventually, by God's grace, your sight, your vision make clear, and this is what you see. It's not until you lose control of your life that you see you never had it. It's not until you lose control of your prosperity and your health that you realize you never, ever really were in control. Why, your life was always basically, even when it was happy, based on outside factors that you had no control over. And what generally happens is people who are successful and happy are very sure, aren't they, that they're happy and successful because of their responsibility, their discipline, their smarts. Not until you lose the prosperity and you lose the happiness in some measure that you begin to realize it was never really under your control at all. It's only losses and disappointments and troubles that will ever break you out of that delusion. And once you come out of that delusion, once you wake up out of that stupid dream, there's only two ways you can go.

You either can get harder or more tender. You either can say, I want control of my life. I ought to have control of my life. Why don't I have control of my life? I deserve to have control of my life. And you get harder and more bitter and your heart gets harder. The other thing you can do is you can say, you can let your heart get more tender, more humble, more submissive. You can begin to lean on God. You can begin to ask the logical questions like, what makes me think that I should have control of my life? I didn't create me. when in the world am I going to start acting like a creation instead of like a creator?

The point?

Sickness comes into the lives of people. Suffering comes into the lives of people. And when it does, it will not leave you as you are. It will make you either a far more human person or a far less human person. It will not let you stay where you are. It will take you this way or this way, but you will never stay where you are.

You're going to go one way or the other. When you get into a storm in a great sailing ship, if you hold on to the rudder, the storm will take you faster toward your destination than you would have been if it hadn't come along. Or else, if you let go of the rudder, you'll be destroyed. But you will not any longer be on course. You'll get there faster or you'll be destroyed. It's feast or famine. You'll become more human or less human.

Today, almost everybody in this room has got a small or large cross that they're bearing. You got little troubles, or some of you are facing huge ones. Little sicknesses, head colds, or tumors. The greater the suffering, the more extremely alternative. Either this thing is going to take you all the way to greatness, or this thing is going to take you all the way to meanness and narrowness and smallness. small you might say small troubles and small sicknesses are small situations small opportunities for growth big problems are big opportunities for growth today you're facing it which way are you going to go friends if you will meet

your trouble as instruction if you will fight the fear and the self pity The trouble that you face now could make you into a great heart. And here's something else we learn from this passage. That if you are facing this sort of thing right now, this is not a sign that he's rejected you. Him whom thou lovest is sick. You see? This is not a sign that he's rejected you. As a matter of fact, when you're in trouble, that's when God loves you the most. He bends his love to you the most. Imagine a woman who's a surgeon, and suddenly she has got to operate on one of her best friends. her surgery. She bends all of her skill, all of her mind, all of her heart to do the perfect job. Here's a goldsmith and he puts gold into the furnace. He knows how valuable it is, so don't you think he's going to always be looking at it constantly, never leaving it in there one moment too long? Doesn't the Bible say if he causes grief, he will show compassion for he does not willingly afflict the sons of men? If you're facing something right now, it's no sign that you've been cast off. Instead, if you handle it the way we're talking about here, the way Mary and Martha handled it, it could turn you into a great heart. Well, somebody says, all right, tell me quick, how do I handle it? And if you look carefully, you'll see that Mary and Martha actually handle this tremendous difficulty in two ways. They pray and they wait. First of all, they pray. They send a message to Jesus. They say, the one that you love is sick. The first and most important, the first resort is prayer, not the last resort. By the way, many of you have heard the statement, well, there's nothing left to do but pray. Let me tell you something. If you were the last person people come to and say, we've tried everybody else but you, we figure we're desperate. We're so desperate, we're going to ask you, can you help? How do you feel about that? Do you feel really honored? Do you say, thank you for asking? Do you say, what am I, chopped liver? And when you go to God last, when prayer is your last resort, how do you think that makes them feel? Honored? the first thing they do is they send a message to Jesus. And they say, we've got a problem here. But notice the basis of their prayer. They say, him whom thou lovest is sick. Is that how you pray? Don't you see? If you pray like this, Lord, I'm pretty ethical. I come to church. I give money to the poor. Help me.

No wonder you've got no confidence or comfort in prayer. wonder you can't handle your troubles because underneath you know that you don't serve God or your fellow man like you ought. If that's the basis for your prayer, you'll always wonder, will he listen? Instead, if you look carefully, you'll see how these people pray. They don't say that. They don't say, Lord, the one who served you wonderfully is sick. The one who has always obeyed everything you've told them is sick. They don't say that. They say, him whom thou lovest is You can't unless you believe and build your life on the gospel. What's the gospel? Many ways to put it, as you know, but the gospel is that Jesus Christ came and fulfilled all the requirements for your acceptance before the Father. So the Christian ethic is unattainable, and the punishment for failing the Christian ethic is inescapable. And yet Jesus Christ, the Bible says, came and fulfilled the requirements of the Christian ethic and took the penalty. If you look to him as your moral example, you're lost. If you look to him as a friend or a helper, you're lost. But if instead you look to him as your substitute, as your stand-in, if you trusted him as your savior, if you trusted him as your mediator, the one who fulfilled it all for you, so that once you rest and trust in him in that way, God gives you all that Jesus deserves, deserves, all that Jesus has earned, all the love and blessing and honor, if you understand that, if you build your life on that, if that's your hope, then don't you see how you can pray? You come to him and you say, Lord, the one you love is sick. I talked to one old man that once said when he got in trouble, he's a Christian, he says, what I say is, Lord, your property's in danger. Him who thou lovest is sick. That means, Lord, the one on whom you put your name has a need. Lord, the one whose sins have been undeservedly and yet completely and utterly forgiven has a need. Lord, the one on whom you've lavished your grace has a need. Lord, the one you've adopted into your family. Can you pray like that? Don't you see? You can pray on the basis of his faithfulness to you or you can pray on the basis of your half-kept promises to him. I know this is one of the reasons why many of you cannot become great hearts in the midst of your trouble. Why you can't get comfort, why you can't get confidence, why you have no spiritual poison backbone in the midst of your troubles. Why when the troubles come, you feel like you're being punished instead of being refined by a loving Father. I know that's how some of you feel right now. It's because you don't pray, Him whom thou lovest is sick. the basis of the sure knowledge of his free grace and love for them. See? But that's not the only thing you do if you want to become a great heart. You not only pray, what was the other thing? You wait. I know you're the early service. You wait.

Wait on the Lord, people say. That's a cliche in the church. Well, what is it? You see it right here. Waiting on the Lord is not a passive thing at all. It's very active. It's an attitude and action. The way they wait on him is first with the attitude. And this is the attitude. You see it. Jesus Christ does something that's very difficult for them to handle. You notice when they first tell him, him whom thou lovest is sick, what does he say? And surely Mary and Martha got this message back. He said, this is not a sickness unto death, but rather the son of man will be glorified. This is not a sickness unto death. Can you imagine the back, and Mary and Martha hear it. And they say, it's not a sickness on the death. It's not a sickness on the death.

Great news. The next day, Lazarus gets worse. The Lord has not come. And what do the sisters say? But the Lord said, this is not a sickness on the death. And then Lazarus dies. And when Jesus shows up, all Martha does, all Mary does, is show up say, I wish you'd been here.

You know, the New International Version that I read from doesn't really have the guts to translate the verses the way it should be. It says in verse 5, it says Jesus loved Lazarus. And then it says in verse 6, therefore he stayed where he was another several days. is. Now, the New International Version can't bear the actual bluntness of that and translates it yet. It says, Jesus loved Martha and her sister and Lazarus, yet when he heard that Lazarus was sick, he stayed where he was two more days, waiting. That's not what it says. It literally says he loved Lazarus, and therefore he stayed where he was till he died. It's one of the most cause, effect, things you can find anywhere in the scripture. He loved Lazarus, therefore he stayed put. You know what the teaching is? Jesus Christ delays to the point that the human mind can no longer see how he could ever fulfill his promises. Jesus Christ delays to the point where the human mind can no longer see how he could possibly fulfill his promises. Mary and Martha heard the promise. This is not a sickness unto death.

And after Jesus looked like he was doing everything but what he promised to do, after his delays, after all of this confusing behavior, their attitude is still, Lord, I wish you'd been here. Not mad, not you promise breaker, you liar.

they never ever do that. Now, I happen to know that in any room I speak to, there will be plenty of people that are standing right in Mary and Martha's shoes right now. There are promises that he's made. You know, they're all in the Bible. The light thy self in the Lord, and he will give thee the desires of thine heart. I know there's people out there saying, I'm sorry, the things that fulfilled my heart are long gone. They will never be here. Well, there's no way it's going to happen.

In other words, Jesus delays to the point that the human mind cannot see how he could ever, ever fulfill his promises.

Aren't you in that position right now? If you're in Mary and Martha's shoes, you have to do what they did. It means they refused to question with their little minds and their little schemes the love of Jesus Christ. To wait is this attitude. To wait on the Lord means I am going to judge my circumstances by Jesus' love. I am not going to judge Jesus' love by my circumstances. I'm going to judge my circumstances by Jesus' love. I am not going to judge Jesus' love by my circumstances. I'm going to see the current dispensation of history that I am in as an expression of his love. Everything is needful that he sends, John Newton says. Nothing can be needful that he withholds. I discipline myself to think that way. I discipline myself to see it that way. That's waiting. And the other aspect to waiting on the Lord is not just an attitude, but an action. They obey. They obey him. They do what he says. There are plenty of folks here who are saying, to obey the Ten Commandments in my situation doesn't look practical. to tell the truth, to practice sexual integrity, to forgive somebody who's harming me. It doesn't look at all practical.

They waited in their attitude and their action. They prayed on the basis of Jesus' sure love for them, and there was a resurrection. How about you? What are you doing? Which way are you going? Are you practicing the wisdom of his love? Now let me show you something else. Let me also show you the valor of his love. Jesus Christ comes striding up, striding up to the grave, and we're told several things. Number one, he weeps. The shortest verse in the Bible, they say, I don't know that, by the way. I've never checked it out by computer. five, all it says is Jesus wept. And everybody says, behold how he loved him. Now the teaching here is that Jesus Christ has knit his heart together with our heart to such a degree that he has to feel our pain, that he has to be deeply responsive to our pain. When you first, when you begin to have children, you don't realize this till later, but something has happened to you. just been a chain attached to your heart. You'll never be a free spirit again. You'll never be able to be completely happy as long as your child is wayward or miserable. You know, you're able to become a free spirit. You're able to get out. If your parents are unhappy, you can still be happy. You can get that kind of emotional distance. But if your children aren't happy, you can't be. You've lost the ability to be a free spirit. There's a tremendous amount of joy that comes from being a parent. of times in which parents sit in the down times and wonder whether you'd do it again if you knew what this entailed. The staggering implication is that Jesus Christ, why is he weeping when he knows that he's about to raise this guy from the dead? Instead of weeping, why doesn't he go up to the tomb and say, way do you see this? Why doesn't he do that? This man is feeling the grief this man is feeling the grief and even the sure and certain prospect of imminent and complete deliverance is not able to assuage his grief. He is bound in his heart that much to you and to me. That means, you see, I sense this with my children, but it's obvious that Jesus Christ voluntarily, knowing what he was doing, bound his heart up with the prospects of his people. And he gets more bound up. And he is in deeper sympathy with us than any parent or any lover or any spouse has ever been with anyone else. We are specks of dust compared to the great God of the universe. And yet when we hurt, we create grief in the heart of the king of the cosmos.

No other religion believes that, by the way. Every other religion believes God is too great and too transcendent, too lofty to experience that kind of grief. Yet you read Hosea 11, where God says to Israel, my heart recoils within me, how can I cut you off? God has bound up his heart with us. His love is so great that he can't even judge us without it turning his stomach,

without it giving him a kind of heart failure. My heart recoils within me.

We need to think about that. We need to think a lot about that, that kind of receptivity. If Jesus weeps over us like that, if he's that responsive to us, it says in Psalm 56, it says, I have put every one of your tears in my bottle. I know more about your pain and your distress than you do. If he's that way, why aren't we that way to each other? Do you count tears when you come into a room? Do you look around and say, what are these people feeling? Do people sense the same kind of empathy in you? Do they sense that you're a safe person to whom they could show their scars and show their wounds? Do they instinctively know you're someone who will be gentle with them? who would never treat them brusquely or rudely? Do they know that? If they don't know that about you, if people don't treat you that way, you need to look again at the weeping Savior. And I'll tell you something else about His love. You only weep over things that are valuable to you. Isn't that right? If you possess something, if you see somebody weeping over a lost or broken possession, you know it must have been something of great value. It must have been a special treasure. And that's exactly what Exodus 19.5 says that God calls us.

That, you know, so many authorities today will say the number one mental problem is people have a sense of worthlessness. They feel that they're insignificant. They feel they're worth nothing.

By the way, I think I can agree with that. But what's the solution? The solution is don't look to others for your self-worth. You have to learn to love yourself.

With all due respect, can I say that I think that's nonsense? Have you ever heard people say, pull yourself up by your own bootstraps? Have you ever tried that? Do you realize that you can't do it? Put yourself in a swamp, let yourself start to sink, then grab your bootstraps and pull yourself up and see what happens. You have got to have leverage. You've got to have some kind of physical leverage outside of you.

everybody needs accreditation from the outside can you imagine a college that says we no longer want any outside accrediting agency to come to us and tell us we're that we're uh good that we're approvable that we're acceptable instead we will now from now on accredit ourselves after a while you'll start to wonder if nobody else but me thinks that i'm any good how do i know i'm any good. We desperately need something from the outside to accredit us. The trouble with other people is that they're so fickle and they're so contradictory. But this is what you need. This is the only way you will ever know that you're worth anything. This is it. Jesus weeping over you. He weeps over those ones that are his special treasure. He weeps over you. He loves you. You know, there's a place where Isaiah, who says, I'm a weak and sinful man, he goes into the temple, but when he's kissed on the lips with a cold from the altar, when he is kissed by God's grace, God says, I've got a tough job. I want to send somebody to preach to people who will never listen to them. And Isaiah says, I'll do it. Why? Because when you experience God's grace, when you know your value to him, when you are that aware of his love for you, you can take on anything. Oh Lord, give us 12 people like that and we'll change the world again. Now, when Jesus strides up to the tomb, it says he was deeply troubled. And here's the reason why he was so troubled. He was deeply troubled because he knew what this was going to cost him. In the passage later on that we didn't read, verses 45 to 53, we discover this is the last straw with the religious leaders. When the religious leaders see Jesus raise Lazarus from the dead, they say, that's it. Totally intimidated by this. Absolutely unable to know what to do with him. Afraid he's going to get completely out of control now. What do they do? They plot his death. This is it. This is the last straw. He raised somebody from the dead. How are we ever going to keep him down on the farm now? They're all going to be around him. What are we going to do? We're going to have to kill him. tomb. He knows the cost. You think he's stupid? You think he doesn't know what he's doing? He knows that if he raises Lazarus, he's burying himself.

It's almost as if he sees his friend in the grips of a monster. And he knows that if he's going to get his friend out of the grips of a monster, he's going to have to throw himself into the jaws. As he strides up to the tomb, there's little voices saying, if you interrupt this funeral, it'll be your funeral. and he says, all right, I'm going to do it.

Behold how he loves you. See, the Jews said, look at how he loves. Behold how he loves. That's a command to you. Would you hear it that way? You're supposed to look at this in the face and you'll never be the same. Here's Abraham and he's called to sacrifice his son Isaac. You remember that story? And as he stretches his knife out, ready to kill Isaac, for out of obedience to God, God says, Stop! Do not kill the lad. Now I know that you love me.

For you did not withhold your son, your only son, whom you love, from me.

Isaac was saved. Lazarus was saved. You are saved. I'm saved. Why? Because Jesus bled. because the father stretched his knife over his own son. Nobody stopped him. Behold how he loves you. That means, can you cry out from your heart, Father, now I know that you love me, for you did not withhold your son, your only son, whom you love for me.

Let's stop. This is a miracle. But here's how I want to conclude. In the book of John remember this? Every one of Jesus' miracles is called a sign It's never called a miracle, it's called a sign What's a sign? A sign tells you what you're looking at. You go by a building you don't know what you're looking at, but there's a plaque and you read it. Oh, so that's what it is Jesus' miracles are not magic tricks, they are calling cards Every one of Jesus' miracles is his way of saying, look at who I am, look at my glory. Do you notice when you're trying to show somebody your ability or your glory, you tend to beat people. Let me show you what an athlete I am. Let me show you what a gorgeous model I am. Let me show you what a tremendous bond salesman I am. I'll beat you. That's how I show people my glory and my ability. But when Jesus shows people his glory and his ability, people come alive. People are healed. It breaks my heart to see people thinking that if I let Jesus Christ be himself in my life, if I let him really have his weight and glory in my life, I'm going to miss out. I continually hear and hear of people who say, I like all these goodies you talk about in church, all this peace and joy and love and self. I mean, that's wonderful stuff. But to obey the Ten Commandments completely and utterly, for me to put the poor first, first. For me to fight materialism in my life and be generous. For me to fight pride and self-centered is my relationship. For me to practice sexual purity outside of marriage. For me to forgive the people who are slighting me. If I do these things, and if I do these things all the way, if I really follow what Jesus says, I'll miss out. In other words, if I let Jesus' glory really out, if I let him be himself, I'll miss out. No. Don't you see whenever he shows his calling card, whenever he is himself, whenever you let him be himself, that is when people are raised from the dead. That's when you come alive. That's when the broken parts come together. That's when the decay stops. If you see him weeping over you, if you see his father with a knife over, stretched out over him, if that doesn't move you to give yourself completely to him, don't kid yourself. Nothing moves you then. And you'll become a hard person until you won't be able to weep over anybody, including yourself. You can live that kind of life, or you can behold how he loves you. Let's pray. Our Father, if we practice what we've seen here today, the love of Jesus, that would mean we have to begin to be much more empathetic and approachable, counting one another's tears. It means we've got to no longer be questioning your love, but instead of judging your love by our circumstances, we start to judge our circumstances by your love. It means that we've got to give ourselves to you completely. Father, I ask that everybody here now, during the offering, during these next couple of seconds, I pray that you will enable us to give ourselves to your love and to see your love in the face.

To behold your love. To see how you love us. Help every person in this room to ask this question. If you love me like this, how should I be different tomorrow? How should I be different now? How should I get up and act differently toward my world, toward my friends, toward myself? I pray, Father, that you would press this into our hearts until we find ourselves as loving as he is loving. Thank you for this. Work in us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
