The scripture this morning is from 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 4 to 12. As you come to him, the living stone, rejected by men but chosen by God and precious to him, you also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in scripture it says, See, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. Now, to you who believe, this stone is precious. But to those who do not believe, The stone the builders rejected has become the capstone and a stone that causes men to stumble and a rock that makes them fall. They stumble because they disobey the message, which is also what they were destined for. But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Dear friends, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. Live such good lives among the pagans that though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. This is God's word. The Catalyst Initiative that we just announced is very important. major ways we are seeking as a church to become like the church described in this passage, 1 Peter 2. So I'd really like you to consider signing up if you can. This week and last week, we're doing a short series on what that church that we're trying to become looks like. And though I know there's, here in New York, I know there's plenty of you who are from other, visiting from other churches, or those of you who aren't really sure yourself quite where you stand, When it comes to faith, I still think you will find this helpful. But this is about this. This text assumes a dynamic of gospel ministry then tells us who the bearers of that gospel ministry are and shows us how to get the power for that gospel ministry. The dynamic of gospel ministry, the bearers, the doers of gospel ministry, and the power for gospel ministry. Now, when I say it assumes, I mean this. but it assumes everything in chapter one. And by the way, you know, when people, when Peter wrote this letter, when Paul wrote his letters, and when John wrote his letter, they didn't divide things into chapters and verses. I just need to break the news to you. It was just a letter, and they expected that whoever was reading this part of the letter had just read the former part of the letter, and therefore I need to remind you of what the first part in the first chapter says about gospel ministry. things, which we often refer to in verse ten to 12 of chapter one. It says the gospel is the word of grace into which angels long to look. It's so powerful and so rich, even angels long to look into the gospel, the word of grace. And a little later in the chapter, verse 22 to 23, it actually says the gospel is the word of grace, which is the imperishable seed by which we're born again. It's the imperishable seed by which we're born again. The gospel is so powerful in its life-transforming ability that just to believe it, just to accept it brings about such a radical change that the Bible calls it the new birth. Romans 1 verse 16, Paul says, I am not ashamed of the gospel. It is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe. Notice he doesn't say the gospel brings the power of God or leads the power of God. He says it is the power of God in verbal form. But you don't just stop there. It's not just that the gospel changes your life when you first believe it. As the gospel is taken deeper and deeper into you, deeper and deeper into your heart, deeper and deeper into your life, as the gospel is taken in, you change more and more. more and more. The number of examples I can give you in the Bible are so many that I can't give you all of them, but I'll give you a little cascade just for a taste. So, for example, in Galatians 2, there's a place where Paul confronts Peter. Peter's an apostle, this guy who wrote this. And Peter's an apostle, and yet because he was Jewish and he'd been raised in, to learn, well, he'd been taught from the time he was little that Gentiles were unclean and you eat with Gentiles. And now that he was an apostle, now he's a Christian minister, he still wouldn't eat with Gentile Christians. He wouldn't even sit down and eat with them. And Paul confronts him how? He says, this is in Galatians 2 verse 14, when I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter, we who are Jews by birth and not sinful Gentiles know that a person is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. What is Paul doing? He knows that Peter knows the gospel. He has sense to it up here, but in his heart, he's still got this cultural, racial superiority thing going. And so what Paul does is he takes the gospel. He says, look, you know the gospel. If you know you're saved by grace, not by works, not by pedigree, how in the world could you feel superior to anybody? And he's driving the gospel down deeper to bring about a change in Peter. and he did. In James chapter 1, verses 9 and 10, James says something very curious. He says this. He says, the poor Christian, quote, ought to take pride in his high position. And then he says, the rich Christian, quote, ought to take pride in his low position. What's that? He's talking about the gospel. Because when you believe the gospel, the gospel tells you two things about yourself. In yourself, you're a sinner. You deserve death. But in Christ, when you believe in Christ, in Christ, you're adopted and completely accepted. The gospel is because what Jesus Christ has done, he came and he lived and he died and he was raised and he did that to take our punishment. And because of that, in spite of all your flaws, you can be united to him, accepted by him, adopted into the family. But notice what James is doing. doing. Those are the two things we learn. We're sinners and yet we're fully accepted at the same time. But what James does is he says poor people, when they become Christians, he says, would especially benefit by dwelling on their new high status that they're adopted. Because out in the world, all they get is disdain. And successful people who become Christians, they should dwell on the fact that the Bible says they're sinners. They would especially benefit from thinking about they are in God's sight, apart from Christ, because out in the world, all they get is acclaim. And what James is saying is this. In the world, your socioeconomic status is a bottom-line identity. And people with wealth and status and success and beauty, therefore, become too proud and hard, and the people without them become too self-loathing and self-doubting. And what James is trying to say is, okay, you become a Christian if you use the gospel in your heart in the proper Those of you who are successful will become so different than everyone else in your social class. You will become committed to the poor in a non-paternalistic way. On the other hand, those of you who are poor, if you get the gospel, you will hold your head up high. He's bringing about social transformation. How? He's taking the gospel in. That's ministry. Gospel ministry is taking the gospel deeper and bringing about all kinds of changes. You go to the first four chapters of 1 Corinthians, Paul's talking to and division? What does he say? This is a betrayal of the gospel. And he uses the gospel to soften their hearts and to humble their pride. Get to 2 Corinthians 8, and Paul's trying to get people to give money to the poor. What does he say? He says, I don't want to command you. I want to tell you about the gospel. Remember Jesus Christ? Though he was rich, became poor, so that through his spiritual poverty you might become rich. He puts the gospel into their heart until they start to give more money. Go to Ephesians 5, where Paul's trying to help husbands and wives love each other properly. What does he do? He points them to Jesus Christ, the ultimate spouse who gave himself for us. What is Paul doing? What does the Bible do over and over? All ministry that changes your life is gospel ministry. And I'm done with my first point, because here's what I want to say. When you come to a church, you hope that the church will help you. You hope that the church will form you, support you. Maybe you want to have some life change. And the church, if you come into the Christian church, you might get life change here, but it happens only because church ministry only changes your life if it's gospel ministry. And to the degree it's taking the gospel, and to the degree a church is taking the gospel into the center of your heart and life, to that degree it will bring about this kind of change. And so everything that 1 Peter 2 says about church ministry assumes the fact that the only ministry that changes your life is gospel ministry. And gospel ministry is taking the gospel deeper in. Point two, who is supposed to do that? Whose job is it to take this incredible thing, the gospel, gospel, and take it down into people's lives so all sorts of transformations and change happen. Who's supposed to do that? Well, 1 Peter 2 tells us, but even to understand the striking and remarkable nature of what it says here, we have to do even a little bit more background. You have to go back to the Old Testament because it's starting to talk about temples here. Spiritual house, see, up in verse 4 and 5. A spiritual house, that's a word for a temple. A holy priesthood spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God? Who's this? And what is this talking about? Before Christianity came, before Jesus came, every, not just the Jews, but every religion and every culture in the world had temples. You know why? Because everybody understood that there was a gap or a chasm between us and the divine. Every culture knew that to some degree that human and weak, and God is great and powerful. And of course, the Jews particularly knew, because it was revealed to them, that human beings are small and sinful and defiled, and God is infinitely majestic and powerful and holy, and therefore you just can't walk into God. You can't just show up and walk in. There's a chasm that has to be bridged. And how was that chasm bridged? It was bridged in temples by priests offering sacrifices. It wasn't just the Jews who that, by the way. It was just intuitive. Almost everyone knew that there's a gap and that chasm has to be bridged. And of course, the temple was the place in the Old Testament in Israel where that was done because in the temple were the priests and the priests were particularly holy and they were conversant in spiritual things and they offered sacrifices that brought atonement and forgiveness and favor. And therefore, in Israel, just like every other place, you had these, I guess you could call them ministry experts. They were spiritual experts. And there were three kinds of officials, by the way, in Old Testament Israel, prophets, priests, and kings. Three kinds of ministers, you might say, prophets, priests, and kings. Prophets brought the word of God from God to the people. Priests, however, actually did the reverse. They represented the people to God, offering sacrifices on their behalf. So prophets came from God to the people with the word. Priests came from the people to God with sacrifices on their behalf. And kings actually represent both God and the people. Kings held people accountable to live as God wanted them to live. And in the Old Testament, in Israel, basically the laos, the laity, the people were relatively passive. Once a year, they all came into Jerusalem and they let the experts do it. They let the experts prophesy and do priestly sacrifices. In other words, the prophets and priests and kings did ministry, and the people were basically fairly passive recipients. And then the New Testament came along, and then Jesus came along. Do you know how revolutionary the early Christians were? Do you know why the Romans thought the Christians were actually atheists? They called them atheists. they thought they were atheists because they didn't seem to be they didn't seem to really have a religion why because the early Christians had no temples they met in homes they had no priests and they had no sacrifices and this was nuts how could you try to reach God well you see the Christians said the chasm is gone Jesus is our ultimate temple because he's both God and human he has bridged the gap Jesus is the ultimate priest and Jesus gave us the ultimate sacrifice on our behalf and paid for our sins and therefore the chasm is over. It's done. It's gone. And we are. So what was so revolutionary about Christianity was it said two things at once. The first thing it said was there are no more temples, there are no more priests and there are no more sacrifices. But almost in the same breath and you can see it all through the New Testament. You can especially see it in the book of Hebrews, by the way. Here's the book of Hebrews saying there is no more sacrifices. Jesus is our sacrifice. There is no more temple or tabernacle. Jesus is our temple. There is no more priest. We don't need that to mediate. Jesus is our only priest. And then in the next breath it says, and therefore we're all temples. We're all priests and we're all offering sacrifices. And you can see that all right here. It's not just Hebrews it says. It's all through the New Testament. We are living stones being built up into a spiritual house. We are a temple, and we are a holy priesthood, and we are offering spiritual sacrifices. What? Yes. And the most radical of all the verses is in verse 9. If you look carefully, where it says, we're a royal priesthood, that we may declare the praises of him who called us out of darkness into his wonderful light. Now, who's that? Us, all of us. every Christian is royal, that's kingly. Every Christian is a priest, priesthood, and every Christian is a prophet because we're all supposed to be declaring to the world the excellencies and the wonders of him who called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Now, let's think about this. How could it be that every single believer, according to the New Testament, because Jesus Christ's work is now a prophet, a priest, and a king. You're all kings. How could that be? Well, think about it. All ministry is taking the gospel in. The prophetic ministry speaks the gospel in. Prophetic ministry is just telling people about the gospel, instructing, teaching, sharing, see? That's prophetic ministry. It speaks the gospel in. Priestly ministry loves the gospel in. Priestly ministry means encouragement and counsel. For example, here is Hebrews 11, where it says, Do not forget to do good and share with others, for with such sacrifices God is pleased. That when you share your life, when you share your goods, when you counsel people, when you encourage people, when you help people, you're loving the gospel in you. You're showing people the gospel. You're not just telling people what the gospel is. You're showing people what the gospel is. And then Kingly Ministries is actually leading it in, holding people accountable. giving them direction. You have to speak it in, you're a prophet. You have to love it in, you're a priest. You have to lead people, you're a king. Now, there's specialization. In fact, I can say this, by the way, if this is a Presbyterian church. Pastors specialize in prophetic ministry. That's what I'm doing right now in case you didn't know. Ruling elders specialize in kingly ministry. Deacons specialize in priestly ministry. So there's specialization. Yet, when verse 9 says you're all royal, you're all priests, you're all declaring, what it's saying is that at some level, every single believer is authorized by God, is called by God to speak the gospel, love the gospel, and lead the gospel into the lives of people around you. Every single one of you. That's what it's saying. And if you want to know how important that is, one of the most seminal books I read, though I haven't read in a long time now, Michael Green. In seminary, I read a book by Michael Green called Evangelism in the Early Church. And it was a story about how did Christianity grow explosively in the first couple hundred years? You know, Christianity starts as this tiny little ragtag sect, and within a couple hundred years, it's just everywhere in the Roman Empire. How did that happen? Now, maybe you say, well, they probably had great preachers and the people brought, you know, their friends in to hear the great preacher. No. See, in persecution times, you couldn't just bring anybody in to worship because that person, you break somebody into worship, they say, oh, Christian's here. Tell the magistrate everybody's killed. No, that's not how it worked. Well, then how did it work? work. Michael Green says every single Christian was a prophet, a priest, and a king. Every single one. And you know why they were so effective? Two things, holy lives and open mouths. Holy lives and open mouths. Notice it says you're a holy nation. And the word holy, I don't know what you think of when you think of the word holy, but the word holy means different. different. It means different. And what Michael Green and many other scholars who have studied why the early Christians were so effective as every member gospel ministers in getting the gospel into people's lives, this is, here's a little list. Every so often I go back to these books and I get the list. The early Christians were absolutely famous and unusual and remarkable and well-known for being characterized by these things. Integrity, generosity, hospitality, sympathy, handling adversity, chastity, and seeking equity. In other words, integrity, they were known for being scrupulously honest, transparent, and fair in their dealing. Generosity, they were known for being generous, not only as employers to employees, but also to neighbors. neighbors. Hospitality, they were known, unlike most other people in that time, they were known for bringing neighbors and the poor into their home. Sympathy, they were known not only not to be ruthless in business, but they were extremely ready to forgive and reconcile. They were never vindictive. Chastity, no sex outside marriage and fidelity inside marriage. That made them very different than everybody else in the empire. Handling adversity, they could always handle suffering. And seeking equity meant that they were well known for caring about the common good and the equity of the community. And you see, are we famous for that? Are you famous for that? Are you famous for any of that? Are you known for that? If not, you'll not be a prophet, a priest, and a king. You can't do what God's calling you to do. So first of all, holy life. But secondly, Secondly, open mouth. Now, by open mouth is when you see the sort of things that every single Christian did in the early church. If I actually started telling you what they did, it wouldn't translate. We're in a different culture. So let me just translate directly. Let me give you eight examples of what it looks like when somebody says, I'm a prophet, a priest, and a king. I'm going to speak it in, love it in, lead it in. Here, let me give you eight examples. examples. You come to church and you meet a person who's a little younger than you, maybe a little younger in the faith than you, and you discover in talking to him or her a lot of struggles with the faith, a lot of doubts, a lot of difficulties, having trouble understanding this or that part of Christianity. And so what you do is you sit down with him or her and you say, let's make a list. And over the next five or six weeks, you find one chapter or one book or one tape or one recording or something that has helped you with that issue and you meet with the person and you talk about it. Or number two, here's the opposite. You come to church and you meet a person who is a newer Christian, younger in the faith, and they're the opposite. They're not filled with doubts. They're actually too arrogant. They're doing a lot of things that

lot of odd things. They're being kind of condemning of a lot of people. I mean, they're kind of all over the map. They're taking hold of some new teachings that you don't think are biblical. So what you do is you go to your pastor and say, could you give me a Bible study, six weeks for new Christians on what it means to live the Christian life? And then over the next six weeks or next 12 weeks or whatever, you meet with this person and you talk about it. Number three, most people go to fellowships. Most Americans go to a fellowship group, a small group. as long as it's meeting their need. In other words, you're evaluating it strictly on how much am I getting out of it. But you've come to church today, and you hear this sermon, and you begin to say, that's not the way I should be thinking. Hint, hint. And you say, what I should be doing is going to that group, not only so prepared that I'm ready to make contributions that help the discussion leader, but I should be always on the lookout for anybody else in the group that seems to be maybe down or discouraged or whatever, and I meet with that person outside just to try to encourage them and get to know them. Number four, you're a married couple, and you can see another married couple in the Christian community isn't maybe doing so well in their marriage. And so both the husband and the wife very, very carefully and very discreetly try to get the other husband, the respective husband and wife, to talk a little bit about it. Through that, you start meeting together just to talk about how do you handle marriage problems. At one point, you study Ephesians 5 together. Number five, your young mother. And suddenly, you have this incredible affinity with every other young mother there is, with every other mother who's got little kids. And so you just start getting people together in your home. Some of them are believers. Some of them don't believe what you believe. talking with everybody about where they are spiritually, everybody about whether they believe or don't believe. And after a while, they all agree, let's do a Bible study together, even though we're at different places. And you lead it. Number six, you're a guy, which is true of a certain percentage of you. And you know, guys just absolutely hate talking about, you know, intimate stuff. But you've got a guy at work, another guy at work. And you can see, here's a guy with anger problems. One day he asks you, what were you doing this weekend? What did you do this weekend? And you take a plunge and you say, well, I was on a men's retreat my church did. We were talking about forgiveness and it really helped. He says, oh, really? Interesting. He doesn't immediately turn away. So you say, yeah, and it really, there's real spiritual resources I found for really overcoming anger at people who have done bad things to you. And he says, says, oh, really? He says, what if I gave you something, you know, a reading I got at the retreat? He says, yeah, yeah, I'd see it. And you give it to him. And later on, you talk to him about it. Or number seven, you just invite a friend who doesn't go to church to a concert at church. And on the way home, you end up talking like crazy about churches and faith and Christianity and everything the person has been through. Or number eight, you talk to another other person who you work with or a neighbor and you've never talked about Christianity or faith before and the person's kind of unburdening, sharing, and you say, you know, I do go to church and therefore I'm going to pray for you regularly for the next couple of weeks and see whether that helps. And the other person says, really, thank you. What are you doing? What are all these things? You're opening your mouth. If you have a holy life that goes along with the open mouth, city will change. If even 25%, if even 30% of any congregation had a holy life and an open mouth, it would tear the place up. It'd be unbelievable. And the reason why it's not happening is because we're not being what we ought to be in order to have every member, or at least lots and lots and lots of our folks doing every member gospel ministry. Now, finally, where do you get the power for something like this? And the answer, I think, is in this cornerstone imagery. And let it is, but let me show you. Come to him, to the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious to him. You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For in scripture it says, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusted and him will never be put to shame. Now to you who believe this stone is precious. What is this talking about? The way you built things in those days all depend on your cornerstone. The cornerstone was the key to the whole building. First of all, all the lines of the building projected off the cornerstone, the wall, the foundation. So the cornerstone had to be perfect right angles. It had to be chiseled and created perfectly. It also had to be extremely strong, the strongest material, because if it cracked, everything else cracked. And therefore, it was the most precious, literally, because it was the most expensive to produce. But if you had a right cornerstone, anything that was in relation to the cornerstone, then the whole building went up. Why is Jesus called a cornerstone? Three reasons. Number one, Jesus must be your cornerstone, the foundation of your life. That's one of the things the image is getting across. He must be the foundation of your life. I remember some, you know, he talks about this in Matthew 7, in Luke 6, where he says, don't be like a man who builds his house on the sand. Be like a man who builds his house on me and on my words, the rock. Because when the storm comes and the winds come, if you're on the sand, you'll shake and you'll fall. But if you're built on me, no matter what happens? You're unshakable. And I remember some years ago, a husband who was a businessman telling me he'd had this epiphany about his life and his wife's life. He says, you know, it's funny. Whenever something's going wrong with my business, I get so anxious. I get so shaken. And my wife comes and says, oh honey, there, there. You have to not be so worried. And then she says, whenever something's going wrong with the children, whenever the kids are having problems, whenever there's something wrong with the children, heart. She just shakes. And I have to come alongside and say, well, come on, honey. We just don't worry so much. I began to realize, he said, that even though we both believe in God, our foundations aren't God. Jesus isn't really the foundation of our lives. The foundation of my life, of my hope, of my meaning is really my money and my business. And for her, it's her children and the family. And we're never going to become unshakable rocks ourselves until Jesus is the

And you're never going to be anything like, you're not going to have that holy life, you're not going to have an open mouth, you're not going to have the courage. You're not going to be effective in people's lives, you're not going to be changing people's lives unless Jesus is the cornerstone of your life so that you actually are kind of unshakable, that you've lost that anxiety, you're not consumed by your career, you're not consumed by your worries. Well, how can you become the cornerstone? Point two, this image gets across the fact that Jesus Christ must be precious to you. Precious. you know I liked all kinds of chocolate and then there's a certain kind of chocolate I tasted it was so much better than everything else that now all other kind of chocolate tastes like wax

and some of you are too young to understand this but I spent 20 years and some of us I can see by just by looking at you some of us spent 20 30 years every time we ever wrote anything we did on a typewriter you know 20 or 30 years we were pretty good typewriters one hour with a computer, with a word processor somewhere in 1984 and a typewriter felt like a hammer and a chisel I was ruined, I could never go back I remember trying to go back once and typing something on a typewriter and I said never again when you come into the presence of superlativeness it ruins you, nothing else charms you all the vain things that charmed me most all the things that controlled me

it's not enough for Jesus to be somebody you believe in is he ravishing to you is he so beautiful to you is he so fetching is he so endearing is he so amazing to you see that's why we're shakable that's why we're not rocks ourselves that's why we're not related to Jesus he's not the foundation of our lives that's why we're no good really we're too anxious and too absorbed in all of our own problems to really be agents of change in everybody else's life. He's not precious. Well, how does he become that precious? How does he become like that? This way. He was rejected. The stone the builders rejected. Now, who are the builders? Well, they were the religious leaders. But when Peter quotes this, I want you to know that Peter was not just thinking about the fact that the religious leaders rejected Christ and put him on the cross. What does Peter's name mean, class? It means rock. And yet, when the big storm came, when Jesus was arrested, and when anyone who stood up and identified himself with Jesus probably would have been arrested and killed too, Peter was the rock that wasn't. Peter gave way. Peter chickened out. Peter denied Jesus three times. And yet, after the resurrection, Jesus gets him on a beach in John 21 and three times asks him, Do you love me? Peter, do you love me? He says, yes, yes, yes. Helping him retrace his steps. And each time he says, feed my sheep, lead my sheep. You know what he's doing? He says, I want you to be my ministry leader. And Peter must have been saying in his heart, Lord, are you nuts? I have been the biggest failure. I have not lived up to my name. I'm not a rock. I'm quicksand. I am nothing. How could you be making me a gospel minister? How could you be saying to me, take the gospel now into people's lives? And you know what Jesus is saying there? Peter, don't you understand that nothing makes you a better ministry leader? Nothing makes you more effective at changing other people's lives than your failures plunged into my grace. The bigger a failure, the more you experience the gospel healing you, The more you're going to be able to help other people change, the more sensitive you're going to be, the more kind you're going to be, the more you're going to be able to speak it in and love it in and lead it in, the more you're going to be able to be a prophet, a priest, and a king. He says you failed more than any of the other disciples and that's why I'm making you the chief shepherd. And there it is. Look at Jesus Christ being rejected. Look at him being rejected. Then you won't mind being rejected yourself. Look at him dying on the cross for you. That will make him precious to you. that will make him your foundation. That will make you an unshakable rock. That will make even your failures ways of becoming better at taking the gospel into people's lives. That'll make you a prophet, a priest, a king. The world, your friends, your neighbors are waiting for you to be what God has called you to be. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us this great summons, and we ask that now, as we meet you over your table, you'd make yourself real to us might be empowered to be who you've called us to be in the world. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.