I want to talk to you about courage in the broadest possible way because the music actually does bring up all sorts of issues. Let me divide the subject into our need for courage, the definition of courage, mystery of courage, and three very interesting and important approaches to that mystery. The need, definition, the mystery, and how to solve the mystery. Now this first point isn't real pleasant. I'm going to try to make it fast, but our new sense of a need for courage is important. I think it's a timely subject, as I already said. Wall Street Journal, April 24th, just this year, had this front page article. It's Why Do Americans Believe Danger Lurks Everywhere? In some ways the article wasn't completely fair, and yet the thesis was in contemporary America, which is the safest society in recorded history. There is now a kind of widespread feeling that we've never been more at risk. It's not completely fair because there really is, at least in our understanding, there really is a lot of risk. Here's SARS. What's scary about SARS is not just the disease, but the fact that it's forced us to see that in our mobile society a new disease can run rampant and kill people before we can even get on top of it. Then there's a book that was just reviewed today, New York Times Book Review, front page, I mean the cover of the book review section, written by, in a very unsettling book, I only read the review of it, but Martin Rees, professor at Cambridge, British astronomer royal, brilliant scientist, and this new big book is called Our Final Hour. And in the book, he says, he says things like this. He very, very seriously gives the reasons why he thinks there's a 50-50 chance that by the year 2020, by the year 2020, there'll be a single instance of bioterror or bioerror that will take a million lives. He believes that there's every chance of that. In the next seventeen years, of either bioterror or bioerror, and this is a major scientist, and he explains it in the book. And he says a lot of other, rather, here's another example. This is the reason why I think that the article in the Wall Street Journal was a little unfair because it kind of sneers a little bit at the fears. Here's a section out of the review of this book by Reese. It was just in today's New York Times. Technology, Reese argues, has now so highly leveraged the power of the individual or the small group that a biological unabomber or even a mistake in a laboratory could wreak havoc only dreamed of by the strange gloves of the last century. So what's the point, though, of the Wall Street Journal article? It's this. Americans, at least for quite a while, had come to believe that you could really create a safe society. The article goes on, I don't know if it's totally fair, but it says litigation and tort law, science, all these things came together to give us the impression that really bad things only happen if somebody drops the ball, that really science can get on top of nature and we can control things. But what we're coming to grips with now is that you can't live in a world without terror. You can't live in a world without danger. You can't live in a world without epidemics. You can't live in a world without war. It was a pipe dream, and that brings us to this point. Fear of danger. Modern people thought we'd finally come up with a way of dealing with fear of danger by eliminating danger. Now it begins to look like we're going to have to deal with it. We're going to have to deal with fear of danger the way people through the centuries have dealt with it, and that is address the fear. Fear of danger. We thought we'd get rid of danger, but that's really not the point. We now come to realize that the only way we're going to deal with fear of danger is the way everybody else always has done it, which is courage. Now, when you go back and look at history, you'll see, and I did,

a remarkable amount of teaching from all over the spectrum. About the importance of courage. So if you go to the Greeks and the Romans, you go to Plato, Aristotle, Cicero,

they called courage one of the four cardinal virtues. And by that, they meant the primary virtues, the foundation for all character. The Greeks and the Romans believed in these four. They believed in wisdom, self-control, justice, and courage were the four primary virtues. Confucius, at the other end of the world, Confucius said that courage was, one of the three essential characteristics of a virtuous person. Three. And his list was wisdom, courage, and benevolence to others, which I think is a better list than the European list. Nevertheless, there's total consensus. You can't function without courage. You can't live without courage. It's primal. And yet, courage is almost, morally speaking, a vestigial organ in the Western modern soul. But I won't be able to say that. I'm going to say that way for long. Remember during the sniper? I'm almost done with this point. This is a very uncomfortable point. The need for courage. Remember during the sniper time in Washington, D.C., there was this article that was printed by Ann Patchett in the New York Times Magazine. She says, we're always looking to make some sort of sense out of murder in order to keep it safely at bay. I don't fit that description, you say. I don't live in that town where that happened. I would never go to a place where I would live. I would live in a place like that where that happened. But what happens when you can't say that, when there is no one description? There's no single place. Where do we go to get our peace of mind? The fact is, staving off our own death is one of our favorite national pastimes. Whether it's exercise, checking cholesterol, or having a mammogram, we're always trying to find out what the profile of death is, and then to make sure we do not fit it. But here's the problem. A sniper taking a single clean shot, not into a crowd of people, but into a crowd of people, is not a good thing. A shot taken by a crowd but through the sight reminds us horribly of death itself. Because despite our best intentions, death is still, for the most part, random. And it is absolutely coming. Now I think where we are as a society today is that we thought we could make a society in which danger was not really there. Danger is absolutely coming. It's coming. So Ann Patchett says, now that we know that, the question that comes is, where do you get your peace of mind? Which is another way of asking the question, where do you get courage? Now, what, if it's true that we haven't talked much about courage in a long time, in fact I'm going to show you, at least 50 years since there's been serious reflection on the need for courage. And I think partly it's because we really thought we might be abandoning the need for it. It's a kind of a vestigial organ in our lives. But now that we see the need for it, what's the definition of it? The good news is when it comes to the question of what is courage? What amazed me is that courage is not just a word. It's a concept. And it's a concept that I was very impressed with when I was doing some research for this lecture. What amazed me was there's a remarkable consensus across all the religions and the philosophies and all the worldviews. So for example, here you have Confucius. Here you have Aristotle. And here you have Thomas Aquinas, the great Christian moral philosopher. Three very different worldviews. But when I actually sat down and compared their definition of courage, it was a remark. It was the same. In their understanding. This is kind of a compilation, of course. In their understanding, courage consists of three factors. Three parts, three factors, three aspects. Commitment to a principle. Identification of danger if you act on that principle. Acting in spite of the danger. Commitment to a principle. Identification of danger if you act on that principle. But acting in spite of the danger. Let me show you. I'll show you why each of these three is important to understanding courage. First of all, commitment to principle. Which is to say, you have to love something. Or someone. Or someones. More than your own safety. More than your own happiness. More than your own comfort. Or courage is impossible. Courage is impossible unless there's a commitment to principles or persons. Or both. Unless you are committed to and love something, someone, or someones. More than your own comfort and your own safety and your own happiness. Courage is impossible. That's the first part. Commitment to principle. The second part is identification of danger if you act on principle. In other words, unless you know there's danger, your action can't be courageous. Remember the three amigos. They're actors. Steve Martin and Chevy Chase and Martin Shorten. They ride in. They play actors who ride into this place and they start to have this showdown with all these bandits. And they think they're actors too. They don't realize they really are murderous bandits. Then one of them gets shot. Remember that? And the famous words of Steve Martin. Oh, real bullets. You're in trouble, mister. Remember that? Oh, great. Real bullets. Now you're in trouble. In other words, they've been acting courageously. But they hadn't been acting courageously because they were stupid. And the minute they got smart, the minute they realized that they were in incredible danger, they started to weep like little babies. So, you see, the second part of... The first part, there's no courage without commitment to principle. There's no... But you see, courage is not the absence of fear. It's acting in spite of the fear. Courage is not an absence of fear. If there was no fear, there would be no courage. If you really are... If you don't see any danger or if you don't have the wits to recognize danger for itself, then there's no courage. Commitment to principle. Identification of danger if you act on principle. And acting in spite of the danger. Or courage is doing the right thing no matter what the danger. And it's amazing to me that all across the world views, there's no question. There's no disagreement. There's no schools of thought. There's no parties as to what the definition of courage is. But here's where the consensus breaks down. There is a mystery about courage. And this is the place where there's all sorts of different answers. The real mystery is not the what of courage but the why. Not what courage is. But why do some people have it and some people don't? Or put it this way. If you take a look at a book by John F. Kennedy, which was Profiles in Courage. Won a Pulitzer Prize for that book, by the way. It was a story of eight senators who through United States history came to a place where they believed in a principle. They believed it was right. And they realized that if they voted or they acted in accordance with that principle, they would lose their career. They would lose their status. They would lose their political career would die. Maybe even their livelihood would die. And in every single case, what was interesting was in every single case, there were other people around the courageous senator who had the same commitment to principle. They were committed to the same principles. And they recognized the danger. But they wouldn't do the courageous thing. Why? You say, why? You say, well, those senators were fearless. Of course they weren't fearless and they wouldn't be courageous. Courage isn't the absence of fear. It's the presence of something else that enables you to overcome the fear. So, for example, when it gets cold outside and you're in a normal functioning home, the thermostat kicks the heat up. In other words, the cold temperature in a sense doesn't go away. It's overcome by the heat. And instead of being paralyzed, you know, freezing to death. You're able to eat and sit and talk and go to bed and take a nap. All things you wouldn't be able to do if you were freezing. In the same way, fear is like freezing. And courage is something inside you that kicks on the greater the danger and enables you to act courageously in spite of your fear. What is that? What would do that? What is that thing? That's the mystery. And over the years, as Ann Patchett suggested, the answer to the mystery is basically a spiritual one. You cannot start talking about why would you sacrifice unless you get into the area of really what you believe in. And it gets into the area of faith and spirituality unavoidably. There's almost no way to go there. There's no way to look at it empirically. There's no way to look at it neutrally. Let me just suggest as the last part of the lecture. Three different. Very, very effective to some degree ways of trying to tackle the mystery. What it is in your heart that's something that will help you overcome fear and do the right thing in spite of the danger. The first one I'll call the optimistic. And the second one I'll call the stoic. The first one. Now there's a lot of words I could use for each of these just to make sure you understand what they are. The first approach, the first way to deal with the mystery is the optimistic approach to courage. You could also call it the instinctive. There's a kind of courage. By the way, this happens especially, it happens a lot. There's a kind of courage, this kind of courage is instinctive. And it really works best not when you are upholding an abstract principle, but when you're protecting someone or something you love. So for example. You see a car bearing down on a child. The poor little kid, maybe your child, maybe any child, any child. Just look at the child. What do you do? You rush out and you grab. Why? Why did you do that? Why did you go into the center of death? Why did you go into the teeth of danger? Because there's a self-talk going on which is you're just, you're sure that this terrible thing cannot happen. So I think the self-talk goes like this. I won't let it happen. It cannot happen. It's not going to happen. You see. You see a car. The child, sweet and helpless. You go into the teeth of danger. Why? Because what you do is you say, I don't care about the danger. You minimize the danger. You say, I'm not going to let that happen. I'm not going to let this happen. Now this is self-talk. This is adrenaline and positive thinking. A lot of therapists use visualization techniques on this. When I was a trumpet player, I know this sounds a little weird, and I had performance anxiety of the worst possible kind. I couldn't play solos. I couldn't do auditions. I was scared to get up in front of people with my trumpet. I just, you know, it's, it's, I don't know. I don't quite understand it myself. Okay. But I do remember. I don't know. But I'm not really sure. But I do know that at one point I went to a therapist who said, I want you to visualize yourself playing this incredible solo in front of thousands of people. And you play the lights out. It's visualization. It's basically the same thing that happens. There's an instinctive approach to courage. And many people have saved lives with it. You see the danger, and you just block out the danger. All you see is what you want to accomplish, which is to save the child, to save the situation, to protect the thing that you love, to protect the ones that you love. In other words, if you take a look at the three factors, commitment to principle, recognizing the danger, and then acting in spite of the danger, You're actually, in this approach, this optimistic approach, what you're actually doing is you're kind of concentrating on that middle one and saying, Who cares about the danger? I'm going to overcome the danger. I'm going to go over the danger. I'm going to go around it. I'm going to go through it. I'm not going to let you know. It's don't look down. Don't think about the danger. Do it. Now, what is the mysterious thing? What is the thing that will enable you to overcome your fear and do the right thing? It's adrenaline and positive thinking. It's institutionalized as visualization and therapy, but in most cases, it's just someone you love is in danger, and you just do it. Because you're thinking of a loved one, and you're thinking of how you're just not going to let this happen. And so there it is. But you see it in, Be a lion. Come on, be a lion. You see it even in Cock-eyed Optimist. But there's a problem with this approach. Now, I want you to know what I mean. When I criticize this, it doesn't mean I think there's ever any, in a sense, wrong reason for doing the right thing. In other words, if doing the right thing is dangerous, however you find a way to do it, do it. But there is a limit to this approach. First of all, it really literally is a short-term thing. That is to say, it gets you to do things when you want to do them. It gets you to do things when something has happened quickly. It happens in a crisis. But what if you're going to face five years of danger, ten years of suffering? It doesn't really work. It also doesn't work if you realize there is absolutely no way, if you do the right thing, that you are going to avoid devastation. I mean, what happens when it's Garden of Gethsemane time? What happens when you know to do the right thing, you're not going to survive? What happens if you know to do the right thing, you're not going to overcome, you're not going to save the child, you're not going to? Then the optimistic approach, then the instinctive approach, then the visualizing yourself, you know, triumphing, doesn't work. So, in the short run, there's a lot of people who have used this approach kind of instinctively to do the right thing. But in the long run, it's limited. So that's the first one. The optimistic approach. What is the mysterious thing that will give us courage? It's adrenaline. It's positive thinking. It's refusing to believe in defeat. But sometimes you have to be courageous when you absolutely know that defeat is inevitable. Now, there's a second approach, which of course is a more noble approach in a sense. It's a more sophisticated approach. It has a very long, extremely noble approach. And I'm going to call it the stoic approach. That's not a very good word. I've been looking for a word. I'm going to have to describe it because in some ways this is too great a philosophy of courage and a theory of courage just called stoic. When you hear the word stoic today in modern English, you just think of keep a stiff upper lip. But it means much more than that. You can call this the stoic or the existentialist approach. You see, the ancient Greeks, there was a philosophy, and especially amongst the Romans and the Greeks, Cicero is an example of it. There were stoics. And stoicism said life is hopeless. Bravery and courage is facing it. It's very different than modern therapy, which says you can be courageous if you just visualize yourself triumphing. But the ancient stoic says courage is to do the right thing, though you know you're going to go down to defeat. If you read, here's Cicero on courage. And don't laugh. Because it sounds awfully easy. It sounds awfully bleak. But I want you to see the nobility of it. Here's Cicero on courage. He says, courage, true courage makes light of death. For the dead are only as they were before they were born. True courage encounters pain by recollecting that great pains are ended by death. Slight pains have frequent intervals of respite. While those of medium intensity can usually be controlled, we can bear them if they are endurable. Or if they are not, we may serenely quit life's theater. When the play has ceased to please us. Now here's what Cicero is trying to say. He says, look, when pain comes to you, just realize if it's really bad, you're going to die. And it's going to be like before you were born. You just won't know anything. And if it's slight pain, you can let go of it. And if it's too much to bear, go ahead. Commit suicide. Now this is stoicism. You look at it and you say, right off the bat, right away, it doesn't hit you very, you know, you say, well, that's kind of ancient, kind of primitive. But actually, it's also extremely up to date. In The Plague by Albert Camus, modern existentialist, the very same philosophy and theory of courage is put forth. And again, it's a very noble one. And I'll try to show you it's also, to a great degree, an effective one. In The Plague, he tells a story about a doctor. And the doctor is fighting the plague in an epidemic in a city. At one point in the novel,

however, there's this dialogue that goes on between the doctor and another man. And it shows that there's more going on here than just a physical epidemic. So the doctor says, since the order of the world is shaped by death, mightn't it be better for God if we just refuse to believe in him and struggle with all our might against death without raising our eyes toward the heaven where he sits in silence? The other man says, yes, but then your victories will be lost. Your lives will never be lasting. The doctor's face darkened. I know that. But it's no reason for giving up the struggle. No reason. The struggle is a never-ending defeat. Now here's what Camus is saying. He says, modern people realize, just like the Stoics did, that life is meaningless. Life is an accident. If there is a God, he doesn't help us with all our evil. There may not be one. There probably isn't one. But even if there is one, he doesn't help us with all the things that we are struggling with, which means life is meaningless. But there's a way to make life meaningful. There's a way to not just be a cog in the machine. There's a way of not just going along with it. Courage. Now Camus, in the middle of the 20th century, redid Stoicism for modern people. And there has not been a theory of courage since then that I know of. Postmodernism hasn't come up with one. And it's an enormously powerful one. And Camus puts it in what he gives us narratively in his novel, The Plague. He gives it to us in The Rebel, which is more of an essay. And what he does there is he basically says this. He doesn't say courage is just a nice thing, just something that you need in order to face life. He says courage is the only way that you can know you're an authentic human being. Because this life is filled with misery. This life is filled with defeat. This life is filled with suffering and injustice. And of course, this is the way life is. And there's no hope. There's no hope to change it. This is the way it is. But if you want to make sure that you're not just an animal, but you're human. You're not just a cog in a machine, you don't go along with it. You fight death. You fight suffering. You fight injustice, no matter what the cost. Even though you go down to a never-ending defeat. And you see, that's how you make meaning out of meaninglessness. So courage becomes not just one of the four primary virtues. As far as Camus is concerned, it is the primary virtue. It's the way I think of it. It's the way I know I'm human. It's the way I know I'm authentic. And of course, you see this especially in The Man of La Mancha. In fact, The Man of La Mancha has actually been ridiculed by some people as pop existentialism. Look at the impossible... Here's how The Man of La Mancha goes. Miguel Cervantes is put into prison in the beginning of the musical. He's thrown into prison because of the Inquisition. When he's in prison, the prisoners try to rob him. In order to divert them, in order to kind of keep himself from being robbed, he tries to divert them by saying, I'll tell you what, I'd like you to put on a play. He tries to have the prisoners put on a play of one of his stories. The story is the story of Don Quixote. Now, what is this story? It's about a man who's a nobleman, Alonso Quijana, but he goes mad, and he thinks he's a knight, and he thinks that Camus is a king. He thinks that he's a kitchen prostitute. Alonso is really his lady Dulcinea, and he calls her his lady, and he fights windmills, even though he says they're great dragons. In other words, he's going to live a noble life, he's going to live a courageous life, but he's mad. Well, at one point during the play, one of the prisoners is not excited about this story. This is a pretty dumb story, he says. And this is the dialogue he has with Cervantes. This is at a respite, one place in the middle of the play, because the musical is a play within a play. At one point, he has this dialogue. He says to Miguel de Cervantes, he says, why are you poets so obsessed with madness? we have much in common. You both turn your backs on life. We both select from life what we want. You have to come to terms with life as it is. And Cervantes goes into his recitative here. He says, life as it is, I've lived for many years, and I've seen life as it is. Pain, misery, cruelty beyond belief. I've heard all the voices of God's noblest creatures, moans of pain from bundles in the street. I've been a soldier, I've been a slave. I've seen my comrades fall in battle or die more slowly under the lash in Africa. I've held them at their last moments. These were men who saw life as it is, but they died despairing. No glory, no brave last words, only their eyes filled with confusion, questioning, why? I do not think they were questioning why they were dying, but why they had ever lived. When life itself seems lunatic, who knows where madness lies? Perhaps to be too practical is madness. To surrender dreams, this may be madness. Too much sanity may be madness, but maddest of all, to see life as it is, and not as it ought to be. Now Camus, that's Camus in the form of a comic book. I'm not sure. When life itself is lunatic, who's to say where madness lies? Too much sanity may mean madness, but maddest of all, to see life as it is, and not as it ought to be. Look what he's saying. This is what I mean by saying this is just popular existentialism. There is an absolute concrete slab between the real and the ideal. Reality is injustice. Reality is we're just a chemical accident. Reality is there's absolutely no happy endings. There's no justice. There's no good. There's no good over evil. That's reality. And here's the ideal. That people are important. That we ought to fight against injustice. That injustice is wrong. That the strong trampling the weak is wrong. Here's the ideal. Here's the real. There's an absolute concrete slab between the two. And therefore, as Camus said in his book The Rebel, the only way not to just go along with the meaninglessness is to be absurd, is to be mad, is to live in the ideal realm, which means you're crazy. You're not rational. But that's what the whole musical's about. And that's the reason why this impossible dream is utterly different than the modern kind of humanistic visualization. Be a lion. You can do it. What does the impossible dream say? What is courage? To reach the unreachable star. Unreachable star. See, be a lion says, you can do it. You can do it. The impossible dream says, no, you can't. Courage is doing what can't be done. The modern, therapized, western person says, courage is doing what people say can't be done, but you can do it. The more realistic stoic, the more realistic existentialist, a far more noble, this is a very ancient tradition. It goes back through Beowulf. It goes back through, you remember the northern European sagas? You were brave in spite of the hopelessness. This is a whole different approach. And this approach says, courage is a philosophical commitment to defy hopelessness. Courage is a philosophical commitment. It's not instinctive. To have this approach to courage, you have to think about it. You have to believe it. You have to think it out. You have to reason it out. You have to be trained into it. It's a whole different approach to courage. And I have to say, it changes people. In fact, I think there's something very realistic about the fact that, you know, the prisoner who plays Aldonza in The Man of La Mancha, you know, when in the very beginning, Don Quixote calls her, my lady Dulcinea, when she's actually just a kitchen prostitute, she complains about it. She's very unhappy about it. She's always saying, why do you call me that? She gets very angry. She says, we are, she says, the world is a dung heap, and we are just maggots that crawl upon it. My mother had me in a ditch. She hoped I died there. I didn't have the good sense to die. I grew up, you don't know who I am. I'm nothing like that. But at the very end, because he keeps calling her, irrationally, you're great, you're noble, I'm a knight, these are dragons, we are fighting for the right. At the very end, of course, she's changed. She says, you spoke to me of a quest, you know, to march into hell for a heavenly cause. You spoke to me of the impossible dream, and it's changed me. It does. Now let me give you one last approach. There's the optimistic approach that says, the mystical, the missing ingredient, the thing that will give you, help you overcome your fear, is the adrenaline and positive thinking. You can do it. And there's the stoic approach. The missing ingredient is a defiance of hopelessness, a sense that this is my, this is my meaning in life. This is how I know that I'm an authentic human being. It's a settled philosophical defiance of hopelessness. And that also, it's very much the opposite of the old approach, sort of the more popular approach to courage, but it's a more noble one, and it has changed a lot of people, and it has done a lot of good. Here's a third one. It's the Christian approach. Now I want you to, let me, by way of introduction, let me just say this. Any reason you, anything you can find to help you overcome fear and do the right thing is good. And so when I, I'm about to give you the Christian resources for courage, I think they probably outstrip the other two. You be the judge. I think they outstrip the other two. You be the judge. I'm not here to defend Christianity and say why I think it's true. I'm here only to show you the resources Christianity has for courage, and they're pretty remarkable. Number one, the assumption of Don Quixote, to see life as it is, and not as it ought to be, is madness. In other words, he says, you're going to have to choose. You're going to either be an idealist or a realist. You're going to either be a, a cockeyed optimist or a nihilist. It's got to be one or the other. You're either going to be irrational and absurd, or else you're going to be sensible and just go along with it. There's an absolute solid wall between the real and the ideal. Christianity says, Philippians 2, Jesus Christ, though he was God, emptied himself and became human. The minute Jesus Christ was born, according to Christianity, there was a hole punched in that concrete slab between the real and the ideal. The minute Jesus Christ was born, the real became ideal, and this choice that everyone outside of belief in the incarnation has to make, will I be a naive person or a cynical person? Will I be an idealist or will I be a realist? Will I fight for the right even though I know it's irrational, or will I just be, you know, a person who says life is meaningless? You don't have to choose. If you believe in the incarnation, you do not have to choose. The ideal became real. Jesus Christ opened a cleft in the pitiless walls of the world, and he says the ideal now is coming into the real and will transform it again into its likeness. So you don't have to choose that. But why did Jesus come? Why did he punch that hole? Why did he come to earth? And the answer of Philippians 2, Paul's letter to the Philippians, was not just that he came to earth to become a human, but he came to die. And on the cross, he said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He was taking the penalty for sin. When he says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? What was happening to him? He was losing fellowship with the Father. He was experiencing infinite agony. He was, here's the thing, Jesus Christ is the one person according to the Christian gospel who literally marched into hell for a heavenly cause. He literally bared the unbearable sorrow. He literally reached unreachable things, bore unbearable things, marched into hell for a heavenly cause. Now listen, apart from the gospel, that's rhetoric. Apart from the gospel, that's just inspiring rhetoric. It's there to make you feel like, well, wouldn't that be wonderful, and I can do things like that. But Jesus literally did this. Jesus is the only one, according to the gospel, who ever marched into hell for a heavenly cause. He really went to hell. That's what it means, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? That's what that means. And it also means that God, unlike what the doctor says in the plague,

the Christian God has become vulnerable. The Christian God has come into suffering. The Christian God is so concerned about our suffering that he's become involved. And what this means is this. In the Garden of Gethsemane, when Jesus was about to know, he knew what he was about to undergo, he knew the incredible pain he was about to undergo, and it was dark, and there was no one around, and even his disciples were asleep. At that moment, Christianity adds courage to the attributes of God. This is not bravado when I say there is no other view of God in which God is courageous. There is no other view, there's no other religion that even claims that God became human, that God became subject to death, that God became subject to pain. There's no other religion that even claims that. This is not bravado. I'm not trying to say, oh, our religion is better. I'm simply telling you the fact. Only the Christian God is a God of courage. Only the Christian God had to be a God of courage. So here you have Jesus Christ who came, faced the unbearable sorrow, marched into hell for a heavenly cause for you. And this is the reason why if you go to, that's the Christian gospel, when you go to the book of Hebrews, there's a very interesting point there. In the book of Hebrews, which is in the New Testament, it's written to a group of people who are facing persecution, it's imminent, probably suffering, and probably death. If you want a book, the whole purpose of which is to create courage in its readers, that's the book. It's a long book. It's not easy to read, but that's the book. And when you get near the end, something interesting is there. There's a whole list of heroic people, Moses and Abraham and David, and it talks about Daniel and the lions, and it talks about all these different people. But every time it says, remember David, remember Abraham, but then it suddenly gets to Jesus, and only with Jesus do they say, look to Jesus. And it uses the word archegos, which is an incredibly rare Greek word which literally means hero. And usually it's used of Hercules in Greek literature. But what it says at the very end of the book of Hebrews, it doesn't say, look to these other exemplars, look to all these other heroes. Emulate them. Be like them. See David, look at David taking on Goliath. Be like David. I want you to know that emulating heroes does not necessarily create courage at all. There are plenty of kids who grew up in the shadow of heroic parents, and they were crushed by the example. They didn't say, I want to be like my parents. They wanted to get away. Because everybody said, why aren't you like the parents? Why don't you like... Mere emulation of heroes does not create courage. Oh, no. And the book of Hebrews knows this. It says, refer to David, remember David. Refer to Moses. Refer to Abraham. Refer to them. But look to Jesus. Why? I will never be a champion until first I have a champion. I will never be able to face the little giants of this life, in other words, things like suffering and death, until I know that Jesus Christ has faced down the ultimate giants, which is taking out my guilt. And therefore, the Bible never says you can be heroic by being like this person or this person. The Bible says until you actually see what Jesus has done for you. That means that even if you die in this event, you're going to be with him forever. If you want to know the Christian secret of what is that mysterious missing thing in courage, it's right here in Hebrews 12. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles, and let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us. Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the archegos and hero of our faith, who for the joy that was set before us, endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful men, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. There it is. Did you look carefully? Courage is not the absence of fear. It's the presence of joy. Jesus was able to face the cross for the joy that was set before him. Now this is a completely different story and a completely different approach. It's far, the Christian approach is far more pessimistic than the instinctive one. You know why? Because Jesus and the cross means that you can be a really good person like Jesus and have a horrible life. Positive thinking? Forget it. Christianity is far more pessimistic than that first approach, but it's far more, far more hopeful than the second approach. It doesn't say in order to face down danger, defy it. It says, have enough joy. Defiance is basically self-absorbed. Defiance is thinking of yourself. Defiance is saying, I will do it, I will do it, I will do it. But joy is saying, it doesn't matter what happens, because Jesus Christ has courageously faced the ultimate problem of my life, which is sin and evil and eternal death. And therefore, no matter what happens here, it'll be all right. There is light and high beauty forever beyond the reach. Of any evil here. So, Christianity says the missing thing is joy. Are you happy enough to be courageous? Far more pessimistic, far more optimistic. It's unique. Again, one more time to say, I believe the resources of Christianity for courage are remarkable. Only Jesus went into hell for heavenly cause. Only the Christian God is a God of courage. And he did it for you. And if you see him taking on the big giants for you, and taking on the big dangers for you, you can take on the little dangers, because there's a self-forgetfulness that comes from joy, knowing what Jesus has done for you. That's the resource. You be the judge as to whether it outstrips the rest. Let me close my lecture with a moment of prayer, okay? Thank you, Father, for being with us briefly. And we pray that this time will have made us think about the different approaches to courage. Help us to appreciate every possible resource that there is to do the right thing, to act on principle, to protect those that we love. We pray that you would help us to understand the very, very rich and maybe unique resources there are in the Christian gospel. I pray that all of us here would learn how to tap into those. I pray that in Jesus' name.
