We are here every week exploring the character and claims of Christianity to see whether it makes sense to contemporary people. And we actually are forming a temporary learning community. And let me tell you who's in the learning community. Charles Taylor, who's a French-Canadian philosopher, has written a number of major books. He's very, very, very prominent and respected. He's written a book a couple years ago, Harvard University Press, called A Secular Age. In it, he comes up with an interesting concept, what most of us he calls cross-pressured. He says at two ends of the spectrum, you've got people on the one end who have no doubts in their belief. They believe, they believe in God, they believe in Christianity, they believe in their faith, and they have no doubts about it. At the other end, you've got people who disbelieve, and you've got no doubts about their disbelief. They're absolutely sure there's no God, religion doesn't work, it's not true. So you've got people who have no doubts about their belief, and they have no doubts about their disbelief. But most of us are in the middle. And he says the reason we're cross-pressured is that up until maybe 150 years ago, most people lived in societies where everybody around them believed pretty much what they did about God, about right, wrong. In other words, we lived in homogeneous cultural and religious communities. And so you were never pressured by lots and lots and lots of very good friends, people, neighbors who had utterly different beliefs than you do. Today, increasing numbers of us live in those very kinds of communities. And what that means is on the one hand, most believers respect doubt. They respect the questions. They wrestle with the objections. They themselves have given those questions a great deal of weight and wrestle with them sometimes very immediately. On the other hand, you've got an awful lot of people who disbelieve in religion and God, but at the same time, because they're surrounded by so many believers, often intelligent ones, often lots of devout ones, they have doubts about their doubts. So disbelievers feel cross-pressured, and they're always wondering, am I right? Have I made a mistake? And believers are always wrestling with lots of questions and objections, and those people believers and disbelievers and those of you who aren't really quite sure where you fit can actually form a learning community in which we're willing to wrestle with the questions and ask the questions and hear how people answer the questions and say I like that answer or I didn't like that answer so temporarily we're a learning community and it's particularly good to be here because not only do I get a chance to hold forth to you but then you get a chance to ask questions not only up here but then upstairs in which we can talk face-to-face. And so it's been, it feels actually like the learning community continues. In some ways, it's maturing even over the three or four weeks. And it's been great, just terrific. The premise, of course, is that since none of us can prove or disprove our deepest beliefs, your deepest moral convictions about right and wrong, your deepest convictions about what people should be doing with their lives, belief whether there's a God or whether there's no God, you can't prove God, you can't totally disprove God. What that means is all of us have got beliefs that we can't prove, and yet you can't live without those beliefs. And we've said you don't want to just do blind leaps of faith, but on the other hand you don't want to demand demonstrable proof which doesn't exist for these beliefs. So how do you decide what beliefs to believe, and how do you do that? It's cumulatively. You look at beliefs that make the most emotional and cultural and rational and sense and cumulatively you come up with an idea saying that makes the most sense. So we're just trying to see whether, I'm trying to see whether I can accumulate those things for you and you can decide whether I'm doing a good job or not and you know that I'm open to your critique. Now the first four weeks, including this week, are looking a little bit more at how Christianity makes emotional and cultural sense. And the next three weeks will be more looking at the traditional arguments and reasons and why Christianity makes rational sense. But today, one more week, I want to do this. I'd like to talk to you today about hope, the hope that transforms, I'll call it. I'd like to talk to you about what hope is, how it's a problem, what the alternate views are of dealing with that problem, and then the Christian way of dealing with it. what hope is, why it's a problem, what the various alternate ways are. I can give you at least six and then a seventh, which is Christianity. And then you can judge yourself because you're going to deal with a problem too. So let's take a look at it like this. Number one, what is hope? This is fast. Hope consists of two things, desire and expectation. Um, everybody's got desires, things that you want, you long for. How will those desires be fulfilled? Well, you decide what you, you look to something to fulfill those desires and you set your expectations on those things. And whatever those things are that you set your expectations on as, as you think being able to fulfill those desires, those are your hopes. That's what hope is. So you have to have desire and expectation for what will fulfill it. Just for a second, let me tell you how incredibly important hope is. Let me just show you how important it is, how important it is to the way in which you live your life. Imagine two women, and they both are hired by a company, and they're hired by a company to do a certain task, nine hours a day. And they're put in identical rooms, two different rooms, but they're identical. Same climate, same lighting, same humidity, and they're given exactly the same thing to do. So it's not particularly interesting. It's assembling something and then moving on and assembling something else. So they have the same job in the same situation in the same circumstances in every way. But you tell the one woman, at the end of 12 months of work, you will be paid $15,000. But you tell the other woman, At the end of 12 months of work, you will be paid $15 million. So at lunch breaks, they eat together, and the first woman says, boy, this is tedious. Don't you think this is boring? Don't you think it's boring? And the other woman says, not really. Yeah, but no, it's okay. It's all right. Why? See, I think, and you know the answer why. two women are experiencing identical circumstances in radically different ways because of their expectations. In other words, their future expectations, their future hopes, what they believe about the future is completely shaping how they are interpreting and experiencing their present moment. Now, one of the things that philosophers and sociologists and a lot of other people are trying to work on is that we are the very first culture that promises people nothing after death at all, essentially no future beyond death. You realize there's always been reincarnation, there's always been karma, there's always been, you know, the Hinduism and Buddhism, which is different than, well, I mean, Buddhism is somewhat different, as you know, Greek Stoicism, Christianity, Islam. In other words, every culture has always to some degree said there's the possibility of bliss, there's the possibility of eternity, there's the possibility of whatever. And we're the very, very, very first culture that's ever said, no matter what you do here, it doesn't matter after your death. No matter what you do here, it doesn't pay off or be punishes. There's no, you know, there's no ultimate fulfillment of, and I'm going to talk to you about this fulfillment of so many of your desires. And even though every individual is all over the map, a lot of people are saying that has got to have an impact on how people live their lives across the whole swath of culture. It's got to have an impact on joy. It's got to have an impact on, frankly, on things like integrity. You know, why should you behave with integrity? What's the consequences? You know, what are we after and so forth? So anyway, Anyway, we are hopelessly hope-shaped creatures. We are absolutely hope-shaped creatures. We are irreducibly hope-shaped creatures. We need it desperately. It has every impact on how we live now. So that's the nature of hope. Very important, and that's the anatomy of hope. Now let's talk about the problem. Let's spend a little time on the problem. the problem? Well, the problem is that our hopes are always being disappointed. They are inevitably disappointed. Let me give you three utterly different people. No, let me give you four. Let me give you five. Okay? Let me give you five. Horace. Horace who? No, no, the Roman poet Horace, okay? Who said, no one lives contented. It's a pretty categorical statement. No, No, they think they're content. They're not. No one lives contented. Wallace Stevens, obviously a modern writer, he says, In contentment, I still feel the need of some imperishable bliss. In contentment, I still feel the need of some imperishable bliss. In other words, he's saying even when I'm content, I realize I'm really not content because I realize that what I'm experiencing that makes me content is temporary, and because it's temporary, it makes it hard for me to enjoy it. Even in contentment, I still feel the need for some imperishable bliss. Henrik Ibsen, you know, Henrik Ibsen, who is the Norwegian playwright, he says, when you take away the life lie of anyone, they lose all their happiness. When you take away the life lie of anyone, they lose all their happiness. And by the way, in the context, what Ibsen means is the life lie is that there's anything out there that will actually make you happy. And anything that you think this is going to make me happy, when you actually lose the life lie, you lose all the happiness. Now, here's another person, Cynthia Heimel, who used to write for the Village Voice. I think she lives in LA. She doesn't work. She doesn't write for them. But when I first got to New York, I saw this. I was reading the Village Voice every week at least, and I came across this great column that I've saved and always bring out because it's just so hilarious and also so cutting. If you live in New York long enough, most of us who grow up here - I didn't, by the way, but most of you - just so you - full disclosure. But people who grow up here very often get to know some people who end up becoming incredibly famous. You know, New Yorkers very often grow up in this place or that place, and then they become stars, celebrities, and they start out in humble origins. And sometimes, actually, you know, Cynthia Heimel was thinking about, she actually names three or four people who she remembered when they worked behind the cosmetics counter in Macy's or was a bouncer downtown. And they became big movie stars. And actually, because I clipped this out so long ago, I don't know if I can find exactly who those people were, but it doesn't matter. She said she knew a number of people who had starred out as nothing, and they became famous, and after they became famous, they weren't happy. But listen to how brilliantly she speaks about it. She says the giant thing they were striving for, that fame thing that was going to make everything okay, that was going to make their lives bearable, that was going to provide them with personal fulfillment and happiness had happened, and nothing changed. They were still them. And then she adds this. And by the way, she's not a Christian believer, but so she doesn't mean this literally, but listen, she says, I think that when God really wants to play a rotten practical joke on us, he grants our deepest wishes and then giggles merrily as you suddenly realize you want to kill yourself. That's exactly what Henry Gibson is saying. Exactly. This is the worst thing that can happen to you is you get exactly what you thought all your life was going to satisfy you. And then God goes away, giggling marriage. By the way, she doesn't mean that literally. And I don't mean that literally either. Don't tweet that. But do you believe what she's saying? A little exaggerated, a little, the most eloquent person talking about this was C.S. Lewis, who, who gave a radio talk over the BBC in the middle of World War II, very, very famous. And in it, he makes this statement. And by the way, I'm going to back it up with a couple other places where he writes about the same subject. Sorry. He says, most people, if they really learned how to look into their own hearts, would know that they do want and want acutely something that cannot be had in this world. There are all sorts of things in this world that offer to give it to you, but they never keep their promise. The longings which arise in us when we first fall in love or first think of some foreign country or first take up some subject that excites us are longings which no marriage, no travel, no learning can really satisfy. I'm not speaking of what ordinarily would be called unsuccessful marriages or trips and so on. I'm speaking of even the best possible ones. There's always something we grasp at in that first moment of longing that just fades away The spouse may be a good spouse. The scenery has been excellent. It has turned out to be a good job, but it has evaded us. You've never had it. All the things that have ever deeply possessed your soul have been but hints of it, tantalizing glimpses, promises never quite fulfilled, echoes that died away just as they caught your ear. but if it should really become manifest, if there ever came an echo that did not die away but swelled into the sound itself, you would say, this at last is what I was made for. Do you understand what it is? We can't define it. It is the thing that will satisfy us that we think the things have until we get to them and then we want to kill ourselves when it's not there. That's what Cynthia Heimel says. And so Lewis ends this way. Our lifelong nostalgia, our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off. To be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside is no mere neurotic fancy, but the truest index of our real situation. We long to be acknowledged, to meet with some response, to bridge some chasm that yawns reality, that's our inconsolable secret. What is that? I think he's right. I think you know he's right. I think, and if Cynthia Heimel, if the Village Voice and C.S. Lewis agree, it must be true. And the real problem, of course, is that we have these desires, and then we have expectations for how those desires, that's what hope is, and the things that we expect to fulfill them just don't do it. Now you say, well, and Lewis actually says, do not think you're neurotic. Now, of course, that's going to hurt a lot of therapists, Bill. You know, they would, it's going to hurt their, I mean, their practice. If you, because most of us do think if we're just unsatisfied with everything in life, there must be, we must be a neurosis of some kind. I'm sorry, this is too universal. I mean, when you've got, when you've got ancient Roman poets and village voice in C.S. Lewis. I mean, this is not neuroses. And one other person, by the way, who's being a friend of C.S. Lewis, I'm going to get back to him in a second. J.R.R. Tolkien wrote a book, wrote an essay a few years ago, quite a few now, that's just a classic called On Fairy Stories. In that essay, now don't forget, even though you may know of J.R.R. Tolkien just as a fantasy writer, but he was a world-renowned Oxford professor of ancient Northern European languages and culture and literature. I mean, he was one of the world's experts on things like Old English and Old Norse and Old Gothic and Old Icelandic and all this stuff. And he understood myths and legends and sagas. He knew all that older kind of literature, what you and I would call fantasy literature. Now, what's really important to see is he says, we have a problem explaining why people are still producing this kind of literature and consuming it. He says, this ancient kind of literature is always basically depicting several things. He says, they're depicting how to step outside of time in these stories, myths, people are stepping outside of time. Secondly, they're escaping death. Stepping outside of time, escape from death. Thirdly, they're experiencing love without parting, love that you never lose. Fourth, they're holding communication and communion with non-human beings. And fifth, we're seeing the final triumph of good over evil. now in the stories that depict these things it used to be years ago that readers and listeners because a lot of them were told orally readers and listeners used to understand that they could happen in other words in the past people believed in the supernatural in a way that modern people don't but what tolkien's asking is this question why is it today when we know it's fiction and when we know with our heads that these things are impossible, why do we have this astounding appetite for stories like this? Why the sci-fi? Why the fantasy? Why is it that people are still spending billions on it? Why is it that if you write a serious, modern, realistic novel, you know, that everybody in the New York Times book review just goes gaga over, you'll make this amount of money. And if you actually write a really great, you know, fairy tale, basically, and depict it on, you know, on television or, you know, J.K. Rowling's, you know, the Harry Potter. Why is it that all those stories just make far more money? Why people, why they're so much more accessible? He says on fairy stories that we have desires that realistic fiction can't touch. much. We have an itch that only this kind of fiction can scratch. Realistic fiction can't scratch it. Even though we know it's not true, even though we think it's impossible, when we have these stories that show escape from death and love without parting and stepping outside of time and communion with non-human beings and triumph of good over evil, when we see stories depicted like that, we can't get enough of them. there's an incredibly deep longing for these things and yet there's nothing that we know of in this life that can possibly satisfy those longings and there's one place in the essay where Tolkien says this if fairy stories awaken desire satisfying it while also wetting it unbearably

they succeed. He says these kinds of stories, they succeed because on the one hand, they're satisfying. Otherwise, we wouldn't pay to see them or buy the books and read them all the time and love them so much. Even when everybody else is saying, sorry, that's not how life is. Modern realistic fiction, no happy endings, no happily ever after. That's realism. That stuff doesn't sell. You know that. It certainly doesn't move you in the same way. Some people who have done everything they possibly can to change their aesthetic tastes so that they hate fairy stories, and there are plenty, a fair number of people like that, have really cut themselves off from most of humanity. The real question is, why do we want these things? Because these are our longings. This is what we long for. Realistic fiction can't scratch that itch. And even fairy stories wet the desire unbearably. They're satisfying, and at the same time, they just create more longing because it's just not true. So now what are you going to do? This is the reality, and that is that we have desires that nothing that we know of that we set our expectations on that we hope in can fulfill. What are you going to do about that? What are you going to do about the fact that all of your deepest hopes are always going to be disappointed by the things in this world that you put your hopes on. So I'm going to suggest there's seven ways to go, six under this point. Here are six alternative ways to deal with the fact that our hopes are always being disappointed. Number one, the first kind of person is what I would call, I don't have good names for these things. I was breaking this out in my head, so sorry, but I think you'll get it. The first category are people who are almost always younger who think IT, capital I-T, does not mean, by the way, what it usually means. IT does not mean technology, but anyway. IT means it. It's the satisfaction for our deepest desires that we think is in the things, but never is there. Younger people generally live lives for numbers of years, actually, relatively untroubled, because they're sure that if they actually get to the things that they're hoping for,

If they get the career, if they get the partner, if they get the marriage, whatever they've decided, and because you're younger, you realize that there's a ramp and you've got a lot of things you've got to do. You've got to get the best graduate school, and then you can have the career, and then you can meet these kinds of people, and maybe you got into that graduate school. So even though you actually don't have it, by any means, it doesn't bother you. Why? Because you're sure it's out there. So you're kind of living blissfully,

sure that you will be fulfilled. And that actually is, I'd say, gives you something of the sense of being fulfilled. That is, you're so sure it's going to happen, then it's not so bad. It's a little bit like the woman who's sure she's going to get $15 million. And even though it's really tedious, it's all right. It's fine. So first of all, you've got people who are not unhappy because they're sure it's still out there. They just haven't gotten there. And usually young people can live with that kind of illusion. Because that's what it is. Second category. I know, look at me, old, okay. They all get like that. All these older people get like that. Okay, second kind. These are people more like my age who have failed to get the things they thought it was in. You're never going to have the career you always wanted. You're never going to have the marriage you always wanted you're never going to have the whatever you realize in other words younger people say it's in those things and even though they're nowhere near it they're okay because I'm sure it's there we just haven't gotten there you get to a certain spot where you get old enough that you realize you're never going to get the things you're pretty sure it is in what do you do well you can get you can really get tied up in knots because usually, the reason you realize that you're never going to get the things in which you're sure it is, is because something has blocked you. And you can become either incredibly angry, generally you become incredibly angry. If you think it was your own failures, you just start to hate yourself. If it was some person who did it to you, or some family member or something, well then you just get incredibly bitter against your parents or this or that person. If it's a social condition, if you feel like it's prejudice or something or certain social conditions that have kept me from getting there, then you become a social activist but an incredibly angry one. But the point is you're sure that it is out in the things and you couldn't get those things so you get incredibly angry at whatever kept you from getting those things. And so your life is quite distorted. That's the second character. The third group way of dealing with hope, number three, four, and five are all people who've gotten the things and found it's not there. Now what happens when, in fact, there's actually four parts. Did I say, I'm sorry. This is a work in progress. At least you don't think I came here with something totally baked, right? What happens when you get the things? Basically, you basically get to what you thought was going to be it. Then what? And it's not there. Well, let me give you four possibilities. You have to do something. So here's four. There's the first, there's the foolish approach. Now this is, by the way, from C.S. Lewis. Some of this is from C.S. Lewis's radio talk that I quoted from earlier. One of the things is when you realize it isn't in those things, the foolish approach is to go get other newer things. In other words, I get a different spouse, I will get a different career. In other words, the reason it is not in these things is because they were the wrong things and I just got the wrong thing so I'm going to keep going until I find other things. That really, really can make you a nuisance. There's another approach which I would call another foolish approach which is I'm going to change the kind of things, what very often happens is you get to a spot where you say I thought that making money and having career and having this and having that and having people respect me but I'm not satisfied so now what am I going to do? I'm going to throw myself into caring for the poor social activism, becoming a decent person I'm going to get spiritual things and that's going to satisfy me, no it won't but you can probably spend about 10 years thinking it will until you realize it hasn't So you can be foolish, looking for exactly the same things, foolish, trying to morph the things. Then you can just be despairing, and those people can kill themselves. They do. Go online sometime and look up. Maybe you've seen this poem. There's a very famous poem called Richard Corey. Ever seen that poem? I know a lot of elementary schools when I was growing up had to read it because it was such a shocking ending. this guy who has everything kills him, goes home and puts a bullet in his head. He was imperially slim. That's all I remember from the poem. But I do know that it's just an example of somebody who had everything. So you can despair. So the foolish response, looking for new things, the despairing response, and then there's the hardened response. And the hardened response basically says this, there is no it. And it was stupid and juvenile and adolescent of me to ever think that I'm ever going to be satisfied or anybody can be satisfied. When I was younger, I used to cry after the moon. I was hoping for the rainbow, but I've gotten over this. I've grown up. I realized life's just not like that. Now, here's the problem with that approach. There's a minor and a major problem. The minor problem is it very often makes you into a stuck-up prig. Because when you're just absolutely sure that life sucks and everything's bad and nothing is ever really going to satisfy anybody and this is just the way life is, you look at all the other eager beavers running around saying, we're going to change the world and we're going to do this, I'm going to be happy, and you just despise them. And it does make you very, very self-righteous. But far more seriously, killed the part of your heart that made you really human, the part of your heart that hoped and longed. Now, by the way, there's another version of this, and I think some people are going to be, so I won't call it the same, but I do think there's overlap. I've just given you one, two, three, four, five, six ways, but there's a seventh way before I get to Christianity, and that's the Buddhist way. And some of you might want to talk to me about it. A couple of you have. more sophisticated. It also recognizes that the reason we're unhappy is that we crave things as ways of satisfying our desires. But what Buddhism says is that you crave things as satisfaction of your desires because you're living with the illusion that you're an individual. You're not. You're part of everything. So to say, oh, I need to have that money or I need to have that career. No, no, no. We're not all separate entities. We're all one. It's an illusion that we are all separate entities. And therefore, detach your heart. That's what Buddhism teaches. Detach your heart. When you have a loved one, don't say, oh, I can never lose you. Detach. And the goal of Buddhism is tranquility. the tranquility that comes from destroying over attachment to anything and you're able to do that because you're telling yourself it's an illusion for me to think that i'm an individual i'm just part of everything is one the problems of buddhism from a christian point of view or actually just say from my point of view because i studied buddhism when i was in college at great length, is simply that I don't think we want tranquility. Of course, there's a tranquility that comes from, in a sense, tamping down your heart so you're not loving. I mean, you can't detach from somebody who you love without tamping down the love or tamping down the enjoyment of that love. And of course, again, Buddhism is actually saying, in the end, you're not an individual. When you die, you're just not an individual. And the illusion of love and the become tranquilly part of the all. I don't think that's what the human heart is actually after. It's a very sophisticated way, I think, though, a much better way than almost any other ways of living in this world with a certain amount of poise. But now let me talk to you about the Christian way. First of all, what is the Christian hope? The Christian hope is not just that when you die because of what Jesus Christ has done. You live with God. Unlike Buddhism, you keep your personality. You stay who you are. You are still you. And you are you forever. And so those, so you are with your loved ones forever. This is a very different kind of prospect than either Hinduism or Buddhism provides. It satisfies, let's face it, a longing that you got right now that Buddhism and Hinduism says, well, you need to tamp that down. You know, you need to deal with that. You know, you need to ratchet that down. But Christianity says, no, the problem is not that I want things too much. The problem is that I want God too little in relationship to those things. Because what I'm really looking for is not just love, but love without parting. I'm not looking just for, you know, this or that kind of, you know, better social policy. I'm looking for good over evil. And Christianity comes and says, the thing you're really longing for, escape from death, love without parting, Communion with non-human beings

Stepping outside of time

Will literally happen

All the things that the stories promise

Will literally happen

If Jesus Christ is who he said he is

And was raised from the dead

All that stuff will come true

And Christians who experience assurance

That Jesus is the son of God

that hope. And it's astounding. It really is astounding. But keep one other thing in mind. The hope is resurrection. What is resurrection? Resurrection is the belief that not only that God saves our souls and our souls go off and live in a disembodied, you know, thing forever, but rather that we get new bodies and the world gets healed. And this world is healed from suffering and evil and poverty. And we get a new material universe. There's no other religion that promises this. And the reason why it's so important is if you only hope for eternal life with God forever, that could make you not concerned at all about what's happening here right now. But if you know it's God's will to end poverty, it's God's will to end sickness and disease, it's God's will to heal this material creation, that means a Christian who has this incredible hope that no matter what happens, I'm going to know escape from death and love without parting. I'm going to know all these things. It also creates an ability to be extraordinarily concerned about what's happening here and now. So it neither gives you, you might say, the hopelessness of saying, when you die, then you rot. There's nothing more after that. It doesn't really matter how you live because that's what's going to happen, and nothing you do now counts forever. On the other hand, you don't get a hope that makes this world unimportant. That's the Christian hope. Secondly, I would like you to consider whether or not I've just given you an argument for the existence of God. Not a demonstrable one, but at least a clue. And here's how it works. C.S. Lewis concludes his reasoning. He's talking about the fact that nothing in this world satisfies us. And here's what he says. A duckling wants to swim, there's such a thing as water. A baby wants to suck, there's such a thing as milk. And if I find in myself a longing which this world cannot meet, then it probably means I was made for another world as well. How could an idiotic universe have produced creatures whose mere dreams are so much stronger and subtler than itself? Do fish complain of the Or if they did, would that fact itself not strongly suggest that they had not always been fish or would not always be purely aquatic creatures? If you are really a product of a materialistic universe, how is it that you don't feel at home here? Now, what you can easily say is, hey, just because I want something doesn't mean it exists. Well, Lewis is trying to say this. Just because you want Coke doesn't mean there is a Coke at hand or even anywhere in the world. On the other hand, if you're thirsty, that does mean there's liquid. innate desires don't exist unless fulfillment for those desires are there. And so is that demonstrable? No. But it's an argument. It's a clue. Thirdly, let me tell you how C.S. Lewis, I'm just going to do this. J.R.R. Tolkien converted the atheist C.S. Lewis talking about this. Tolkien, you can find this online, a poem, not a particularly good poem, but anyway, in fact, none of his poetry is particularly good, but it's lovely. It's lovely, just not good. And called Mythopoeia. And it's basically the story of how he shared the gospel with C.S. Lewis in a unique way. And I wouldn't suggest any of you try it with anybody, but here's basically what was going on. He was walking along and by the way, we have to piece this together from the poem, which is a little bit hard, but Humphrey Carpenter's Fionnuala Tolkien is also extremely helpful here. They were walking along at Oxford, and they were talking about myths and fairy stories. And Lewis agreed that there was this deep itch in us, this deep desire that only fairy stories could scratch, and the desire to escape from death and to believe in a supernatural and to have a world beyond this world and all of those things. He understood that. And he said, there's something about fairy stories that really, you know, really hit us like that in the myths and sagas. But then he said this,

but myths are lies, though breathed through silver. And Tolkien says, no, they're not. and Tolkien said this about fairy stories this is all from actually in on fairy stories with a lot of which is what he tried to convey to Lewis I'll show you how this works he says fairy stories give you a consolation it's the joy of the happy ending the sudden joyous turn this joy which fairy stories can produce supremely well it's not essentially escapist or fugitive It's a sudden and miraculous grace. It does not deny the existence of sorrow and failure. Indeed, the possibilities of these is necessary for the joy of deliverance. Rather, it denies in the face of much evidence, if you will, universal and final defeat. And therefore, fairy stories are evangelium, the gospel, giving a fleeting glimpse of joy, joy beyond the walls of the world, poignant as grief. it's the mark of a good fairy story of the higher or more complete kind that however wildest events however fantastic or terrible the adventures it can give when the turn comes a catch of the breath a beat and a lifting of the heart near to or indeed accompanied by tears as keen as that given by any form of literary art and having a peculiar quality for in the turn we get a piercing glimpse of joy and heart's desire that for a moment passes outside the frame, rends indeed the very web of the story and lets a gleam come through. He says, that's what fairy stories do. It's everything looks dark. Everything looks like a disaster and suddenly out of nowhere, hope and grace and triumph and escape. Now, here's what he said. Lewis says, well, they're beautiful. They move me and I love them, but they're just myths are lies, though breathes through silver. And here's what Tolkien says, no, when you come to Jesus Christ, the incredible story of the son of God, looking down from heaven, seeing the mess that we're in and writing himself into the story, coming into it as it were, emptying himself for us. And at the end after his death, resurrection and the end of sin and the end of punishment and new life, he says, the story of Jesus is like all the other old myths. It gives you that turn. It's astounding. But here's the difference. The story of Jesus is not one more myth pointing to this underlying reality, this underlying reality that we all feel that we want. No, this is the underlying reality to which all the myths point. The story of Jesus is the one fairy story that itches that scratch, that wets that need, but it's historically true. And that's the reason why C.S. Lewis wrote an article about it called Myth Became Fact. What's myth? Jesus is the myth that became fact. And that's the reason why Christians, you know, there's one, it's not, again, there's one place where Maggie Smith plays old Wendy and Robin Williams plays Peter Pan with amnesia. You know, it's a, yeah, it was Hook. Right. That's right. And there's one place where she's reading the stories about Peter Pan, you know, and Peter, I mean, Robin Williams is listening to and she turns and says, Peter, the stories are true. And when a Christian

reads any of these stories or hears that, you get a thrill. You know why? Because you know she's right. We're all basically like Peter Pan. We've just forgotten how to fly. But in Jesus Christ, frankly, it's all going to happen. It's all going to happen. So that hope transforms. it gives you hope plants your feet right now in the material world gives you the very thing that actually nothing else can give you and that's the Christian view so now what we're going to do is talk about this subject or anything else probably that you feel like talking about because you know if you ask a question I have to answer it so you're in control from here on so Susan come on up

Thank you. You know what you're doing and I don't. Okay. Now, perfect. Wonderful. Now we can get started on the next fun part of our night, which is the question and answer. And just like all the other weeks, this is your opportunity to ask a question on tonight's theme, hope. And if you want to do so, all you need to do is text in to the number behind me or send an email if you can log in to our Wi-Fi. All right. to getting to as many questions as we can in the next 25 to 30 minutes. All right. Some of you were ready to shoot them in. All right. The first question of the night is, you say that all we hope for, love without pardon, et cetera, will actually happen. But how can any rational person believe in what sounds like science fiction Of course it sounds like science fiction. You're right. Well, if you look, what I'll show you next week is there's always been pretty strong evidence, but not demonstrable, that there's a God. There's always been pretty strong evidence that Jesus rose from the dead. In a place like New York City, you probably have not been exposed to the best and latest scholarship in books. There are a major historian wrote a book just not too many years ago, 890-page book, very, very thoroughly researched on why the resurrection happened. Another historian just put out a couple of books. And these are with major academic presses. These are not marginal people talking about why there's an enormous amount of historical evidence that miracles have happened. So I'm going to go through that. I don't want to, I'm a little afraid of putting a question like that off sounds like as if, well, you know, I'll get to that later. I guess I would say this. There are lots and lots of, at the very least I can say this so we can get on to the questions because this will be the next three weeks. I'll be trying to roll out almost all the rationale, the arguments, the logic. But I think you've actually done what I've wanted you to do, which is recognize that if there's even a chance that Christianity is true, you ought to be looking into it. Because the promise is pretty astounding. And it's not like Christianity, Christianity is the largest religion in the world. It's, and it's, it's had an awful lot of smart people who believed it thoroughly and who still do. And there's a terrific amount of good scholarship. It's just, it's not nuts. And if it's not completely crazy and nuts, then because of its promise, deserves a pretty good hearing. That's all. But we will get more to that later. Next question. How do we know that our desire and hope for eternal life is not just a way of coping with the fact that life actually has no meaning and that when we die, it's just over? Probably the same answer, but I just gave, though, I thought you were about to say, One of the questions, which I will deal with next week, is the problem with saying that our hopes and desires, well, okay, two answers. One is, to say the desire for meaning in life is actually probably the question of consciousness. Tom Nagel recently wrote a book called Mind and Cosmos. He's an agnostic, does not believe in God. but he's also decided that nature, just chemicals and material, he does not believe that nature and materialism can account for human consciousness. Lewis was getting at that when he said, why would the universe produce something that doesn't feel at home here? It doesn't make much sense. And he's getting at this idea that generally our innate deep desires are there because there's something congruent with the desire. So if you're thirsty, there's liquid out there. And if you're sexy, there's sex out there. And the real question he brings up is, is why does it even occur to you, why would it even enter into our minds that there's something wrong with life the way it is? This is all we've ever known, right? This is it. Why does it even bother us? This gets over into the question of if the strong eating the weak is natural, which is, if there is no God, then strong eating the weak is natural, why do we think it's unnatural? If just dying was something that's utterly natural, why does it bother us? So I don't, you can say, well, maybe it's just wishful thinking, but the question that Tom Nagel gives is this ability to be unhappy at a high level is because we have of consciousness. And he says, there's a lot of debate about this right now, but he says it's very difficult, he thinks, to account for human consciousness simply as brain activity. And therefore, he says there's got to be something else besides brain activity. He just doesn't know what it is. So again, I think that's what Lewis is getting at here. I think that's what I'm trying to get at. But it's not demonstrable, and you are asking me, I think, to get into some of the stuff we're going to get into later. So I'm trying to respect every question here and not even blow it off for another week. But I do want to say, you know, wait for a more substantial answer then. Great. Next question. If an innate desire qualifies the reality and justifiability of something, then how do you explain homosexuality, pedophilia, genocide, and other things Christians believe are wrong, but humans argue they have an innate desire for? Well, but those, most of those things, by the way, are sexual desires. So, you see, I don't want to beg the question. I mean, people differ as to what are good things to eat, even though we all agree we need to eat. And because we're hungry, there's such a thing as food. Sex is, there's a whole range of things, and there's some people, in fact, nobody in this room would agree on, if I gave you eight different sexual practices, some of you say, well, that's not good, because that's abusing power. In other words, everybody's got, everybody's got a, some standard by which we're judging some sexual activity as good and some as bad. Most people would say pedophilia is bad. Why? Because of power. But other, in the past, other reasons why people said it was bad. It doesn't matter. The point is that it just shows that sex is an innate desire. The fact that you've got more legitimate and illegitimate ways of fulfilling that desire, I don't think that hurts my thesis at all. You could even say, somebody, I read one place, somebody, Peter Kreft, I think, said that innate desires can't be created, but all kinds of other desires can. So you can create an artificial desire for a certain kind of which isn't good for you and that you feel like you really need. But you can't create probably the desire for beverage that's innate. So I don't think that there's a, I don't think the fact that there's a lot of, I wouldn't call, for example, pedophilia an innate desire. It's a shaped version or a created version of an innate desire, just like a desire for Coke or Pepsi is a, see? Some people say, I hate Pepsi. It's just too tinny or something. I'm like, oh, really? But the point is the innateness is not Pepsi or Coke. It's the desire for beverage. Thank you. Could you elaborate more on why a Christian hope would make one care more about the current world? Yeah, that went by very fast. Actually, this is one of those. Now, this is a question I'm grateful for because I felt like I wasn't spending enough time on it. But I would say that some forms of spirituality that say this world is an illusion,

that you're not an individual and she's not an individual and you're not individuals, but we're all one, and it's an illusion. and so we should detach ourselves from our loved ones and realize you already have everybody. We're all together. And eventually, when we die, we become part of the all soul, and we're like a dewdrop going into the ocean. You're there, but you're not there. The drop's gone. There's no individualness anymore, and your personality's not intact anymore. I actually think that would, I think, undermine motivation for saying, well, let's do something about this world. Well, it's an illusion. And certainly the Greeks didn't have, the Greeks' idea was the world was a passing shadow. The reality was somewhere else. They certainly didn't feel like it made a whole lot of sense that you had to make this world a better place and improve prove it and deal with poverty and so on. And so I do think that there's forms of religion that either see this world as an illusion or see this world as a bad, dark place. And the important thing is to get off into heaven. And that's reality. That would mean this world is just something you endure and you don't worry about it and you don't try to improve it. But you know, at the end of the book of Revelation, which is the end of the Bible, you actually see the city of God, heavenly Jerusalem and God, coming down out of heaven to the earth. It's not us going out of the earth up to heaven. It's heaven coming down to earth and renewing the world and making it a garden of Eden again, as it were. And therefore, every tear is wiped away. And there are all these prophetic images of and ending death and the death shroud is taken away. That's in Isaiah. That's over everything right now. A death shroud. In other words, we're all under the shadow of death. It's going to be taken away. Christians know then that God cares about this material world. This world matters. God created body and soul and Jesus Christ came and did not just die and go to heaven. His body was raised from the dead, which means he's going to redeem body and soul, not just the soul. means that this material world is really, really important, and it really matters. There's a number of people who have tried to make a case for it. I didn't do a very good job. And every other religion does not offer a material eternal future. They offer a spiritual eternal future, not a material eternal future. But Christianity does, and that's one of the reasons why the goodness of this world and the goodness of creation is a big part of how Christians look at the world, and therefore, when we see a slum and we see a diseased person, we want to do something about it. If we are walking in line with the God who says, I'm going to do something about it. We mentioned the resurrection. The next question is about that. Isn't there the possibility that the Christian resurrection will still not satisfy the human and condition? Could that belief simply be another it? Um, gee whiz. Um, you mean we get there, honestly, you know what, that's a wonderful rhetorical move. You know, that's kind of an unanswerable question. Well, how do you know when we get there, we'll see the glory of God and we'll be resurrected. We'll have new bodies and we'll never die. And we'll have our loved ones around us forever. And we'll run and not be weary, walk and not faint. And it won't be enough. Well, I mean, I'm doing it right back to you right now. I'm not trying to make fun of it. I'm just trying to say that I don't think so. But I'll tell you this. Yes. If you, what I reason I don't think so is because it does resonate. It is what the stories are about basically. Uh, so, uh, the, one of the reasons Tolkien is always trying to say, look at the stories that arouse the desire and wet it unbearably, and then look at your reality. And that's the gap. So anyway, there's, look, I understand that if I, if I wasn't, if this was the last night and I never said anything else, you'd have to go away saying it would be nice if it was

not. If that's where you are tonight, I'm fine, by the way, but I wouldn't leave you there. I'm not sure I can bring you all the way to being convinced or anything, but at least if you're just to the place where you say what sounds like some of you are saying, it'd be nice if it was true, but I just don't see how it is, then I feel that you've heard me and I actually feel good about that. Next question. Animals also have desires, consciousness, and attachments. They can get sad when loved ones die. How are we not just a more advanced part of biology, the natural fabric in the same way? Well, there's two answers to that, which is a great question. First of all, what you just said about animals having consciousness is a controversial statement. It's very contested. and you say, well, of course they're conscious and they obviously are sad. Well, many people think consciousness means self-reflection, which means the ability to see themselves and to know that they are a self. And there's a lot of question about to what degree animals have consciousness. I don't think I know anything. So I would have to say I'm unable to give you a good answer other than that I don't think I could just use what you just said as a premise. I don't feel like there's consensus on that. But the thing I will talk to you about next week, but I'll give you a bit of a preview, is there's a growing number of both Christian and non-Christian philosophers,

and not even philosophers. I've really seen, yeah, well, I mean, there's non-Christian philosophers like John Gray at the London School of Economics and Tom Nagel here at NYU and Leon Wieseltier, who's not a philosopher, but he writes on culture for the New Republic. And then, of course, people like Alan Planting and others who are Christian philosophers. They're making a case that the real problem with talking about evolution being the cause of our consciousness, which was hinted at in the question, that basically, you know, we're just a more advanced version. Animals have consciousness and desires, and we have consciousness, and we're just a little more advanced. The argument is that if you can't trust your moral sense because it evolved, evolution says everything in you is just there to help you survive. Everything about you is there because it helped your ancestors survive, and therefore, that's the reason why it's in you. The reason why your brain works the way it does is it helped reason it's there. So your brain has only been put together for evolutionary success, not to tell you the truth about things. That's the reason why if your sense that God is there evolved, and many people say the religious sense evolved, or the moral sense evolved, it doesn't mean there are moral absolutes, we just feel it. It doesn't mean there really is meaning in life, we just want it. It doesn't mean that there really is a God, we just sense it. brain evolved. Well, the argument is then, if you can't trust your religious sense and your moral sense, why would you trust your rational sense? Why would you trust your logic? Why would you trust... Wouldn't you say the very thing you're saying right now you have to say because your brain operates that way because it helped your ancestors survive, and therefore nothing you're saying right now I have to take seriously. You can't tell me that if my sense of God evolved or my sense of longing evolved, that somehow my logic, your logic and your reason and your way of arguing that didn't evolve, that somehow that has escaped the mass, you know, the web. It hasn't. And therefore, the idea that your brain is just a product of evolution proves too much. Because it proves, therefore, that you can't even trust what your brain tells you about at evolution, which is a non-starter. So you need to go back and start all over and say, even though evolution is part of what we are, it can't be all that we are. Otherwise, I couldn't even talk about it. Now, there's been very, very, very highly developed arguments recently like that. And it's driving a lot of atheists crazy because actually, I think they've got some weight. So anyway, no, I don't think, I'm not sure whether animals have consciousness. Certainly, I don't think they have consciousness the same way we do. And I don't

Next question. You mentioned that our good experiences here on earth are glimpses of a perfect future. Why can't it be the case that our bad experiences are an actual indicator of a future in which all things will fall apart? Now, wait, read the first part again. you mentioned that our good experiences here on earth are glimpses of a perfect future why can't it be the case on the other side that our bad experiences are an indicator that the world will actually fall apart when you frame it that way I don't know that I said our good experiences in fact I wouldn't say our good experiences are an indicator of a great future I wouldn't say that in fact one of the questions that I think people raise gave you is why is it we want something that nobody on earth has ever experienced? Nobody's ever experienced it. The things we want are impossible and nobody's ever experienced them, yet we want them. Why? So I wouldn't say, now you could say that when we, like, was it, who was it? Horace, yeah, Wallace Stevens says, even in contentment, I still feel the need for imperishable bliss you might say that the good experiences we have, well we just really want them to go on forever but I don't think that's all there is to it. I don't think that's all there is to it. But anyway the point is I think that it's important for us to see that it's not our good experiences but our desire for experiences that really nobody's had that I think are inexplicable. By the way, I do not believe that this is a slam dunk argument for the existence of God. I'm really glad you're taking it seriously. I do think if I was actually going to give you, I recently read a book called God in Proof. Have you seen that book by Nathan Schneider? It's a new book. And it was just a journalist, not a philosopher or anything like that. And not a, I don't think a believer in God, through and he tried to go through history and go through the world and list every single argument for and against the existence of God. And actually, the whole book, it's worth it. In the back, there's like four pages in which he puts them into five or six pages, and it's really quite good. One of the things, however, when I was looking at them, I decided that probably all of the arguments fall into four categories. Matter, mind, morals, and music. And matter, we'll get to next week, it has to do with, you know, why are we, you know, why is there anything rather than nothing in the design argument. Mind has to do with some of the stuff I already talked to you about. If there is no God, you can't trust your mind. That's a, there's a very, very powerful version of that argument. There's no reason to trust your cognitive faculties. cracking the fact you're actually living as if there's a God, whether you know it or not. Moral's argument, you already heard a little bit of it. I'll give you more of it next week. As soon as you act as if there's moral obligation, you're living it as if there is a God, even though you don't believe there is, and therefore deep down you do know there is. But the music argument is the one I'm giving you tonight, which is beauty. And that is the idea of beauty is hard to explain in spite of the fact that people are doing explained it in terms of evolutionary biology. And the desire for it is something I think is hard to explain. But all by itself, cumulatively, I think there's a pretty strong argument for the existence of God. If you take any one of those arguments, there's always, yeah, there's always a way out. There's always a way out. On the other hand, there's always a way out of everything, frankly. Belief in almost everything except things like, you know, how many species of fish there are in Lake Ontario, that kind of thing. Great. Next question. I hope. I hope that was great. I don't think so. But anyway, great. I hear an emphasis on you speaking about our abilities, managing our own happiness for the large part based on what we have control over and what we don't. Does our Christian God want us to be happy? What does God ultimately want for us? yeah you know and actually um i'll try to come back to this to give it a little more treatment than i'm going to give it right this second uh the christian idea of god is pretty different than most of the other kinds of creation accounts because christians believe god is triune trinity father son holy spirit now almost everybody i know who's not a christian kind of starts to go, you'd be able to, as soon as we start talking about that, Christians, you know, say, oh yeah, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, three persons in one God. There's only one God, not three gods, but three persons in one God. And everybody who's not a Christian thinks that's kind of nuts. And it is hard. However, St. Augustine pointed out that if there was, If God had one person, if there was a God who was just one person, then he could not have known love until he created people, until he created something, some other rational being, angels, whatever. So basically, if there was a God who wasn't triune but just was a person or even impersonal, if God is impersonal, then love, which is something between persons, is not intrinsic to the universe. Buddhists would say the idea of love between individuals is an illusion. Okay. If you have a single person God, a unipersonal God, then love comes in later after God. So God is there for whatever eons and eons without any love. So God's being, his power, his wisdom is more important than love. But Augustine says if God from all eternity is three persons knowing and loving each other from all eternity, beginninglessly, then love and communication is at the heart of who God is, literally. There never was a time in which it was not. And the only reason that God, see now, a unipersonal God might create other beings in order to get somebody to worship him. One of the reasons why we get friends and one of the reasons why we fall in love is we want somebody to like us. love us. And, you know, it feels great. But you see, the triune God was never lonely. Within himself, he had the absolute bliss of perfect love, three persons knowing and loving each other absolutely perfectly. And therefore, the only possible reason God could have, and this is what Augustine and a lot of other Christian theologians have taught, why would God have created the world? And the answer is to share the happiness he had. He was happy. Why was he happy? Because he had love. He knew love within himself. And because he was happy, there's no other good reason. He wouldn't be creating other beings in order to get love. He already had it. Or to get, you know, glory and honor. We actually already had it. They were glorifying each other, Jesus says in John 17, that, you know, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit were glorifying each other from all eternity. have created us, to share it, to share the joy of love, love with him, love with each other. That's it. That's what life's about. It's not about success or power. So does he want us to be happy? Absolutely. And the happiest way, the greatest way to be happy is love. That's a really lovely answer and the ending, but I do want to ask one more question because it's a very common question that I think many Christians get. And it's this, The Christian fairy tale speaks of salvation and triumph of good over evil for just Christians. How could a future hope that sends millions of people of other faiths to hell be good? On the outside, it doesn't look very helpful. On the inside, I think it's going to be different. Now what does that mean? Actually, I do, let's see, I was working ahead on the other talks. I promise to give you a good few minutes on this subject next week. But foretaste. There's usually two things going on. I'll tell you right now, even though I think I can remember most of what I was going to say next week. There's two things going on. One is people feel like it's unfair that good people who aren't Christians shouldn't go to heaven. And I will spend more of this next week because Christians don't believe good people go to heaven. We don't see ourselves as good people. We don't believe that people go to heaven because they're good. We believe people go to heaven only when they're willing to admit they're not and that they need a Savior and that they're really not good enough. Now, what that does is that is incredibly egalitarian. You understand that? The idea that salvation doesn't happen to those who work hard enough to be good, but happens only to those people who are willing to admit that they're not good enough, that even is for good deeds or bad motives, that they're too weak and that they absolutely need a salvation from outside of themselves. In other words, it's actually not the good people are in to heaven and the bad people are out, but the proud people are out and the humble people are in. That's egalitarian. Why? Because to say you've got to be good, you know, people start at different places. Some people had great family backgrounds. Some people came from strong families and had great try to live a good life, they can't. Other people just keep trying, but they came from terrible backgrounds, and they weren't loved as they grew up, and they're filled with anger and all that stuff, and you should look at people and say, you all have to be good and obey the golden rule and all that, and those of you who are good will go to heaven. That is so unbelievably exclusive

to say, well, I think all good people from all good religions, they all ought to be able to get into heaven. That is so absolutely exclusive. That's just not taking into consideration, you know, how different people are. So the Christian idea that you're saved through Jesus, faith in Jesus, admitting that he saved you, that he has fulfilled the requirements, you can't do it, is actually quite egalitarian. Then the question comes up, what about the people who never heard, had never even got a chance? And that's what I'll come back to you on next time. But the point is, I'm not sure. But here's the question. Is there any way that God could let salvation be by sheer grace and therefore it has to be through Jesus? See, I told you, that's egalitarian. Anybody can come. It doesn't matter, good people, bad people, they just have to admit that they need him. You know, even a child can do that. Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. It's incredibly leveling. But then it seems to leave people out who've never heard of Jesus. and the answer there is I'm not sure honestly but I do know that if you ask this question is there any way to imagine is there any story you could imagine in which God is very fair and yet only let salvation be through grace and Jesus and the answer is people have been spending time imagining it I don't know that any of them are right I mean I'll tell you some of them but the point is even though I can't think of a good one it doesn't mean that there isn't one and I'll tie that to a couple other just because you can't think of a story in which God is fair and salvation is only through Jesus doesn't mean there can't be one doesn't mean that there couldn't be one I wouldn't want somebody and I've had people say I can't be a Christian because of that's the whole reason I'm not a Christian and I say well what happens if on judgment day somebody tells you the story of how it's possible for God to have done this and still been fair. And then you say, oh, I mean, just because you can't think about it, because you can't imagine a story in which God could be fair and this could be true doesn't mean it doesn't exist. And you can't say because you can't think of it, it can't exist. So we'll do a little bit more on that next week. So that's it. All right, well, thank you very much, everyone, for your questions. And speaking of next week, Tim, of what it'll be about? Yeah, the next three weeks. And this is where I've been looking at your questions, by the way. A lot of you, as you know, most of you don't get your questions answered up here, though quite a few of you upstairs come and get them in, and that's great. Or continue the conversation. That's terrific. However, most of the questions aren't getting through. So what I've been doing is been looking at them, and I'm trying to categorize them and try to get to most of them under one of three headings. Questions about God. Can we believe in God? That's next week. Questions about the Bible. Can we trust the Bible? That's the following week. Questions about Jesus. Can we have faith in Jesus? That's the third week. So can we believe in God? Can we trust the Bible? Can we have faith in Jesus? And I've got about ten kinds of questions under each one. That's still probably not going to get to everything, but I'll give it a shot. Okay?
