What I want to do this morning is I'd like to finish all the stuff on the practical strategies and methods for making sure your sermons apply Christ. And that means going right back to the place where we left off last night, which means getting to chapter 5. And remember, that's page 29. Remember, I only did the first, really, of the three basic strategies. And the first of the basic strategies for writing and doing Christ-centered application was critiquing religion as well as irreligion. Somebody reminded me, I guess it was Brian reminded me, the number of ways of doing this. When I was listening to, this is one more comment about critique, critique religion as well as irreligion, and showing the gospel as the third way, not just the second way, immorality and Christianity, Godlessness and Christianity. Christianity, that's true, and yet probably will be misunderstood. Here's one other example of this. I was listening to a Dick Lucas tape on the broad and the narrow way, a tape on Matthew 7, verses 7. You know how the Sermon on the Mount ends with a series of choices. There's two ways, the broad way, the narrow way. There's two trees. There's two houses. houses, the one on the sand, the one on the rock. The sermon was not on the whole Sermon on the Mount, but Dick Lucas, being a good expositor, said, you know, if you're going to understand this, you have to realize this is the climax. This is the climax of the Sermon on the Mount. And he made a statement that really gave me an idea for an entire sermon series, and I'm going to give it to you, because this is what you're here for, let's be honest. Okay. Okay he said he said you know if at the very end of the sermon Jesus says alright now in conclusion there are two ways two paths two houses two trees two ways and Dick says you know I begin to realize that if Jesus concludes the sermon by saying so now in conclusion there are two ways he says wouldn't there be those two ways in the sermon itself he says traditionally he had always preached he had always preached the you know here's the two trees the two ways at the end as God saying as Jesus saying you can follow the way of the Sermon on the Mount or you can go your own way and be a God-less, rebellious person. He always thought that the two ways was you can either obey the Sermon on the Mount or not. He began to say, maybe what God, what Jesus is actually saying is these two ways that I've been telling you about, now here, choose. So he went back into the Sermon on the Mount and he says, I found them. He's constantly saying, don't be like this, be like this, don't be like, but he says, it's not a contrast between people who give alms and people who don't. It's not a contrast between people who do pray between people who say, forget the Ten Commandments, and people who don't, and people who try to obey the Ten Commandments. People obey and people don't. He says, when you pray, pray like this, not like they do. When you give alms, give alms like this, not like they do. When you obey the law of God, obey like this, not the way they are taking the Ten Commandments. And so what he's actually doing is he's contrasting the gospel with religion, with pharisaical, moralistic religion. And when I saw that, I mean, this is the Dick Lucas sermon, I saw that and said, well, now that would be an interesting way to preach the Sermon on the Mount, went back and preached the whole series that way. Dick Lucas says, you know, in some ways, religion is a more insidious enemy of Christianity because you don't know, you know, it's just, it's subtle. It's more subtle. Nice, blatant, open, rebellion, lasciviousness, that kind of thing is just a lot. In some ways, it's not nearly as dangerous an enemy because it's very obvious. So anyway, this idea of critiquing religion and irreligion in your preaching is very important, not just in our postmodern society but also it's the only way to really renew people. It's the only way to really be sure that you're not just confirming the Pharisees in your congregation. And also it's a way of ferreting them out with letting the Holy Spirit ferret them out to their own hearts rather than you deciding, by the way, you're probably not a real Christian because of the pride, self-righteousness, gossip, and anger I see in you. Rather than you do that, let the Holy Spirit do that. So, okay, that's the first one. And it's a very, very important one of the strategies. Now, get over to page 32. The second two, in some ways, are a little... They're not exactly parallel. In other words, it's not a question of you can do this or this or this in a sermon. You could do all three. But these are ways of thinking that I believe that if you have these grids as you're reading the text and writing the sermons and thinking about your people, I think you get a lot more traction. Secondly, and in some ways this goes along with what we've already said, it's very important to aim at the heart motive as well as the behavior when you're talking about how to be living. we saw that Martin Luther believed self-justification rather than Jesus-justification is the root of every sin, which I think is a fair way to put it. Self-justification, that might even be a better word than works-righteousness, because works-righteousness still makes you think of just religiosity. Self-justification, see, very irreligious people are doing self-justification, there is no doubt about it. Their work, their diets, the need to continue to look good is self-justification. isn't your justification. If Christ is not your righteousness, your wisdom, your righteousness, your sanctification, redemption, something else will be. That's what Luther's saying. And religious people are doing self-justification. Remember what I just said? On the one hand, religion is more subtle, a more subtle enemy of Christianity, whereas just going out there and living a blatant, secular, skeptical, rebellious, anti-religious life, you can see that's an

the open, rebellious person needs to be shown that they are actually being, at bottom, actually fairly religious. Your goal as the minister is to show the religious people that they're really not doing Jesus' justification, that they're really living, actually, they're really rebelling against God. You can avoid Jesus by avoiding sin. Your motivation for avoiding sin can be just to keep from having to be totally dependent on Jesus for your salvation. We talked about that yesterday. Now I'm talking to you about the fact

that down deep, fundamentally, they are self-justifiers, and that they actually have relationships with their work or their life or their lover or their academic career. They have relationships with something in their life that has to be characterized as adoration. It has to be characterized as worship. And that is very important to show them. Now, this gets at this a little bit when I say, aim at heart motives under the behavior. Let's turn over to page 33. Principles that I'm skipping over I've already really touched on yesterday. But let me show you what I call a basic outline for aiming at the heart as well as behavior in your sermon. The following could actually be four points in a presentation. I have actually structured whole sermons or talks along these lines of these four points. More generally, I would say this is a foundational outline for the basic moral reasoning and argument that lies at the heart of Christ-centered application. And I got this from Dick Kaufman. Dick Kaufman said, you know, here's what you're doing every week. And that was a very big help. And he said, Tim, this is what you do all the time in the sermons, and this is... he says, not per say sometimes, usually, not per say, but he says, basically the way the sermon develops dramatic tension is the plot lines up by saying, here's what you have to do, this is what the text, this is what the narratives tells us we must do, this is what we must be, that's the beginning of the sermon, okay? But then secondly, but the plot thickens, Why we can't do it at some point You have to confront people if you're a gospel preacher Say you're not going to be able to do this here are all the reasons that you'll never really become like this Here's all the reasons why you're going to fail at this here's all the reasons Why you'll never be able to attain to this here's all the reasons Why this is just not something we're going to be able to do on your own thirdly the plot resolves ah

holy, there's one who did it for us and then for the plot winds down and here's how knowing what he did or resting in what he did or rejoicing in what he did or building in what he did or you know melted by what he did, here's how through him you can do it too and what Dick was saying, you know, our failure to do it is to do our functional rejection of what he did, it's a lack of faith or understanding of this Dick says he thinks that's probably the way God the fundamental outline of the reasoning that goes on in a sermon that's really trying to apply Christ rather than just do moral exhortation. And let me just show you how you actually could do an entire talk this way. I actually find that if somebody asked me to give a talk, a talk in a campus situation, a situation that's not a sermon but a talk, and actually if you're, I found that if you're really engaged in the life of the community, that's going to happen a lot. You can't read your text and divide your text up very easily into three points. It just doesn't wash terribly well. You have this mixed crowd and people say, what's going on here? You want to be a little more informal. You want to seem like you are not preaching them a sermon, even though you are. There's an awful lot of settings like that. This outline works beautifully for that and without necessarily announcing points either. So people are being brought through. They feel like you're having a conversation with them, but they don't necessarily feel like you're preaching at them. But discussion. Let me take a look at this down page 33. Here's some discussion about this outline. In every text of the Scripture, there's a moral principle always. This is the thing we've been talking about, something we ought to be doing. It might be growing out of the character of God. It might not be a direct ethical principle, but there's always, in every text, since all text is covenantal, and, I mean, pardon me, all Revelation is covenantal, it's all there to try to get us to live in a certain way. either out of good examples or the bad examples or explicit commands, promises or warnings, there's almost always a principle that's very practical in there saying, you know, you ought to be like this. At the very least, you need to be more loving toward people. You need to be more patient. I mean, even if it's some high and lofty sort of picture of God in Isaiah, there's always a moral principle. But then there's a crisis that you create if you're going to be a good gospel preacher in the hearers. And this is close to what I think, was it Steve, your name? Yeah. where you're talking about preaching the law. This is preaching the law, I think, in a traditional Protestant way, where you say, you know, if you're really going to listen to this principle, there are insurmountable problems with trying to do this. And at a certain point, you need to show how this practical moral obligation is essentially impossible to meet. You know, the hearers can be led to a seemingly dead end, and that, of course, is plot thicketing. It's interesting, without a story, without a real story, as I'll show you with this, have a talk that develops tension, which is what a story is. And N.T. Wright says, Little Red Riding Hood took her grandmother some food and goodies and then went home. He says, that's not a story. It's a fact, it's true, but he says, that's not a story. There's no problem, there's no tension, there's nothing that needs to be resolved. He says, if there's nothing that needs to be resolved, there's no story. And actually, in some ways, even when you don't have a literal story, there needs to be some kind of tension, and the trajectory of your talk so that people are brought out of darkness into the light, out from under the cloud into the sun. And so you bring them to the place where you say, well, this is a problem. How are we ever going to do this? Then see, a hidden door opens, and light comes in. The sermon moves into worship very often, into Christ's application when it shows how it's Christ who's done this, or Christ has fulfilled this, or no one's done this like Jesus has done this. That's what I mean when Dick was first saying to me, He says, here's basically how the sermons ought to go. You must do this, but you can't do this. Oh, but there's someone who has done this. And the reason you change your tone of voice right there is you're moving from a lecture into a sermon. You're really moving in the direction that we want to go. People are getting a sense, or at least a desire for him. He's not just a kind of intellectual solution to a problem. If the text is a narrative, you can show how Christ is the ultimate example of a particular character. you can show how Christ is the ultimate embodiment of the principle, which we talked about earlier. Finally, we show how our inability to live as we ought stems somehow from a lack of faith in him, not just a lack of trying hard. That gets you away from moralism, and that points people toward the gospel. Otherwise, people are, as we were saying in the past, people are going to say, well, I don't even need Jesus then for that. I can do that. I can raise my children for that. You know, one example of this I've actually already kind of gave you when I talked about me and Kathy yesterday, but here. Before 1980, if I ever preached a sermon on honesty, it would go like this. I'd show the forms of dishonesty. It's kind of like what Ed was talking about, preaching the law. I would show the forms of dishonesty and how harmful it is. This is what the commandment forbids. And then what it means to be honest, why it's so important to be honest, how to be honest, and what it enjoins. And then, usually, I guess I would say, it's hard to be honest, but if you fail, Jesus will forgive you. I guess that's kind of the way I would end the sermon. It wasn't nearly as trite as I'm making it sound, but essentially it was. I mean, it didn't sound as trite as it really was. Here's why you shouldn't be dishonest. Here's how bad it is for people in your life and society. Here's what you ought to live like. Maybe I could even say, and Jesus was a great truth-teller. Jesus told the truth. He was the truth. And if you look to him, he'll help you be a truth-teller. And if you fail, he'll forgive you. Is that all right? No, it's not. But that's pretty much, that's the best I could do for how to preach on honesty. I would stop there. You know, I'd call people to ask for forgiveness for lying and try harder to be honest. That's how my sermons would go. I'd only be playing to the heart's natural self-righteousness. I tried to show you that yesterday morning. I'd be essentially supporting the gross turnover of common morality. Those who would be convinced by the sermon and convicted would feel guilty and burdened. Those who had not lied lately would walk out saying, I'm glad I'm not like that. I mean, that doesn't really help anybody. In other words, a sermon like that either hurts the people who know that they have a problem with lying. You know, the husband who's really kind of habitually lying to his wife about his use of pornography. He'll just walk out feeling terrible. And the wife who never lies about anything will walk out feeling smug and wonder whether her husband is telling her the truth. I'd admit that nearly every sermon I ever preached on honesty or lying up to my first 15 years in the ministry was like that. Which means 1990, doesn't it? Yeah. Well, I don't know. When I wrote that, I, well, it might be true. Even though I knew through Ed Clowney I had to preach Christ, and not moralism from every text, I would usually just sort of add it on Jesus. So the sermon would go like this. Here are all the ways we lie. We shouldn't lie. Jesus told the truth. If we do lie, Jesus will forgive us. In other words, I use Jesus as an example, and then as somebody who forgives, though, if we try hard, we sometimes fall. But in gospel analysis, we'd ask this question. Why do I lie in a particular situation? The usual reason we lie is because there's something we feel Jesus to survive and be truly happy, so we lie. I told you, I don't lie when I know to tell the truth will keep people from inconveniencing me, right? I only lie if I feel like telling the truth will keep people from being unhappy with me. Kathy lies for different reasons. And when I realize that, I realize that I'm not going to get over my tendency to shade the truth, and she's not going to get over that. She's not really going to become a more truthful person if we just simply say, you should not be lying, you're a Christian, you should not be doing that at all. If that's all I say, I'm going to get real upset when somebody tells me that. And I get off the phone and Kathy says, that wasn't the truth and I'm going to, you're right, you're right, you're right, I'm going to do it later because I'm not getting down underneath. So using Luther's analysis, I was trusting in the approval of people rather than Christ as my functional trust, as my main hope. Anything you add to Jesus Christ as a requirement for a happy life is a functional salvation, a pseudo-Lord, you, whether it's power, approval, comfort, or control. So the only way to change your habit of lying is not just to try harder, but to believe the gospel. Got it? To repent of my failure to believe the gospel. See, I'm not being saved by pursuing this thing which you're lying in order to get, but through the grace of Jesus. So the alternatives are Jesus' example, that's a moralistic sermon, or type two, Jesus is God of the gaps, which is almost a relativistic sermon. It basically says we fall down, but God will love you anyway. anyway. See that? And sometimes you can actually produce both a moralistic and a relativistic sermon in the same sermon, if you're really, really, really talented. Okay? I do believe that the sermon that basically says, Christ is my example, so get out there and tell the truth, which is the sort of thing I think you hear in more of a Reformed evangelical church, versus, you ought to try to tell the truth and we all screw up, but Jesus loves us anyway, which is a more relativistic sermon. Jesus is in those sermons, but you're still not actually

soothing people with Jesus. There, there, there, there. Jesus loves you. It doesn't matter. Try harder, but you're not getting underneath. So we need to do Christ as Savior gospel sermons. Turnover, let me give you a second case study. I did this actually. Remember I told you that this works pretty well, this sort of outline of here's what you do, but you can't do it, but there's one who did. And if we rest in, understand that, grasp that, trust in that in a new way, as a result of our time together today, you'll actually have the power, there'll be a way forward for you to actually do what you should be doing. This is a good outline for a talk, not a sermon. And I spoke at NYU, it's a student group, on the beauty myth. Now, because you're a bunch of guys, and you look like a lot of older guys, I mean, a lot of you have hairlines like mine, have you ever read Naomi Wolf's The Beauty Myth? How many of you have read it? Never mind.

How many of you have read it? Raise your hand. How many of you went to college on the west coast or the northeast since 1990? Raise your hand. Where'd you go, Scott? Where? Yeah, probably, where'd you go? Oh, you went to Tufts? Have you ever heard of Naomi Wolf, the beauty myth? Yeah, you would. If you went to school in Bush country, you haven't heard of her. If you went to school in Gore country, you have. She's just, she's sort of a second-wave feminist writing about the backlash. And she wrote a book called The Beauty Myth. It's had a huge... Have you ever heard of Saving Ophelia? Have you heard of that book? Yeah, you've probably heard more of that. Have you read it? Well, there's a lot of people that's just... These are Bible. These are biblical books. This is Isaiah and Jeremiah. Anyway. And I was asked to speak about how the cult of physical beauty is destroying the lives of women and men. So I did. And this is using the outline that I just gave you. Number one, what we must do. The power of physical beauty, this is just a summary of it. The power of physical beauty over us must be broken. Look at the devastation in our society and our lives. And here's the problem with the way that the power of image, say technology now, image is more important than word because of technology. As a result, physical beauty is actually more out there. It's more valued. more pressure on people to look good than there's ever been. So I put down here, number one, it distorts women's view of themselves. Eating disorders definitely, you know, eating disorders are a new problem. Okay. Two, it demoralizes aging people. You know, you see all these beautiful pictures. I mean, every time I even, every time I get AOL up, there's some beautiful young sort of singer, some, you know, beautiful young girl who's a singer. It almost makes me, I almost want to click just to look, make the picture bigger. trying to get me to look at her. And you're seeing all these beautiful figures. And then suddenly you walk by a window and you see a reflection. You go, oh, well, you're seeing all these size eights that all of a sudden you go by anyway. So it demoralizes aging people. It distorts men's lives by making them reject all sorts of great spouse prospects for superficial reasons. There's no doubt about it. There's all kinds of guys. I know. I mean, our church is filled with all kinds There are all kinds of men who will not get married and it is partly because they are looking right passed all kinds of great women because they are not cool and don't look very cool we spend some time talking about that what we must we do we

never going to escape the beauty myth. You're not going to escape the power of beauty over you as men, as women, as older, as younger, because number one, we desire physical beauty to cover our own sense of shame and inadequacy, Genesis 3. Now at this point, I'll turn it over and start to say, the Bible explains some of the reasons why you're never going to overcome this, that you're going to continue to be controlled by needing to look good yourself, to hang out with people who look Number one is we desire physical beauty to cover a sense of shame and inadequacy. You don't like yourself, you know you don't like yourself, there are things about yourself you don't like, and you are actually trying to compensate for it by looking great on the outside. Everybody gets quiet, everybody gets quiet, they don't say, what is all this spiritual babble? Oh no, they don't! And the Bible talks about this, and it talks about the shame we experience in the garden. And number two is when you look good, you feel good about yourself, is what the commercials all say, good about yourself. How blatant. It really equals you feel yourself to be good. So this is a shortcut. Lose weight. Use a new lipstick and you'll feel better about yourself. And you actually do, but it's superficial. Secondly, we're afraid of our mortality and death. I mean, evolutionary biologists and Christians together agree that the drive to physical beauty is a huge desire to deny the idea that we're going to die. We'll never overcome our problem just by trying. I mean, these are deep, deep problems. Whether you're a Christian or not, you are never going to How are you going to stop getting depressed about it? How are you going to escape eating disorders? How are you going to escape self-hatred when you don't look good? How are you going to escape judging people on the basis of your looks? Go down all the things. The average young liberal, skeptical, secular person has a very, very, very similar value system as Christians do about this. You can just say we should not be putting the beautiful over the ordinary-looking, and yet there's this enormous power in the culture. So, this is what you must do, but you can't. But there was one who did. Now, at this point, I can just turn around and start getting blatantly Christian because I know that even if they don't believe a single thing about Christianity, if they hate the Bible, if they don't like Christianity, if they thought the Bible was all trash, I can now present Jesus in a way that's going to make them wish it was true even if they don't believe it intellectually, which is actually your job, by the way, in preaching is to get people to wish this Jesus is true even if they took the philosophy 101 but to blip and say, boy, I hope this Savior really exists. But there was one who did. He was not... There was one who was beautiful beyond bearing. There was one who was beautiful, unbearably beautiful for us. We couldn't even have looked at His glory. It would have destroyed our eyes, it would have destroyed us, it would have wiped us out. We couldn't have handled it. We were like looking into the sun without a filter. There was one who was beautiful beyond bearing, yet he willingly gave it up. He became ugly that we might become beautiful. He was without beauty that we would desire him. He became homely. And the Bible says so. He became too ugly to look at. Why? I said, well, you know, the Christian gospel is, here was somebody who actually had beauty and left it so that we might get the one beauty we really need, the moral beauty, the spiritual beauty, the beauty of a kind heart, the beauty of a loving spirit, the beauty of a transparent. Transparent, you know, one of the things is so beautiful about diamonds is transparent doesn't have a color to it's so brilliantly transparent Wouldn't you like to not have any shame left in you? You know, wouldn't you like to? Be able to just let people just be utterly transparent not always be putting spin not always be wondering what people saw not always Be having to kind of hold your car to your chest Wouldn't you like to be that sure of your value and of your beauty in the sight of God? God? And wouldn't that make you more beautiful to other people? And you know what? And we God so that you could become beautiful in the eyes of the only one that counts. Only as we see what he did for us will our hearts be melted and freed from the belief that we can judge a book by its cover, or the need to. Only when we can be in him will we be freed from our sense of shame and our fear of mortality. You can go to Tufts or Harvard or NYU, and you can sit down with the most angry lesbian feminists and do this talk, and at the end their tongues will be hanging out, and they'll say, I can't believe in Christianity, you almost make me wish it was true, which is your job. So anyway, that's the second approach, to have that. That should be the moral reasoning, basically. That gets rid of this idea of the legalism-antinomianism problem. It's not like, oh, stop preaching the law and preach grace, which sometimes, I have to say that there's an awful lot of talk out there in the evangelical world about preaching grace and discipling in grace and stressing grace. And let's not stress the law all the time. and love. Well, you know, unless you see the strength and the importance, I'm just an unreconstructed reformed guy here, right? You know, there's nothing exciting about grace if you don't see that we're utterly condemned. It's just, right? I mean, you know, what is so electrifying about grace unless there's propitiation of wrath? I just don't get it. So this is a way of pulling it together. What you must do, but you can't, but there's one who did, and only now can we change. And actually begin to do what we should be doing. Now, here is the third major strategy. The third major strategy, the first one critique religion and the irreligion, the second major strategy was get under the behavior, moral principle, under the behavior, solve with Jesus come back up to the behavior, got it? It is sort of like the behavior, heart problem, faith in Jesus solves the heart problem, now back up the behavior the application trajectory, your church, you can do that quick. It might be that depending on the text, depending on the text, you might not make those four things in any way the actual points of your sermon. You might go through it quickly at the very end. You might say, now, up to now, you know, I mean, the sermon is almost over, but let me show you, there is nothing wrong with this, let me show you how, if we end the sermon here, some of you are going to be in despair, but I want you to know that Jesus Christ did this for us. You know, that sort of thing. Jesus was the ultimate. And it doesn't have to be something that you build the entire sermon on. I mean, sometimes the text doesn't really warrant it. But at some point, I think the application needs to reflect that. C. Now again, this is another whole way to do it, but it's helped me, and it starts to answer some of the questions that Don brought up yesterday. The three perspectives, the normative situational existential, existential, the prophet-priest-king. Vern Poythress uses these in a fairly new book now called God-Centered Interpretation. He takes John Frame's three perspectives on knowledge. John is writing a book on epistemology, and he says, is rationalism right, that you basically know things through logic? That's the normative. Is empiricism right, that you basically know things through sensory experience? experience, in person that's the situational, or is existentialism right, that you basically know things just because that's how I myself interpret reality and that's my experience, that's the existential. He says, you know, if you don't recognize what the Bible says, revelation is covenantal and it's from the Lord and the Lord is prophet, priest, and king, or another way to put it is he's Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, there's normative situational existential. Truth is Trinitarian. The Lord is Trinitarian. And therefore, the revelation comes to us, and we have to know it with our mind, and yet we have to see how it applies, yet we have to experience it through the Holy Spirit, or we don't know it. And therefore, what Frame actually says, I know this is, I'm sorry, some of you are getting a nosebleed here, but Frame tries to say the Bible's approach to epistemology is the only one that really does justice to the way knowledge actually comes to us as created beings in the image of God. And if you take God out of the picture, you're stuck with rationalism, empiricism, existentialism. You get a hold of part of it, but you really, basically those things are heresies. And they have all kinds of intellectual problems because they're inadequate. Now, Vern comes along and says, let's take this triferspectival approach to knowledge and think about it as we interpret the scripture. And he takes the three perspectives and he says, OK, when I'm interpreting the text, I don't know the meaning of the text unless I understand the author's original historic sense. That's the normative. Its application to the hearers, that's the existential, and its place in the history of redemption, that's the situational. It's kind of interesting how he does that. In other words, he says, I don't understand the text unless I do authorial intent, application, what I'm supposed to do with it, But also where it's situated in the overall history of redemption as God is revealing his purposes in history, which means I don't really understand the text. If what your typical old-fashioned conservative evangelical preaching book says you're supposed to do, which is those sermons usually say, those preaching books usually say, all I do is I find out what the text meant to the original author and then I expound it to everybody, right? And Vern says, no, no. we could go along very much with what we're teaching you here, of course, Vern is the friend and the whole matrix, however, once you go into application, here is what is interesting with Vern, Vern is an interesting person, is he not? He is the seminal thinker, but he is also, a lot of the time, his thinking is so rich that you have to spend a lot of time with it, he would say if you get into the normative, that means understanding the original author's intent, understanding the place of the text and the history of redemption and understanding the application of the hearers,

perspectives. There's a normative situational existential perspective to every one of those. You know, that's where your mind, you know, Migo, my eyes start to glaze over. And I mean, it's very easy to kind of get glassy-eyed when you read Vern's stuff. But what I did was I studied the section in his book, God-Centered Interpretation, in which he talked about there's three ways to apply a text. And here's what those three ways are. He says, and he says he believes you have to look at the text from all three ways, otherwise you get into a distortion. And he says, there's the doctrinalist take on a text, there's the pietist take on a text, and there's the cultural transformationist take on a text. Now, here's what he means by this. The doctrinalist looks at a text basically to see how it supports sound doctrine. Now, if you're a doctrinalist only, if you only look at a text for sound doctrine, you're making the enlightenment mistake that you can have objective knowledge without making it personal. Turn over, quick. I want to do this quickly, just because I'm going to lose you otherwise. The pietist tends to look at every text as it relates to me psychologically and devotionally. The text is applied to answer questions like, how does this help me relate to the Lord? How does it help my prayer life? How does it show me how to live in the world? How does this help the non-believer find Christ? You know, how does this help me handle my personal problems? The pietist is the best of the three of for ways to take a text and preach it evangelistically, bring it to bear on the individual's hearts and consciences to get a decision. The cultural transformationist tends to look at the text as it relates to corporate and cultural issues, not so much as sort of doctrinal issues or existential pietistic issues, but more situational issues. In other words, how does this deal with God's renewing the entire world through the inauguration of the kingdom? How does this deal with social justice, economic fairness, Christian community building? The cultural transformationist looks at the reversal of the cross that means the gospel reverses the values of the world, power, recognition, status, and wealth. Now, go down to the next paragraph. So the doctrinalist takes Luke 4. Here's Luke 4. Let me just read it to you quick. What is it? Luke 4, 31 to 37. Famous passage. and actually Vern uses this as an example of the three ways you can try to apply the text. Then he went down to Galilee and began teaching on the Sabbath. They were amazed at his teaching because his message had authority. In the synagogue there was a man possessed by a demon, an evil spirit. He cried out at the top of his voice, Ha, what do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. Be quiet, Jesus said sternly, come out of him. Then the demon threw the man down before them all and came out without injuring him. And all the people were amazed and said to each other, What is this teaching? With authority and power he gives orders to evil spirits, and they come out. And the news about him spread throughout the surrounding area. Now, here's what Vern says. The doctrinalist reads that passage and says, This passage teaches the deity of Christ, doesn't it? It shows, look at his authority, look at the highness. Blindness teaches the deity of Christ and demonstrates his complete sovereignty over evil spirits. So it shows his deity, it shows his sovereignty, and it also shows the grace of God toward people in bondage to sin. So it's supporting these doctrines. The pietist looks at the passage, and here's how he's going to preach it. This passage teaches that Jesus can solve my problems if I let him, and also that once I'm delivered, I have to tell my friends. Okay? And that's how a pietist preaches it. He says, No matter how big the problems are in your life, demons, Jesus can solve this. Okay? And the cultural transformationist reads the passage and says, This passage shows that Christ has an active power in the world, transforming the world, liberating people from oppressive structures. Now, since most of you probably aren't in the cultural liberationist mode, that one looks forced to you, doesn't it? It's not. But that just shows where you are, anyway.

because you see actually if you read Ed Clowney's article in the Pastor Evangelist it's that, I don't know if it's still in print or not you know the book that Roger Greenway edited Ed's chapter Kingdom Evangelism is worth the price of the book it really is and in there, Ed was the first one to show me this though actually you start to see it everywhere and other people are saying this he says the miracles of Jesus really they do point to the coming restoration of creation. They really do point to a lot of the stuff the cultural transformationists are talking about. Liberation, healing, restoring bodies, restoring, feeding people and healing people who are sick and raising people who are dying. And it's not at all. If you preach the miracles of Jesus and never point toward the cultural implications of that And actually what I've learned here is we need all three perspectives when you're thinking and writing application. Orthodox people are sensitive to therapeutic and liberationist idolatries and therefore right now in the evangelical world, especially the Reformed evangelical world, there are people who are afraid of the other- there- if- they're afraid of the pietist and the- afraid the cultural liberationist perspectives- Why? the pietistic The liberalistic perspective tends to sound therapeutic. It tends to have commerce with that bad aspect of our culture. The cultural liberationist perspective has commerce with the left-wing, Marxist-liberationist ideology, which is false to a great degree. Therefore, because people see the therapeutic part, You know, some might say the therapeutic heresy and the liberationist heresy. There's an awful lot of people in our camp, and I'm speaking as a Reformed evangelical, who are afraid of those other two perspectives. And what they're actually calling, I see a lot of people writing articles calling us back to real expository preaching. What they really mean is, let us be stuck in a doctrinalist perspective. I mean, that's how I'm reading it. And we have to remember this, since by temperament, we all have our bent. See, we all have a kind of natural temperament. Some of us just tend to be bleeding hearts, and we tend to be pietists, and some of us tend to be kind of, you know, for various reasons, some of us tend to be cultural liberationists. But you see, I tried to put, and I actually skipped over it, the bottom page 35, the top page 36, the doctrinalist approach that puts so much emphasis on sort of objective doctrine, Rather than say, you know, we're not into therapy, and we're not the therapeutic and the cultural liberationists, but there's no doubt there is an enlightenment fallout here. The enlightenment did create in us a sort of desire for nice, neat, rational categories. What I'm trying to say is we really need all three perspectives, and we mustn't throw bricks at the other ones. And actually, I would say that when I take a text and force myself, I'm not a cultural liberationist, I'm not a doctrinalist, I'm a pietist. I became a Christian through intervarsity. I came to Reformed theology from that, which means I have a very... By the way, intervarsity is not pietistic anymore, by no means. Intervarsity is definitely cultural liberationist now, whereas crusade is the pietist approach. But we have to be careful because of our roots and because of our temperament. We have a tendency to always look at a text that way. But I think Vern has shown me, and I'm hoping to show you too, that these are all legitimate ways. These are all legitimate concerns. and especially if you understand the redemptive historical approach with its emphasis on the kingdom and yet grace, they all work. In fact, you know what? Turn over to page 37. Look at the 1, 2, 3, 4. The fourth paragraph down. I don't have time to go through all this because I want to give you an example from the book of Esther. Well, look at the third paragraph down. These three perspectives, what worries me right now going on in the community because certain people have a good way of preaching the gospel along one of these lines, and they're finding reasons why people who don't see it their way, who are kind of more heavy on their perspectives, are dangerous. See, when I grew up, the first kind of perspective I got, the normative perspective on the gospel of Christ that John Stott, J.I. Packer, InterVarsity was, I call it the gospel of Christ. puts a lot of stress on the object of historic work of Jesus that comes in space and time in history to accomplish everything for me propitiation time-space resurrection that was the first what that was that was the first way I was exposed to the gospel and it was more of a normative doctrinalist thrust then partly through Richard Lovelace partly through Jack Miller and the sonship I came to recognize the existential aspect of the gospel which I've called the which stresses that you have a new identity in Christ as adopted children, liberated from the law. The power of the Spirit to renew broken hearts and psyches. But it's also true that right now, certainly coming up in certain aspects of the evangelical world, is a lot of emphasis on the kingdom. And there's a lot of people who are saying over and over again that the gospel is the gospel of the kingdom, the coming reign of God. And that evangelicals have been way too individualistic preaching of the Gospel, and what we've actually just done is, we've just told people how to have peace, love, and happiness in Jesus, and we're missing the fact that the Kingdom of God is coming, and has come, and the people of God, is this, is a Kingdom community, a sign of the coming Kingdom. That's true, that's the situational aspect, I call it The Gospel The Kingdom, it stresses the reversal of values in the new creation, it talks He talks about healed community, cultural transformation, ministry of deed and justice. Harvey Conn taught me a great deal about this when he was alive and we were together. But here's my point. You need all three perspectives. We've got to be careful about playing them off against each other. Because, remember what we said the first day, a perspective, if you go deep enough in any one perspective, it comprises the other two. You understand? In other words, the Son and the Holy Spirit are in the Father. The Father and the Holy Spirit are in the Son. are not three pieces of the Trinitarian pie. Not that Trinity is a kind of substance. You know, here's a pie, and the Holy Spirit has a third, and the Father has a third. They're interpenetrated. They're actually, each one of them is in a sense a perspective on the whole. And I've discovered that if you go deep enough into the pietistic sonship, you get the cultural transformation. Why? Because at the root of racism is a desire to justify myself. It's a form of worse righteousness. I was a white person. I looked down my nose at people punctual. I look down my nose at people who don't seem to have done as well economically. If I go down into pietism far enough, if I go down into sonship far enough, I become a multicultural liberationist. Because I am a sinner saved by grace, I should not be looking down my nose at anybody. On the other hand, if I go deep enough into the idea of the kingdom, that Jesus Christ is the king and the reign of God is here and the kingdom of God is here, If I go deep enough into that, that means I'm utterly saved by sheer grace. Because if God is king, then salvation must be by grace, because if we're saved by works, something else will be my Lord and Savior. You go down deep enough in any one perspective, you get to the others. They really do not, they should not be said against each other as much as they are. And you, as a preacher, will heal the evangelical world, or at least help to do so, every time you preach a sermon, if you're careful not to let your bent and your temperament be the only way in which you look at a text. Just think about it the other directions. Now, let me give you an example. 38, page 38. I can probably get this done. Book of Esther. Have any of you preached on the Book of Esther? It's not an easy book to preach because it's very hard to find an inspirational section. About the only thing you can almost, if you really want a kind of gut-gripping section, where she said, if I perish, I perish. Okay, well, that'll preach. But it's hard to find almost anything else. And as many of you know, of course, God is never mentioned. So it's hard to find these kind of inspirational, nutshell, kind of classic statements in the book of Esther. But it's there. And here's a suggestion. Here's how you do application by looking at the different perspectives. I'm not going to read all this, For example, cultural transformationist perspective on Esther. God calls us to serve him in intensely secular settings. This message is similar than the accounts of Joseph and Daniel. You know, in Joseph, you have a guy who's a civil magistrate. Daniel, you have a person who's essentially a prime minister. And here they are serving God in the secular world. They're called by God into intensely secular jobs. I think we have to say that Esther, if anything, is an even more intense example of how a believer can be effectively used by God in the heart of a secular and pluralistic culture, even in the center of power. This is a very threatening message to many Christians today. There's been a strong tendency among Orthodox believers towards separation from the polluted, on the unclean, the morally, spiritually messy arenas of politics, business, government, and so on. But Esther's a concubine.

Anyway, she's a member of a harem. And she's the hero. There's a great passage in Ray Bakke's book, A Theology as Big as the City, Let Esther's harem represent every unclean political or commercial institution. Some of you, I'm constantly talking to Christians who are saying, there's a difference, she had no choice, I know that. She didn't say, I think I'll move to Babylon and join a harem, I know that. Nevertheless, let Esther's harem represent every unclean political or commercial institution or structure where evil reigns and must be confronted. Believers are needed there. Our cities are full of dens of iniquity. Our culture is described as essentially a post-Christian, secular, antithetical to biblical values, hostile to biblical virtues. But Esther gives us permission to reflect on our call to serve God in the matrix of modern secular system. How could God call Esther to be the interracial replacement spouse of a polygamous pagan Persian king? This book is off the screen for many evangelicals. We urban people need Esther now more than ever. trivialized or spiritualized as we're preaching in and I have you would you bring that out anyway that's as a cultural transformationist take but it's true there's no doubt about that Esther and Daniel and Joseph are three wonderful examples of God calling people into world-changing redemptive work out in the secular society and in a very kind of polluted spiritually and morally ambiguous situation secondly here's another cultural transformationist God calls us not only to change individuals, but to change society. Now that's important, especially since your typical conservative, I mean, I say philosophically conservative mindset is you change society one person at a time. And I think the biblical answer to that is it's a both and. I mean, that is a Western Enlightenment idea. Common sense, and I think the Bible says you work at, you try to get God's law respected everywhere. In case you, you know, again, by the way, as you can tell, I pulled this out of something else and put it in here. I did some change, but I should... I look at Joseph... A very interesting sermon series would be a series of sermons on Joseph. Just pull Joseph out of Genesis, Daniel, and Esther. Try that sometime. I'm afraid a lot of places where we're preaching the gospel, I mean, to evangelicals, it would be very hard for people to hear this because an awful lot of people, the places to get away from, you know, the kind of, the more secular, the more pluralistic, the more kind of unbelieving environment. And it might be hard for somebody to even hear it. But anyway, the higher calling of going into Christian ministry. Look at the second paragraph. Ray Bakke again reminds us that we have to read Esther synoptically with Ezra and Nehemiah. These three Jewish heroes had three very different callings. Ezra was a clergyman who taught the Bible to the restored community in Jerusalem. Nehemiah was a lay person who used his skills to literally rebuild the wall and interest structure of Jerusalem to ensure safe streets and a decent economy. You've got to have a wall. And Esther, meanwhile, used her position to work for just laws in the secular realm. She worked for justice. She kept the people from being oppressed. Only all three people working together were able to rebuild Jerusalem into a viable city. One did evangelism and discipleship. That's the clerical development as a kind of lay person and one did social justice, creating laws that were just and allowed the community to grow. This is not only a lay clergy leadership team, but a male-female leadership team. This means we must never see God's kingdom as moving forward only with evangelism and discipleship. We must also do holistic ministry, works on behalf of the poor, at-risk communities, must have Christians in secular jobs. We need Ezra ministry, Nehemiah ministry, and Esther ministry, or we're never going to win our society for Christ. Okay? That's the cultural transfer. But that's not all. Turn over. Here's a doctrinalist approach to Esther. Okay? You see at the bottom of page 38? The bottom of page 38 says, God is the only real king. Now turn over to the page of 39. Ray Dillard says this, and this is very, very important. The doctrinalist approach, I'm not using these terms pejoratively now. I hope that's It's not confusing. The doctrinalist perspective on this says, we have to remember that Esther is not just trying to liberate any group of people. She's making sure that the purpose of God to liberate the world through the Jews goes forward. And Ray Dillard points out, this is from Ray's... Oh, Ray has written the notes to Esther in the NIV study Bible. Ray Dillard. You'd never know that unless you go look in the front. But the NIV study Bible, not the Geneva study Bible, the NIV study Bible, Ray Dillard, a late professor of Old Testament at Westminster, wrote the study notes. And if you want to have a good experience, read the book of Esther and read his notes. And what he says here is the dramatic tension in the book of Esther revolves around a threat to the existence of the Jews, and the teaching is God is sovereignly in control he's completely absent. Ray does not think it's an accident that God's name is never mentioned. It's not like, is it, Ray, I've heard Ray once say, do you think somebody later on said to the author of the book of Esther, you know, you never even mentioned God in there and he said, oh my gosh, oh well, it's already gone to press. Well, you know,

Ray says the teaching, he says, it was an incredibly brilliant literary device. The book is all about God, all about God. he's never mentioned. And what does that mean? God is utterly in control even when he seems to be absolutely absent. He says the sovereignty of God, I mean God being in charge of every little thing, every tiny thing. Here's what Dillard says, the second verse, second paragraph. What the writer of Esther has done is to give us a story in which the main actor is not so much as mentioned. The presence of God is implied and understood throughout the story so that these mounting coincidences, coincidence after coincidence after coincidence, just happens to be meeting with this person when she comes in, just happening, is the byproduct of his rule over history and his providential care for his people. It's an extraordinary piece of literary genius that this author wrote a book that's about the actions and rule of God from beginning to end that God has not named on a single page of the story. What a vivid way to teach us that God is always present even when he seems almost absent and his purpose is most opaque. opaque. The message of the book is his plan of grace salvation cannot fail even when he's completely absent. And that is a doctrinalist. But you can also see how it would be fairly easy to turn into a pietist thing too. To say to people, if right now God seems to be absent in your life, he's not. And then lastly, human strength is weakness and human weakness is strength. And this is pietist meaning, here's the tearjerker. Look at the very, very, one of the things that's that the weakness of men and the power of women in the book. They would. In contrast to the huge show of power in this great feast, the drunken Xerxes tries to humiliate his wife, who in turn humiliates him, in response he decrees that all men should control their wives when he can't control his own. It's all filled with irony. Not only is he bested by his first queen, the rest of the book shows him being bested by his next queen, while the king is revealed to be ill-informed, forgetful, impulsive, unjust, unwise. Queen Esther is seen to be brave, take charge, focused, wise, and just. Not only Vashti and Esther, but Haman's wife Zeresh appears strong and shrewd. All the men except Mordecai are idiots. Esther, of course, is not just a woman. She's the person who most of all stands the world's expectations on their head. First, she's an orphan without father or mother. Orphans are one of the most oppressed, powerless groups. Second, she's a woman, not powerful or wealthy, but a concubine, a member of a harem. In the process of the narrative, however, she ascends from being an orphan, Mordecai's protege to being a queen of great power who makes plans leadership and who in the end is her uncle's guardian. In the end, she's really totally on top. She's the one that protects Mordecai. She's the one who actually ends up being his benefactor. Originally, her physical beauty won the king's heart, but 215 indicates that her character and behavior won the attraction of the rest of the court. Esther comes from the outside, margins of society. God uses her to do redemption. So we see another very prominent theme, God doesn't work through the channels the world considers strong and powerful. He works through women, racial minorities, people who seem to be powerless. The first shall be last, and the last shall be first. Now, all those things are ways of practical application. God is present, stands the world's values on his head. We need to be involved. But you'll be a moralist. And one time, just to finish this way, I once heard a great sermon on the book of Esther. It was by a Pentecostal pastor, a friend of mine. And I was at this meeting of pastors in New York City and he preached this incredibly good sermon in which he said, at the very end he said, Esther was willing to lose the palace, to use the power she had in the palace to do justice. In other words, she was willing to stand up for her people and to identify with the Lord. Because God had taken her into the palace. And that meant she was willing to lose it. She was willing to lose everything in order to use the power and the leverage she had to do the Lord's will. And then he turned and said, there's a lot of you in New York City who God has brought into the palace. If you live in New York, you're in the palace. You've got these great jobs in the media. You've got these great jobs in business. You're making a lot of money. You've got great jobs. And you've got these great jobs now. You have to be willing Where you are? You have to be willing to risk bad reputation. You have to be willing to risk perhaps having people shun you. You have to be willing to risk maybe actually even losing out on business deals and things like this because you've got to use what God has given you to witness to him, to do justice in the gate, to be generous to other people, to stand up for Jesus. And you have to be like Esther. And that's how the sermon ends. Do you see any problems with that? And here's what I want you to know. Look at the bottom page for you, then that's it. We need to ask ourselves a question. Why will you not probably obey this sermon if I end it now? If I was preaching a sermon, I'd say, why is it that if I end this sermon right now, you probably will not do it? You probably will not be courageous enough to live like Esther. You will probably not risk your place in the corner office, You will not risk your place to be... If you're an academic, you don't want to be laughed at by your colleagues. If you've got a lot of money, you really are afraid to start to be generous with it because you don't want people to know how much money you've got. In other words, you're afraid. Why will you probably not live like Esther if I finish it here, finish the sermon here? Because I said, look at where it says why you can't do this. If we end the sermon right here, we'll all be in despair. You don't have the courage to do this. but your courage will evaporate quickly. You may decide you're going to take all the risks that Esther made but when it comes down to it, you're not going to risk losing the palace. Risk your influence and money and status to all people in need. You won't have the ability to do this. But there's one who did. You have to go into the palace but not be tempted by the palace. You've got to be willing to leave the palace in order to serve your Lord. But why can't we? We're enthralled by the acclaim and glory of the palace. How are we going to free ourselves? Esther's great temptation, comfort and privilege is to hold on to that position to the detriment of her people. That was a temptation. But when by God's grace we come into such a standing, we may be seduced by it. Mordecai had a challenge, Esther. Basically, Esther, he has to really talk to her. I mean, she's not great in the very beginning. You know, Esther, only when she's willing to give up her place in the palace and take her life into her own hands and risk it all in order to intercede before the throne of power does she do what she should do. We also see that over and over again, we need a deliverer who identifies with us. that stands as our representative, as in the career of Joseph in Egypt or David before Goliath. So in this story we are led to see Jesus, who did not need a challenge to leave this palace of power, his place of power. He didn't need a challenge. Nobody had to come talk to him. He did it voluntarily. He saved us not at the risk of his glory, but at the cost of his glory. He did not say, if I perish, I perish. He said, when I perish, I will perish. He lost the real palace. He lost the only palace that really matters, so that we could gain it, He had to die in order to stand before the throne as our intercessor. But the rest that Jesus brings is not the rest from our... Oh, pardon me. Wait, look up here. Look up here. You see that? What you'd say is... I'll show you what I mean there. What you say is, you'll never really risk your little palace down here unless you see that Jesus lost the big palace for you so that you are guaranteed a citizen of that place. Frank Sinatra was wrong. New York City is not the place where if you make it there, you can make it anywhere. there is a city that if you're a citizen there, if you know you're in there, there is a palace that if you know you have a place there, then you don't have to worry about any other place. If you make it there, you can make it anywhere. If you know you have a place in that palace, then you're not going to be so intimidated by all the little ones. Until you see Jesus Christ lost the real palace so that you could be citizens and guaranteed a place in the real palace, you're not going to have the security to risk losing the little palaces you're in now. Now, Ray Dillard, by the way, points out that at the end of the book of Esther, here's one little last application problem you'll have. If you're preaching the book of Esther, Esther ends on the note that Israel gets rest from its enemies by slaying them all. That's how the book of Esther ends. The book of Esther ends that they get the legal right to turn on all the people who are trying to kill them and just slaughter them and take their money. There's another problem with preaching the book of Esther. That's the And Ray says, well, you know, at this point, you have to preach it redemptive historically. You have to talk about, you have to put it in the right place in history and say, but we're in a different place. And here's how Ray ends the book, Ray ends the application. He says, the rest that Jesus brings us is not one, is one that gives us real rest from our enemies, not by killing them, but by winning them. It says, after the cross, we pray for our enemies. Jesus has brought the barrier down between Jew and Gentile Saul and Amalek. We learn salvation rest comes by the sacrifice and intercessor of another. We have one who was the greatest palace of all, but who did not just serve his God at the risk of losing the palace, but at the cost of it. So Ray says, if you're going to get to the book of Esther and you get to the end of it, everybody says, what is this? He says, well, this was the way they got rest from their enemies at that point. It was a kind of eye for an eye. But he says, the fact is, in terms of redemptive history, we're at a different place now than we were then. And the rest we get from our enemies now is a different kind of rest. So if you're really going to preach the book of Esther, now I wouldn't, you know what I do in New York, I just never bring that out. I mean, people don't come to church with their Bibles. They study the passage I print out in the text. So I'm just not going to bring that up. Is that dishonest? No. I mean, I can't say everything all the time. But if you're the kind of people that have actually bringing their Bibles, you're going to have to deal with every single part of the book of Esther. And the only way to do that is using the redemptive historical approach. and using the three perspectives, and also making sure that you don't preach it moralistically, but after you've said, here's what we must do, say, you're never going to do it, but there's one who did. And if you see what he did, then you'll be able to do it too. Until you see the one to whom Esther points, you'll never be able to live like Esther. So that, I finally finished. That's a very important chapter in the syllabus, and I'm sorry it took me two times to get through it, but you see why it's pretty critical to everything I'm trying to say.

Thank you.
