The scripture this morning is from Luke chapter 2, verses 41 to 52. Every year his parents went to Jerusalem for the feast of the Passover. When he was 12 years old, they went up to the feast according to the custom. After the feast was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it. Thinking he was in their company, they traveled on for a day. looking for him among their relatives and friends. When they did not find him, they went back to Jerusalem to look for him. After three days, they found him in the temple courts, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. When his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you. Why were you searching for me? He asked. Didn't you know I had to be in my father's house? But they did not understand what he was saying to them. Then he went down to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. But his mother treasured all these things in her heart. And Jesus grew in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and men. This is God's Word. Good morning, and it's great to have this West Side, East Side reunion this morning. Those of you who are visitors, you're looking around and saying, oh, there's a lot of people of different races here. That's right, the West and the East, two totally different races. Hardly even speak to one another. We have quite a few interracial marriages here, people on the west side. And we've been able to draw all this together, Redeemer. What an act of reconciliation. The passage you just heard read is the tail end of Luke's accounts of the birth of Jesus. Of all the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the place at Christmas that ministers go for preaching material is mainly to Luke, because Luke has got more accounts about Jesus' birth and more accounts of the preparation up to his birth. It's the treasure trove of narratives and stories about Jesus coming into the world at Christmas. However, at the very end of the accounts is this particular story. Now, it's the only place anywhere in the Bible where you have not an account of Jesus as a baby or of Jesus as a man, but it's Jesus as a boy, a 12-year-old boy. And its uniqueness alone would make this absolutely fascinating to read. And I think over the years I've actually tended to overlook it until recently because when a gospel writer gives us an account of something that Jesus did or said, why does the gospel writer do that? One reason, of course, is it happened. And the gospel writers do not make things up. In fact, the very beginning of the book of Luke, Luke says to the reader, I want you to know I didn't make any of these things up, but I collected eyewitness accounts of what actually happened. That's what he says. However, we know that Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John had far more material than they used. So what they used was used not just because it happened, but because it teaches something. and so if you sit with a passage and not just read it and say what does this verse mean what does this verse mean but if you ask a question why is Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John why is the author telling us this and why is the author telling us this here when you ask that question among many other questions to understand what a bible text means very often it yields some pretty interesting ideas and actually when I asked myself when I asked the text this question myself actually realized something that I've never seen before about it. The theme of this passage is that Jesus is confusing. See, verse 50, at the end, but they did not understand what he was saying to them. This isn't like a lot of passages where Jesus says or does something cryptic, and then he explains. And everybody says, oh, in this case, Jesus acts in a very, we're going to look at this, in a very, really indecipherable, unaccountable, seemingly irresponsible way. And when you get to the end of the passage, he's confusing. And he not only confuses the people who don't believe in him, but verse 47, and who don't know him, but he confuses the people who know him and love him. And yet, here's what this passage is saying, and yet we're supposed to trust him anyway. See, Christmas right now, in fact, this works for all of us. You're probably feeling pretty good today, I hope. You know, we've got presents still to go to. Maybe you do. I don't know. So Christmas is a kind of feeling good time. You've knocked off work. You're not working right now. It's a pretty good feel-good time. And the early passages in Luke are really feel-good passages. Peace on earth, glory to God in the highest. Wow. Why does Luke tell us this here? Luke is preparing us, reader for the rest of the book of Luke. And he's preparing you for the rest of the year, okay, after this comes the rest of the year, after the feel-good time of Christmas. What Luke wants you to know is that Jesus, whether you don't believe in him or you do believe in him, Jesus will be a confounding, confusing, often disturbing figure. He will often do things in your life that he doesn't explain well and that you have a lot of trouble accepting and therefore for struggling with. Let's take a look at the three points. They're in the very end of the passage. Verse 50, Jesus is a confusing person. He confuses even the people who believe in him. Verse 51, however, he is totally committed to loving and serving those he confuses. Third, therefore, you should go home and trust and treasure him, and if you do, he'll grow on you. That's the three points. Now, let's just take a look at the passage. The first passage, The first point, which is where we'll dwell the most, is Jesus is a confounding, confusing figure. Look at the very heart of the passage, verse 46 to 49. After three days, they found him in the temple court, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. Everyone who heard him was amazed at his understanding and his answers. See, amazed. And when his parents saw him, they were astonished. His mother said to him, son, why have you treated us like this? Your father and I have been anxiously searching for you. Now, the point is, first of all, the people who don't know who he is, that's verse 47, they're astounded because this breaks the categories. You don't have 12-year-olds who sit around and can argue and discuss and debate with the top scholars in that civilization. They've never seen a 12-year-old do something like this. So on the one hand, you've got people who don't know him and don't actually believe in him. They're astounded. He's outside the box. he's breaking their categories but it's just as astonishing for the people who do love him in fact as we'll get to this in a second when his parents realized not that he was just left behind but he wasn't even didn't bother him he was spending he wasn't making any effort to get back he was just very happily sitting there and debating he's 12 he's not 5 he's not 4 he's 12 he knows they're gone he knows enough certainly if he knows enough to debate the top scholars he knows what they're thinking and how they're feeling and how parents feel and she can't understand it, and so she rebukes him. The point here is that Jesus' will can found, confuse, and often disturb not only people who don't actually profess faith in him, but people who do. Let's break that into those. Let's think about this in those two categories for a minute. First of all, let's think about the people who don't profess faith in him. Today, that would be people of other religions or people of no religion, secular and skeptical people. People of other religions and people of no particular religion, they would love to say about Jesus, he was a great teacher, maybe a prophet, you know, a great teacher of love, somebody we can learn from. They love to say all that, but does Jesus fit into that category? I mean, that's how people want to think of him, who are members of other religions or of no religion. That's how they want to believe that he was. But when you actually look at the documents, actually look to see if that's what Jesus really was, the answer is no. Jesus doesn't fit into that category. Let me show you how. This passage is interesting because it happened the year Jesus was 12. In those days, when a boy turned 13, he became a man, as it were. That is to say, he entered into full economic and social adult responsibilities. And so, therefore, the year the boy was 12 was a time of intense mentoring between the boy and the father. The father would apprentice the boy in the trade, which of course in this case was carpentry. But not only that, the father would apprentice the boy in life, but in that case, in this case, of course, it meant religion. And the particular year, every year they went up to the temple to do the Passover feast. In fact, Jerusalem swelled about eight or nine or ten times its normal size at Passover. People from all over the country, and they came into Jerusalem. But this would have been a special year for Jesus because this is the year that his father would have particularly been mentoring him and intensely instructing him in the meaning of the Passover, the meaning of the temple. This is what the temple is, son, and this is why we go to the temple, and this is what the temple means, and this is the Passover, and this is what the Lamb means, and this is what our faith means, and this is who we are as the people of God. It would have been a time of intense mentoring. entering, Joseph would have been walking Jesus around the streets of Jerusalem, the temple of Jerusalem. When they explained the Passover, he would have gotten an extra layer of explanation from his father. Now the Passover is done, and we're told after the feast, verse 43, was over, while his parents were returning home, the boy Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, but they were unaware of it, thinking he was in their company. They traveled on for a day, and then they began and looking among their relatives and friends. Just a kind of sidebar. This just reminds us of how different our society is than theirs. What happened here is not nearly as irresponsible as you would think. You must remember that families lived in very, very close web networks of extended families where uncles and aunts and cousins and grandparents and friends and in-laws. was, and to a far greater degree than is the case today, all the children were raised by all the adults in a clan. And therefore, it wasn't at all a strange thing for Mary and Joseph to see Jesus amongst the other children and then everyone to pick up on the journey and take off. And they wouldn't, you know, you'd say, well, surely you would check. But the answer is no, it was a much more communitarian society than ours. And so, from what we can tell, they journeyed a day before they figured he was gone. Then they journeyed back a day, and then they took a day to find him. And after three days, he was away three days, they find him. And when they find him, Mary says, son, why have you treated us like this, your father and I? Notice, she leads out with your father and I. You know, not me, your father, the one who's been mentoring This is the year you're supposed to be honoring him and modeling yourself on him and becoming like him. That's the way it was in a traditional society. How dare you dishonor your father of all times now? And Jesus says, Mom, I am honoring my father. And then what he says is, why were you searching for me? didn't you know I had to be in my father's house? But they didn't understand. Now, what Jesus says here is far more startling than it would appear to us for a couple reasons. One is, we are now, because we live in a Christian post-Christian world, that is to say, we live in a world in which Christianity is a big, big influence. The idea that all people are God's children, or the idea that God is a father, seems very routine. And if you hear somebody talking about necessarily even assume that the person was a believer in Christ necessarily. It's just, it's almost a commonplace. And so that doesn't strike you as pretty amazing, but it is. It's the reason why verse 50, it says that when he talked about God as his father and the temple as his father's house, they didn't understand. They were totally confused. They didn't sit around saying, oh, of course he's talking about God as his father and of course God is our father. No. Let me tell you why it was so startling. Go back in the Old Testament, you'll see very, very seldom in the Hebrew Scriptures, is God ever referred to as a father. And then only when it occasionally is used, it refers to the fact that God is the source of the nation. Never, ever do you see father used as personal address. You don't see someone personally addressing God as father. Way too intimate. Way too personal. And here's Jesus doing something that virtually had never ever been done before, talking about God as his father, claiming a kind of personal relationship that virtually no one has ever claimed before. But then on top of that, he doesn't just go and do that, but then he rebukes his parents. And he actually says, why were you searching for me? What? Why were you searching for me? Think about it. He's not stupid. He's obviously smart, or he wouldn't have been able to, you know, hold forth for three days with the top scholars in the world, the Jewish world at that point. He's not stupid, and he says, why were you searching for me? Okay, that's a rebuke. And then he said, didn't you know I had to be in my father's house? He rebukes his parents, doesn't refer to Joseph as his father, and therefore, here's what he's saying, and all the commentators admit this, so what they say is, Jesus Christ at this point is saying, my relationship, he's talking to a patriarchal society now, my relationship with to you. I don't really have to obey you. Now, the very next moment, Luke writes down that Jesus went home and obeyed them. And we'll get to that in a second. It's actually very important. But Jesus is trying to say, if I'm obeying you, it's voluntary. And though it's a little hard to tell exactly the level of Jesus' messianic consciousness at this point, I mean, what else could he say? He says, you know, I'm going to obey you. I don't have to, because my relationship with God is category shattering. It relativizes all of the relationships. I will obey you, though I don't have to. You know why I don't have to? I'm older than you. The first child who could ever say that to his parents. and one commentator puts it like this is very typical this is one of the scholarly experts it says Jesus Christ by simply saying this doesn't come across to us today unless you think through what we just thought through but this commentator says Darryl Bach his name is he says Jesus is claiming authority such that even the most basic human relationships like the parent-child relationship are now transcended by this act and statement Jesus transcends all normal categories of evaluation, and he says so. He says, you can't evaluate me. I evaluate everyone else. Now, he's 12, but he already knows. One of the things that Kathy and I have always noticed, and that we find a little irritating about a lot of movies, is that artists today just can't seem to accept kind of undiluted nobility. the Lord of the Rings, and here's Aragorn, who in the books by J.R.R. Tolkien is a person who certainly has feelings but knows he's to be the king. In the movie, he struggles. Am I really the king? I don't want to be the king. He's struggling with self-actualization. Even in the Narnia movie, Peter is a lot more reluctant than he is in the book. He has to struggle. Do I really want to do this? I don't know. This is going to be very hard. You go to artistic renderings of Jesus. Go to The Go to even Jesus Christ Superstar. He's always sort of struggling. Is this who I really am? I don't know. That's more authentic. Here's 12-year-old Jesus saying, no, that's who I am. He says, I can obey you, but it's a voluntary. And he says something that's remarkable. He says, I had to. And there's a little Greek word here. It would be a little easier, I think. It would come out better if it was translated. It's a little Greek word that means it's a necessity. It had to happen. It was necessary. At the very end of the book of Luke, the same thing happens. In Luke chapter 24, there are two disciples who are confused. They say, we've lost Jesus. We thought he was going to save Israel, and he was crucified. Why did he let himself die? They're confused, and they meet this stranger who's very calm. And he actually uses almost the same Greek construction. He says, don't you realize he had to die? Here's confused parents. What are you doing? Calm Jesus. Don't you realize I have to do this? I have, he says, a plan of salvation, and I've got to go to it. So first of all, if you are a person who says, oh, I can't believe that Jesus was divine, son of God, creator of the world, coming to judge all things, the real Jesus does not fit into your category. He disturbs you. You can't just say, oh, it's one more religion, he was a great teacher and there's a great teacher are in all the religions no sorry Jesus will not let you do that he disturbs you he breaks the categories he says this is who I am I'm the son of God I'm the unique son of God there's no one else like me so you can either reject him or you can accept him but you can't fit him into a pantheon with all these other religious teachers and that's just the way he disturbs the people who don't believe him he's every bit as much if not more disturbing to the people who do that's the meaning of this text let's take a look at that we've already looked at this Mary and Joseph are trying to say I don't get this you're smart, we know you're smart and here you are saying were you searching for me? what are you talking about? this is dishonoring us this isn't the way it's supposed to be and they're amazed that when they come back you notice they're more astonished not that he was left behind after all kids can be left behind but he's not bothered by it. And he's just sitting there, and he's debating, and they're astonished and all this sort of thing. And Jesus says, I had to do it. Now, one of the things you're going to find as a disciple, as a lover of Jesus, like Mary, that Jesus will constantly be confounding your expectations for how he should behave and how he should be treating you. On the road to Emmaus, they didn't understand. Why did Jesus do that? that I had to. You can't understand, but it's part of the plan of salvation. Mary says, why are you doing this? You know, we love you. Why have you treated us like this? He says, I had to. It's part of the plan. It's part of the salvation. Do you understand this? In other words, we have a tendency to say, oh, I'm going to give my life to Christ, and then I'm going to obey him, and I'm going to dedicate myself to him, and now he's going to answer my prayers, and he's going to bless me, and you're going to find that Jesus will be constantly not only doing things that don't seem to fit, but also saying things that don't make any sense. Elizabeth Elliot was a writer, and she'd been a missionary, and when Kathy and I met her, she was teaching at Gordon-Conwell years ago, and we got to know her. She told us that she had written a novel called No Graven Image, and in that novel, No Graven Image, she told, it's fiction, about a missionary who goes into the rainforest and wants to translate the Bible. And at the very end, everything falls apart at the end of the story. The one man that really can enable her, the missionary, to do the Bible translation she wants to do, she kills accidentally, and she's expelled from the tribe. And at the very end, everything falls apart. And that's how the book ends. She told us that not only did all kinds of people write angry letters to her saying, God would never treat a faithful person like that. God would never let all those sorts of things happen. God would never treat people who are dedicated and faithful to him like that. And she even told us that Harold John Ockengay, who was the president of our seminary at the time, had triumphantly told her he personally kept it off the Christian best books of the year list to make sure fewer people would read it. Because he says the very same thing. If you really love Jesus and you really dedicate yourself to him, going to let all that sort of thing happen. But you know what she says? First of all, she says what's really weird is the book is based pretty much on what really happened in her life. Not only that, she was married to Jim Elliot, and he was one of five young missionaries who, back in the 1950s, wanted to go into the rainforest to, you know, to make contact with the tribes, to do Bible translation. And the night before they went, they sang a hymn to God saying, be our shield and our and the next day they went out and they were all speared to death. And they left behind wives and they left behind children. And there was no sense to it. Why did God let that happen? But here's how Elizabeth Elliot wrote about that incident. She says this. I think I'll read this twice. I dethrone him if I demand that he act in ways that satisfy my ideas. God is God. If he is God, he is worthy of my worship and my service. I will find rest nowhere but in his will, and that will is infinitely, immeasurably, unspeakably beyond my largest notion of what he is up to. Jesus is confusing even to the people who love him. and we're always going to be, even if you're feeling good right now and everything's going fine in your life, it won't be long before, like Mary, you're going to be looking at Jesus and saying, how can you treat me like this? I love you. I'm giving myself to you. How can you treat me like this and find that Jesus doesn't really give you much of an answer, at least not in the short run? Are you ready for that? Okay, now, if Jesus is that confusing and that disturbing, why should we follow him? And the answer is, as we looked, verse 51, he went down to Nazareth with them and was obedient to them. Why? Why did he do that? Now, here's why. I love that place in the boat when the storm comes up and they wake Jesus up. Remember the disciples? And they say, Master, don't you care that we perish? And Jesus says, where is your faith? There's a great sermon by David Martyn Lloyd-Jones years ago in which he notices in Luke chapter 8, Jesus says to them, where is your faith? Not, why don't you have more faith? In other words, what Jesus is saying is you're not being rational. You know enough about me and you're not using it. You know enough about me to handle the storms of life and you're not using it. Here you are saying, Master, why don't you care we perish? And here, is that if I loved you, I wouldn't let you go through anything bad. I wouldn't let you be harmed. I wouldn't let you go through storms. I wouldn't let you feel like you're sinking. I would never let you. That's your premise. You say, if you love me, you wouldn't let these things happen. But I do love you. And if you don't feel loved by me, it's because of your false premise. Why does he go down and obey them when he now knows, and I do think he now knows, Here's why you should follow him in spite of the fact he confuses you. I'm guessing. I think it's a good guess, but I want you to know when a preacher says, I'm guessing, you need to keep that in the mind. Very often I say, this is what the text says. Here I'm saying, this is what I think the text says. It's hard for me to imagine that Jesus would have stayed behind, would have been able to contend with those folks, would have stayed in the temple courts unless something happened besides Joseph walking him around Jerusalem and telling him who he's going to be. See, Joseph was going around saying, you're going to be a carpenter. Joseph was going around saying, you're going to be a faithful Jew and you're going to go to the temple and you're going to do the Passover. And that's what these things mean. But what if, what if, and Jesus virtually hints at this, his real father was doing that too. What if his real father was walking around Jerusalem and going about a million levels deeper when he went to the temple, his real father says, you're the new temple, and you're going to make this place obsolete. And when he walked along the streets of Jerusalem, the Lord said, the father said, you're going to be walking on these streets, but you'll be carrying a cross. But certainly, almost certainly, that when he sat down at the Passover and he looked at the lamb, his real father said, you're going to be the lamb. Now, the fact that Jesus seems to have known that, that his real father mentored him at the age of 12, told him who he was, to give him this messianic consciousness, to give him this understanding of who he was. And then he went home and obeyed his parents. What was he doing? It was the very same thing that happened when John the Baptist sees Jesus wanting to get baptized, and John the Baptist says, me, baptize you? What in the world? Why should I baptize you? And Jesus says, it is thus necessary to fulfill all righteousness. And what Jesus is saying is, the life you should have lived and died the death you should have died. I'm coming to be, I'm coming to live in your place. And see, Jesus Christ, even at age 12, to some degree realized that there was a program, who he was, that he was the real Passover lamb, and he went home and obeyed them. He submitted. That's why you should trust him, because he absolutely loves and is totally committed to serving, totally committed to serving the people he confuses, his parents. But how much more is that a reflection of him totally, totally dedicated to loving and serving us, who he often confuses? When a storm comes up, don't say, Oh Lord Jesus, why are you letting me go through this storm? Don't you care that I perish? Instead say, Jesus, you bowed your head into a far worse storm than this, you didn't abandon me in that storm, but you stayed in that storm for me. So if you didn't abandon me in that storm, you're not going to abandon me in this storm. I don't know why you're letting me go through it, but I know that you were committed to me, just like you were committed to your parents. You didn't have to do it. It was voluntary, but you did it. So he confounds and confuses and disturbs us. Secondly, however, he is totally committed to the death, to those he confuses. Therefore, you should do what Mary does. What does she do? She takes this confusing bits of information and treasures it. Again, she treasures it. She doesn't just say, well, I don't know, but I guess I'll just have to keep on going. She takes, even though she's confused, they didn't understand. It says in verse 50. But she takes what she does know and treasures it. And that's what you've got to do. storm or you will be going through a storm. You may not be getting confused by what Jesus is doing in your life, but it won't be long. See, Christmas is a nice feeling time, but Luke is getting you ready for the rest of the story. And when that happens, do what Mary did. Don't just be stoic. Treasure what he's done for you. Treasure what you do know of him. And he'll grow in your favor, and he'll grow in grace and he'll grow in you and he will himself, he will duplicate his character in you and you will grow in grace in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us just to get ready for the time after Christmas. Christmas is a great time of eating and seeing people and taking time off work, but then real life crowds in We thank you that the gospel writer Luke has gotten us ready for that, that you may let us go through things that we don't understand, things that are necessary, things that have to happen. But when that happens and you aren't able or you aren't going in your wisdom to let us know at that moment why those things are happening, we pray that you would teach us to treasure what you have done for us, what you did on the cross, why you came to earth and were born in a manger that we can get through those storms and we can deal with the confusion. So we pray, Lord, that you would help us to grow in grace in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.
