From the Gospel of Luke, chapter 9, verses 20 through 25 and 51 through 62.

But what about you? he asked. Who do you say I am? Peter answered, the Christ of God. Jesus strictly warned them not to tell this to anyone, and he said, the Son of Man must many things and be rejected by the elders, chief priests, and teachers of the law, and he must be killed and on the third day be raised to life. Then he said to them all, if anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for me will save it. What good is it for a man to gain the whole world and yet lose or forfeit his very self?

As the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem. And he sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him. But the people there did not welcome him because he was heading for Jerusalem. When the disciples James and John saw this, they asked, Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them? But Jesus turned and rebuked them, and they went to another village. As they were walking along the road, a man said to them, I will follow you wherever you go. Jesus replied,

said, I will follow you, Lord, but first let me go and say goodbye to my family. Jesus replied, no one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God. This is the word of the Lord.

Looking at the life of Jesus in the gospel of Luke, the narrative of his life that Luke gives us. And the first eight chapters are all about who is Jesus? Who is this? The wind and sea obey him. Who is this that forgives sins? But when we get to chapter nine, where we are today, and where we were last week too, in chapter nine, there's a pivot. There's a change, the shift, because Peter comes up with a great insight of who he is. Peter comes to realize with the help of the Holy Spirit, that Jesus is not one more in a row of prophets and teachers and sages. He says, you are the Christ of God, the Christ of God. You are the Messiah. You are the one who's bringing the kingdom of God, the ruling, healing power of God come back into the world to heal and renovate and repair all the brokenness there is in the world, whether spiritual or psychological or physical or whatever. You are the one. What's interesting is the minute his identity is revealed, he immediately begins to say, follow me. In other words, chapters 1 to 8 are all about who is Jesus, but we're going to find that chapters 9 through 18 are all about if he is that, if he is this, what does it mean to follow him? If he is who he says he is, what does that make us? is that, what does it mean to follow him? Because the word follow is the key word for the next nine chapters, and this chapter lays out the basics of it. This chapter tells us what it means to be a disciple in the most basic way. That's what the whole passage is about, and there's three things, you notice there's three sections to the, we've taken out of this chapter, and each of the sections tells us one of the three basic principles that will help us understand what does it mean Christ. It means setting a new priority, it means finding a new identity, it means living a new mercy. Setting a new priority, finding a new identity, living out of, living a new mercy. All three are critical, they all fit together, let's look at them first, and we'll start at the bottom, at the last part of the chapter. First, being a disciple means setting a new priority. Now, these three men that Jesus meets, what's striking about them, this is verses 57 to the end, what's striking about them is that each one of them is eager. In fact, the first one is incredibly eager. They're all willing to follow him, and Jesus' response to them is harsh or at least blunt, and it's very surprising. What does it teach us? Well, Well, look, the first one, a man comes to Jesus and says, I will follow you wherever you go. Jesus says, foxes have holes, birds have nests, but the Son of Man does not have any place to lay his head. And what Jesus is saying is, I discern something. There's nothing wrong with what you just said, following me wherever you go, that's fine, but I discern a wrong heart attitude hiding underneath that right statement. Do you know what kind of Savior I am? Do you know what Savior I am? I'm not the kind that wins, that rallies people, that gets constituencies and pulls together armies and then triumphs. I am a Savior who saves through being condemned, through being arrested, through dying. I'm a Savior who saves through breaking my heart. And let's apply this to one area that I think you may have a problem with, he says to this person. person, he says, I see that you have a home, I see that you have possessions, I see that you have a nice standard of living, are you willing to put me before that? Are you willing to lose those things for me? And then he moves on to the second and the third, and the second and the third guys are both similar, their concern does not seem to be so much standard of living and possessions and wealth and so on, their concern is their family, the one man says, I'd love to come with you, father, the other person says, let me go back and say goodbye to my family. Now, again, there is nothing wrong with doing a funeral with your father, there's nothing wrong with going back to see your family, there's nothing wrong with what they ask, just like there wasn't anything wrong with the first person statement, but Jesus is saying, seeing a wrong heart attitude underneath the statement, see, what he's actually saying is, for you to go to your father's funeral would be a bad idea. For you to go back would be a bad idea. What he's actually saying is, I've got to come first. Because notice their language. In both cases, they say, Lord, first, let me do this. And look at the third guy. I will follow you, Lord, but first. In other words, you, but first, this. And Jesus says there can't be any but first. I must be first, or you're not my disciple. I must be before. I must be your priority over money, over your career, over your family, over your father. I have to be a priority over all those things. That's what he's saying. And he says it actually in a pretty, actually in a very, very vivid way. Notice the first, the last verse. He says, no one putting hand to the plow and looking back is fit for the service in the kingdom of God. Now, this is an image because when you plowed in that rocky soil, you could never look away when you were plowing. You know, the animal was pulling the plow and you were going along one furrow at a time, but unless you really watched, not only would the furrow that you were plowing go awry from the other furrow that you're supposed to be paralleling, but if you ran into a rock, it would break the plow, and so it was well known in those days, farmers could not look away, could not look up, could not look, had to look right at the plow. You had to be completely focused when you were plowing. You had to be completely without distraction. You had to ditch competing thoughts and just watch what you were doing. And Jesus is simply saying, a disciple, my disciple, has to be utterly focused on me. Nothing else can compete for first place in your life. life. And by the way, when he says fit for the kingdom, this is kind of an unfortunate translation. The word there means useful. When you see the word fit, you almost think he's saying, unless you're totally committed, you don't qualify for my kingdom. And of course, no one qualifies for Jesus' kingdom. It's all by grace. But what he actually is saying is, unless your relationship with Jesus Christ is the highest priority in your life,

unless delighting him, serving him, resembling him, and knowing him is the highest priority in your life, the healing power of the kingdom of God will not be flowing through you. You will not be a good vehicle. You will not be a useful vehicle for it. So first of all, he says that, but then the second thing he says, which is even more striking, is let the dead bury their dead. dead." Now, of all the things he says, this seems to be the most in your face, but it's also the most cryptic, so what does it mean? Well, obviously, when he says, ´ ´ µ as a physical body is to physical realities. And therefore, he's saying this. If you say, well, I believe in Jesus, but I can't put him first right now. I got my career. I'd like to have some fun. I gotta wait till my parents die because they would be pretty unhappy if I became a Christian. In other words, I'd like to put Jesus first and I will get to it someday. I get it. I see who he is. I see what he's done. I get it. But I'm not gonna put him first just yet. And what Jesus is saying is,

it, you wouldn't put it off. To say something else comes first, to fail to put me first in your life means there's a certain amount of spiritual deadness at work. If you got it, you wouldn't put it off. So you can't say, I understand. I'm just going to put Jesus first later. If you're putting Jesus first later, you don't understand, and therefore you won't be able to do it later. You don't get it. You need to wake up. Don't flatter yourself. When someone says, I understand Christianity. I'm just not ready to put it kind of like the central place of my life. Then you don't understand it. He says, it takes deadness to put anything before me. Let the dead bury their dead. If you're dead, you'll put your father before me. If you put your father before me, there's a kind of spiritual deadness going on in your life. Now,

I, you know, my personally, I don't like talking quite as harsh as I just talked to you. That's not my style, but I'm afraid to mute the smelling saltness of what Jesus is saying in these last verses. Let the dead bury the dead. No one is fit for the kingdom of God if you look back. What's he doing? Foxes have holes, birds have that. What he's trying to say is, I have to be the first priority in your life, or you're not a disciple, and if you don't put me as first in your life, it's not like you're just kind of uncommitted, or you're kind of lazy, or you're just kind of disorganized, you're just kind of undisciplined. You don't get it. You don't really see me. You don't see who I am. You don't see what I've done. You don't understand the meaning of it. You need to wake up. You need to grab yourself. You need to shake yourself.

In 1971, in the summer, Christian conference at a camp, and a woman spoke there and gave a talk that was one of the pivotal turning points in my life, and she used two illustrations in this talk. The first illustration was this. She said, she says, my name is Barbara Boyd, and she said, if somebody says to me, come on in, Barbara, but stay out, Boyd. It's a bit of a problem, she says, because I can't separate I'm all Barbara, and I'm all Boyd. It's not like the top half of me is Barbara and the bottom half is me, a boy, or the left, or... I'm all Barbara, and I'm all Boyd, so if you won't have Boyd, you can't get Barbara, because if you're going to keep the Boyd out, I can't come in at all, and then she said, just say, Jesus, come into my life, forgive my sins, answer my prayers, you know, I want to say I believe in you, I want the assurance of knowing I believe in you, you know, do this for me, do that for me, But don't be the absolute master of my life. Don't be the absolute focal point of every area of my life. Lord, come in, Jesus. Come in, Savior. Stay out, Lord. How can he come in at all? Because he's all Savior, and he's all Lord. He's Lord because he's Savior. He's Savior because he's Lord.

And then she used another illustration. She said, if the distance between the earth and the sun, which is 92 million miles, was the thickness of that piece of paper. She says, do you know that the diameter of our galaxy would be a stack of paper 310 miles high?

And do you know our galaxy is less than a speck of dust in the part of the universe that we can see with our technology? And do you know that the part of the universe we can see the smallest fraction, as it were, a speck of dust compared to all the universe there is? And if, she said, Jesus is the Son of God, as you so casually assent to, who holds all this together with a word of his power, is this the kind of person you ask into your life to be your personal assistant?

To do things for you when you want and to basically come when you call? Um, then she said, I want everybody in this meeting to get up and go outside, for one hour, say nothing. Can't talk, can't talk on the phone, can't talk to other people, you must, I just want, for one hour, I want you to think about what this means to you. Now, what was she trying to do? She was trying to do what Jesus is trying to do to these guys, and what I'm trying to do to you. She's trying to say, if you intellectually assent to some of these things, yeah, I think Jesus is probably the Son of God, I think he probably died for our the center of your life, He's not the number one highest priority in your life, in every area of your life, then you may think you understand, but you don't. It's not just a matter of commitment, it's not just a matter of lack of discipline, there's spiritual deadness, you don't really see it, you don't really understand it, you don't really get it, wake yourself up. up? So, the first thing that discipleship is, it's setting a new priority, but that's not all, that's not all. Secondly, to be a disciple is not just setting a new priority, it's finding a new identity, it's finding a whole new identity. In other words, discipleship is not just a matter of sort of bending your will to His will, but melting your heart into to a whole new shape. A disciple is not just someone who sets a new priority, finds a new identity. Now, this we get from the first part. And the first part of the passage where it says, if anyone would come after me, verse 23 to 25, he must deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. For whoever wants to save his life will lose it. Whoever will lose his life for me will save it. What good is it for a man to gain the whole world, yet lose or forfeit his very self? now at first sight especially verse 23 looks like it's just another way of saying uh set a new priority because the first thing he says is if anyone would come after me deny himself take up his cross and follow me and that certainly sounds like it's saying and it surely is in a way it certainly sounds like it's saying i am your master now you're not your own master you do my will, not your own will, but there's more to it, because in Semitic literature, very often the second and the third sentence just restate what happened in the first sentence, and the second and the third sentence say, For whoever wants to save his life will lose it, whoever loses his life for me will save it. Now, the word, life, is not the word for physical life, and he's not saying you need to lose your life physically, or you have to save your life physically, because there's a good bios, from which we get our word biology and so on. Instead, the word he uses here for life, that's translated life, is the Greek word psyche, the word for self. He's talking about the psychological life. He's talking about the inner life. And what he's saying is, it's pretty radical. He says, your old way of having an identity, your old way of gaining a sense of self, has got to be over. You have to, in a sense, die to it. And through me, I can give you a whole new identity. You must have a whole reconstructed identity. You'll get a whole new true self. That's what he's saying. Now, let's break this down for a second. Let me show you what he's not saying for a second. When you look at verse 24 and 25, especially 24, you realize that he's He's not actually saying, he's not really approaching identity the way either the typical Eastern or the typical Western approach works. He's not talking along those lines. The Eastern approach, the typical Eastern approach to self is, especially Buddhism you see, that the deepest consciousness of enlightenment in Buddhism is you lose all sense that you are an individual self. the boundaries between you and the rest of reality disappear. You merge, and you come to see that you are a part of the all. And therefore, the Eastern way to humility, the Eastern way to peace, is to actually lose the sense of an individual self. Now, if Jesus said, I want you to lose yourself, and he stopped right there, he might be thinking, well, maybe he's thinking in terms of that sort of terms, but he doesn't. He says, lose yourself to find yourself, which means, he says, He says, I want you to die to your old approach to identity, but you do get a sense of self. You do get a sense of an individual self. So he's not going the Eastern way, but he's sure not going the Western way. You know, W.H. Auden wrote a work called The Age of Anxiety, which is a wonderful set. He satirizes the modern Western obsession with finding yourself. There's a great line where he says, in The Age of Anxiety, he says, oh, miserable, wicked me, how interesting I am. Um, and of course, he's making fun of this. The Western obsession is that this is the main thing you're supposed to do in life, is to find yourself, and the way you do it is, uh, this is the typical way, is you find your deepest desires, and you fulfill them. Figure out what you really want, and you got to do it, and of course, there's a lot of problems with that. For example, a lot of your deepest desires conflict with each other, and, uh, and how do you know which one is the deeper one,

that, and the worst thing is to completely build your life on some deep desire, and after ten years it's completely changed, you know, and now it's a will-o'-the-wisp, and, and, of course, Jesus almost, almost has, it almost seems like he has us in mind when he says, you'll never find yourself by trying to find yourself, you'll never get a true self by trying to find yourself, you're going to have to lose yourself in serving me, you're never going to find out who you really are by trying to find out who you really are. There are some things that only happen as a byproduct of trying to get something else. There are some things that only happen as a byproduct, and identity is one of them. So, what is he talking about? Here's what he's saying. He says, the ordinary way that you gain a self in this world is by gaining things from the world, see? What good is it for a man

this is the normal way we do it this the marmori trying to get a self in fact the guys at the end of the chapter are examples are some people say your nobody unless you have a career unless you have money unless your status so you trying to gain the wealth and the status than you know your somebody means that gives you a sense of self a sense of worth a sense a value a sense that being set apart other people in more traditional cultures are different kind temperaments say, no, you're not somebody unless you have a family, unless you have the white picket fence and the husband or the wife and the kids and the parents who love you and all. And he said, then I know I'm not nobody, then I'm somebody. You're gaining something, and then you have a sense of self. But Jesus is saying here, I want you to know that if you get the whole world, the whole world cannot give you a stable self, because if you try to get an identity by gaining things in the world, whether it's family, or whether it's career, whatever, if you, if you try, if you build your identity on anything in this world, it's radically unstable, you'll lose it, it's, if you build your identity on anything in this world, you'll never know whether the things that you're trying to get, whether you have them or have enough of them, or whether you're going to be able to keep them, and if anything threatens them, you're not just unhappy, you feel like your very self is falling apart, because it is, because it's completely built on that. He says, if you lose yourself for me, in other words, instead of trying to gain things, instead of trying to gain a self by gaining things, build everything in your life on me, on who I am, what I have done, base your life not on your career, father, not on your family, not on having a nice home, not on anything else but me. And finally, you'll have a self that you cannot lose. Finally, you'll have a self that is stable. Finally, you'll have a true self, a very self, because you were built to know me. So Jesus is saying, and this is rather important, when I look back at my old sermons and talks years ago on discipleship, I almost always only had the first point. Discipleship means bending your will to meet his will. But Jesus obviously goes beyond this, and I've come to see that would just, that would be mechanical. In addition, a disciple is not just someone who has set a new priority, but has found a new identity. Not just someone who's sort of complied with the will, but his or her entire identity has been reshaped and forged. But how is that possible? Well, there's a third reason, and there's a third way. The third thing we're told hold here is not just that a disciple is someone who sets a new priority and finds a new identity, but the key to the other two are lives a new mercy. And that comes out of the middle section. Now, this section is one of the most, one of the more neglected parts of Luke. I don't think I've ever preached on it, or at least not directly on it. And look what happens. Jesus is on his way to Jerusalem. And it says in verse 52, he sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him. But the people there did not welcome him. They rejected him. And when the disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, you want us to call fire down from heaven to destroy them? Now, let's try to understand them, okay? Instead of just saying, what idiots? Let's just try to understand them. And you know what? If you were here last week, or if you think of the transfiguration, you begin to understand something. First of all, you need to know that there was a person, there was a figure, that used to call down fire on people. His name was Elijah.

Secondly, Jesus Christ on the Mount of Transfiguration just appeared with Elijah and Moses. And the message of the transfiguration was that, God, Jesus was even greater than Moses and Elijah. So now, okay, think of the logic of the disciples. You're even better than Elijah. These people have rejected you, and that's even worse than rejecting Elijah. That is even more effrontery to the Godhead. And therefore, shall we not bring down fire and destroy them? You see, twice Elijah did this. In 1 Kings 19, at Mount Carmel, when he was in the great contest with the prophets of Baal. He called down fire from heaven, and then he had all the prophets of Baal slaughtered because they rejected the true God. And then in 2 Kings 1, and I've never seen anybody... This has got to be turned into a Hollywood action film with great special effects. Ahab, the wicked king, is trying to kill Elijah. So Ahab sends groups of soldiers to try to capture him so one guy shows up with 50 soldiers and he sees Elijah at the top of a hill and he says man of God come down and Elijah looks down and says if I'm a man of God fire will come down on you and down comes fire and destroys them just burns them to a crisp and then Ahab sends a second group same thing happens man of God come down if I'm a man of God fire will come down on you down they come the third the third group comes and the commander gets on his knees and said would you please come to see Ahab? It's hilarious. I have never figured out why no one has made it into a movie, because this is a kind of prophet that the world can relate to. Power, see, rejects the true God. Fire, judgment, destruction. Jesus Christ says, says, what? Oh, just shut up. He rebukes them. He doesn't rebuke the unbelievers. He rebukes the disciples. He is the absolute un-Elijah. Can you imagine the perplexity? And can you imagine the continued perplexity? If he's greater than Elijah, soldiers come after Jesus, you know. They come after him to kill him in the garden. And what does he do? He heals He heals one of the ears that was cut during a skirmish. Here they come. Man of God, come down. What does Jesus do? I see one of you is hurt. Let me heal you. And then later on, the soldiers are pounding nails into his hands, into his feet, splintering the bones into the wood of the cross. And what does he do? Father, forgive them. They really don't understand what they're doing. Why? Why is Jesus the un-Elijah? Why doesn't fire come down on the Samaritans? Why doesn't fire come down on the soldiers? Why? And the answer is, just three chapters later, Jesus says something very strange. This is in Luke chapter 12. He says, I have come to bring fire on the earth, and how I wish it were already kindled. Now, that's very interesting for a couple of reasons. One is, fire in the Bible, in biblical imagery, always means the judgment of God. And secondly, he says he comes to bring fire on the earth. Well, this is a little perplexing because after all, he was just rejected. The disciples asked him to bring down the fire the way Elijah did, and he doesn't do it. Why not? He says he comes to bring fire on the earth. Ah, Semitic literature, the second sentence is a restatement of the first. This is what he actually says in Luke 12, 49 and 50. He says, I have come to bring fire on the earth and how I wish it were are already kindled, I have come to undergo a baptism, and how crushed I am until it's completed.

Wait a minute. He's already been baptized with water. He's talking about something else.

I've come to bring fire, how constrained I am until it's completed. I have come to undergo a baptism, how crushed I am until it's over. You know why the fire didn't come down on the Samaritans? You know why the fire didn't come down on these soldiers because the fire came down on him. He was baptized. He was immersed with the judgment of God. He got what we deserve. See, this is the answer to all the riddles. You look back over the years, and you see over and over again when people want to atone for their sins and they need to be forgiven, they would take a sacrifice, put it on the altar, and burn it with fire. And, you know, there's something inside that says intuitively, that can't be enough to put away sins, and you are right all those fires was pointing to this fire and the reason the soldiers got a healing touch instead of judgment the reason the samaritans that didn't come down on the samaritans didn't come down on the soldiers because it came down into the heart of jesus christ he came to take it he came to bear it he came to be rejected verse 12 22 they rejected him shouldn't they be rejected. He's rejected for them. The Son of Man came to be rejected and to be killed.

And what does this mean? It means this. This is the secret to the change of identity. Unless you see he took the fire for you, unless you recognize this, unless you recognize what has come down, see? Unless you're able to sort of sing deeply from the heart about it. Like, for example, thou art the way to God. Thy blood the ransom paid. In thee we meet our judge and maker unafraid. Before the throne absolved we stand. Thy love has met thy law's demand. In other words, you have to be melted and amazed and astounded by the fact he took the fire for to everything else, and here's the reason why, you cannot change your identity without a radical experience of mercy, mercy, without a radical experience of grace, grace, without a radical experience of love, why? You can't just say, look, I've had people say to me, you know, it makes sense, you talk about the fact that if you build your identity on anything besides God, it's unstable, you're right, I probably should build my identity, I probably should change my identity, you can't change your identity by just deciding, Someone can't say, you know, I'm having a problem in my life because I built my identity on my parents' expectations, I think I'll build my identity on my career accomplishments, you can't do that, it's not an act of a will, that's not transformation, that's acting, because your heart is not a computer that you can just, you know, put in a program, you can't say, I think I'll change my identity, there's only one way that the root of your personality can be changed, and that is by an experience of love, only when your heart experiences love from a new source beyond anything it's ever known before, will your heart start to move toward that source. And it'll start to be deeply changed. That's the only way. Then it'll be reforged. Then it'll be changed in the deepest level. That's the only way. Thomas Chalmers, famous Scottish preacher, famous sermon, The Expulsive Power of a New Affection, says it all. He says,

So the young man may cease to idolize pleasures of the flesh, but it's only because the idol of wealth has gotten the ascendancy, and then he can discipline himself for prosperous business. Even the love of money can cease to have mastery over the heart if it's drawn into the world of ideology and politics, and he is now lorded over more by a love of power. But there is not one of these identity transformations in which the heart is left without an object. The heart's desire for one particular object may be conquered, but its desire to have some object of absolute love is unconquerable. It is only when admitted into the number of God's children through faith in Jesus Christ that the spirit of adoption is poured out on us. It is then and only then the heart brought under the mastery of one great predominant affection is delivered from the tyranny of all its former desires, and the only way that deliverance is possible. So it is never enough to hold out perfection, saying, look how bad you are, soul. It's not enough to speak to your conscience of its follies. Look at your foolishness. Rather, you must try every possible method of finding deep access to your hearts for the love of him who is greater than the world.

Until you're melted by the sight, the knowledge, the sense, the amazing fact of Jesus taking the fire for you, you can't have that transformation of identity. You can't just decide, I think I better change my identity. It can't be done. There has to be an experience of love. And therefore, Jesus is saying, your career can't die for you. Even your mother and father, even the best ones, they're going to leave you because they're going to die. Don't give the title deed of your heart to anyone but me. Don't have any other master but me, because I'm the only one that if you get me, I'll never leave you. And if you fail me, me, I'll forgive you. I'll forgive you. So you have to have all three. There's got to be living out of this new radical mercy, which brings you into finding a new identity, which brings you into setting a new priority, and thereof a peace. Now let me just give us a couple practical final notes. Please notice three things real quickly about how to be a disciple, three practical things. Number one, discipleship is not an option. You see the place where it says, follow me, you know what he's saying? He's saying to come after means if you want to have any, it's a general term, if you want to have any experience of me, if you want to have anything to do with me, if you want to have any relationship to me, you have to be a disciple. There are not two kinds of Christianity, regular Christianity and people who are really disciples. There's only one. To be a Christian is to be a disciple, to have anything to do with me, is to follow me in the way I define it here, setting a new priority, finding a new identity, experiencing living out of a new mercy. Secondly, though, okay, after having said that, it's not an option. It's not something, oh, maybe someday. It's not an option. On the other hand, it's a journey. See, the brilliant narrative, it's narratively brilliant of Luke to do this. See verse 51? Jesus sets out on a journey toward Jerusalem. It's Jesus' journey of discipleship. He sets out. it says literally he sets his face to go to Jerusalem. And it's from the moment he begins his journey toward the cross that he begins all of his teaching about discipleship. You know that? All the next nine chapters, all the teaching of discipleship comes as he's going on the journey. And this is Luke's way of saying, it's very brilliant, discipleship is a journey. In other words, on the one hand, it's decisive. There is a decisiveness. You have to leave. Have you left? gift, to go on the journey means to say, I take my hands off my life. To go on the journey says, I give up my right to self-determination. To go on the journey means to say, I will obey you, Lord, and I get rid of all the ifs. Not obey you if, obey you if, obey. I drop my conditions, I drop the ifs, they're gone. Not until you say that have you begun the journey. However, after your decisive beginning of the journey, the fact of the matter is, it's a process. It takes time. You're not going to have it all together. It's very important to keep that in mind because if you think that discipleship is the way you're saved by being committed and being focused and giving Jesus the priority, that's what's going to please God. That's what's going to get you saved. You're missing the point. Look at the order. He doesn't and say, if you follow me, I'll go to the cross for you. He says, I'm going to the cross for you, so follow me. You're not saved because you're a disciple. You're a disciple if and only if you understand what he has done to save you. So it takes a moment of decision. You need to leave,

but it's a journey. It's a process. You don't have to have it all together. So it's not optional, but it's a journey. And there's one last thing. The sign of true growing gospel disciples is gentleness. What really amazes me about the heart of this passage is the disciples say, probably trying to show their commitment. They're saying, we're going to show you how committed we are to you. We're going to show how intensely committed we are to you. Look at those people rejecting you. Don't you want us to bring fire down on them? And

you don't get it, and they don't, here's why,

my experience is that religion in general, people who are really strong disciples of religion, of any religion, any philosophy, even any politics, political cause, people who are the most committed, and are hardest on themselves, in a particular cause, are very hard on other people too, they're hard on themselves, so they're going to be hard on you, they're committed to the cause, so why aren't you committed to the cause, you should all be committed to the cause, so weird about the gospel. It is utterly different. The harder you are on yourself in the gospel, the easier you are on other people. Jesus Christ is saying to them, my disciples are not terrorists.

My disciples know they're saved by grace, so when they look at people who aren't doing it right, they don't say, why aren't you as good as we are? Why aren't you as committed as we are? They don't call fire down from heaven on people. He says, you don't understand at all. You haven't had the transformation of identity because you do not understand my mercy yet. You don't know what I've done for you. I guess you can't, but someday you will. The mark. These people are probably racist. Notice this. They're calling down fire on Samaritans. A lot of Israelites have done a lot of things to reject Jesus, but this is the first time they wanted fire to come down. There's racism, maybe. There's self-righteousness, definitely. Self-righteousness, bigotry, stridency, harshness, they go away the more you become a disciple. They go away the more central in your life is Jesus taking the fire for you, and that's a sign that you're not just trying to save yourself. That's a sign you're not just being religious. That's a sign that you're not trying to save yourself through your commitment. Are you getting more gentle? Are you getting more tolerant? Are you getting more gracious, that is, with people? around you, more kind to them? Oh, follow him, and you know, he'll give you what you need. He's a wonderful counselor. One guy comes and says, I'm ready to follow you wherever you go. He says, go home and think about it. Another guy says, I want to go home and think about it. He says, follow me. What? Because he's the perfect counselor. All other counseling theories look flat next to him, because he never just gives you a template. He gives you exactly what you need, so follow him, and he will give you exactly what you need. He will love you, singularly, he will love you yourself. He will love you into a whole new identity. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us a Lord who says, follow me and calls us into radical discipleship. We see that this discipleship leads to tremendous gentleness. We see that this discipleship leads us into joy, into a stable self. We see this discipleship leads us into so many great things. We ask that you would help us to apply this to our own lives. Let us go home and think about what this means. Use the scripture and through your Holy Spirit to wake us up. Get rid of that deadness that misses the centrality of Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
