We're going to sing some praise songs. Why? Not just because it makes us feel good. Psalm 33 says, Sing joyfully to the Lord, you righteous. It is fitting for the upright to praise Him. Praise the Lord with the harp, make music to Him on the ten-string lyre. Where's, there we go, that's better, good. That's, yeah. Play skillfully. and shout for joy. Now, one thing that's fascinating about this, I get through the Psalms as regularly as I can now, and this first verse where it says, it is fitting for the upright. What does that mean? That's one of those places where the English translation sort of sounds, when you say, in English, the word fitting just means what? It means it is proper. But actually, literally what it means is, what it says in the Hebrew is praise fits. Now, and it's a little mysterious, but most of the commentators say it must mean this. It fits you. It fits him. It's actually an ambiguous word. Usually the verb form has an object and it sort of deliberately has no object because what it's trying to say is what praise does, first of all, it fits God. Unless you come toward God with praise, seeing him as he is. But just as important, and some of the commentators say, it probably means as much as, you know, usually the word fitting means for you, right? It is fitting. And what it really means is praise fits us. It's the thing that our heart needs. It's the thing that actually we're after. To have any other kind of life but a life of praise to the Lord is like wearing a set of clothes which is too big or too small. It feels awful, doesn't it? I don't know which is worse, small. But the only kind of life that fits you and fits your heart, the only kind of life your heart is really built for is praise. All four of our songs, we're going to start on this side, right? We're going to start with a kind of venerable hymn and then we're going to start on this side with the music. We're going to move through four praise songs all about blessing and honor and glory to God because it fits. Let's stand and praise him. Let's pray. After this, I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count. from every nation, tribe, people, and language, standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. And they cried out in a loud voice, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanks and honor and power and strength be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Our Father, we pray that you'd more and more subjectively include us in that great hymn of praise. We know that the minute we believe, the minute we cross over from death to life, the minute we put our trust in you, the minute we are grafted into the body of Christ, every time we pray, every time we sing, just as we have now, we are singing at Mount Zion. We are at that throne. We are part of that throng. We are part of that church universal. But we don't sense it. We know it's objectively true. But do we know it subjectively? No, we don't. Give us the poise. Give us the confidence. Give us the deep joy that would come from knowing that's what we've been fitted for. That's what we are in for. That's what we're even now part of. We ask that you'd make us a people of praise. It's the only way to change our hearts is change what we praise. to change our lives. Let's change what we praise. Help us to praise from the bottom of our heart. Unite our hearts to praise your name. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Have a seat. Would you take out your handout? In some ways, this is an introduction to what we're going to do this year, but I want to give you some real content. But I would like you to, for a moment, turn over that first sheet that actually tells you what we're doing all year. I want to get back to what I'm going to do with you tonight. I'll get back to that, show you where we're going. And actually, you know, be ready, because I wouldn't mind getting some feedback, even in a group this size, some feedback about what you would like to see. If I have time, I might say, hey, do you understand where we're going? What do you want to make sure we get to this year? We might not have the time. But we'll get to that,

this schedule sheet actually after. Turn over to the inside, inside, and we get to this first sheet called Life Together in Gospel Community. This is what we're going to talk about this year, all year. Well, actually, the MCMs are only once a month, so we're only talking about ten, ten of them. However, when you think of life together in Christian community, I mean, I know that I tend to think of almost fairly narrowly, I tend to think of fellowship, I tend to think of spiritual gifts maybe, but Christian community is Life together in Christian community is what we're going to talk about all year, and I'll show you why. I'd like tonight to give you an introduction to what it is, to why it's important, and to how the gospel both creates Christian community and expresses itself in Christian community. But what I really want to get across tonight is how absolutely critical being part of a very, very close set of relationships, being very much a part of a very deep Christian community, is central to everything about being a Christian. Now, let me show you what I mean. Basically, when it says, let's take a look at the top where it says, what is Christian community? Jesus Christ did not simply, well, actually, let me put it in the most stark way. Jesus Christ did not leave a book. He left a community. In other words, if he left a book without a community, he wouldn't have had either. But if he left a community without a book, he knew that they'd put one together out of his teachings. Christian community is modeled in Jesus. When Jesus took his disciples, he did not say, okay, Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from three to six at this location, we'll get together and I'll teach you what you need to know. No. The disciples didn't get together just simply because they all had to be in the same room to hear him speak, he formed them into a community. Because a Christian community, and this is a little definition, and I'll show you why. A Christian community is a demonstration plot of the kingdom of God. In their relationships to one another, and in the way they related to the rest of the world, the disciples, which is in a sense the original Christian community, were supposed to model what the gospel really was about in every area of life. Now, let me show you just how central that is. I'm going to give you three little texts, one from Jesus, one from Peter, one from Paul, to show that this isn't just a Jesus thing, just a Paul thing, or just a Peter thing. In Matthew 5, 14 to 16, Jesus says, we're a city set on a hill. In a sense, in the Sermon on the Mount, He calls us to be a city set on a hill, whose visible behavior shines out and shows the world the glory of God. Let your good works be known and they may glorify, you know, the Lord, shine out. Now, when the Bible, when Jesus calls us to be a city, especially in New York, but in general, that is an amazing, amazing call. First of all, it means, and to me, it took my breath away as I was meditating on it. First of all, it means, well, basically what it means is Christians are called to be an alternate city in every city. See, when God calls you to be a city on a hill, what does that mean? Well, it means at least this. First of all, in New York, it means that we're supposed to be an alternate New York City, Redeemer, or actually every church. But at least the Christian church in New York City is called to be an alternate New York City inside New York. Now, how would you do that? First of all, that means, first of all, it has to mean we have to reach out and basically include all the different kinds of people in New York in our alternate New York, right? I mean, nobody's going to see the Redeemer or the Christian church in New York as an alternate New York unless everybody's in it. In fact, I put down here, it reminds me of the Ark. In fact, I bet you there's a lot of parallels here. Remember Noah, if he was going to basically create a mini world to save a mini world out of the world that was and get every kind. And first of all, it certainly means that you're not going to be able to form an alternate city in a church like Redeemer unless you're really reaching out and getting in all kinds of people. Now, it's very clear that there's 130 language groups in New York City, and we're not going to have all 130 language groups in our church. But it does mean that, first of all, it has to be diverse, and it also means that the church of New York in general has going to have to be as diverse as New York City. But now secondly, to be a city inside the city means we would have to then model alternate ways of doing everything. We'd have to show them another kind of city. We'd have to model not just Bible study and fellowship when we get together. We'd have to show New York City a different way of doing business, a different way of economic life, a different way of sexuality, of art, of race relations, of the way we treat human life, conflict resolution, material sharing of our resources, everything. And the bottom line, though, of course, is that when Jesus Christ commands us to be a city, an alternate city, a city set on a hill, that is not a command you can obey by yourself. If you're sitting there, individual Christian, and you read it and say, Jesus calls me to be a city on a hill, okay, I'm going to do that. You can't. Sorry. You can't be a city on a hill. Where's your subway? I mean, you know, in other words, you need a group. You've got to be a body. And obviously, when that body gets together, it can't just be an aggregation that likes to get together. It can't just be a club. It's really got to be people who are united to one another so thoughtfully and so, you know, strongly that they really are an alternate society. So, for example, so the call to be a city... By the way, that's the reason why when you read the Sermon on the Mount, very early in chapter 5, this city on a hill thing comes, which means most of us are reading the Sermon on the Mount wrong. We tend to read the Sermon on the Mount as how I should be living, sort of in my own individual self. But the fact is, the Sermon on the Mount is one of the places where Jesus is telling us what the alternate city should look like. So you can't even obey the Sermon on the Mount by yourself. Let me give you another example. Peter, 1 Peter 2.9. This verse is every bit as radical a statement as what Jesus said about being a city on a hill. In 1 Peter 2.9, it says, you are a chosen people, talking to Christians, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Now, there's an awful lot to say about this verse. All I want to say is one. When Peter calls us a holy nation, he's literally saying we're a hagioi ethne, which means we are a holy ethnic. That's one of the weirdest things in the Bible. It's clear when Peter's talking, he's not talking to just Jewish Christians. He's talking to all kinds of Christians, Roman and Greek and every kind of Christian. But he says that when you become a Christian, be a holy. Now, the word holy in its original meaning, it means distinct, set apart, right? Some of you might have talked a little bit about holiness in a sermon this summer. What he's really saying is when you become a Christian, I'll stick with my text here, you do really become a new ethnic, a new culture. Now, I'll stick with this here. A club or association is a group of people united at one or two spots. In other words, if you're in a tennis club, everything else might be different about you. Everything else you might go about apart from one another, but you get together to play tennis. That's it. That's the one point of contact. Here's 3,000 things about me, and one of them is I like tennis, and here's 3,000 things about you, and one of them is you like tennis, and we connect right there, and that's it. But that's a club, not a culture, Because in a culture, people are connecting all up and down. A culture is not just a way to do one thing, like have tennis, nor is it to study the Bible. A culture is something that when two people are part of a culture, it means they have common ways of doing almost everything. I mean, culture encompasses not just your moral values, but even humor. And this means Peter's saying, the gospel so changes every part of our lives. about this next week, by the way. This doesn't mean that if you're Italian and become a Christian, you stop being Italian. You know why? If you say Christianity wipes out your old culture and makes you part of a new culture, in other words, if you think it's total, it just wipes out your old culture and makes you part of a new culture, the real question is whose new culture? Whenever missionaries over the years have said, well, you know, you've become a Christian, therefore you're not Chinese anymore or you're not African anymore, what they really meant is you're not going to be European. You see, if you try to say the gospel wipes out your old culture, there's always going to be some new human culture that we've really got up our sleeve that we're trying to push on you. However, we can't overlook the fact that this is saying that when you become a Christian, you change so profoundly that you are to some degree given some, I put down here, critical distance from your original culture. You're never the same again. It certainly at least means, as I've tried to say, but I got this from Martin Lloyd-Jones years ago, that you have more in common with a Christian from another culture than you do from a person who's not a Christian in your own. You find that out even though it's tough. And if you're not in a very good Christian community, if you're not with very mature Christians, after a while you'd rather go back to the non-Christian members of your own culture. And that's one of the things we have to talk about this year. But the fact is that you are a white person second and you're a Christian first, okay? You're an American second, you're a Christian first. You're a black person second and you're a Christian first. That's what it means. What it means is you're pulled out somewhat out of your culture. You get a critical distance from it and then it gives you a profound union of belief and experience with people very different from us. So as just as Christians are, Jesus says Christians are an alternate city in every city, so Peter is saying we're an alternate culture in every culture. And you can't obey the call to be a holy nation by yourself. You can't say, okay, I'm going to go out and be a holy nation. You can't do it. Let me give you a third. I'm going to be much briefer. But the third one, just to show you how pervasive this is. Romans 12, I was going to read you this. In Romans chapter 12 verses 1 and 2, this is a very famous text. And you probably heard it. I'm going to read it and then I'm going to paraphrase it to show you that we tend to read it individualistically. Romans 12. Yeah, here we are. Sorry. Paul says, therefore, I urge you, brothers, in view of God's mercy, offer your bodies as living sacrifices, holy and pleasing to God. This is your spiritual worship. Do not be conformed anymore to the pattern of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. You've heard that before? Now, the NIV does a real no-no. It says, offer your bodies as living sacrifices. Why? Why? In the Greek, Paul says, offer your bodies, plural, as a living sacrifice, singular. Now, that is either a grammatical error. Oh, we found an error in the Bible. That is either a grammatical error or else it's deliberate. Now, what the NIV translators did is they treated it as a grammatical error and they smoothed it out. But it's very clear, if it's not a grammatical error, if it's deliberate, then Paul is saying this. What it means, what he's saying is the sacrifice that pleases God is if you take your individual lives and turn it into a single unified corporate sacrifice to him. And so what he's actually saying here is, and let me give you the paraphrase of it. He is saying, present your collective bodies as a single living sacrifice, holy, distinct, and pleasing to God. Do this to show an alternative to the spirit of this world continually renew your mind in order to do this. It's like take your individual selves and become a single corporate body, which shows the difference between Christ and the way of the world. So let me read you this. What this means is, number one, Paul's saying, present your bodies to be a sacrifice, plural to singular. The disagreement of singular and plural nouns is deliberate. He says we are to take our individual lives and behavior, uniting them together as a corporate sacrifice. That's what makes God happy, to see, and this is very hard for Western people,

individuality are complete freedom and become accountable to each other and become a group, become a body. We are to become a unified body. Then secondly, he says, don't be conformed to this world, be transformed by the renewal of your mind. This means that the purpose of our corporate unity is to be an alternate to the world's way of living, show the world another way of being a society. Our community has to be very carefully thought out. I mean, when it says by the renewal of your minds, it means it's going to take a lot of thinking and we're going to have But this is essentially the same thing as Jesus when he says you're an alternate city in every city, you're an alternate culture in every culture. Now, next page here. Therefore, the purpose of Jesus' salvation is not just to save you as an individual and get you to heaven, but it's to put you into and to form a new alternate society that's a sign to the world that Jesus is Lord of the world and he's going to redeem creation. The Christian community is therefore the comprehensive and distinct way to be human in deep relationship with other Christians who've been transformed by the gospel. Now I want to show you just how absolutely critical this is. What I mean by that is, whenever I talk about the centrality of the gospel, what I'm trying to say is the gospel isn't one more thing next to others, but it's the way we do everything. Now in the same way, I guess we can talk about the centrality of community. I have, and surely a lot of you have, have thought of Christian fellowship as sort of one more thing we have to do. I mean, when I was a new Christian, I was always told, now if you want to grow as a Christian, in fact, I can tell you the five, I learned this when I was a brand new Christian. They said Bible study, prayer or worship, okay, fellowship and witness or service or ministry, which is still, by the way, pretty good. Bible study, prayer and worship, fellowship, witness and service. So I saw it as one of the things I had to do. And that does not properly show the centrality of it. What I'd like to show you is actually Bible study outside of community almost always leads to cult and heresy. Witness outside of community almost always leads to ineffectiveness. Actually, community, you can make a pretty good case that community is the way to do all the others. Look, let me show you. For example, mission. The quality of our community is the secret of mission. There is no doubt about it. I once heard Jeff White speak on this, and I remember this pretty well because it struck me. Jeff said that if you're an exceptional individual, let's just say you're an incredibly great Christian, and you're really kind of a hero, you will have an impact on non-believers, but you won't have a big impact. Why? First of all, atheism and other religions also produce individual heroes of unusual greatness. And secondly, an exceptional individual, an incredibly pure and holy and godly individual, is not really very inviting. No matter how loving you are, you're intimidating. There's a few of you around. And people basically say, it's just, I could never do that. In some ways, you're off-putting. but an incredibly exceptional community. See, an incredibly loving person basically doesn't say, hey, really, you can be part of this salvation. In a way, it does bring you, but you're also intimidating. But an exceptionally loving community makes a non-believer say, I want to be part of that. And frankly, it's a much better evidence of the power of the gospel. And in John chapter 17, verse 23, Jesus says this directly when He says to the Father in His prayer, He says, make them one Father, even as we are one, that the world will know you sent Me and have loved them even as you have loved Me. Now, you know, Francis Schaeffer years ago wrote a whole book on that verse. What Jesus is saying is, if the world does not see extraordinary and inexplicable loving unity and community, it's not going to believe. It's not going to believe, A, that Jesus was sent by God, and B, it's not going to actually believe, it's not going to believe that you've been changed by the gospel, see? Because what Jesus says is, make them one even as we are one, that the world will know that you sent me and have loved them even as you've loved me. They're not going to, until you're blue in the face, you can say to non-Christians, oh, God loves me through Christ. And if you can't, this is what the text says, if you can't show them a community of people amazing, unusual and remarkable, they're not really going to believe you. So in a sense, community is your mission. It's a huge part of the mission. In fact, all, I'll tell you what, I would say all, including my preaching, my preaching, your friendship evangelism, you know, little programs of witnessing are basically always of getting people to come to see whether the gospel is true. And the main way they're going to see whether the gospel is true as how we're living our lives out together. Secondly, and this is more brief, but learning. If you read how Jesus taught his disciples, as I already mentioned, he did not educate them in a classroom. A classroom relationship is one in which the students and teachers contact each other only in an intellectual point period. They don't live together. They don't eat together. They don't contact one another socially. They don't contact each other emotionally and spiritually as well. Jesus did not set up a classroom relationship. He put together the most...three years with his disciples was the most, single most important educational process and event in the history of the world. And he didn't make it a classroom. What he did was he said he created a community because there's plenty of time to work out truth and discussion and dialogue and application. You could be in a class with somebody for years and years and years almost and not realize just how grumpy and how moody they are. And as a result, you can talk a lot about all sorts of theological things, but you'll never actually confront them and say, hey, if you believe this and this, why are you acting like this? And so no learning is going on. And so, in fact, I'll go further. I'll mention this a little later. Bible study is not separate from community, and I'll tell you why. Catholics know this. The Protestants don't. Now, I'm Protestant. Therefore, there's certain aspects of the Catholic approach to this I don't like, of course. But here, Catholics know that if you're reading the Bible and you say, Aha! I see something that nobody else has ever seen, you're kidding yourself. Because, you see, we're supposed to be doing things in community. And the way you make sure you know what the Bible teaches is you also consult with everybody else in the community. You consult with other Christians. You consult with the exegetes and the theologians of the church. You have to study in community or else you're in for a cult. And that's exactly how cults start. A cult starts when somebody sits down and says a verse and says, aha, I've got it, and doesn't feel they've got to check with anybody else. Really, learning that's not in community, Bible study that's not in community is on its way to some kind of heresy. Thirdly, ethics. And this is real important. Far more of the biblical ethical prescriptions are addressed to us as a community, far more of what the Bible says we must live. Now, so much of it is addressed to us as a community rather than individuals. The Ten Commandments were given to Israel at Mount Sinai to form them into a society. This is what the society will look like. I already mentioned that Romans 12 should be read as a description of what this alternate society should look like. Because in the very beginning, he's saying, I want you to become a single unit. The Sermon on the Mount should be read as what this alternate humanity should look like. And almost all the ethical prescriptions are, how are we going to live together? Now, I put down here, this is common sense. Really, why? First of all, it is very hard to live a godly life by yourself. It's very hard. That's the reason why almost all the places where the Bible says live like this is done in the context of live like this together. Listen, in a place like New York City, you're not going to stay sexually pure unless you've got some other Christians you're talking to about your sex life. Well, some of you are. Good. But I don't think most of us are. I don't think most of us can do that without community. In fact, I'll go a little further. many of the ethical prescriptions in the Bible seem maddeningly nonspecific. Over the years, I've had so many people come and say, why is the Bible so general? Why doesn't it tell me exactly? Well, I don't want to give you the examples. You know, the Bible doesn't say, the Bible says you may divorce your husband or your wife if they've committed adultery, but it doesn't say you have to. It doesn't say when you would decide to do that or not. Once your spouse has committed adultery, them or not. And I've had people over the years sit down and say, how could the Bible not give me some more direction? I think part of the answer, not just to that one, but to all sorts of other places, is the Bible never expected you to be making ethical decisions by yourself. And if the Bible gave you such detailed ethical prescriptions that you could, as an individual, decide exactly what to do in every situation, that Bible would have been too specific to be the guidebook for Christians in every culture and every century. You see, in every culture and every century, you're going to lay things out a little bit differently. A good example of this is the Bible says, don't lord it over. If you're a leader of a group, do not lord it over them. Now, if it got more specific, we'd be in trouble because what is lording it over in one culture is not lording it over in another. You know what I mean? And that's the reason why so many of these prescriptions are general because they're supposed to fit into every culture. and they don't get more specific is you're not supposed to decide these things by yourself. You're supposed to get together and decide what is greed. A lot of people say, how much of my money should I give away? How simply should I live? We should talk about it. Because obviously in every culture it's very, very different. Even those of you who think you're living simply in this culture in this time, other people would say you're living in the lap of luxury. So you have to work it out in community. Turn over. Therefore, it's a typical mistake of Christians to miss the centrality of community. We often think of it as just the result of the gospel. We say, ah, the gospel creates community. It is, but, and we'll see more about how that works next week. I can say a little bit about it here. But here we've seen that community isn't simply the result of the preaching of the gospel. It is itself part of the preaching of the gospel. See, it's not just the result of the declaration of the gospel. It is part of the declaration of the gospel. I mean, it's part of the good news. Go down to the next paragraph. We often think of community as one more thing we have to do in the rules. I have to read my Bible. I have to pray. I have to stay sexually pure. I need to go to fellowship. But community is really the way we do everything. And I already mentioned this example. Now, what we're going to start doing next week, and I'll say something real brief about this, and I'll end with a series of questions. But on this page, this third page, how does the gospel create community? Maybe I'll wait until next week on that. But basically what happens is, as you can see here, the gospel creates a new self-image. If you believe you're saved by works, you're going to feel superior to the people who are not performing as well as you. You're going to feel inferior to the people who are performing better than you. And outside of those small, there's a small number of people who are pretty much like you. They're like you culturally. They're like you it physically. They're like you socially. They're like you intellectually. They're not so far beyond you or beneath you. And most people without the gospel have got to stick with those people because you really, you feel inferior to people who are above you and you feel superior to people who are below you, at least in your scale. And most people have to stick with a fairly small number of people that you can be friends with. The gospel changes that. What the gospel does is,

under the gospel dynamic. It says, the gospel makes us neither self-confident nor self-disdaining, but both bold and humble because of the gospel. Number one, we neither earn our worth through approval from people, which causes a lot of inferiority, nor through power over people, which creates a lot of superiority. So we don't get over-dependent on people, but we're also not afraid of being vulnerable. See, without the gospel, you're going to either be over-dependent and love vulnerability too much, or you're going to be under-dependent and you're going to hate vulnerability too much. The gospel changes that so not only in your relationship with the individual person who's like you, you can have a real relationship of sort of reciprocity without worrying about, you know, how am I looking? But of course, it also means you have the possibility of having real friendships with people that most, without the gospel, you could never even handle. You couldn't be there. You couldn't handle them. that's why I look at the last paragraph on this page Jonathan Edwards in his book the nature of true virtue says that until we this is really important until we have experienced grace everything we do is out of self-love we don't work for the sake of the work we don't relate to people for the sake of the person we work to bolster our self-image we derive it essentially from others so my relationships are almost always about me but when the gospel changes me I relate own sake. I can enjoy someone for who they are in themselves, not for how they make me feel about myself. Until the gospel changes us, Edwards says, we're basically using people even in our best relationships. And until the gospel changes us, we have a very narrow range, as I already mentioned. Now, let me end with some questions. Turn over to page four. This is it. Harvey Kahn was a kind of, was a friend, and I saw him as a teacher of mine. He was on the Westminster. He just died a couple weeks ago, and I went to his memorial service. And I pulled out a number of things that Harvey had done. One of the things that Harvey did, it was a little maddening because he never answered the questions, but Harvey was wonderful at ending his essays, his chapters, or his sermons with a series of very penetrating questions. Very penetrating. They would not answer them. Well, I want to give you a series of penetrating questions and sort of answer them. Look, the fundamental gospel change is the key to being the alternate city that Jesus wants us to be. But here's the question. How can white Americans and black Americans get over the superiority-inferiority thing on both sides after all these years? How can middle-class people really serve the poor? One of the things...look at me for a second. One of the things that amazed me about the Elijah narrative, if you were in church yesterday, was that...is that I...when I first started reading the thing, I said, isn't it wonderful that God would send Elijah to this poor Gentile woman? That's grace. You know, God's grace comes to anybody, even if you're an outsider. Then I began to realize that Jesus, what God said to Elijah was, I will send you to this poor, racially outside widow, and she will support you. He didn't say, you go to her and save her. He actually said, I'm going to send her to you so that you don't get killed. I mean, I'm going to protect you. I'm going to save you through her. And so even though he comes into the life of this broken, poor person and does a lot of ministry to her, in God's understanding, she's ministering to him almost as much. In other words, it's not just, you see, he saves her spiritually, but in many ways, she saves him physically. And she even, to some degree, saves him spiritually. I mean, and that amazed me. And of course, you know, middle-class people are real excited about helping the poor, but they're not really serving the poor. The word serve means you put yourself How can, go back to my questions, how can highly, these two go together, how can highly individualistic Western people stop asking themselves continually about every event or every setting that they come into, what am I getting out of this? And if you're not getting out of this, you're not going to come back. How can they begin to overcome their fierce desire for privacy and freedom and become accountable to and responsible for others, especially New Yorkers? How can we stop making decisions unilaterally? We just pick up and decide, you know, career, change, move, we don't ask anybody. How can we get over being so touchy, always getting offended and having our feelings hurt? You're not going to have any community that way. How can we get over our fear of involvement and begin confronting people whose behavior is self-defeating, but we don't want to get involved? The answer to every one of these questions is the gospel of justification by Christ, not us, by the cross, not our power. But if our community life is not characterized by all those things that I just mentioned in the questions, and it isn't, let's face it, it's not, reflect upon and pray the gospel into our hearts until it's having its effect. If we don't have community life like that, if we're not getting over our individualism, if we're not getting over our fear, then we say we believe the gospel, we don't. We don't really believe it, we're not hearing it, and that's our job. Now, so what we're going to do, now look to the first page and I'll show you and we can close up. The first page shows where we're going to go this year. And here's where we're going to go. We just went over September, which is introduction to Christian community. We looked at what Christian community is, its description, why it is, its importance, and how it is, its dynamic. Did you know that? You just did that. Now, October, next week, next month, we'll do the theology of community, which means we're going to look at how the church relates to the culture. Even though it sounds boring, I can promise you it won't be. Now, November, we have to immediately get into a major part of Christian community, embracing the outsider in Ephesians 2. How do we use the gospel to get over cultural barriers and racial barriers inside the church? That's often called racial reconciliation. But also, how do we get over the fact that we really don't know what to do with non-Christians with very different moral lifestyles? You see, they're supposed to live on the suburbs of Christian community, I'm sure. In a cult, you're brought in only if you sign up for everything. But in a Christian community, we've got to be able to allow our friends who are not at all Christians to live in the suburbs of our community. How do we do that? How can we be welcoming to them? A lot of Christians have a lot of trouble with it. How do we deal with opponents? How do we deal with fools in the church? By the way, you can't have community unless you suffer fools gladly, okay? And so forth. December, we're going to look at...you may have heard of this before because in Christian community, we always have to talk about mutual ministry, our spiritual gifts. How do you know what your role is in the church? How do you find your ministry? How do you find your calling? How do you find your gifts? That's important. But frankly, it's less interesting in Now we start to move into ethics. And on January, we're going to start talking about church discipline and reconciliation. It's very typical. In the rest of the world, if you have a falling out with somebody, you just stay away from them. You can't do that in the church. We do try it, but you're not allowed to. You mustn't. We're going to talk about discipline and accountability. In February, we have to talk about some aspects of community and worship. We're going to talk about tongues, healing, prophecy, charismatic gifts. A very important part of what... You see, see, you're going to have to have some kind of commonalities to create communities of worship. In March, we're going to talk about how we live together in our wealth and our possessions. We're going to talk about tithing and giving. We're going to talk about the... Is it right for us to have huge diversities of income inside the single church? What about those of us who make a lot more money than others? What are we supposed to do about that? Anything? High absenteeism in March. Then in April... In April, one of the things we've got to talk about is that most Christian communities are very possessive. That is, if somebody shows up and says, I want to be part of this church, but I also really want to do well in show business, and the typical Christian community says, well, you can't. Because if you want to be part of our community, you have to lead a Bible study and you have to do this and you have to do that. But we don't know anything about keeping a person like that connected and in community, even though they're going to travel a lot, even though they're not going to be able to lead a Bible study. So we have to talk about how do we help Christians, especially in the business world, the art world, and politics, government. How do we help Christians? Most Christians, when they move up into places of power and influence, they are cut off from community because the communities don't know what to do. We don't know what to do with them. And that's the reason when they...if they ever become president or prime minister or whatever, they're so immature as Christians that they're really basically no good anymore. And they're not salt. They're not light. Then in May, we're going to talk about issues. In June, issues of sex and gender, which are a very big part of being in community. We're going to talk about the whole issue of sexual integrity. We're going to talk about should we be that should be a question mark. Should we not value marriage over singleness or what? We can talk about homosexuality. We're going to talk about divorce and remarriage and abortion all in one night. And there will be no absenteeism in May. All the people will be back for March and April. And then lastly, we have to talk about male and female roles in the church. We do not have women ordained into the pastoral ministry in this denomination. Why? Why not? Why don't we do that? And is that a livable situation for those of you who don't agree with it? So we're going to talk about all that this year. So I think we will probably have pretty good attendance. I hope we will. Charlie, could you stand up for a second? You know, we don't have very many ordained pastors around anymore. They go off to plant churches. This is Charlie Drew, who as of this week is coming on staff. He's a pastor, and we're going to be calling him as associate pastor. However, the session and Charlie together would like him to be planting a church somewhere in the city in a couple of years. You say, that sounds familiar. Yeah, you know, pastors here have ants in their pants. But we're actually calling him to come on staff, and he'll be helping us in a number of areas, including small groups. But he's also going to be a church planter somewhere in the city. But you'll get to know Charlie, but I wanted you to at least sort of recognize him. And I think that's it. Did I promise any other announcements to anybody? Okay, here's the other thing. In spite of everything I just said about Christian community, I would like for the next five minutes, Act like they're all strangers and get to your place. And don't hug and kiss in the aisles. Thanks. Go to it.
