Luke 23, 32-43

He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, the chosen one. The soldiers also came up and mocked him. They offered him wine vinegar and said, If you are the king of Jews, save yourself. There was a written notice above him which read, This is the king of the Jews. One of the criminals who hung there hurled insults at him. Aren't you the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other criminal rebuked him. him, don't you fear God, he said, since you are under the same sentence? We are punished justly, for we are getting what our deeds deserve, but this man has done nothing wrong. Then he said, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Jesus answered him, I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise. The word of the Lord.

What we've been doing every week is looking at things that Jesus says that tell us about what his death means. And this is a very famous account, the account of the two thieves on either side of Jesus and the conversation they had. And Luke is giving it to us. He's telling us the conversation and the things that they said to one another help us understand why Jesus died. It's not enough to just, as we say each week, it's not enough just to believe that he died, or to believe that he died for us in some general way. You have to understand why he died. That's when the changes happen in the life. And we have three dying men. And every one of them says something. And what we're going to do is look at each of the three dying men and what they say. When we listen to them, we'll learn something from each. The first dying man, and we'll if we listen to the first dying man, we'll learn about the easiest mistake to make, the second dying man, the hardest admission to make, the hardest thing in the world to admit. The hardest thing in the world. What do you see? The easiest mistake.

So, the easiest mistake in the world, the hardest admission in the world, and the greatest gift in the world. Each of the dying men tell us about it. So, the first dying man is the first thief. And he says, as we just heard in verse 39, he says, So, you're the Christ. Aren't you the Christ? If you're the Messiah, and that's the word, Christ is the word Messiah, save yourself and us. Now, he clearly misses who Jesus is. He misses the meaning of Jesus' death. and I want to show you tonight how easy this is. I don't think we should in any way blame on this man. I don't think we should vilify him. I think we need to see how easy it is to do what he does because of the same factors that push him past Jesus. In a sense, he misses Jesus. He's swept past him. He misses him. But those same factors are here now, and they're working on us. This is the easiest mistake to make. to miss Jesus for two reasons. The first reason he misses Jesus is the crowd, and the second is his criterion. First is the crowd. He says, aren't you the Christ? It says he mocked him. Well, everybody's mocking him. Look, verse 35, it's the rulers of the people who mock him. That means the religious people mock him. And then verse 36, it's the secular people, the Romans who mock him for different reasons. Of course, the first one says this can't be the chosen one. And when you call it, they call him the chosen one. Uh, they're quoting Isaiah 42 verse one, which is a designation of the Messiah. And what they're saying is if he was the chosen one, we wouldn't be able to do this to him. And the Romans, they have a whole different, uh, standard. They have a standard for secular leadership. And they say, king, verse 36, this is the king nailed to the tree? This can't be a king. Now, what's intriguing is that these groups wouldn't agree on anything. Realize who these people are. You know, you have the Bible believing Pharisees. Then you have the, you know, the foul-mouthed, brutal, pagan, secular Romans. And these are people who wouldn't even talk to each other, who didn't see eye to eye on anything. on something. The cross is stupid. The cross makes no sense. Anybody who's dying on the cross can't be the one. Can't be the chosen one. There's complete agreement on this. Remember in The Matrix? Now, if you've never seen The Matrix, you're not a young male. If you're not a young male, ask somebody who is, and they have seen it 20 times. But in The Matrix, there's a guy named Neo, who's the one, by the way. And he's believed to be the Messiah who's going to lead human beings you know, out of oppression under the machines, which is a typical science fiction theme and an interesting one. At one point, there's a bad guy. Remember this? And he's about to kill him. And he says to everybody, if he's the one, if he's the Messiah, if he's the chosen one who's going to save us all, if he's the one, I shouldn't be able to kill him. But I'm about to kill him. So how can he be the one? And just at that minute before he kills him, he's fried. Right? Why? Because the movie makers agree. If he dies, he can't be the one. Because there won't be a movie. and it'll be a downer and nobody will bring anybody. In other words, he can't die. He can't be destroyed. Everybody agrees. No Messiah can be destroyed by the enemies. Everybody agrees that the gospel makes no sense. Everybody. The gospel, the idea that a weak, suffering figure can save by grace only people who also agree that they are weak and sinful. I mean, the cross is completely upside down. It makes no sense to anybody. going to mock, along with everybody else. When people who can't agree on anything else agree on this, he's just swept along. See how easy it is to miss Jesus? All you have to do is just go with the flow, the social flow. Or another way to put it, the only way to be a Christian is to be an unbelievably independent thinker, because there is no culture, there is no party, there is no group, there is no socioeconomic sector. Nobody finds the cross sensible. Nobody does. cultures? Listen, the cross assumes a holiness to God. See, sin has to be paid for. It assumes a holiness to God that liberal secular cultures just can't handle. But the cross assumes a freeness, you know, an openness, almost a promiscuity to the grace of God that anyone, no matter how you have lived, no matter what you've done, can come. And the cross assumes a freeness to God's love that traditional societies can't handle. There is no society that can handle the cross. Everybody agrees that it's stupid. And the only way to be a Christian is to buck the tide, be an incredibly independent thinker, and be willing to look like an idiot. And if you don't, you just go with the flow. See how easy it is to miss? But that's not all. It's not just the crowd. It's not just the crowd that helps him make a mistake, but it's criterion. He has a test for Jesus. is? He says, I have a test for you, and if you pass the test, I'll believe in you. What is that test? Now, just remember, Jesus has given him all kinds of criteria. He's given him miracles. He's given him, you know, he's been teaching. He's Jesus' character, Jesus' teaching, Jesus' claims, Jesus' miracles. All these things are things that you can look at and try to decide, is this the one. But that's not what this guy does. What does he do in verse 39? What he does is he says, I'll believe in you. Get me out of here. I have a felt need. And it's a very urgent felt need. I am bleeding to death and suffocating. I'll be dead very soon. You know, I know about all these claims you've made and these miracles and all this. You know, none of these things matter to me. I have this need. I have this immediate need. And here's how I know you're the Messiah if you get me out of this. And you know what? What could be more natural? One of the reasons why a lot of people in this room don't believe or don't believe very well is because you've done the very same thing. At one point, you've turned to God at some real difficult time, and you said, if you're there, if you're God, here's how you can show me. me. Get me out of this. And if he didn't do it, you're not reading the text. You're not looking at the claims. None of these things matter to you, right? Abraham Maslow talked about this years ago. The more immediate needs, the more visceral needs, the more urgent needs sort of absorb you. If you're dying of hunger, you're not going to go to a seminar on the meaning of life, you know. That's Maslow. That's the idea that the more urgent needs, you know, just push everything else out. But you see what this means. This is what we all tend to do. This is why it's so easy to miss Jesus. Instead of detached, standing back and being objective and reflecting and looking at the claims of Christ and reading the text and all that, all we know is we hurt and he hasn't come through for us and so we don't believe. You see how easy it is to miss Jesus?

And by the way, can I just press this a little bit just for a second? If you use this criterion, you're setting, you're set up for failure because this criteria and you say, I know you're there if you get me off this cross. And we've all done this. But you're never going to find out. That's no test. That won't work. Why? When you come to God and say, here's how I'll know that you're God. You'll agree with me. I have this view of what needs to happen, what has to happen right now, how my life has to go. I have this view. And here's how I know you're God. If you accomplish it, you don't want God. you want a big, divine, supernatural personal assistant. I mean, that's what you do with a personal assistant, right? You say to your personal assistant, on Tuesday night we're going to have a party and we're going to have these 30 people. That's my plan. Now do it. And your personal assistant says, fine, I do it. Right? You want a divine personal assistant. In other words, realize how you'll never find God this way. Never. He didn't find it. You won't find it. If you say, here's how I know you're there. If you get me off this cross. really saying is, there's a God up in heaven who's great enough, who's great enough to be able to do all this for you, and yet he can't be any smarter than you. See, if there is a God great enough to do all this for you, there's got to be a God great enough to know something about how your life ought to go different than you. Have a plan for you beyond your wisdom. What you really want is someone who's omnipotent, but no smarter than you. There isn't such a person. Can you imagine how he would look? Big omnipotent body, little tiny head, you know. Pea brain. You want an omnipotent God. You want a God who does what you ask him to do, but no smarter than you. Because if he says, no, I don't think I'm going to get you off that cross,

well, then he can't exist. There can't be a God. No, no, no. You see how easy it is? How easy it is to miss Jesus. The social flow, the psychological flow, they just will sweep you right past him. So the first thief tells us how easy it is to miss God, to miss Jesus, the easiest mistake in the world. The second dying man, though, begins to tell us how to find him. However, the second dying man, I put it this way, the second dying man, if we listen to him, he'll show us that the way to find him is to make the most... the hardest admission in history. The hardest admission there is. What does he do? Well, let me just suggest two things. First of all, look it. He says, don't you fear God. This is verse 40. But the other criminal, the second dying man, rebuked him. Don't you fear God, he said, since you are under the same sentence. We are punished justly, for we're getting what our deeds deserve. But now, this man is doing something that's the hardest possible thing. I'll put it two ways. First of all, he is recognizing the difference between God as a means and God as an end. If you're ever going to come to spiritual awakening, if you're ever going to find Jesus, you've got to see that. Look at these two guys. They're both in trouble. They have a felt need. And they both turn to God in trouble. But one of them has changed and one of them has not. Every year, millions of people go have a problem in their life and they turn to God. It might be very brief. It might be on the street. but they turn to God. Just briefly. Even unreligious people. Even people that say they don't believe in God. Big problem comes and they turn to God. But most people are not changed and here's why. You begin to grow. You begin to touch Jesus. You begin to spiritually wake up like this guy does. When you begin to recognize the difference between going to God as a means to an end and going to God as the end. You see the way we all start. The way we all start is the way the first thief does it. Here's how the first thief does. He says this. I'll be with you if you'll get me out of trouble. See what he's saying? Verse 39. I'll be with you. You know, I'll follow you. I'll believe in you. You know, whatever. I'll be with you if you get me out of trouble. But the second thief says,

I'll stick with the trouble if I can be with you. Notice he's not asking you to get off the cross. He's not talking about that immediate need. Oh, it doesn't mean he doesn't want to come down. He'd be very happy to take that if he's offered it. But you see what he's saying. The first thief, he says, I'll be with you if I get out of trouble. The second thief says, I'll be in trouble if I can be with you. And here's what's happened. When you first go to God, you always, always start like the first thief. But if you begin to wake up and you begin to realize your real situation and how your heart really works, you'll begin to realize that what you've actually done is something very wicked. When you say, I'll be with you if you give me this. I'll be with you if you handle my issue. I'll be with you if you give me this. What have you done there? You've got a negotiable and a non-negotiable, right? What's the negotiable? God. But what's the non-negotiable? Well, I don't know what it is, but it's your real God. Because the non-negotiable, the non-negotiable, the thing you've got to have is always your real God. And what begins to happen in this thief and what has to happen to anybody who starts to, for the penny to drop, is he begins to realize that instead of a change in circumstances, what he really needs is a change in what his life centers on. Instead of asking God for the life he wants, he needs to make God his life. life, or, to put maybe not too fine a point on it, what some of you need to be praying is not, oh Lord, get my boyfriend and my girlfriend back, but say, oh Lord, I need you to be such a source of love in my life that I stop being so desperate, needy, and weird in all my relationships.

Oh Lord, I would like to have my boyfriend and my girlfriend back, but I need something to happen in my center before I'm even ready for that.

You see what's happening? This second thief shows us that you've got to start to get more concerned about your soul than your skin. The first thief is more concerned to save his skin than his soul. The second thief is more concerned to save his soul than his skin. He begins to see he was using God as a means to an end. He begins to realize what's going on here. And so, first of all, he says, I want, I don't care about the trouble if I can have you. But more profoundly, and here's where the rubber meets the road. He does something, he says something here that is impossible to admit unless God helps you. Without the Holy Spirit. Nobody can do this on their own. He says, we are punished justly. We are getting what our deeds deserve. Now, this man was probably not a professional thief, and rob people just for his own benefit and his own wealth and so on. Several of the Gospels use a word to describe these two men that means seditionist, insurrectionist. These were freedom fighters. These were guerrillas. These were people who were rebelling against Rome. And there is no way in the world that this man could be meaning here that we are fairly and justly being put to death by Rome. He would never say that. He's not saying, we deserve to die at the hands of Rome for our crimes. They wouldn't believe that at all. They believe they were fighting for justice. So what is he talking about? He's gotten past the thing. He's gotten past Rome. He's gotten past the cross. He says, let's not talk about the cross. Let's not talk about getting out of this situation.

We deserve, because of our sins, to be abandoned by God.

now, a lot of secular people say that's what I hate about religious people that's what I hate about religion is so negative religion is saying oh, they're so negative about human nature religion is always saying we're so unworthy we don't deserve anything wrong nobody can say this religious people if anything have more trouble with this than secular people why? religious people don't say that I deserve nothing let me show you religious people are people who say I have I have been very good. And I have sacrificed so much. I've sacrificed my hipness. I'm not nearly as hip as my friends because I'm trying so hard to be good. I've sacrificed my sexual thrills and chills. I've sacrificed my fun. I've sacrificed all kinds of things. And you see, religious people are people who say, look how hard I've worked. Look what I've done. But, when you get to this situation, does a religious person say, and I don't deserve anything for it? Not at all. says God owes me. God owes me health. God owes me. And here's how you can tell. Because when things don't go well, especially when things don't go well in your life compared to some other people you know who aren't terribly moral, you get so mad. You get so angry. And that shows you're no different than the thief on the cross. The first thief. Because what's the first thief do? The second thief just says, remember me. That's mercy. But the first he says, save us. That's a demand. Religious people and secular people and everybody cannot handle this. You never can come to Jesus unless you're willing to admit that even my good deeds have been done to save myself. Even my good deeds have been ways of using God to a means to an end. Things that are more important than God, like health and happiness and a happy family and success. Religion is using God as means to an end, just like that first thief. And it's not until you get to the place where you say, when I was living an irreligious life, I was trying to be my own savior. And when I was leading a religious life, I was trying to be my own savior. I deserve, therefore, to be abandoned by God. That is not something that anybody's capable of. That is the hardest thing to admit in the world. And yet, it's necessary if you're you're going to get the greatest gift. Now let's move on to the third thing. The third thing, the third dying man is Jesus. The first dying man tells us how easy it is to miss him. The easiest mistake in the world. The second dying man tells us about the hardest thing to admit. The third dying man teaches us about the greatest gift there is. Now what is this gift? I want to unlock something to you, and I'm sure I can't completely. completely. If I've totally confused you, you're duty-bound to stick around for the question and answer time afterwards and give me a chance to clarify it. But verse 43 is a very famous passage, and everybody thinks we know what Jesus is offering. Verse 43, Jesus answered him, I tell you the truth. Say, amen. He says, I tell you the truth. Today you will be with me in paradise. Now, what is he offering? A lot of people read it like this. I tell you the truth you will be in paradise when you die. Of course he's saying that. I mean, at least he's saying that. But that's not the operative word. That's not the word that's closest, that's not the prepositional phrase in paradise, which is closest to the heart of the sentence, no. He says, I tell you the truth, today you will be with me. Now, is that just a sentimental, oh, isn't that sweet, he'll be right at his side? No, because the word with means a lot. Let me give you two or three other statements that Luke would certainly have at least known, certainly one of them would have known about since he was a dear friend of St. Paul. The Gospel writer John, in Jesus' high priestly prayer, the Gospel writer John has Jesus pray this on the very night before he dies. He's just prayed this. He says, Father, this is chapter 17, Father, I want them to be with me where I am. What's that mean? What do you mean? Father, I want them to be with me where I am and see my glory, from before the creation of the world. And then verse 23, that is, I want you to love them even as you love me. Even as. I'm going to the cross so that they can be with me and you can regard and love them exactly the way you regard and love me. What? But now, in Ephesians 2.5, St. Paul in Ephesians 2.5 says something that when you first read it, you, a lot of you have read it and never even thought about this, because it's just too astounding. Or if you notice that you thought it was a slip of the pen or something, or a slip of the translation or something. Ephesians 2, 5, where it says, and he, that's the Father, he made us alive with Christ, even when we were dead in sin. And he raised us up with him and seated us

Past tense. He seated us in the heavenly realms. Oh, wait a minute, Paul. Excuse me. Pardon me. You need a better editor. Somebody needs to notice this. You made a little mistake there, Paul. You said that he made us alive with Christ. That's true. And maybe he raised us up with Christ. Okay, I guess there's a spiritual resurrection. But it also said, and he seated us in the heavenly places in Christ. Of course, yeah, maybe when we die, but of course that's in the future. He will seat us. No, that's not what Paul says. We are seated. What does that mean? It means we're virtually seated. It means we're positionally seated. And this is what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying to this guy, whether or not you die today, today you will be where I'm going. I am about to be exalted. I am about to be glorified. to accomplish salvation. I'm about to be exalted into my Father's glory. And my prayer is that you will be with me. My guarantee is that you will be with me. Now, what in the world could that possibly mean? I want you to know that one of the reasons why you're having the trouble you're having today, if you're a Christian, one of the reasons you're having the trouble you're having today is because you don't know the fullness of what this means. You think Jesus is just saying, if you believe in me when you die, you'll go to heaven. Of course, that's true. But this is something even greater. This is something that is true not. Years ago, I read a little, Charles Hodge was a guy who taught at Princeton Seminary in the 1820s, 30s, 40s, and there's a little book that's probably not even printed anymore of his chapel talks he gave to students. And they're just outlines. They're not even full, you know, essays or sermons. They're just outlines. But he had one that I read years ago that changed my life. And it was a and it was a sermon or a talk on 1 John 2, 1, the advocate. Because 1 John 2, 1 says, little children, John's writing to his friends, he says, little children, I'm writing to you that you may not sin, but if you sin, if you sin, we have an advocate with the Father. Now, that's a defense attorney. It's kind of interesting. He says, if we sin, we have an advocate. the Father. We have a defense attorney. And Charles Hodge says, let's meditate on this for a little bit. Do you know what that means? When you become a Christian, Jesus is your advocate. What does that mean? He says, well, imagine going to court. Some of you haven't had to imagine this. You've done it. But imagine going to court. He says, let me ask you, what do you look like to the court? Says Hodge. What do you look like to the judge? What do you look like to the jury? What do you look like to the court? He says, you look exactly like your advocate. If your defense attorney, if your advocate is smart, you look smart. Eloquent, you look eloquent. Shrewd, you look shrewd. If your defense attorney wins, you win. If your defense attorney is stupid, you look stupid. If your defense attorney loses, you lose. And Hodges, at one point, says, you're lost in your advocate. You may not even appear. You look exactly like your advocate to the judge, to the jury, and to the court. it. And he says, the minute you become a Christian, you don't just get your sins sort of washed away in some general way and now you're on your own. You're with him. It means, and listen, you don't, I know no one in this room has worked out the psychological and practical implications of this. When God looks at you, he sees your exalted and risen head. He sees the exalted and ascended and risen Savior. He treats you as if you had accomplished everything that he accomplished. Why? You'll be with me. You know why? Because Jesus, when he's speaking to this thief, he says, you'll be with me. And if the thief said, how could that be? He says, because I'm with you now. I'm in your place so you can be in my place. I am down here receiving what you deserve so that you eventually can get what I deserve. I am utterly with you. I'm getting it all so that you can be with me in paradise. I'm going to paradise. And whether you die or not, you're going to be with me. Have you worked that out? Let's close here with a number of little applications. Number one, do you know what it means to be a Christian? David Martin Lloyd-Jones has said years ago, he used to ask people, Christian, and if a person said, I'm trying, he knew he didn't understand or she didn't understand at all. When a person says, I'm trying. I know. I ought to be a better person. I hope I'm being better. You deserve all the insecurity. You deserve all the anxiety. You deserve all the ups and downs you're experiencing. This week, you've had a good week. Last week, you had a bad week. This week, you feel pretty good about your relationship with God. Last week, you felt pretty bad about it. It's your fault. Lloyd-Jones knows when someone, he asked them, are you a Christian? and the person said, I'm trying, you have no idea what it means to be a Christian. You're positionally. To be a Christian is to have a position. It's to have a status. It's to have a standing. It's to be lost in your advocate. It's to be glorious to the eyes of God, the only eyes that count in the whole universe, to be delighted in. Look at what he's doing when he says, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. Let me tell you something. If somebody steps on my foot in the subway, You know, first of all, I say, you know, I better be careful. They may go to Redeemer.

But I want to yell. And afterwards, you know, when somebody hurts you, afterwards you put it in perspective. You always want to think the worst of them at the moment, huh? The first thing you think of is the worst about their motives and all that. Afterwards you say, well, they've probably had a bad day. You know, who knows? They're under a lot of pressure. But at first, look at Jesus Christ. What is he saying? Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. He says, Father, they're killing me. They're spearing me. They're jeering at me. They're mocking me. They're abandoning me. They're denying me. They're betraying me. But you know what? None of them, not even the Pharisees, really completely understand what they're doing. This is a perfect person. This is a person being perfect in his love. And he has the audacity to say, I'm here taking what you deserve so that God can treat you The rest of forever. As if you had done everything I've done. He will treat you as I deserve. Because he is right now treating me as you deserve. He's going to treat you as if you were perfect. As if you died this perfect death. As if you lived this perfect life praying for your enemies. You don't believe it, do you? Here's why I know you don't believe it. You can't take criticism.

You can't take the fact you've gained weight. You can't take the fact that somebody has snubbed you.

You're filled with self-doubts. And you have some general idea that God loves you in some general kind of way. We have no concept that you're with him. That he sees you. Seated with him. Raised with him. Ascended with him. Beautiful in the righteousness of Christ. You don't believe it. You don't see it. That's the reason why you're acting the way you're acting. That's the reason why you're doing the things you're doing.

air. And you got out of the cab right here, and you had three ten dollar bills in your pocket, and you handed the cab driver one because it was, let's say, a nine dollar fare. And then later on in the day, you noticed that you don't have one ten dollar bill left. In other words, one of your ten dollar bills, either you gave it to the cab driver by accident, or you dropped it. Are you going to freak out? Are you going to go crazy? Are you going to call all the police and say, I gotta find all the cab drivers? Are you gonna go back to that intersection, get down on your knees, and you're gonna crawl around looking at a ten dollar bill? No, you're a billionaire. Are you a Christian? Are you tossing and turning at night in your sleep because somebody snubbed you?

Are you down on yourself? Are you feeling unworthy? You can't get over the guilt of something you used to do?

You're a billionaire down on your knees. 86th and West End Avenue, looking for a $10 bill. What's the matter with you? And Jesus Christ, remember, he sent his 70 disciples out, and they came back, and they had a really great day in ministry. They said, gee, Lord, even the demons are subject to our name. And what does Jesus say? He says, so you had a good day. He says, rejoice not that the demons are subject to your name. Maybe tomorrow they won't be. But rejoice that your names are written in heaven. Rejoice that the verdict is already in.

rejoice that you've been adopted, rejoice that you are with me. Do you see that? That's what it means to live a Christian life. That's what Jesus was doing on the cross. Do you understand it? Do you live out of that? Here's a couple more quickies from this. I don't care who you are. I don't care what you've done. I don't care how late in life it is. You know, you've heard of an 11th hour conversion? This is sort of 11.59 and 50 seconds. I mean, do you realize Matthew 27 tells us that both the robbers screamed and yelled at him. Both the robbers. Matthew 27.44 says, they, the robbers, hurled insults at him, which means this wasn't just a nice guy. Up until three minutes ago, he was hurling insults. And then probably, he heard Jesus say, Father, forgive them. what they're doing. He went, what? What kind of man is this? And wait a minute. This guy's in control. This suffering, this suffering is not out of part. This suffering is not out of his plan. This is part of his plan. And he turns and he says, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus says, okay. Wait a minute. I've lived this pretty bad life, violent life, killing people. And up to three minutes ago, I was throwing curses into your face. Remember me when you come into my kingdom. And Jesus says, okay. More than that, you'll be with me for the rest of forever. How could that be? Because he's a God of grace. And it doesn't matter what you've done. I don't care if you sold your soul to the devil. You know, I hate to do this to opera lovers. You know, you know the Faust thing, you know? He sold his soul to the devil. Who cares?

He sold his soul to the devil. So what?

So? does that mean? God is such a God of grace, he'll break through anything, anybody. This guy proves it. And by the way, one last thing. If you understand what Jesus did on the cross, you don't have to be afraid of death anymore. Do you think it's a, you think it is a coincidence that every character in this little play is dying? Everybody, here's the nice guy, here's the good thief, here's the bad thief, here's the Jesus. They're all dying. What does that mean? Well, I think that's a little parable about you and me. Everybody in this room is dying. Listen, I know some of you don't want to hear this. You know, if you're younger, you hate when older people say this. Life goes fast. You say, I know. I've heard this for years. And so you're going to hear it one more time.

In a very, very little while, relatively speaking, in a very, very little while, you're going to be dead. We're all dying. See, dying man one, dying man two. What kind of dying man are you? Or woman? You see, you're dying. Which kind are you? Do you have something that will enable you when you actually face death to say, oh death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where is thy victory? Yes. If you've already been in paradise. I'm already there.

Spare not death, do thy worst. That's what Herbert, Spare not death, do thy worst. You will only make me better than before.

Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you'd help us to understand what Jesus meant when he said, today you will be with me in paradise. We ask that you would help us live out of the greatness of the gift by making, with your Holy Spirit's power, the hardest admission and avoiding the easiest mistake. mistake. Bring us through the mistake and through that great admission that is so difficult to make that even our righteousness is as a filthy rag so that we can know the absolute bliss and joy and greatness and have the greatness of life that comes from knowing we're with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
