I'd like to do something a little different. Actually, I wasn't expecting all this, because last year in the Christmas celebration, I only had five minutes when I got up. And so I want to do something a bit different. Some of you are saying, well, what else is new? I'd like to read to you from Galatians chapter 5, and I'm going to start at verse 13. If you have Bibles, you can read with me Galatians 5, verse 13 and following. Now, I may skip a little bit. Now, you, my brethren, were called to be free, but to not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather, serve one another in love. The entire law is summed up. In a single command, love your neighbor as yourself. If you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out or you will be destroyed by each other. So I say, live by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. The acts of the sinful nature are obvious. Sexual immorality and impurity and debauchery, idolatry and witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage, selfish ambition, dissensions, factions and envy, drunkenness, orgies and the like. I warn you as I did before that those who live like this will not inherit the kingdom. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Against such things there is no law. Those who belong to Christ Jesus have nature with its passions and desires. And since we live by the Spirit, let us keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying each other. Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourself, or you also may be tempted. Carry each other's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. This is God's Word. You see, I have a problem during a Christmas celebration. First of all, you want a Christmas theme. That's appropriate. On the other hand, there's also been a series we've been doing on spiritual warfare between the forces of darkness and the kingdom of light. And so, you know, is there any way to merge those two things? There actually is. is. One of the books that I mentioned last week, which is a classic from the 1660s, I mentioned it last week, is written by Thomas Brooks on this subject of spiritual warfare, and it's called, the title is, Precious Remedies Against Satan's Devices. Device number four, letter C in the book, Roman numeral 4, letter C, goes this way. Brooks writes, this device is, by working, in other words, Satan has a device, by working Christians to first find one another strange,

then to divide them, then to make them bitter and jealous, and then they'd bite and devour one another. Okay? Device, Roman numeral, four, letter C. By working the Christians to first find one another strange, then to divide, then to be bitter and jealous so that they'd bite and devour one another. And what I want to talk about tonight is this. I'm tired of lots and lots of sermons about peace on earth that are up here. and not down here. Let's get practical for once. We want to talk about peace on earth. We want peace on earth. There's some very, very, very practical questions we've got to ask ourselves. The three things that Thomas Brooks says is we have to always be looking at ourselves and asking ourselves, am I jealous? Am I resentful? Am I falling into party spirit? Am I looking at other Christians and finding them very strange? Boy, she's weird. Gosh, he's doing things that just aren't done. Last week we said Satan, the word Satan, means prosecutor. No offense to you lawyers, but that's what the word Satan means. Okay? Last week we talked really about the internal psychological manifestation of demonic accusation. That is, he's a prosecutor. It's his job to accuse you to yourself. We talked about that. But there's another side to it. The reason why all the old Puritan manuals and all the old manuals on spiritual warfare always bring this out as one of the satanic devices is that Satan's job is also to prosecute you and condemn you to someone else. To condemn them to you. Here we go. For example. Put it another way. Satan is always. Seeking. To get you. To judge. People. And. Condemn. Them. And. Satan. Is. Always. Trying. To get. Other. People. To judge. You. And. Condemn. You. He. Is. Not. Just. Prosecuting. You. Inside. He. Is. Just. Accusing. You. To. You. He. Is. Accusing. You. To. Others. And. He. He's accusing others to you. That's his job. His job is to get us to bite and devour each other. His job is to destroy the peace on earth that Jesus came to deal with. Now, the passage I just read has got two parts to it. First of all, it talks in the early stages about this. It says, don't use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather, if you keep on biting and devouring one another, watch out or you'll be destroyed by one another. I think that's a very important passage. It's the opposite of peace on earth. I'd like to look at that for a moment, and I'd like to show you, this is an area of spiritual warfare. I'd like to show you something about the problem of biting and devouring, where it comes from, what its nature is. Then, just as Thomas Brooks does, this passage, in this passage, Paul also shows us several subdivisions of this problem, certain ways we bite and devour each other with the solution. And all I want to do is, you know, take the rest of the time to talk about peace on earth in the most practical way. There's no use singing about it unless you're willing to roll up your sleeves, ask the hard questions about yourself, and do the hard work of actually building it. Now, Now, what does it mean to bite and devour? If you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out or you'll be destroyed by each other. Hey, by the way, there's at least 25 of you who think I'm talking about you. I'm not. There's always a steady stream of people who the pastors talk with about things. Uh-uh, uh-uh. It's not just about you. Please don't indulge in that kind of conceit at this point. This problem that I'm going to deal with now is something that is actually what we are blissfully, relatively blissfully free of. But it's got to come in the life of a congregation. What does it mean to bite and devour? Verse 13 says, serve one another. and devour one another. The language of service says, you first. The language of biting and devour says, me first. There are actually two matrices out of which human relationships can develop. One of them is service or love, and the other one is a form of hunger. When I first came to Christ, there was this young couple in college who helped me by giving me two books. They were engaged. They weren't married yet. They're a fine Christian couple. I remember them very well, and they gave me two books by C.S. Lewis. That's the reason why I quote them all the time, because I can't forget my original entry into the kingdom that way. They gave us two books, and I remember the woman said to me, she says, one of them was Screwtape Letters, and one of them was Mere Christianity, and she said, Screwtape Letters teases you, but Mere Christianity lays it out. So read Screwtape first. So I read Screwtape, and it's basically, it's a fanciful set of letters from a senior devil to a junior devil on how to tempt human beings. And when I read the introduction, after I read the book, I read the introduction. In the introduction, he said, yes, this is very fanciful, and yet there's important principles of Christianity underlying it. He said he decided, Lewis decided, that Milton and Goethe were wrong about devils,

and that is that devils cannot love, and they have no sense of humor. Why? He says, you know, Mephistopheles has a sense of humor, and Milton in some way, they even do poetry, you know, in Milton. And Lewis says, absolutely not. Here's why. You see, hell is a complete anti-God state of mind. An anti-God state of mind consists of this. Humor is only possible, mean the cynical biting kind, but real humor is only possible with some humility, some perspective on yourself. That's the reason why G.K. Chesterton said that Satan fell just through weight of gravity. There was nothing light about him because, and this is a quote from Lewis, listen, hell is marked by, quote, ruthless, sleepless, unsmiling concentration upon the self. Ruthless, sleepless, unsmiling Concentration upon the self and its needs And in the introduction to scroop type literary So he puts it this way The reason he says devils couldn't possibly laugh There's nothing lighthearted about them And they couldn't possibly love Here, hell is a place where everyone is perpetually concerned About his or her own dignity His or her own advancement always has a grievance, where everyone is always lodging a complaint, where everyone lives out the very serious passions of envy, self-importance, and resentment. If somebody says, that sounds like New York City, a place where everyone is perpetually concerned about his or her own dignity and advancement. Everyone has a grievance. Everyone has a complaint. faint, ruthless, unsmiling, sleepless, concentration on the self. Now, therefore, what keeps devils working together, says Lewis? You know, what is it? He says, a being that can still love could not be a devil. Rather, what keeps them together is hunger. And then he puts it this way. Even in human life, we see the beginning of it. It's the impulse to digest someone, to make his or her life just an extension of your own, to hate one's hatred, resent one's grievances, and indulge one's ego needs through the other. His needs must be suppressed to make room for yours. If he resists this suppression, we must call him selfish. On earth, this impulse is often called love. In hell, he says, it's recognized for what it is. You see, here in verse 13 and 15, you've got two different matrices out of which you can operate. One says, me first. One says, you first. One says, I want to meet my needs through you. I want to feed on you. The other says, I want to meet your needs. I want to feed you. When you're in a relationship, Now, let's be realistic about this, because as Galatians tells us, we're both flesh and spirit as Christians. We both have the new, regenerating, renewing human being that the Spirit is making us, and we also have the old self. Because of that, both serving love and hunger are both operating. The real trick is to keep the hunger from overwhelming, becoming the overwhelming and dominant influence in a relationship. Now, in some ways it's not that hard to tell whether you're in a relationship with somebody and basically you're being served or you're being digested. When you're being served, you feel like you're being freed. You feel like you're being set on your own. As it says here in chapter 6, it says, it says when you restore somebody out of this desire to serve. It says then everyone will be able to stand on his own without comparing himself with anyone else. Each one will carry his own load. When you're being served, you feel like you're standing on your own. You feel like you're getting stronger. When you're being digested in a relationship, you feel possessed. You feel used. You feel manipulated. And you feel drained. Two different matrices. One out of heaven. One out of hell. And most of you know. That when you're in the middle. Of a digestion. Relationship. Even though. You're not in hell. You're in the suburbs. Of hell. And when. You're in a service. Relationship. Even though. You're not in heaven. You're in the suburbs. Of heaven. You know. You're not. In downtown. Heaven. Or downtown. Hell. When you're. On earth. But depending. On. Out. Of. Which. Matrix. You're. Operating. You're. In. The. Suburbs. Or. one or the other. Now, that's really kind of a subjective thing, but the real way to tell whether or not your relationship is operating out of heaven or hell here is what happens when this person that you're in a relationship with fails to meet your needs. What happens then? And you see, the answer is here in chapter five, and I read it. When that person who fails to meet your needs, begins to pull back or displease you in some way, how do you react? Do you react with discord, jealousy, selfish ambition, factiousness, fits of rage, envy, bitterness, and hatred? And of course, those are the marks of biting and devouring each other. In English, we even have those words in a sense. You've got the word, we talk about backbiting. We talk about clawing and scratching. We're talking about getting digs in. Where does it all come from? Where does biting and devouring come from? Ruthless, sleepless, unsmiling concentration on the self. Everybody's got a complaint. Everybody's got a grievance. I'm being overlooked. I'm being hurt. This makes me look bad. He's getting, she's getting more than me. And of course, what Paul warns you, I mean, it's pretty obvious, almost, but it's a good thing to say. He says, if you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out or you will be destroyed. What he's saying is if you keep eating each other, you'll soon just be a bunch of leftovers. And of course, he's right. This is an absolute repudiation of Christianity. It is just ridiculous to sing about peace on earth without asking yourself, why isn't there the kind of peace in this church or in this community or in the Christian that there ought to be, without asking questions, am I loving people or am I digesting them? Am I serving people or am I possessing and using them? Now, I mentioned that Thomas Brooks, see, what a lighthearted Christian's message. I told you, I'm tired of the sentimental ones, all right? Now, this is peace on earth. This is the subject. Now, Brooks, remember in his little, cute, quaint, Puritan way, said biting and devouring happens three ways. First of all, he makes Christians to find one another strange. Then he divides them, and then he creates bitterness and envy. Now, he's talking about three things. And actually, you see the same three categories in this set of adjectives where he talks about, where Paul talks about hatred and discord and jealousy and selfish ambition and factions and so forth. These are three ways, I think, of biting and devouring each other. The first way, which I'll be very light on, but we've got to talk about it, is party spirit. We don't have a lot of it here. Party spirit. Factions. The second is jealousy and envy. And the third is bitterness and resentment. consentment. These are three ways of biting and devouring each other. These are three results of operating out of a digestion mode in your relationships. And let's just take a look at them briefly and see what Jesus wants you to do about these things in Christmas season. The first one I'll be light about, partly because we're a little bit too new of a church to have developed this, but it's inevitable. Party spirit is where people develop themselves into points of view that start to look down their nose at other people. Paul's classic discussion of party spirit in a church is in 1 Corinthians 1 and 2. He tells us there were four parties at least in the Corinthian church. One said, I am of Paul. One said, I am of Apollos. One said, I am of Cephas or Peter. And one that I am of Christ. And it's almost impossible to know what these different points of view represented. It's a very good possibility that Apollo, since he was an Alexandrian Jew and a tremendous intellect and a very polished speaker, that was the intellectual group. They got together and they looked down their nose at all the people whose faith and religion was really a rather simple piety, maybe. Then you have the Peter group, and we're not sure, but that group conservatives, that felt that if you're a Christian, you've got to really watch your P's and Q's, and you've really got to dress in a certain way and live in a certain way. And the Pauline party was probably the radical ones who flouted their freedom. We're not really sure about that. But Paul, in that passage, turns to them all and says, was Christ, was Paul crucified for you? Was Apollos crucified for you? And essentially says, show me that you know that you're a sinner saved by grace. Show me that. Show me that you know that if you have the truth and you start to look down your nose at other people whose form of Christianity doesn't seem to be as mature as yours. That you see, even if for some reason you're right, and you probably aren't. That it's just grace that has brought you where you are. What if your eyes have been opened and other people's eyes haven't been opened? Does that give you a right? To suddenly look down your nose at other people and say, was Paul crucified for you? Was Cephas crucified for you? Who was crucified for you, Apollos or was Jesus? Show that you know that you're a sinner saved by grace. Secondly, more important for us, envy and jealousy. There's a lot of talk about it. In fact, this passage that I read brings it up four times. At the very end of chapter 5, let us become not conceited, provoking, and envying each other. the Ten Commandments is all about envy. It's called coveting. In fact, we're told in Romans 7 that it's the Tenth Commandment that got Paul. Paul said, I was alive apart from the law once, but then the commandment, thou shalt not covet, came home to me and I died. It slew me. And if you read that carefully a few times, you begin to figure out what he meant. What he meant was he looked at all, as a self-righteous Pharisee, he looked at all the that he was obeying them all. He didn't kill anybody. He didn't steal from anybody. He didn't lie. He was scrupulously obedient according to the law, even though he didn't perceive some of the deeper meanings of those commandments. But when he got to the 10th commandment, which said, Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's ox, or ass, or manservant, or maidservant, or anything that is thy neighbor's. And thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. You shall not envy. And Paul says it slew him. It was the most searching of the commandments. As Francis Schaeffer in one of his books says, this commandment is saying, I have to love God enough to always be thankful. I have to love God enough to say, yes, this person is more successful than me. This person is more loved than me. This person is in this situation, that situation. But I've got the Father. And He has my heart. And I have His. What Schaeffer was saying was exactly the thing that Paul must have understood when he was studying it. Thou shalt not covet. It slew him. But you see, the Tenth Commandment, when it tells you not to envy, gives you three kinds of envy. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's ox or ass or his manservant or maidservant. And then thou shalt Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. And in 1 John, these three kinds of envy are called the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. The lust of the flesh says, I've got to have love. Sensual love in particular. Secondly, the lust of the eyes is, I've got to have possessions and things. And the third, the neighbor's house, is I've got to have status and power. I mentioned this last week and I'm happy to bring it up again. A friend of mine is a counselor, Dave Powlison, calls these three things idol matrixes. And what it means is, he says the lies that distort our lives, that kind of idols that distort our lives come out of these different matrixes. For some of us were addicted to love and relationships. For some of us were addicted to power and status. For some of us, we're addicted to things. But the point is, an idol is something that says, you've got to have me or your life has no meaning. It's an idol covenant that we have developed. And that's the reason why we feel like we've got to have these things. Now, what is envy? What is coveting? Simple. You get jealous of somebody when you get near somebody who's got more of your idol than you. You get jealous, you get envious when you more of your idol than you. Now, you know, one another's idols make no sense to each other. You know, when I was down, when I had a church in a small town in Virginia, what I always had to do is I used to have to say, you've got to smash those little tapes down deep in your heart that say, if only my children loved me, I'd be happy. Here I've got to smash those tapes that say, if only I had children, I'd be happy. The people down there were just wishing they didn't have them anymore. The people up here are just wishing they had them. And you can laugh at each other because, you know, when you get near somebody else whose idol isn't yours, you don't envy them. You say, what's the matter with them? You fall into envy and you fall into jealousy when you get near somebody who's got your idol. Who's got the thing that you are convinced will make you happy. Whether it's the lust of the flesh, whether it's the lust of the eyes, or whether it's the pride of life. And the only way to deal with it, Ephesians 5. We looked at this some time ago. Ephesians 5 says, Put off immorality, put off greed, and put off coveting, and put on thanksgiving. The only possible way to deal with envy, and the only possible way, therefore, to deal with the strife in the church that comes from jealousy and envy me, is to say, is to use the gospel on yourself, is to become thankful for what you've got, to say, Lord Jesus, you've done all of this for me. You've given me all of this. Look what it cost you, the nails through the hands, and the spear in the side, and the thorns in the skull, and this isn't enough, because I've got to have this too. And that's why I'm so mad, and that's That's why I'm being eaten up inside, and that's why I'm biting and devouring other people. You know, the only way to deal with the envy and the coveting and the depression that comes from that is by... The only way to do that is, step one, is to actually assume that it's your problem rather than the person's problem out there. You know, if on a Saturday night I'm just getting absolutely depressed because I hate my sermon, what do I have to say? I have to sit down and say, there is something inside me saying, you know, if you don't wow those people tomorrow, what's your life worth? And I have to look at that and I have to say, listen, what if I do? What if I actually give this idol what it wants? Does it ever make me happy? Am I all right? On Monday, am I just full of joy in the Holy Spirit? Never. You have to assume the worst and you have to look at those things

it's got to go. I've got to put on thankfulness. I've got to use the gospel in my life. Now, thirdly, the third way to bite and devour each other is through resentment. It's through anger. Friends, forgiveness is a pretty rare thing. You know, there's a funny book that was written about 10 years ago. It was a Christian book. It was called Grace is Not a Blue-Eyed Blonde. and in it the author says this, when you deal intimately with human beings you begin to wonder if forgiveness is not as rare as hen's teeth. People bury their hatchets but then they tuck away the map which tells them where the hatchet's buried. We put our resentments in cold storage but we know where the switch is when we want to thaw it out. We take our resentments out into the lake prayer to drown our grudges, but usually we end up giving them swimming lessons. We tear up the resentments, we tear up the canceled note, but we keep the waste paper basket with the pieces in it. How do you forgive? I'll just say three things and then finish. But you see, unless you do the hard work of forgiveness, unless you do the hard work of looking at your idolatry over your envy, unless you do this hard work, you can forget about peace on earth. Three things. One is establish the facts and let them stand as history. You were hurt. This or that happened to you. Don't deny it. Be willing to say this is history. You need to put it. You need to set them up. Let the facts stand. But then secondly, put away your hatred. In Ephesians 4, it says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you. That doesn't mean deny it. It means you send it away. It means you refuse to indulge in the dark pleasures of fondling those feelings. You know, you've got two screens on the inside of your mind. One of them is the self-pity screen. Instant replay. Slow motion. Of all the things that you've lost. Because of this person. The other screen. Is the revenge. Screen. Slow motion. Ideas. About what you'd like. To see happen. What does it mean. To put those things. Away. What does it mean. To send them away. It doesn't mean. To deny them. It doesn't mean. To repress them. It means. I refuse. To give in. I send you away. Go away. I'm not talking. To you. Simple as that. I send you away to your death. You let the fact stand. You send away the emotional responses. And thirdly, you pay the cost. You pay the cost. A lot of people seem to think that forgiveness is something that you can just grant. You have to pay the cost. If you knock over my lamp and I say, I forgive you, you don't have to replace it, that means I've absorbed the cost. There's always a cost. Listen. This little book on forgiveness by Dan Hamilton. value, though I wanted to slice away at her reputation. Those were the payments, but she never saw them. And her own payments were unseen by me. I don't know what her private trials were, but I do know that she forgave me. This part of the cost resembles the sending away of our emotions, as I just mentioned. But there is more involved here. It's more than a matter of refusing to hate someone. It's also a matter of choosing to demonstrate love, an affirmation. See, God in example, and source in all these matters of forgiveness. I remember a minister who once preached on the God who forgave us out of the goodness of his heart, unquote. That may have been God's motivation, but it was not his method. The preacher's words remind me of a condescending grandfather dispensing spare change from a vest pocket. The image denies the cost of forgiveness. A more accurate and far more terrible image comes from Isaiah 53, where the writer caught God in the very act of forgiveness. God could not forgive us and make us pay the penalty of sin, nor could he let the cost of sin go unpaid. So he chose to bear the full weight of his own justice in Jesus. He was wounded for our transgression. He was bruised for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that made us whole, and with his stripes we are healed. In his sacrifice, he did more than cancel the penalty of sin. He bore the cost. Pain is the consequence of sin. There is no easy way to deal with it. Wood, nails, and pain are the currency of forgiveness, and that's the love that heals. Why should you forgive, friends? Because you see, I want you to know something. Bitterness and hatred is not a spear that you can throw at somebody. It's a boomerang. besides that just to finish with this quote from this book when we fail to forgive we have no message to preach no good news to share and we offer no reason for the believer to consider Christ in a similar context Francis Schaeffer writes if I'm not willing to practice forgiveness then I have not even started to think about the meaning of a Christian oneness that the world can see the world has a right to question whether I'm a Christian more than that the world whether Jesus Christ at Christmas really was from God. You want peace on earth? Jesus Christ said, to get peace on earth, I had to travel. That means I had to go to somebody. I suggest to you, for you to get peace on earth, it might mean going to the next pew or picking up the phone or going across town, making things straight with people. You know, this is preventative maintenance. you to know that it's got to happen eventually. Party spirit, envying and jealousy, forgiveness. We have had very little of it. Resentment and bitterness, we've had very little of it. But I'm telling you this, peace on earth, peace on earth comes from remembering that Jesus Christ, when you were an enemy, made you a friend. He's saying to you, will you do the hard work of peace on earth? Will you ask yourself real hard questions about yourself? Will you take the steps? Will you use the gospel on yourself and in your relationships? Don't sing about it. Work it out. He gives peace on earth to those who are of goodwill. He says, I can give you peace on earth, but it's going to take your goodwill. Let's pray. pray. Now, Father, we thank you that at Christmas we can consider the most practical of all the admonitions, and that is to come to one another as you have come to us, Lord Jesus. To love one another as you have loved us, Lord Jesus. To become weak with one another as you became weak to be with us, to not digest one another but serve one another as you have served us. Father, help us to practice this peace on earth and practice the gospel in our relationships so we can show forth to the world that you really were God incarnate come to earth at Christmas. Now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.