We're looking at the life of David in the evening services from now all the way through the summer. And last week, Jeff led you into this most famous of all incidents in David's life. That's David's fight with Goliath, his defeat of Goliath. Now this week, we're going to look at the passage that immediately follows it, and we're going to look at three different reactions to what David did with Goliath. Now the passage that's printed for you is actually only part of that. going to actually read a little longer section. I thought about it, and I changed my mind. And you're really allowed to change your mind on the passage of Scripture you're going to preach on right up to the beginning of the sermon. You're just not allowed to change your mind in the middle of the sermon. So, what I'm going to read to you is 1 Samuel 17. I'm going to start up at verse 51 and go over into chapter 18, verse 9. Listen carefully. There's three different people. Jonathan, and the crowd, and they all react to David's defeat of Goliath in significantly different ways. And listen, I'll read it carefully and slowly since you don't have it all in front of you. When the Philistines saw that their hero, Goliath, was dead, they turned and ran. Then the men of Israel and Judah surged forward with a shout and pursued the Philistines to the entrance of Gath and to the gates of Ekron. Their dead were strewn along the Sharim road from Gath to Ekron. And when the Israelites returned from chasing the Philistines, they plundered their camp. David took the Philistines' head and brought it to Jerusalem, and he put the Philistines' weapons in his own tent. As Saul watched David going out to meet the Philistine, he said to Abner, commander of the army, Abner, whose son is that young man? Abner replied, as surely as you live, King, I don't know. The king said, find out whose son this young man is. As soon as David returned from killing the Philistine, Abner took him and brought him before Saul, with David still holding the Philistine's head. Whose son are you, young man? Saul asked him, and David said, I am the son of your servant Jesse of Bethlehem. After David had finished talking with Saul, Jonathan became one in spirit with David, and he loved him as himself. From that day, Saul kept David with him and did not let him return to his father's house. And Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as himself. Jonathan took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his tunic and his sword, his bow, and his belt. And whatever Saul sent him to do, David did it so successfully that Saul gave him a high rank in the army. This pleased all the well. For when the men were returning home after David had killed the Philistine, the women came out to all the towns of Israel to meet King Saul with singing and dancing and with joyful songs and with tambourines and lutes. And as they danced, this is what they sang. Saul has slain his thousands, but David his tens of thousands. Saul was very angry. This refrain galled him. They've credited David with tens of thousands, he thought. Me with only thousands? What more can he get now but the kingdom itself? And from that time on, Saul kept a jealous eye on David. This is God's word. Now, David saves Israel. David defeats Goliath, who was the hero of the Philistines, and therefore David now is the hero of Israel. And there's three different reactions that we see. take a look at the three, and they're very interesting. First of all, you've got the reaction of the crowd, of the people, and we're going to call that hero worship. Hero worship. And they come up with a song, and they sing, Saul has slain his thousands, but David is ten thousands. Now, this terribly distressed Saul. It brought out the worst in him, because really what the crowd was doing was very, very typical of crowds, of the masses. They said, Saul, we have a new poster boy. Saul, you were great, but step aside. We've got a new favor. We've got a new hero. And they're looking at him, and they're talking about this, and they're worshiping. It's hero worship. And it brings out the worst in Saul, and it puts a wedge between David and Saul. And it's also, we'll see later on, a tremendous trap for David, because hero worship is destructive. It always leads you with ashes. It always has terrible effects. Now, the reason this is wrong, David has slain, pardon me, Saul has slain his thousands and David his ten thousands, is because the crowds missed the whole point of the incident. What was the point? Why did God let it happen that way? The point of a little boy, almost, a youth, without any armor, without any military background, without any kind of military experience or skill, routing an entire army, what is the point of that? What should they have come back singing? They shouldn't have come back singing, David has slain his 10,000s. It wasn't David. It wasn't youth. They say, hey, you know, we're going with a youth movement. The team is going to be great. It wasn't tactics. They shouldn't have said, you know what? We have learned that a little point guard is so much better than the big lumbering center, you see. No, it wasn't the tactics. It wasn't David. They should have come back saying, salvation is of the Lord. That was the point. You know, if God had helped Israel by simply letting the Israelites defeat the Philistines in a conventional battle, you could have maybe understood why they didn't get the point. But how could they miss this? is not David. The whole point is not tactics. The whole point is not youth versus age, you know, little guy versus big guy, you know, David versus Goliath or Saul or anything. The point was salvation is not of military might. It's not of tactics. It's of the Lord. It comes from Him alone. How could they have missed it? Here's how they could miss it. This is one of the most important things you can learn about the human heart. No matter how God helps you, no matter how many ways He sends to help you, your heart will turn around and worship the way instead of the God who provided the way. And whenever you do that, and we will do that, whenever you go to hear a worship, there will be destruction, just like here. There will be division. There will be jealousy. There will be some kind of destruction. John Newton, let me give you just some examples. John Newton, rightly so. He's an old pastor, lived 200 years ago, but in his letters he shows that the number one problem in marriage for both married people and unmarried people is hero worship. What does that mean? Well, Newton says the biggest problems in marriage, not only for you who are married, but for the people who want to be married and who aren't married, is this idea of hero worship, idolatry. At last I found the one who saved me. So many people go into marriage saying, finally, somebody to deliver me. Somebody to rescue me. Somebody who's finally going to make my life right. Hero worship will always bring out the worst in you. It will always leave you with ashes. Same thing happens with your relationship with children. It's kind of interesting to me. If you are from, if your family's from another country here and you're the first generation of your family to grow up here, you do you not know what the great danger is? The great danger is that your parents make you under the hero of the family. You have to make good. You have to be successful. You have got to be successful for the family. And the parents put this enormous pressure on you. And what's going to happen? Same thing as you go into marriage that way. There'll be euphoria for a while, maybe. And then in the end, you'll be bitterly disappointed. Same thing with kids. Now, that's not so much true of immigrant, for the non-immigrant families. I find the real danger for families that have lived here, us Anglo-American types, our great danger is not so much an economic thing, but an emotional thing. We want our children to love us. We want, in some cases, to live our lives out through our children. It's the same kind of thing. It's the same sort of thing. There is something in our heart. If God gives us a help. We turn it into a savior. We turn it into a hero. Hero worship is a bad thing. There was a lady who wrote this a couple years ago. I found this in a, there was a magazine called the Utney Reader, had a whole issue on heroism. And one woman wrote this. She says, why do we crave celebrities and heroes? heroes. First, she says, because they satisfy our demand for something outside our inconsequential little lives. Yes, we feel so inconsequential, but it's so dumb. With this stream of perfectly airbrushed, implanted, liposuction stars, you have to be a powerhouse of self-esteem not to feel inferior. So the paradox is, we worship them because our lives are inconsequential, but doing so makes us feel even worse. And then she says this, I think we worship celebrities and heroes is not as religious as it once was. I don't pretend to have all the answers, but it seems like people need something to fulfill them, like organized religion once did. But celebrity worship is warped and unfulfilling as a substitute. We make them stars, then their looks and their fame make us feel insignificant. As part of the media, I'm part of the whole process. No wonder I feel soiled at the end of the day. What she's saying, though, there is something deep inside of us that lusts after heroes. There is something deep inside of us that knows that we need a Savior. She says there's something we feel inconsequential. We need someone, something. We lust after heroes. We need heroes. We have to have them. But, she says, whenever we make any human being a hero, either it drives us into the ground because we're trying to emulate that hero, or else it bitterly disappoints us because we get the hero and the hero never can come through. We're trapped. Hero worship is very, very bad. I mean, in politics, in the 20th century, if you look back, you will see most of the most incredible tragedies of the 20th century happened because nations felt we need a Savior. Deep down inside, we want saviors, but when you marry one or you give birth to one or you elect one, it will kill you. So what are we going to do? Well, Saul had the second approach. Now, the second approach, and it's pretty interesting to see who it is that Saul is, Saul's approach was hero hatred, not hero worship, hero hatred. And it's interesting that back then and today, the masses have a tendency toward hero worship. But the educated classes, the elites always have had, and they still today, have a hatred of heroes. There's a tremendous cynicism about heroes. Now, the reason that Saul had this cynicism, he looked at David and he says,

he makes me look bad. And if you look over the next few chapters, you'll see that what Saul did is he continually roots for David to be unsuccessful. The passage I read there in chapter 18, 1 to 9, it tells how he was continually successful. And actually, matter how hard, he was successful. You'll see during the next few chapters as you go along, Saul desperately wants them to fail. Now, this is another approach to heroes. And this is a very modern approach to heroes, and it's particularly the approach of educated people. And the reason why educated people dislike the idea of heroes, the reason why we don't want to believe anyone is a hero, the reason we get so cynical is because heroes are moral paragons. I read a book a while ago by Alistair McIntyre called After Virtue and it's an interesting book because he points out that in ancient times the way that societies ancient societies developed a moral consensus and you have to have a moral consensus you have to decide it's right to be honest it's right to be good citizen it's right to care for each other it's right to be compassionate it's right to be tolerant of differences there's a moral consensus in a society, you can't have a society. Well, Alasdair McIntyre says, how was it that the ancients developed a moral consensus? How did they get their people to have these consciences that said honesty is good and bravery is good and sacrifice is good and so forth? How did they keep people from being selfish and being bitter and being bigoted and so forth? How did they do that? Well, today we do it through rules, laws, laws, and it's not working. And Alistair MacIntyre points out that in the ancient times, in fact, virtually every ancient culture, it was not through laws so much. You didn't have a bunch of rules. Nobody sat down with ethics textbook. It was heroes, stories about heroes,

tremendous stories about great heroes. And you would listen to it around the fire. You would listen to it at the knee of your mother or father. You would listen to it in the schools, and it passed into your conscience. You said, yes, I want to be like that. The problem with that is a hero tells you how you ought to behave. And over the years, there's always been a lot of people who have said the problem with heroes is it convicts me, it makes me feel bad. And this is the reason why modern people, not the masses, but the classes, all right? Not the crowd singing, Saul has killed his thousands and David's his ten thousands. but Saul himself represents the elites, the educated people of our modern day, who hate the very idea of heroes, who don't want to believe anyone is a hero. Desperately why? Why? Well, in this same article, I told you I found this article about heroism. There's a man named Walter Anderson who puts it this way. He says, we modern people are trying to move away from the old idea of leadership. The old idea of leadership was based on heroism, but the new idea of leadership is not. get this. Now listen, we don't want salvation from unblemished, omnipotent heroes. We want leaders who are complex, dependent, and who are always changing. Why? Postmodern psychology sees individual persons as more changeable than stable. The idea of any fixed identity is incapacitating to us. But here's the bottom line. We do not want any dominant authority telling our different inner voices to shut up, or telling us what to do. In other words, Walter Anderson says the reason that educated people today hate heroes is because then we're not free. We should be free to do what we think. As soon as you lift up a hero, that hero convicts me. See, Saul says, he's making me look bad. And that's exactly what Anderson is saying. We don't want heroes because we don't want anyone telling us what to do. So we get cynical. We knock them all down. We do biographies to show that they really were hypocrites. We want to believe everybody's a hypocrite. Why? Because then we can decide what's right for us. And then our society falls apart because there's never been a society that wasn't based on heroism. Never has been. But wait a minute, you say. Your society falls apart, and you yourself become cynical, if you're a hero-hater, look what happened to Saul. Did he become a noble person? By no means. Well, you say, now, wait a minute, we've got a problem here. Oh, yes, we do. Because hero-worship will destroy you, and hero-hatred will atrophy you. It's really quite a problem. Remember, there's one lady, the one lady that I wrote about, she says, we've sensed the need for a Savior. But when we turn to any of them saviors, it turns into ashes. It drives us into the ground or it disappoints us. You know, one of the things I think is all right, half right, feminists have for a long time talked about how much they hate the Cinderella syndrome. Feminists say that women have a problem that you can see in one of the fairy tales, the fairy tale Cinderella. In Cinderella, Cinderella is sort of living a drab life. She's a sort of a slave. And the handsome prince comes along and takes her away. way. And the feminists, rightly so, I'm going to show you half right, say, that's bad. If you, women, if you think that you need a savior, you're going to turn men into saviors and you're going to live dependent lives. So you shouldn't need anybody. Because, you see, that's how you get oppressed by men. And I, you know, there's a lot to that. There really is. On the other hand, the feminists never tell about us. We guys, we got a fairy tale problem too. It's a different fairy fairytale. We don't tell you about this, but let me tell you about this. You know, we look at the frog prince. We feel ugly, we feel unloved, and we want this beautiful girl to come along and kiss us and turn us into handsome princes. Then we'll finally know that we're not spit. We'll finally know that we're somebody. And of course, you also have beauty and the beast. We feel like beasts. We need a woman, a beautiful woman to come along and kiss us and make us realize. You see, we all need saviors. We desperately need saviors. It's not just women who want saviors, but we're all stuck. We want saviors. We need saviors. But when we turn any human being into a savior, it destroys us. If we decide let's not have any saviors at all, we dry up and blow away. Well, what's the answer? Well, Jonathan, not Saul and not the crowd. Jonathan has a whole different approach. Jonathan was Saul's son, his oldest son. And remember what we read. Let me just read it to you again because these four verses is what we're going to dwell on here at the end. After David had finished talking with Saul, Jonathan, this is Saul's oldest son, the crown prince, the heir apparent. Jonathan became one in spirit with David, and he loved him as himself. From that day, oh, pardon me, and Jonathan made a covenant with David, because he loved him as himself. Jonathan then took off the robe he was wearing and gave it to David, along with his tunic and even his sword, his bow, and his belt, even. Now, what's going on here. This is pretty amazing. What you have is simply this. First of all, Jonathan, okay, now he's on the road to hero worship. Jonathan, number one, Jonathan is attracted to David's heroism. It says, after he heard, after he watched David out on the battlefield, he watched what he did. And then he watched him come in and testify to Saul about his faith, about what he'd done. And we're told immediately Jonathan's heart went out to David. His spirit went out to David, and he was deeply attracted to David's heroism. So he's on the road to hero worship. But secondly, so the first thing was Jonathan loved the hero. But then secondly, he didn't hate the hero, but he never worshipped him because Jonathan let the hero humble him. This is something the crowd didn't do, and this is something Saul dared not do. In some ways, Saul was at least more perceptive than the crowd. the point of David's heroism. Saul at least got it. Saul realized that David's heroism was an arrow pointed at his heart. And every hero is an arrow pointed at our hearts. Heroes are there to humble us. And Saul knew that. That's the reason why a lot of people hate heroes. And what did Jonathan do? Jonathan humbled himself. And the way he humbled himself is absolutely astonishing. You can't quite tell from the text itself, But you have to realize what Jonathan did. He gave him his robe, but he was the king. He was the king to be, I mean, the prince. And it says he gave him even his sword. And what is Jonathan doing? Jonathan is saying, you deserve to be king. You're a better man than I. And even though it doesn't say it right there, you can go over to 1 Samuel 23, verse 17, and there he actually says it. At one point, Jonathan is saying to David, David, you're going to be king. and I'll be serving you. Now, this would be a little bit like, you know, two presidential candidates coming down, you know, about a month from the election, and let's just say one of the candidates is leading in all the polls three to one. And one morning he gets up and he says, I want to have a press conference that I've been thinking about this, and I want you to know that my opponent is a better man than me. He's got better character. He's more brave. He's wiser than me. He shows more integrity than me. He'll be a much better president than me. I resign. Elect him. Now, that has never happened. It probably never will happen. In fact, what Jonathan just did is just unique in political history. Jonathan had the right to be king. a legal right, and he had all the qualifications, but he let this hero humble him. And here's the reason why. Thirdly, he loved the hero, but he let the hero humble him, but then he looked beyond the hero. Now, it doesn't tell us right there, but over in chapter 19, when Saul is about to kill David, Jonathan gets up and says to David, pardon me, Jonathan gets up and says to Saul, Saul, my Lord, my Lord the King, let not the king sin against thy servant David, he says, for he benefited us, and he risked his life against the Philistine, and the Lord won a great victory for us that day, period. What does that tell you? Jonathan got the song right. Here's what's so weird. Jonathan looked beyond David. Jonathan realized, Jonathan understood Lord won the victory. Salvation is of the Lord. It's not of David. It's of the Lord because he was able to look beyond David. David didn't crush him. It just humbled him. David didn't addict him. It just attracted him. You should be attracted to your heroes, but not addicted. You should be humbled by your heroes, but not crushed, only if you realize that David is pointing beyond himself. David is a wonderful picture of the greater David. This anointed prince is a wonderful depiction of the real anointed prince. Because, you see, I think Jonathan, with his incredible spiritual insight, was able to look beyond David. And you know who he saw behind David? He realized, when he saw David slaying and Goliath, he realized, you know what? My problem somehow isn't giants, and it's not dragons. And it's so exciting to see a young hero slaying a giant, or St. George slaying a dragon, or Hercules slaying the Medusa. But really, the real thing is sin and death. We need a hero that would come and in mortal combat risk his life and have a victory over sin and death. Jonathan looked beyond on David, and as a result, David rejoiced his heart and humbled him. And this is, in other words, not hero worship, not hero hatred, but hero vision. Hero vision. You as an individual, there's nothing wrong with having heroes. Your heart will either turn a hero into worship, or it will make you hate heroes and become very cynical unless you believe the gospel. And the gospel is that there really was a hero, Jesus Christ. Hebrews chapter 2, Hebrews chapter 12, fix your eyes on Jesus, the author and champion of our faith, the archegos. Any of you remember that from a Hebrew sermon a long time ago? It's a Greek word that means the hero, the champion, the one who stands in the place. And you know, because David beat Goliath. All of Israel beat Goliath because he stood forth representing, you see, Israel. And so if he lost, Israel lost. But if he won, Israel won. His accomplishment is our accomplishment, and that's who Jesus is. Jonathan somehow was able to look beyond. And as a result, he didn't have to hate heroes or be addicted to heroes. This is what you need in your marriage. This is what you need in your family. This is what you need in your friendships. This is what you need in your politics. This is what you need in your life. It's the only solution. Now, let me apply this a little bit more tightly. Do you remember how I said the first week I was here that you can study David horizontally or vertically? And let me just call out some real practical applications here at the end. Horizontally, in other words, you can look at David as an example of you and me. And therefore, you can sort of say David is an example of us. And so we learn from David how we should live. But you can also study David vertically, David as an example of Christ. Now horizontally, when you read about David and Jonathan's relationship, you'll learn something about friendship. But vertically, when you look at Jonathan and David's relationship, you'll see something about discipleship, about how we should be relating to Jesus. First, friendship. Jonathan and David. I guess there's two things here that you see in their friendship that you will have in every good friendship. Do you know what they are? Let me give you two. Friends let you in, but don't let you down. Friends let you all the way in, but they don't let you down. If you look at the two things, listen to, you remember what I just read you first of all, it said that they became one in spirit. one in spirit means? One in spirit means that they got beneath the surface. They loved each other as their own souls. You know what that means? I was just looking at what the Hebrew meant, and basically it means this. They got below the superficialities. They shared their deepest hopes, their deepest fears, their deepest aspirations, their deepest motives. They got utterly vulnerable with each other. They became very transparent. Now, surely some of you have heard people make a case that this was a gay relationship. Have you never heard that? But every time I've ever heard anybody make a case that this was a gay relationship, I've always found that the case is based on a sexual stereotype. If there was a description here of two women saying these two women were one in spirit, they shared their hearts, they got vulnerable, they shared their fears, they shared their sins, they shared their hopes, they shared their dreams, they were utterly transparent with each other, There was total self-disclosure. Do you think people would say they must have been gay? No, they wouldn't. You wouldn't say that about two women. But if two men do it, you say they might be gay? What was it? I want to admit that men have a lot of trouble with this. That's the reason why people immediately look at that and say, two guys doing this? They must be gay. Well, you know why they say that? Because you don't understand the gospel. These were two warriors. These were two ancient warriors. weird. This was strange. This was different. This was unique. Look at this. Even here today in modern technological society, come on, guys, we don't do this, much less them. But something had changed those two guys. Something had changed those macho warriors. Something had changed them utterly, and they were able to get all the way down. They were able to get transparent. Now, they weren't doing anything that the Bible doesn't tell all Christians to do, whether male female. Love one another. Bear one another's burdens. Confess your sins to one another. Look at the New Testament. It's all through there. Well, what changed them? I'll tell you what changed them. They were two different classes. This was a shepherd boy and this was a king. These people should have been enemies. These people should have had nothing to do with each other. But here was the difference. They both made God more important than themselves ourselves, because God had anointed David and He had not anointed Jonathan. God has sent Samuel to anoint David as the king and not Jonathan. And what did they have in common? They had nothing in common. They should have been political enemies. They should have been class enemies. No way they should have been friends. The only thing they had in common was

that their greatest desire was to do God's will. They trusted God. And Jonathan said, oh, God doesn't want, I guess it's not my day to be king. God wants to take this thing out of my life. You know, as Job said when he was still in a groove, the Lord gives, the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Jonathan said, I have no security if I haven't got God. God is my reward. I've got God. I don't know. Because Jonathan and David loved God more than they loved each other, they loved each other eternally. Jonathan Edwards has a pretty interesting thing or two to say about spiritual friendships. He says in one place, we should strive to lay religion in the foundation of all of our friendships and subordinate our love for each other to our love for God. For so far as that happens, your love will last forever. Death don't put an end to such a friendship, nor can it put an end to such friends' enjoyment of each other. Did you hear that? If you love God more than you love your friend, your friendship will become incredible because you will do whatever is necessary. You won't be a coward. And you won't be afraid. You won't be afraid to disclose. Because God is your salvation. God is your righteousness. You won't be afraid to confront because God is your salvation. God is your righteousness. Edwards says, if you subordinate your own friend love to God's love, that is a relationship that will literally last forever between two Christians. When Edwards was dying, Jonathan Edwards, he was dying of smallpox and his wife was not going to get there in time, and he knew it. And so he said to his daughter, I want you to write this down. Write these words down and give them to my wife. And she did, and that's the reason we have them. And he said, give my kindest love to my dear wife and tell her that the uncommon union, which has so long subsisted between us, has been of such a nature as I trust is spiritual and therefore will continue forever. You see, there is this eternity, this unbelievable strength, this depth, this oneness of spirit that's possible if God is more important to you than your friend. If God's the real hero, you can have heroes and they won't kill you. If you don't have God as your hero, as your savior, not yourself as a savior. Hero worship is a form of self-salvation. And hero hatred is a form of self-salvation. ways of avoiding Jesus as Savior. But if Jesus is your Savior, what friendships you can have. And last of all, and lastly of all, if you see what Jonathan and David tell us about friendship, that if you let them all the way in, but you make a covenant, you don't let each other down, you're accountable to each other. Why? Because God is more important to you than your love for each other. That tells us about friendship. And if we see Jonathan relating to David and we say, yes, that's an example for us, I want to have friendships like that. I want to have particularly Christian friendships. You can have good friendships with people who aren't Christians, but you probably can't be one in spirit. If Christ is at the very center of your spirit, it's the thing that makes you tick, well, you can't share that with a non-Christian. The non-Christian looks at it and says, oh, I kind of like that, but I don't get it. but it's possible to have friendships that literally last continue forever but not only that we have to see that what made jonathan because he saw the hero behind the hero it didn't just make him this incredible friend it also made him a hero himself. Jonathan was a hero. If you look carefully, you will see the great irony of all. Saul wanted Jonathan to be king. There's one place where he goes into a rage, and he says, you, this is in chapter 20, he says to Jonathan, you son of a perverse and rebellious woman. He says, don't you realize that as long as the son of Jesse is alive on the face of the earth, you nor your kingdom will ever be established. He was just desperately trying to get rid of David so Jonathan could be king. And here's the great irony. Jonathan gave up his kingship and as a result got kinglier and kinglier and kinglier as time went on. Jonathan gave up his kingship, put himself below the true king, stopped trying to be his own savior, said this is the savior, not me. And as a result of going down, he went up. As a result of humbling himself, exalted. As a result of repenting, he was free. As a result of serving, he became a hero. If you go through the rest of the book, you will see that Jonathan became more and more willing to save David, stand up to his father. At one point, his father throws a sword at him, excuse me, throws a spear at him, and he has to get away. The more he gave up his kingship, the kinglier he got, And yet Saul, the more he tried to hold on to the kingship, the more of a slave he became, the more servile he became, the lower he became. Dear friends, this is the gospel. It's not enough to be religious. Saul was religious. But when he got near the anointed, the Messiah, he got threatened. If you're religious and moral and nice, that's not good enough. You've got to be willing to say, the only way I'll ever be free is to give up my freedom. The only way I'll ever, in a sense, rule and reign is if I completely let him be the king. The way up is down. That's the gospel. The way to rule is to submit. The way to be happy is not to seek your own happiness, but to seek the glory of God and the happiness of others. Why? Because Jesus Christ, though he was God, came down. Therefore God has highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. Jonathan saw that. Now friends, if Jonathan saw David as the hero, you've got to remember David beat Goliath. We should have so much more willingness to lay down our lives and put Jesus first. Because the way Jesus slayed the dragon was he was killed. He went out in that battlefield. come back with a head. Jesus Christ went out there and he lost his head. Jesus won from losing. If Jesus Christ is your savior, he'll be your friend. The more you make him king, this is what happened to Jonathan, the more he made David king, the closer he had a friend. We're going to pray and we're going to take the offering up. You know what the musical offering is? It's something that was, it's a song that wasn't written originally, of course, to be a as a young Christian, I was probably a brand new Christian when it came out, Paul Simon's Bridge Over Troubled Waters. It talks about a friend who lays himself down to be a friend. I don't know what Paul Simon had in his mind. I know it wasn't Jesus, but it's hard not to see it. Do you know what it meant for Jesus to lay himself down so he could be your friend? Do you know that if you make him your hero, what a friend you can be, what a hero you'll be? Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us through Jonathan true friendship and true discipleship. Help us, help us to have such a vision of Jesus as our Savior and hero that we find we become more and more heroic ourselves as we lay down the rule of our lives and give ourselves utterly to him. Would you please show us the great things that you have done for us, Lord Jesus, so that we might be moved to give ourselves to you in all the ways that we have spoken. Now, help us to apply these truths to our heart through your Holy Spirit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
