The book of James is the very beginning of the book of James. Would you turn to that, please?

We're starting tonight, and we're going to go through this entire book of the New Testament, the book of James. We'll just go through it consecutively. Something new that we haven't done before, but some of you very, very alert people may have noticed, that the week before the passage that's going to be taught in the evening service, you have a series of study questions that are going to be in your bulletin for either individual use or group use. In other words, a small group could use it. So you notice that there's a place where you're looking at the study questions for James chapter 1, verses 5 to 8, which we're going to look at next week. So we're going to be going through this book consecutively. Tonight we get started, and let me read you the introductory verses. James 1, verses 1 to 4.

James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations, greetings. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking, anything. This is God's word.

By way of introduction, I don't think I'm going to say much about what the book's about. That'll be revealed as we go. One thing to just keep in mind is that the book of James is probably the one part of the New Testament that corresponds to what's in the Old Testament is called wisdom literature. Wisdom literature, in a sense, is case law. Wisdom literature is where you take the principles and you apply them to see how they work out in practical situations. Wisdom literature means we're not so much trying to define the gospel, trying to define the essential principles of the Christian faith, but rather we're seeing how they flesh out, how they work out, practical godliness, how they affect the way in which we live. And that's the reason why James is, in some ways, a unique book in the New Testament, because it takes the gospel of Jesus Christ and it says, how shall we then live? By way of background, instead of looking at the book, let me look with you for a moment at the one who wrote it. And we really can't ignore this. If you really want to understand the book, you need to understand something about the person who wrote it. And verse 1 gives us an introduction, and there is such a story behind it. Look, James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, who is this? There's a number of people in the Bible. There was a man in the Bible named James. There was James, the brother of John, and James, the son of Alphaeus. But there was one man who came to be one of the four main pillars of the early church. In the very first generation of Christians, Paul, Peter, John, and James became the four acknowledged leaders of the early church. They were the pillars. They were the top. But this James... Who was the great leader of the church in Jerusalem, was James the brother of Jesus himself. He was a son of Joseph and Mary. He was a younger brother, of course, because Jesus was born to Mary and Joseph before they were married. He was one of Jesus' younger brothers. He was raised with Jesus. And we know from history, there's really no doubt about this, we know from history he was really the leader of the Jerusalem church. Tradition and history tells us that he's the writer of this epistle. Of this letter. And he almost has to be, because this James, the James who was the brother of Jesus, was far and away the most prominent and famous James in the early church. Any other James would have had to distinguish himself. Any other James would have had to be called James the this or James the that. Anybody who was just able to write a letter saying James had to be this one. The brother of Jesus. Now, when you look at what he says here, and of the Lord Jesus Christ, as I just said, there's such a story behind it that we can't help but look at it for a moment.

First of all, notice he says, the Lord Jesus Christ. The epistle of James, the letter of James was written in Greek. And the word that James uses to refer to the Lord Jesus Christ is the word Lord, which in Greek is the Greek word kurios. Now, the word kurios. Kurios is a very interesting word. The Greek Old Testament, the Old Testament was translated into Greek for the use of the Jews of that time, many of whom were Greek speaking, and it was called the Septuagint. And in the Greek Old Testament, wherever the word Yahweh shows up, wherever the word for God, the personal name Jehovah, Yahweh, shows up, it was translated kurios, because the word kurios meant more than just master. And Christians would not pledge allegiance to Caesar by saying what Caesar wanted people to say by way of pledge, and that is Kaiser kurios. Caesar is Lord because the word kurios is shot through with the connotation of deity.

Now, here's what's so amazing. I've mentioned this occasionally, and I have to mention it again. The last people in the whole Mediterranean to believe that a human being could become God. God would have been the Jews. There are people that had more Eastern views of God. The Eastern view of God is God is a life force in everything. And that view of God doesn't have too much trouble with the idea of a human manifestation of God. They believe in what's called avatars, that certain human beings have unusual God consciousness. No problem for them. And people with a more Western view of God who believed in limited gods like Zeus, you know, and these guys who were kind of, they were limited. They were very powerful, but they had their faults and they had their flaws and so on. You could fool them. They had no trouble with the idea that Zeus could become a human being or Apollos could become a human being. The Jews had a view of God that was utterly different. The Jews believed that God was infinitely exalted above the universe and had created the universe out of nothing. Ex nihilo. Out of nothing. Which meant the Jews understood in a way that nobody else understood God utterly independent. Utterly apart from above. Infinitely exalted above the world. Every other view of God has God kind of mixed up with the world. You know, part of the world. As a result of this, Jews were the last people to believe. They wouldn't even say the name of God to believe that a human being could become God. But this Jew had been raised in the same home with Jesus. Jesus was his big brother. He had eaten with Jesus. He had, as it were, shared the same bathroom with Jesus.

Every so often, you know, you have some celebrity and everybody thinks that celebrity is a tremendous person. You know. And after they get a little older, after they die, somebody comes along to write an expose. To show you the flaws. To show you what awful people they really were. To show you their human side. To show you their sins. And who are the people who do that? Huh? It's daughters and sons and brothers and sisters and wives and husbands. Because they live with them. If anybody's going to see your sin, it's your little brother. You treat your little brother as dirt, you know. Your little brother sees all your indifference. Your little brother sees all of your heartlessness. Your little brother sees all of your ego and your pride. All of your foibles. Here is a Jew. But not just any Jew. A Jew who is willing to say, I have seen this man up close. And he is the Lord. And all that tells us is that the moral grandeur, the quality of life, the words and the deeds and the wisdom and the consistency and the godliness, the character of Jesus Christ must have been unparalleled for somebody to live with him. From the time he was little. And to say, this is the Lord. But the other part of the great story behind this little verse is not just that. But the fact we know from the Bible that James did not always say, Jesus Christ is Lord. In the book of James, we know that James did not always say, In John, John chapter 7, verse 6, it says, Jesus' brothers did not believe in him. They made fun of him. They scorned him. And that's not that hard to believe. We have a lot of trouble sometimes treating people inside our family with the honor that people outside treat them. Isn't that right? Why? I mean, it goes along the lines. It's our pride. We say, what makes him so special? What makes her so special? I wiped her nose. You know? I changed his diapers. I mean, what makes that person so special? It's hard to see a claim to someone on the inside. When you say, hey, I'm cut of the same cloth. It's a pride thing. His brothers rejected him. He didn't believe. But 1 Corinthians 15, verse 7 tells us that when Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, he appeared to a number of people. And from what we can tell, he always appeared to groups. Practically. You know? Even though he appeared to Mary, but the women. He appeared to Peter and James and John. But there's only one person, what we can tell, that he had a special appearance for. 1 Corinthians 15, 7 says that he appeared all by himself to his brother James. And you know, oh, to be a fly on the wall. But here's what I think must have happened. James could not possibly have missed the fact that he is the only and true and literal product of God. He's the prodigal son. Don't you remember the story of the prodigal son? Luke 15, Jesus tells this parable. He was telling it to the Pharisees because they were so superior to sinners. So Jesus says, let me tell you a story. He says there were two sons and they had a wealthy father. But the younger son decided he rejected the authority of the father and went off and took his half of the inheritance and went off and squandered it and made a wreck of his life. And he comes back and he says, Father, I'm not worthy to be your son, but take me in. What's the father do? The father says, get out a robe, get out a ring. Bring my son back into the family. He was dead, but now he lives. He was lost, but now he's found. But Jesus tells us that the elder brother was grumpy. Very grumpy. Why? Because the elder brother says, hey, he squanders his inheritance and Father, if you're going to bring him back into the family, you can only do this at my expense.

Every robe is mine now. Every ring is mine. For you to bring him back in, it'll be at my expense and I won't have it. Now, why does the parable end like that? It's the weirdest parable. It ends with his grumpy elder brother saying, I can't believe it that you have brought him back and at my expense. And it ends. Why? Because Jesus, first of all, was telling it to the Pharisees and he was pointing to them. And he was saying, you know what? You should not have this superior attitude toward the lost sinners.

But Jesus was pointing beyond the Pharisees. Because if you read Luke 15, you'll know that the other two parables right in front of it, there's one about a lost coin, there's one about a lost sheep before there's the one about the lost son. And in both of them, he shows that he's the true one who goes after the one that's lost. He is the good shepherd who leaves the 99 sheep and goes after the one that's lost and brings it back rejoicing. And here's what Jesus is trying to say. I am the true elder brother. There is no way for you to come back into my family after having rejected the father except at my expense. But I'm the true elder brother. I go out into the wilderness and I find the lost boy. And I put him on my shoulders and I bring him back and I set him down and say, there's no way for you to get back in this family except at my expense. And I give it all gladly. My robe, my ring, my body, my blood. And it's yours gladly. And that is what he said. To his real little brother.

He says, little brother, James,

the only way for you to come back is at my expense. But I am come for you.

My body, my blood, my robe, my ring, it's all of grace, but I give it gladly. Now be a leader in my church. And what a man James became. Because when you know that you've been received back in, by your true elder brother, who says, I come for you, and I give all this gladly at my expense, then you're ready for anything. One of the most amazing things to me in the Bible is the book of Acts chapter 15. We're told that when the first big problem came up, it was a big issue about the Gentiles and the Jews and how they were relating inside the church. They had a big council and everybody was there. Huh? And James was the chairman. Now when you're on a team, and you've also got on your team St. Peter, St. Paul, and St. John, and you're still elected the captain, that's something. He became such a man of God, even though he had muffed it, he had missed it. He had missed three years with Jesus. It's sort of like, you know, I had this chance to take a degree under this unknown prophet, Jesus Christ, but I went off and went to another college, and I've blown my chance. I found out who he is after he's gone. Never mind. In some ways, he was a greater man. Sometimes he was a tremendous man because of the grace. But Jesus comes and says, I'm the real elder brother. And eventually, you know, James,

the enemies of the gospel took James in AD 62 to the pinnacle of the temple and said, there's too many people becoming Christians. This is what the historians tell us. Too many people becoming Christians, so I want you to say, not to turn to Christ. I don't know what in the world they thought he were going to do. Tell the people to turn away from Jesus. And what we're told James said was, he looked out, and he called down, and he said, why do you ask me about the son of man? He dwells in heaven at the right hand of the mighty power. He will come in clouds of heaven. And in anger, they threw him off. He fell to the ground, but he wasn't dead yet. Beaten and broken, he twisted to his knees and began to pray for the forgiveness of his enemies. At that point, they came down and stoned him and beat him over the head with a fuller's bat until he was dead. This is the one who says, consider it joy. He was ready. Why? Because when your elder brother has come in grace and said, my robe, my ring, I give it to you out of grace, at a certain point you say, world, you owe me nothing. You have nothing of value I want, and you can take nothing of value from me. I'm not afraid of you anymore. I will follow my master, my Lord, through fire and water.

Because of what he's done for me. That's James. Shared a bathroom with Jesus. Grew up seeing it all, but not really figuring it out until Jesus met him and showed him his grace. Now, because of that, you have to understand that when you come to this passage where it says, consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking in anything. Now, even though it's very brief, you have here, and especially think of what I just told you about James, you have here a man who's ready for what eventually happened to him.

And in here you've got the reason why he was ready. Let me show you what this teaches us about troubles. It teaches us a lot in a very short span. Watch. Number one, it teaches you that troubles are inevitable. Inevitable. It doesn't say, consider it pure joy, my brothers, if you face trials. It doesn't say that. It says when. And this means anything that can happen to any human being can happen to a Christian. Do not think that because you're a Christian that means that certain things couldn't possibly happen to you. That's just not the case. That's just not the case. History tells you otherwise. The Bible tells you otherwise. Personal experience tells you otherwise. That's just not the case. Not at all. Trials are inevitable. They're going to happen. The only reason I need... Listen, if anybody can ever... Oh, I better not recommend any books, at least not here. Then everybody will run down to the book table and try to get it, and it's not available, I don't think. But I read a book, and it had a really interesting point in one of the chapters. It says there's never been, never been a time or place where people were more squeamish and unhappy about suffering. Every other culture, every other society, and every other time, people have not been the crybabies we are. They have known that life is unfair. They have known that life is brutal and short. And they took it. You can even see it, even in the old movies, you can see it. There's no other place where when things go well, people sue at the drop of a hat or try to commit suicide as soon as life gets painful or complain about how life is unfair. And there's a whole lot of reasons why. But probably one of the main reasons is that we're a secular society. And we're all part of that. And this is what a secular society means. The word secular comes from the Latin word seculum, which means now. And this is what a secular society teaches you. You've got to get all your happiness now. Now. This is it. And if anything goes wrong with your health here, if anything goes wrong with your love here, if anything goes wrong with your money here, you're out. There is no other. There's nothing else. You're ruined. You're destroyed.

There's never been a culture that set its people up. And made them so vulnerable to the vicissitudes of life. Every other place, every other time, every other culture always says there's this world and there's another world. You can get love here and that's nice, but there's real love. You can get riches here and that's nice, but there's real riches. Everybody's always felt like, hey, this life is a good place to try. This isn't all you've got. The secular world says this is all you've got unless you read old books. Unless you read old books. Everything in this culture, the media, the literature, everything in this culture reinforces that if you lose the things that make you happy here, you have lost everything. There's no reason to go ahead. And we're all part of that. Even though a lot of us are Christians, we're still part of this secular culture. And we like to believe that if we belong to Christ, there's no way that these awful things can really happen to us. God will let little things happen to us, but not big bad things. Little bad things, not big bad things. Anything that can happen to anybody can happen to you if you're a Christian. When the trials come, not if. Secondly, notice the balanced attitude towards troubles. The first I just said was we were taught the inevitability of troubles. Secondly, we're taught a balanced approach. He says, consider it pure joy when you face trials. Look real carefully. He is not a masochist or a hedonist. On the one hand, he doesn't say, enjoy your trials. He doesn't say, trials? Oh, have a great time. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, consider your trials. Joy. He says, consider it pure joy. On the other hand, he doesn't say, well, you're not going to have any joy until the trials go. I mean, until this goes over, you can't have any joy. I mean, you're just going to have to grit and bear it. He is neither a hedonist that says, unless your life is going well, you can't have joy, nor a masochist who says, it's great to have trouble. See, he doesn't say either of those things. He says, if you learn how to think and if you learn how to handle trouble, you can find joy in the trouble. Consider it pure joy. Consider it pure joy. It's possible to have joy. Well, you say, okay, what do you have to do? Look careful. There's two things that he tells you have to do. The first thing you have to do is you have to, well, let's take a look at the word consider. The word consider means you're supposed to look at what the troubles can get you, what the troubles can bring you. He says, consider it pure joy, brothers, because, see that? He doesn't say just think happy thoughts. Consider, you know, think peaceful thoughts, just pass them through your mind during the trial. He doesn't say that. He says, consider because. He says, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance, and I'll get to that in one second, and perseverance finish its work so that you will be mature and complete. Now, so this is the first thing you have to do is you have to realize what great things can happen in your life through suffering. You have to get a bigger picture. And he says that you may be complete. That means, suffering can bring into your life other things that are not there. You're incomplete now. So someone says, well, how? Well, here. First, let me just show you how without suffering, I don't know how you develop these four things. Humility, freedom, compassion, and faith. Just that. I don't know how you develop these things without suffering. Humility. You know how Paul said, you know, Paul was a tremendous leader. God needed Paul to come and face Peter and these other people down who really had not understood the implications of the gospel for reaching the Gentiles. And so God comes to Paul and says, Paul, I've got to find a guy like you, somebody who's really a leader, somebody who's really assertive and really brilliant. And he gives Paul all sorts of tremendous insights. He gives them revelation, all kinds of revelations from heaven so that Paul can find a guy like you. Paul has got the chutzpah to face Peter down and to take the gospel to the Gentiles. But then Paul says in 2 Corinthians 12, he says, because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations that I might not be too elated, which means swollen, puffed up, God gave me a thorn in the flesh. I kept asking for it to go and God kept saying, uh-uh, until I realized God was saying, strength in you is only made perfect in weakness. And here's what Paul meant. We don't know what the thorn was. It was probably some kind of physical affliction. And Paul said, you know what? My own pride, which God used, my leadership abilities, which God used, unless he had done something in my life that really made me hurt, I would have become so elated and puffed up that I would have undone everything that he had done through me. There's no humility without suffering. You have no idea how little you know. You have no idea how weak you are. You have no idea how strong you are. You have no idea how much you need God. There's no way. Secondly, freedom. I can be real brief about this. But you know what suffering really is? Suffering always is that God takes something away that you think you've got to have. If God takes away something you don't think you have to have, it's not suffering, you know? You say, I don't need that, right? I don't need that. I didn't think I needed that. So that's not suffering. It's only suffering when God's taking something from you're sure you need.

But it's only when God takes it away that you know you need it. And you survive. It's only when God takes the things away and you find that you can, you start to say, these things I thought I had to have, I don't need to have them. It's only through suffering that you get freedom from the things that had you around the throat.

Thirdly, compassion. It's only through suffering that you, how many times, how many of you know that because of some real trouble you now understand other people in a way you never would have understood them before? You never would have cared about them before. You never would have been able to relate to them before. And faith. When suffering comes, this is always God coming to you and saying this. God is coming to you and saying, are you ready to bolt? Are you ready to just turn on me? You know what this is showing? Now the suffering is showing you this. Now we'll get to this point. Did you get into Christianity to get me to serve you? Or did you get into Christianity for you to serve me? Which is it? If you get, if you say, God, if you don't answer my prayer, I'm out of this faith. Finally we see, I'm the employee. You're the boss. You're about to fire me. You're threatening me. Your agenda is non-negotiable. I'm negotiable. I'm the means. You're the end. Now we see that you really don't have faith in me. You have faith in your agenda and you're using me. And it's only when suffering comes that you realize these issues. There is no way to humility. There is no way to compassion. There is no way to freedom. There is no way to this kind of faith. At least this kind of humility, this kind of compassion, this kind of freedom, this kind of faith. There is no way to be complete. Count it pure joy when you realize what could happen in your life. But that's not enough. That's not enough. Because I want you to know that sometimes the suffering comes in so bad that you can't just sit there and say, oh joy, I'm going to become a mature, complete person. This will be wonderful. No, that's not enough. I'll tell you what you have to consider. You count it pure joy that you can persevere.

You don't just handle suffering by thinking about what God can do in your life. You handle suffering because you say, I want perseverance. Now this is a word, this is a very important word. It's a word that's also translated endurance.

And it's a word, it's a Greek word, hyper, it's hypomeno, which means, hyper means to super, right? Super, hyper, intense. And meno means to stand. Now what is endurance? It means to stand your ground, to hyperstand. And if you look at that, you'll see exactly what James says you're out to develop. This is what you're out to develop. When suffering comes on you, consider to hyperstand. You know what that means? It means, were you praying before the trouble came? Were you going to church before the trouble came? Were you obeying the Ten Commandments before the trouble came? Were you loving your neighbor before the trouble came? Were you reading your Bible before the trouble came? Keep on doing it. Just don't stop. Just stand your ground. If you don't, if you retreat, you'll become a bitter, misshapen, anxious person. But if you simply stay put, stand your ground. Keep on praying. It'll be harder. Keep on loving your neighbor. It'll be harder. Keep on caring. If you're not caring about other people, it'll be harder. But just stand your ground. The suffering will turn you into this furnished, complete person. But beyond that, the word consider means also think about the one who persevered for you. It says in Hebrews 12, 2. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 2, it says this. It says, consider him who endures, endured so much from others. Fix your eyes on Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross and despised its shame. Endured. It's the same word. Hyperstand. There is nothing more moving in any story than to see a person decide to stay put to save their loved ones. I mean, even in the, even in the, even in the, even in the most maudlin and the silliest movie. You know, aliens. I'm always moved by the two, you know, the guy and the girl. They go into the place and they say, if the others are going to escape, we're going to have to stay there. And on comes the lethal onslaught of the aliens. They keep coming, they keep coming, they keep coming. And they, they stay there. They hyperstand. They say, for love of the people, I'm going to stand. If you want to, this is awfully exotic, but there's a, there's a, one of my favorites, one of my favorite places in all of literature is a book that's very hard to read. It's, it's Tolkien's Silmarillion. It's not The Lord of the Rings. It's, in the Silmarillion, he tells you about a man named, well, it's two brothers really, Huron. But Huron has a good friend, Turgon. And if Turgon is going to get and escape with his people to the hidden city, Huron has, Huron has to stand in the gap against this incredible onslaught of the enemy. And he says to Turgon, you go, you go. I will hyperstand. I will stay put. And so he stands there and everybody else gets away and of course, he just keeps fighting against the enemy. They keep coming and coming. He keeps hewing with his axe, saying, day will come again. Finally, they just overwhelm him. Why was he hyperstanding? He was saying, my love for the people I'm seeking to save will endure anything. It will take anything. They can come, they can destroy my body, but I will never let go of them. The reason that Jesus Christ stood and took hell itself, the wrath of God was because he loved us. God poured out all of his wrath on Jesus and Jesus didn't let go. He stood, he hyperstood, steadfast love. Now Jesus comes to you and says, look what I endured for you and now my perseverance is the jewel of your life. You look at how I loved you no matter what and that's the reason why you know today there's no condemnation for you. You know how you know that Jesus loves you and will always love you? Because you knew that he hyperstood against all of hell. God dropped an atom bomb on Jesus and now you know there's nothing you can do to get rid of him.

If Jesus' love was so great that it endured that for you, you think that your little sins are going to scare him away or wear him out? Jesus says, through my suffering,

I persevered. Through my suffering, I stayed with you and now my perseverance is the joy of your life. Now I want you to suffer for me. You're not married and you want to be. You're not promoted and you want to be. You don't have friends and you want to have them. You're sick. You're facing death.

Hyperstand. Stand your ground for me. Don't just say, I can persevere because it'll make me a better person. Say, I can persevere because Jesus Christ

persevered for me. Jesus stood there for me. He took it all for me. And if you consider that, you will stay put and you'll become a very great heart. In fact, you know, even Ivan Karamazov knows this. Teresa of Avila said, put it this way, Teresa of Avila actually said, from the standpoint of heaven, pardon me, from the standpoint of heaven, the most miserable life on earth will just look like one night in a bad hotel. And Ivan Karamazov says it this way, I believe that suffering will be healed and made up for that in the world's finale at the moment of eternal harmony, something so precious will come to pass that it will suffice our hearts for the comforting of all resentments, for the atonement of all crimes of humanity, for all the blood that they've shed, something so great that it will make it not just possible to forgive but to justify all that has happened. What he's saying is, hold on and eventually we'll see the enormity of what he did and the bliss that comes into our lives because we've held on for him just as he held on for us. It will make amends for all.

Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would make it possible for us now as we consider in our hearts what your son did for us.

That we might be able to stay and stand and obey you in the midst of the troubles that we have. If that is possible and if that is what we can do, you will furnish us and make us mature and you'll make us more and more like your son. That's what we want and we pray it in his name. Amen.