Gospel according to Matthew, the fifth chapter. We read from verses 27 through 30. Matthew chapter 5, verses 27 through 30. You have heard that it was said, do not commit adultery. But I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one part of your body than for your whole body to go into hell. This is God's word. What a cheerful passage. I found that preaching, only having done it once, but I found that preaching biblically on the subject of sex in New York is a little bit like throwing a gallon of base solution into a vat of acid. A lot of things bubble up. A lot of things surface. And last time, I discovered it surfaced so many things, there was a kind of seismic reaction to it. And as a result, I approached the subject on my knees this time. I probably should have done it before. There's four things that Jesus says here. You'll see in your outline. Jesus talks here about sexual purity. And he talks about sexual passion. He says. In the way of purity. Thou shalt not commit adultery. And then he says. By way of passion. He talks about lust. And. I. Am going to point out. Here. That there's really. Four things. He's saying. Two. Under the heading. Of purity. And. Two. Under the heading. Of passion. Under the heading. Of purity. He says. These. Two. Things. One. Is. Godly. Sexuality. to being human. Sex is central to being human. And then secondly, he says, sex must occur in the context of total commitment. There can be no sex outside of total commitment, a marriage covenant. That's what he says about purity. Under passion, he says two things, and don't worry, I'll keep repeating them, as you know, as you well know. The two things under passion are that he says, it says lust is the opposite of love. And that self-control is your job. So he's saying four things. Sex is central to being human. Sex can only happen in the context of total commitment. Lust is the opposite of love. And controlling lust is your job. Number one. The Bible and Jesus Christ say that sex is central to being human. Remember, the Sermon on the Mount is all about kingdom living. It's about the fact that when you receive Christ as Savior, you come in under the royal power of the king. When you come in under the royal power of the king, everything is changed, everything is restored. And that's why we keep saying, the hands of the king are healing hands, and thus will the rightful king be known. It's not a scriptural text, but it's a scriptural sentiment, the hands of the king are healing hands and thus will the rightful king be known. Anything that comes in under the powerful hands of the king, Jesus Christ, is changed. And as a result of talking about all of life in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus makes a beeline for sexuality. He doesn't stay away from sex. He talks about it immediately. The reason he goes to it immediately is because Jesus, like the Bible, is neither flippant, he's not flippant on the one hand, but on the other hand, he's not prudish. He doesn't deify sex, nor does he repress it, because he knows that sex is the most delightful and dangerous of all our capacities, and thus, Jesus is bearing witness to the fact that it's the most blessed thing, one of the most blessed things that can happen to us, and it's central for becoming a human being. all of that. I'm looking at his statements about hell. Jesus Christ says that sexual passion can lead you to hell. And right away we say, oh my, oh boy, this is just, this is a great text. Here we go. Another sermon about sex and that famous lady, Helen Brimstone. You've all heard of her. Right away it seems very negative. we're talking about sex and hellfire incredible actually a lot of you suddenly said I didn't realize there really was a text that talked about sex and hell and brimstone there it is you're getting the wrong impression when Jesus Christ talks about hell and sex he is actually bearing witness to the importance of sex to the dignity of sex we don't have time to go into the whole subject of hell here that everybody in the Bible talks about hell, but no one talks about hell more than Jesus Christ. He talks about hell more than everyone else in the Bible put together. Hell is a final state of soul for people who have rejected the rightful, healing hands of the Master. Being in hell means you are totaled. Now, when a car is totaled, some of you know what that word means. a car is totaled. We don't mean a car ceases to exist. What we mean is a car no longer can carry out it's original function. It can't function as a car. It's alienated from it's original design and purpose. It can't function as a car. It's still there. In Hell, a human soul is totaled. And you know what it means. It doesnt mean it ceases to exist. It is completely alienated from it's original design. The human soul cannot realize it's purpose. It cannot It cannot love. It cannot serve anybody because it's in the absolute misery of total self-centeredness. It cannot give joy and it cannot receive joy. It's totaled. And Jesus Christ is saying that sexuality and the misuse of it is one of the key ways for a soul to get into that condition. He's saying, therefore, sexuality is central to what makes us human. And those of us who have misused sex, and there's so many of us, know that the process does begin. When you misuse sex, in comes a boredom, in comes a cynicism, in comes a hardness. It's the beginning of the process that Jesus is talking about. And therefore, see, Jesus has a high view of sex. He sees it as central and extremely important, dangerous and delightful. And therefore, actually, what the Bible teaches us is, yes, sex is fun, but it's a lot more and a lot less. Because sex will either be a window into the glories of heaven, or it'll be a gate into the alienation and bondage of hell. But it won't just be fun. It'll be a lot better, or it'll be a lot worse than that. And it won't be... It will go one way or the other. Sex will take you one direction or the other. It will not leave you be. When we look at what Jesus says about hell, we see that he's teaching that sexuality is central. It's important. He's not prudish about it at all. Central to being human. That's the first point. Did you get it? Second point. Sex, the Bible says, and Jesus Christ says, is only for total commitment. Sex can only happen between a man and a woman in a marriage covenant or in a marriage commitment. else. That's what the Bible teaches. Thou shalt not commit adultery. Jesus says, you've heard it said, thou shalt not commit adultery. Have we heard it said? I don't know. Every time I say it, sometimes in New York, I find people staring at me, as Luther says, like a cow staring at a new gate. You're kidding, right? The Bible is, listen, I feel too far away from you. I know my wife's not going to like this because she says she can't see me when I come down here. But she's sitting just in the right spot. She's got it. Thank you. Look at everybody. Everybody moved away. So we look at this. This is amazing. Friends, listen. The Bible is unbelievably careful in its ethic. It's so wise. It's so balanced. It's so perfect. When it says thou shalt not kill, there's plenty places in the Bible that tells you that if you have to defend yourself from someone who is trying to kill you or your family, and in the struggle you kill that person, you're not guilty. So the Bible makes that qualification. It's very balanced. Last week, we talked about reconciliation. The Bible says that whether you've got something against the person or they've got something against you, your responsibility is to go and get reconciled. But the Bible also qualifies that. And I didn't get a chance to talk about it last week. Some people pointed this out. Romans 12, 18 says, As much as it depends on you, live at peace with all men. And it even says in the book of Proverbs, Do not answer a fool according to his folly. And that means it's possible that you may be trying to reconcile with someone and a person could continually use that reconciliation to persecute you as an opportunity to trample on you. And you are not a masochist or a sadist if you're a Christian. you are not supposed to make it easy for a person to persecute you, to sin. It's never good to make it easy for a person to sin. At a certain point, withdraw. The Bible says, Thou shalt not lie. And yet Rahab, when people were trying to kill the spies, the Hebrew spies that she was hiding, lied. And she was commended for it. Because the Bible admits there's qualifications, there's extreme situations in which a person who is so wicked may forfeit their right to the truth. the Bible is unbelievably balanced and unbelievably nuanced. But when it comes to thou shalt not commit adultery, they just don't have the qualifications. It doesn't say thou shalt not commit adultery, but if you really, really love each other. It doesn't say that. Look, the Bible has all kinds of marvelous qualifications about lying and reconciliation and killing and all that. It doesn't have it here. Why? You know, you've got the beautiful song, It Can't Be Wrong If It Feels So Right, on the lips of Debbie Boone, but Hitler was essentially saying that as he was pushing people into the oven. You can't base your morality on your feelings. Otherwise, we had no right to call the Nazis wrong. They felt it. They had passion. The Bible says, thou shalt not commit adultery. And the word adultery means sex outside a covenant. Now, in the strictest form, the word means if you are married, outside of your marriage covenant with your spouse is adultery. But inherent in the idea of sex outside a covenant is the idea that it's also wrong to have sex without a covenant. The Bible everywhere says that sex between two people neither of whom are married is wrong as well. Any sex without a covenant, and by the way, this is not a minority opinion, all three branches of Christianity, all the Orthodox Church, all the Catholic Church, Judaism, all of Islam, for goodness sakes, have always said for centuries this very thing. It's not a new gate. Why? The answer is, the question is, why? Why is it so bad? What is so bad about it? Now, let me give you a couple of reasons. First of all, let me tell you a couple of wrong reasons. There's some people who say, thou shalt not commit adultery, and they give you wrong reasons for why it's wrong. And it's helpful to understand the wrong reasons so it'll be clear what the right reasons are. Two great men. Thomas Aquinas, a great theologian and philosopher of the Middle Ages. And Immanuel Kant, a great German philosopher. Both of them said adultery is a sin. Aquinas says adultery is a sin because adulterers don't want to have babies. And he says the only real reason to have sex is to have babies. Immanuel Kant had a different opinion. He says, the reason you shouldn't commit adultery is if you commit adultery, it means you've lost self-control and you have been brought down from the human rational level to an animal level. Now, both of those great men were very wrong. Because if you notice, as different as those opinions are, on the surface, underneath, they share a common assumption. And what is that assumption? Do you hear it? That somehow sex is dirty. Isn't that what they're saying? See, Aquinas is saying only for babies. necessary evil for procreation. Immanuel Kant seems to think that human passion makes you more of an animal than human intellect. And that is not a biblical at all a sentiment. The Bible never looks at sex as if it's a dirty thing or the body as if it's dirty. When I first began to study the scripture, I must admit it was in seminary. I started studying it in depth and my wife remembers this. We would study in some of the Old Testament classes, the wisdom literature, Psalms, Proverbs, and Song of Solomon. And in those passages, there's some incredible celebrations of godly sexuality. And in your Bibles, your English Bibles, you don't know the half of it because the translators are wimps. And because there's a lot of places where God is celebrating godly sexuality with little Hebrew verbs that do not mean caress and they don't mean hug and they mean And when we would study those things, we would have little trails of smoke coming out of our ears. And we would realize that we felt ashamed in the presence of something that God was not ashamed to create and to even rejoice in and celebrate. I was trying to be more holy than God, and it's quite a trick. Began to realize there is nothing inherently sinful about sexuality in the body, and therefore Aquinas and Immanuel Kant are wrong. No, adultery isn't wrong because sex is somehow dirty and adultery is just more sex than you need. That's not the answer. The answer is this. The Bible teaches us that adultery is wrong because of what sex is supposed to be. Sex is a unitive act uniting body, soul, spirit, mind, will, emotions, the way sex was built. It was built to say to somebody else, I belong to you. You know, if you take a look and see what actually happens in sex, and it might be hard for some of us because we have to remember way back when we first began to have sex, it still operated pretty much the way God intended it to. And that meant when you gave yourself physically to somebody, you also wanted to give yourself in every other way. Because God has invented sex so that what you're doing with the body tends to have a force to make the soul want to do the same thing. When you open yourself physically, when you're naked, you're vulnerable, aren't you? And when you're physically vulnerable, there's something in the soul that wants to be personally and socially in every other way vulnerable. So that when you're giving yourself to somebody physically, you say there's something as a natural force to it that makes you want to say, I belong to you. I am no longer my own person. I am no longer my own individual. I no longer have my own rights. I give up my rights to serve you and to become part of you. When Paul talks about sex, he says in 1 Corinthians 6, if you have sex with a woman that you're not married to, he says, don't you realize the monstrosity of that? And we preached on that in December. He says, don't you realize you've become one flesh with her? What's that mean? Now, the word flesh does not only just mean the body, usually, in the Bible. place where it says my spirit will be poured out on all flesh. That doesn't mean on all bodies. It means on all persons. And what Paul is saying is don't you realize that the way God intended sex to operate is that you become a new person? You and she, he's saying, become a one person. Now is that a mystical thing? No, it's a practical thing. It means you give up your rights when you enter into a deep commitment and covenant. You give up your rights to be your own person. When you get married, what you're saying is I am vulnerable now to you. I have to make all my with you. I've given up my freedom. That is what sex does. It makes you want to commit. It makes you want to covenant. And it only works in a covenant. John White, a Christian psychiatrist from Canada, put it like this. He says, erotic pleasure. You notice I don't have to tell as many funny stories to keep your attention this week. John White says,

and the delight of knowing I am loved as well as loving, it seems momentarily impossible to separate myself from my body, for the one who accepts my body caresses also with tenderness my inmost being, or so it seems. So it makes sense that sexual relations can be confined only to marriage, for acceptance and mutual disclosure

are not the activities of a moment, but the delicate fabric of a lifetime weaving. sex springs from casual encounters, some of their life-giving and healing nature is destroyed. Do you hear what he's saying? He says, sex is not supposed to be, how do I put it? He says, don't separate your body from yourself. Did you hear that? When you give your body, you should be giving your whole self. And when you are physically one with somebody, without being personally, socially, and legally in every other way one with somebody, you are doing violence to something which naturally goes together. Sex has a natural inclination force to make you want to give yourself to somebody. When you say, I want to have sex, but I do not want to be married. What you're saying is, I want to have sex, I want a physical one, but I do not want to become vulnerable to you actually. I don't want to really have to make decisions through you. I don't want to be tied to you. In other words, I don't love you enough to marry you. And you are doing violence to something. You're pulling that John White said has to be together. You should not separate your body from yourself, but that's what you do. And when you use sex, not as a unit of act, but as fun, you really do violence to your soul. When sex is operating in marriage, you know what it is? It's a covenant renewal ceremony. Every time you have sex in a good marriage, what happens is you are recreating your ability to trust somebody else totally. You're making yourself vulnerable again. You're putting yourself completely in their arms. You are recreating your covenant commitment. But every time you have sex outside of marriage, you actually are destroying that commitment apparatus. You're destroying the thing that God gave you that is deeper than any other thing he gave you to enable you to trust yourself to somebody else. You're separating yourself from your body. And as time goes on, as John White says, it gets harder and harder and harder for you to trust yourself to anybody. buddy. And that's why Jesus says, eventually it leads you to the hardness of hell. Yeah. Yeah. Why is adultery wrong? Because sex is a unitive act. It's for covenant only. It's a glorious thing. It's a wonderful thing. It creates in you the ability to trust yourself. And if you abstract it, you do violence to sex and yourself. That's why God says be pure. Okay, second point. Then what do we do with our passion? What do we do with our passion, somebody's saying. Somebody's saying, well, this sounds great. This is just wonderful. You know, I always felt vaguely guilty. Now I feel really guilty. Because now my conscience is informed, you see. I'm guilt, now I'm much more guilty because now why it's wrong. But what do I do with my passion? And Jesus tells you. First of all, he says, and this is one of those times in which my modern translation is not as good as if I had an old King James translation. See, what he says in my translation is, I tell you that anyone who looks at a woman lustfully has already committed adultery. Now, literally in the Greek, and it comes out in your old King James Bible, it says, anyone who looks upon a Now you know that he's choosing one way, it could also be the other way around, anyone who looks upon a man to lust. Literally the Greek says, anyone who looks in order to lust, and that is a very important little connection. There are two parts to this. There's a looking and then there's the in order to lust. You see, sexual passion, as I've shown you, I hope, sexual desire, there's nothing inherently It's central to being a human being. It's a wonderful, delightful capacity. And therefore, because you have the ability to admire someone else, you look. That's where the look comes from. Jesus is not saying anything is wrong with looking. He says it's looking in order to. There is a motivation that your looking can get hooked up to. Do you hear that? And when your looking is hooked up to that motivation, then it begins to work its dirty work in you. What is that motivation? It's lust. this. Remember poor Jimmy Carter? President of the United States did a very courageous thing. Do you remember this some years ago? He admitted that sometimes he looked on women with lustful thoughts in his heart. And for the next three, six months of Saturday Night Live, there was Dan Aykroyd doing Jimmy Carter, saying, I have lust in my heart, and then looking sheepishly. And because you see, in the world's eyes, there's only two ways to deal with lust. You stuff it, which is very unhealthy or you ventilate it. But that's because they don't understand the difference between looking and lusting. The word lust is not just a sexual thing in the Bible. Lust is self-maximizing. And you can get lust hooked up with all kinds of other motives. For example, don't you want to do well in your job? But if that good and natural impulse for excellence gets hooked up with lust, that eats you up. And if a good and natural sexual desire gets hooked up with lust, your sexual life, your sexual fantasy life will eat you up too. It's not just a sexual thing. The Bible in the book of Proverbs talks about fools and wise. And what are the difference? A fool and a wise man differ in the area of commitments. A wise man says, commitment to people is more important than my personal needs. I define my life promises and my commitments to serve people, even when it's not convenient for me. You realize there's not even a possibility of heroism unless you believe that commitments come above your needs. But the fool is someone who talks like this. The fool says, I define my life in terms of my present needs. I decide to marry somebody if it looks like it's going to enrich my life. I make all my decisions on the basis of what fulfills me now and if a commitment does not fulfill me now I've got to get rid of it because that's not that's not fulfilling to me I've got to find myself you see self maximizing the difference between lust and love is that very difference put it this way let's talk about sexual lust because that's what Jesus is talking about. Not the other. Kinds. Of. Lust. Sexual. Lust. Makes. You. Want. Pleasure. Love. Makes. You. Want. A. Person. Now. The. Next. Three. Minutes. Are. Very. Important. In. This. Sermon. Otherwise. You're. Going. To. Have. Any. Way. Of. Applying. This. To. Your. Self. Lust. Makes. You. Want. Pleasure. Love. Makes. You. Want. A. person. Or, let's apply this to the male animal here for a moment. Lust makes you want women in general. Love makes you want a particular woman. Love, as we've been seeing, real godly love and godly sexual love makes you want to trust somebody more and more. And the more sexual, godly sexual desire you have for a woman, oh guys, the more you want to make yourself vulnerable to her and trust her. If you find a tremendous amount of sexual desire for somebody you don't know and you have no intention of trusting yourself to, that's lust. C.S. Lewis puts it like this. He says, it's a very unfortunate thing to talk about a man on the prowl and say he wants a woman. He says that's not the best way to put it. He wants pleasure. He wants a sexual thrill. apparatus. He doesn't want a person. He wants it. He wants fulfillment. He's a self-maximizer. He's a fool. He's in lust. I'll put it this way. In lust, there's a lust dynamic that starts out like this, a tremendous electrical sexual thrill for somebody you don't even know. And as you get to know them better, the thrill goes down. The love dynamic is an initial admiration and attraction Not nearly as electric. And what happens is, as time goes on, as you get to know the person better and you find you more and more want to trust him or her, there's not as much electricity, but there's something much deeper. The love dynamic starts out soft, is person-oriented, and gets stronger. The lust dynamic starts off. It's not person-oriented at all. You want women in general. You want men in general. You're lusting after a person you don't even know. You don't really care about that person. You just care what that person represents and what that person represents to you. And that's what lust comes from. And every human being and every Christian human being very, very quickly can recognize the difference between those two things. There's a lust dynamic and there's a love dynamic. And, you know, one of the most interesting things I've read in the last couple of weeks, I read, as usual, whenever I'm preparing a sermon on a subject, I see if C.S. Lewis has written something on it. He wrote something, and then I read, the very next day after I read something he wrote on sex, I read a fascinating interview in the Village Voice with a female writer who's my age. She's 39. I won't mention her, because if you want to find it, you can always go find it, because it doesn't seem to be fair, since I'm going to be looking at her in a critical light to mention her name. But it was an interview with her about the old days in New York, in the 60s and 70s, when the nightlife was terrific. Now listen to what C.S. Lewis says. people get from books the idea that if you have married the right person, you will expect to go on being in love forever. That's the lust dynamic. As a result, when they find they are not, they think this proves they've made a mistake and are entitled to a change. But let the thrill go. Let it die away and go on through that period of death into the quieter interest and happiness that follows. And you will find you are living in a world of newer and newer thrills all the time. Because the more you trust the person and the more you actually come to love the person. The deeper the sexual experience gets. And the deeper the satisfaction. But if you decide to make thrills your regular diet. And try to prolong them artificially. They will all get weaker and weaker. And fewer and fewer. And you will become a bored disillusioned old person. For the rest of your life. And that's why you find so many middle-aged men and women. Moondering about their lost youth. youth. And then I read this interview between this woman and the Village Voice. At one point, she said, clubs aren't fun anymore. This is a fact. This is not my opinion because of sex. During the time that I went out every single night of my life, it wasn't that you had sex every time you went out, but that's why you went. I used to go to all kinds of sex bars and watch all kinds of sex that I would never want to have. But that was part of a life that included lots of sex, which is, of course, the best kind. But now there's no sexual atmosphere at all because there's a cloud hanging over everybody. I'm sure people pick people up if you're a kamikaze. No one can pick up people the way we did it because now there's a shadow over the proceedings. And then the question comes, so do you miss this? Answer. I think I miss my youth. I miss my old face. I miss my old hair. I stopped dancing in my early 30s because I didn't want to be like those people we used to look at and laugh and say, what is that old person doing dancing? Question. Well, then there's nothing that substitutes for this club life in your life now? Answer. I have my memories. It's just what Lewis said. He says, look, do you recognize the lust and the love dynamic? Can't you see it? Lust is the opposite of love. Lust wants women in general or men in general. Love wants a particular person. Lust divorces sexual thrill from trusting and commitment. Love feeds. Sexual love, godly love, feeds and grows as the commitment grows. You can see the difference. You can feel the difference. It's completely different. What do I do with my passion? The answer is divorce it from lust, lay it into sex. Well, somebody says, here's my last point. I want to be married, you say. You talk about sex like it's the greatest thing in the world. I'll buy it. What do I do? Nobody's come into my life that's going to be a spouse for me. What do I do with my feelings? feelings. Now, those of you who are married, you realize what a minority you are in New York. You're not going to mind if I take the last five minutes for the folks who aren't. Besides that, you'll learn something. Because those of you who are married, who thought, hey, you know, the sexual fantasy life and the sexual addiction I had before I was married, if I get married, then everything will be fine. I won't have a problem with pornography, right? I won't have a problem with sexual fantasies, right? So this will work for all of us. Jesus Christ says, self-control is something you have to do. As hard as it is to control your sex, your sexual desires, as easy it is for it to go into lust channels, you've got to control them. And then he says this, pluck out your eye if necessary, cut off your hand if necessary, throw them away, because it would be better to lose an eye or a hand than to have your whole soul and body thrown into hell. And what he is saying in these very, very vivid ways is this. Number one, he's saying that it might be that in order for you to control yourself, you may have to do things that look to you very drastic. You know, to cut out an eye or to cut off a hand means you're maimed, you're disfigured. It means there are certain things that you would have liked to have done you can't do. hand, you cut it off because as much as you're going to miss that hand, you'll die if you don't. And Jesus says these things are very serious. It could be there's people in your life. It could be there are books or magazines. It could be there are contexts, situations that get that lust dynamic stirred up. You know what they are. You need to get rid of them. Why? Because as hard as it's going to be and as much as it might even make you look to other people like you're maimed or disfigured, you get rid of a tumor, even if it's in your right hand, because you know that it'll spread. Why? Why is it so important? Listen, Jesus says, we're talking about fire here. He brings up the idea of fire. If you're sitting at one end of the sofa and over on the other end of the sofa, a little, a little, you know, spout of flame goes up. Do you say, well, it doesn't bother me. It's over at the other end of the sofa. Besides that, it's a very small, little spot of flame. Jesus. Jesus says. It doesn't work that way. Don't you understand. That misused sex. is much, much, much worse than controlling yourself. As hard as it is to control yourself it's much harder not to. That misused sex starts a fire in your life that destroys your ability to commit yourself really. You think it's actually helping you commit yourself to somebody. But it actually destroys it. And he says, don't you see therefore it's not something you can mess with. It's something that you have to take very, very seriously and you have to try to nip it in the bud. That's what he means by the eye and the hand. well, how do you do that? I'm going to give you, I'm going to close by giving you three extremely important guidelines for dealing with lust. Number one, make a distinction between the thought and the fantasy. Please do that. You see, I mentioned, I mentioned there's a difference between the thought and in order to lust. One of the things I find that Christians really get hung up on is that they hear sermons like the one I just preached here and they say, oh my word, oh my goodness, it's so incredibly important that I not have lustful thoughts. And what they do is they immediately go into the Aquinas and Immanuel Kant approach of thinking that sexual desire per se is weird and sinful. So as soon as they have a lustful thought, they think, as soon as they have the thought, they immediately say, there I go, it's happened, and you feel dirty. And that's one of the best ways for you to get into bondage. You have to recognize you can't stop thoughts from occurring. There's nothing wrong with having a thought. it's what you do with it when it falls in your lap. The fantasizing is taking the thought which you can't stop and rolling it around the tongue of your soul. That's what you can stop. Martin Luther said, you know, you can't stop birds from flying around your head. but you can stop them from making nests in your hair. You can't do anything about the birds. but you can do something about your hair. You can't do anything about the thought but you can do something about the fantasy. The fantasy is something you don't have to do. That's the first thing. Number two, the only way you will ever, ever, ever deal with your sexual desire is if you give it to God. John White says in here, in his book on sex, that psychiatrist I was talking about, John White says that there's a big difference between fasting and deprivation. You know, if you're on a diet or you're fasting, you've made a decision and you give up food and it hurts. hurts, but it doesn't hurt nearly as much as when you're deeply hungry and you want desperately for food, but you don't have the money to buy it, or people are keeping it from you, then you're in agony. And a lot of us are in the deprivation, right? A lot of us are saying, oh gosh, I want sex so bad, but I can't have it because I might get hurt, you see, because I might get diseased, or I might go to hell, or I might something go wrong in my life. That's deprivation. Instead, Instead, your attitude should be, I'm going to give these desires to God, and I'm going to die to them, and they'll be reborn. Now, what does that mean? To die to those desires means to say, Lord, I will not have sex with somebody outside of marriage, and I won't complain about that. Do you understand the difference? That's the difference between fasting and deprivation. I refuse to complain. Everything is necessary that he sends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. That's what John Newton says. I mean, I have to work on that at the lowest level and the highest level. Look at my hair. I have to say nothing can be necessary that he sends. And I think everything is necessary. This ends. Nothing can be necessary that he withholds. If he's not giving me hair. I shouldn't be bothered when I look in the mirror and say, gosh, you look like you're 40 years old. I shouldn't be bothered by that. Because I need to say, I'm not going to complain. If he's withholding hair. I don't need it. That's a low level. You can laugh. That's something that some of you are dealing with. I can see. what about the fact that you do not have a spouse everything is necessary that he sends nothing can be necessary that he withholds do you believe that do you give your do you say Lord here are my sexual desires if you're if you are not giving me an outlet for it then I submit to you I die to them if you do that I tell you there will be a rebirth though I don't know how it could be that they'll be reborn into a spouse that comes or it could be they'll be reborn a new kind of power and control and purity that you didn't think you were capable of. But just this last week, I was speaking at InterVarsity, and I remembered this old story that Elizabeth Elliot tells about a king. There was an old story about a king who went out to meet, out into his village to meet his subjects. Everybody said he was a magical king. A beggar sitting by the road lifted up his bowl, expecting the king to give him some money. eat. Instead, the king asked the beggar to give him something. Well, the beggar had a bowl of rice. That's all he had. And taken aback, the beggar just pulled out three grains of rice and put them in the king's hand. And the king said, thank you, and went on. And when he looked down, he found three gold nuggets in his bowl. And he looked up and he said, if only I had given him everything. If you give God your sexual desires, I tell you, they'll be reborn. You have to lay down your life to find it. If you're just being deprived of your sexual outlet, instead of fasting, instead of giving them to God, you're going to go on being miserable. So the first principle is differentiate the thought from the fantasy. Give your sexual desires to God. And the third principle is don't feel guilty about your sexual past. One of the main ways in which people stay in absolute bondage to sexual desires now is because they feel so doggone guilty about their past. Don't you know that God loves to make you, make people who have had the worst pasts into showcases of his grace? In Matthew chapter 1, when you look at the genealogies of Jesus and it looks at all the people from whom Jesus was descended, it puts in Tamar and Rahab. It goes out of its way to stick Rahab, who was a prostitute, and Tamar, who was guilty of incest, puts them right smack dab in the genealogy. Why? Because God says, I love to take people with the most messed up lives who give themselves to me and to forgive them and to pardon them and to fill them with grace. Mary Magdalene was one of his closest intimates. And until you recognize that, until you get real freedom from the guilt of sexual sin, you'll never deal with the sexual present. Never. Because God is a God of grace. And you have to deal with your sin that way. You have to say, I refuse to look at my sin except through the cross. I never will think of my sin except through the cross. And that is, my sin shows me that my sin has been covered. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And that's the principles. Number one, One, identify the thought and differentiate it from the fantasy. Number two, give your sexual desires to God. And number three, do not stay haunted with guilt from your sexual past. The only way to go, the only way to deal with sex is to go to God and be more ravished by him than you are by anything else. Remember the great John Donne sonnet that ends, Take me to you, imprison me, for I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me. You ravish me. I'll never be pure until you ravish me. Let's pray.