John chapter 7, verses 1 through 9. After this, Jesus went around in Galilee, purposely staying away from Judea, because the Jews were waiting to take his life. But when the Jewish feast of tabernacles was near, Jesus' brothers said to him, You ought to leave here and go to Judea, so that your disciples may see the miracles you do. No one who wants to become a public figure acts in secret. Since you are doing these things, show yourself to the world. For even his own brothers did not believe in him. Therefore Jesus told them, The right time for me has not yet come. For you, any time is right. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me, because I testify that what it does is evil. You go to the feast. I am not yet going up to this feast, because for me, the right time has not yet come. And having said this, he stayed in Galilee.

This is God's word.

The verses that are here are a little bit startling, especially what Jesus says in verse 4, where he says, pardon me, in verse 6 and 7, where he says, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me. Now why should we study this? We should study it for this reason. Jesus is saying that there is an inevitable head-on collision between himself and the world, and therefore between anyone who follows him in the world. And Christian friends, we have got to understand this. So we're not surprised when it happens, and we also have to understand this so that we can question ourselves, for if there is no head-on collision between us and the world, we have to ask ourselves, are we really following him in the Beatitudes? When it talks about being pure in heart, and it talks about being merciful, and talks about being a peacemaker, the very next Beatitude is, and blessed are you when you're persecuted for righteousness' sake. And what's it saying? It's saying this. If you really try to make peace, like the Prince of Peace did in the world, you will be nailed. The way he was nailed. What did the Prince of Peace get? War. What did the Prince of Peace get? Thorns. Nails. Spears in the side. That's the reason why in Matthew Jesus says, if you are going to be blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God, and then immediately blessed are you when you're persecuted for righteousness' sake. They inevitably go together. Now, that's the reason we have got to start looking at this. And if we don't understand and realize this, this very, I'll admit it, this unpleasant and yet revealing subject, if we don't think about it and explore it and understand it and have a grasp on it, we won't know what the church is really here for. Recently, for example, there was a, some of you may have heard, there's a major Protestant denomination came out with a study committee that came out with a paper on sexuality. And in the paper on sexuality, it said that any sexual activity between two equal, mutually consenting, persons was fine. Now, when Newsday, the Newsday newspaper got a hold of it, a columnist wrote an article saying, it's about time the church got in step. That's the way things are. It's about time the church got with it. And that article immediately reveals an assumption about what the church's job is. What is the job of the church? Is it the job of the church to cheer market trends? And if it is, what do we need? What do we need an institution like that for? That says, here's a market trend. Hooray. It would almost be like saying, you know, you know, the Environmental Protection Agency needs to get with it. Times are tough. People pollute now. Nobody's got time for environmental stuff. And when is the EPA going to get with it? Now, I'm not, listen, I'm not debating whether the EPA is doing a good job, but if it does, its mission, and its mission is to call what's environmentally right, right, and what's environmentally wrong, wrong, and call polluters to account. If it does its mission, all kinds of people are going to be mad at it. And if it doesn't do its mission, it has no reason to exist. And so it's all right to say, I reject the claims of Christianity, but to say that the church has got no right to hold up Christ and to tell people that they should believe in him, or to say that the church has got no right to hold up the word of God, the word of Christ, and say, this is God's word to us on how to be authentically human and all people should follow it, to say the church doesn't have a right to do that is to, to misunderstand the mission of the church completely.

Jesus Christ was against the world for the world. And if you and I are for the world, if we're loving it fearlessly, we will be controversial. And if you're not controversial, you're not loving the world as he did.

A Christianity that's not continually in a head-on collision with the fashionable and with the cultural trends isn't worth it. It's salt. Jesus says, the world can't hate you, he says to his brothers, but it has to hate me. And if it has to hate him, it has to hate anybody who claims to have anything to do with him.

Now, he tells us a number of things about the world. This is, this is an unpleasant, and yet on the other hand, as we're going to see, an exciting subject. An unpleasant, but an exciting subject. Now, he tells us three things about the world. He, this passage, reveals what Jesus teaches us about the world's thinking, about the world's hatred, and about the world's hope. Those three things are listed in the bulletin. Let's go. I'm going to spend much more time on the first point than the last two. But, here they are. What does Jesus teach us about the world's thinking? This. First of all, his brothers are a wonderful case study in the thinking of the world. They come to him, and what do they say? They say, look, you know, you want to be a person of influence, but you don't know how to play the game. He says, you ought to leave here. What are you doing in this backwater place like Galilee? You have to go to Judea so that your disciples may see the miracles you do. No one who wants to become a public figure acts in secret. Show yourself to the world. And they tell him to go down to Jerusalem during the great feast. And what he's saying is, Jesus, you know, you've got a lot of potential. You can do miracles. You're obviously someone, some kind of supernatural person, but you don't know how to play the game. If you want to be a person of influence, if you want to be a person of power, if you want to be a public figure, you've got to go to the right city. You don't go to Galilee. You've got to go to the right city in the right season. You've got to meet the right people, and you've got to develop the right image. That's why a lot of us are here.

And Jesus turns around, and he says, I'm sorry. I do not play the world's games. I have nothing to do with it. They say, show yourself to the world. And he says, the world hates me, and it has to hate me. Now, what does this word world mean? What is this world that they're talking about? And let's start right off with a very important definition. This little Greek word, which in the Greek word for world is cosmos. This word in the Bible can be used in two different ways. And if you'd understand those two different ways, there is an infinite amount of suffering and confusion that will come. Because you see, on the one hand, you've got a place like John chapter 12, where Jesus says, I did not come into the world to condemn the world. No, I came to save it. And you've got famous John chapter three, verse 16, where Jesus says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Now you see that in those texts, there's a going out to the world, a love for the world, an affirmation of the world. But then in the same writer, John, when he writes an epistle in first John chapter two, he says, love not the world, nor the things of the world. This is the same author. And you say, now, wait a minute, wait a minute. This looks like a blatant contradiction. On the one hand, God loves the world. Christ loves the world. He refuses to down the world. He refuses to condemn the world. On the other hand, you're not supposed to love the world at all. Now, does this mean this? God can love the world and you're not allowed to love the world. And the answer is that the word is used equivocally, not univocally. It's not used the same way in every, in every case. And unless we understand the different ways that God loves the world, the different ways in which the word world is used, the two ways, tremendous suffering and tremendous confusion results. Number one, the word world can mean the material human universe. It can simply mean the earth or the physical or the human. So we talk about, uh, we talk about the, uh, the, when we talk about the world, we talk about the, the world of America. We talk about, uh, the third world. Sometimes people talk about that though.

So we can

even through Greek philosophy into the church, is the idea that when the Bible says don't be worldly, when the Bible says love not the world, it means don't love the physical, material, or human world. And this particular understanding that the material is bad and the spiritual is good has come down to us and really distorted our understanding of the Scripture. And it shows itself in prudishness about sex. It shows itself in a negativity toward the arts. It shows itself in thinking that to be part of the public arena or politics is very unspiritual. It shows itself in thinking that the producing or the enjoying of beauty is inherently something wrong or unspiritual about it. Nonsense, biblically. Sometimes study 1 Timothy 4, the first six verses, where it says, No created thing is unclean in itself. That the only way we get defiled is by how we use created things. It's a terrible tragedy to think when it says love not the world, it means don't love or enjoy the physical or the material or the human world. But the second way in which the word world is used is not to talk about the material world, but the spirit of the world. The second way the word world is used is to talk about a system of thinking in which the material world and the human world is an end in itself.

The word secular, we hear a lot of, comes from the Latin word saeculum. And the word saeculum simply means a period of time. Worldliness is secularism, and secularism is timeism or nowism. The here, the now. Worldliness is a mindset that says the here and the now is all that matters, or even the here and the now is all that is. Either one of them. Either one of those is a worldly mindset. It's not worldly to enjoy the material world, but to make it an end in itself. And this particular understanding of worldliness is absolutely critical to understand. Now, the implications of it, I need to draw some of the implications out. That's what real worldliness is. Here's Joe and Jane. Imagine Joe and Jane, and they walk into a room, and Jane, Joe sees 25 people. Let me draw this out. I think I used this illustration months ago. Here's a difference between a worldly mindset and a Christian mindset. Joe sees 25 people in the room. Jane sees those same 25 and 75 others that Joe can't see. How will Joe and Jane act in the room? The answer? Very differently. Joe will walk right over things that Jane thinks are there. Joe will trample on people that Jane, Jane sees are there. On the other hand, Jane will sit and talk to spaces that Joe thinks are empty. Jane will think Joe blind, but Joe will think Jane crazy. Okay. Why? Because, you see, Jane sees more of reality than Joe does. What's the difference between a Christian and a worldly person? What's the difference between a Christian mindset and a worldly mindset? That's what worldliness is. It's a mindset, a system of thinking. Okay. Okay. Okay.

So, what is it? The real and the material and the physical is really all that matters. And the spiritual is just a private thing. It's a matter of values. It's subjective. It's not really that critical. It's not important. Christians stand between the ascetics, the monastics, and the worldly people. And says, no, I look not just to the seen but to the unseen. Not just to time, but to eternity. And as a result, a Christian has a radically different way of doing everything. Now, as the philosophers say, the Christian must act in time subspecie eternitatis. Which means, from the perspective of eternity. The philosophers say that we have got to move around in time subspecie eternitatis. Which means, we move in time from the perspective of eternity. And if that's true, what are the implications? Let me just sketch a couple. At the macro level, what are the implications? Your understanding of time and eternity will have the greatest ramifications for how we live in society. Let me show you. For example, now remember what worldliness is? Secularism is. It's to say the here and now is all that matters or the here and now is all that really is. For example, worldliness, therefore, is one of the major sources of materialism. A corporation. A corporation that says, we will help in the community. We will give to charities and we will develop our employees. Only as far as we can demonstrate to our own satisfaction that it helps us make more money. That is a philosophy of life that factors out eternity. In other words, I'll be happy to give to charities. We'll be happy to develop things in the community. And we'll be happy to develop personally our own employees. As long as you can show me that in the long run it helps us make more money. That's the bottom line. And the only bottom line, really, is profit. If that is your attitude, that factors out eternity.

And that means economic growth becomes an end in itself. That's secularism. That's worldliness. What's the Christian say? The Christian says that money and material things, as great as they are, burn up. And people live forever. Because the human being is made in the image of God. And therefore, you could never, ever, ever trample on even one human being for profit.

Worldliness is not only... See, economic growth is an end in itself. That's materialism. But worldliness is not just a major source of materialism. It's also... Worldliness is a major source of totalitarianism. Because in totalitarianism, the state is an end in itself. Instead of a means to an end. In totalitarianism, if the... Look, if this world is all there is, the state may last for 500 to 1,000 years. A civilization lasts 500 to 1,000 years. But an individual human being only lasts... Lasts for what? 70 to 90 to 100. So it makes sense, does it not, to trample on a few and even kill a few people if it means it's for the good of the state. But the Christian mindset is utterly different. The Christian says, wait a minute. The state is mortal. It will die. It will eventually go to nothing. But the life of a human individual made in the image of God and therefore lasting forever is... Infinitely greater than the life of the state. In fact, the life of the state and the life of a mosquito have the same relationship to the life of the human individual. Because, you see, what's... How do you compare five minutes to eternity or 1,000 years to eternity? And what's the difference between 1,000 years in eternity and five minutes in eternity? The same difference. It's an infinite difference. And therefore, the Christian says, the state is only a means to an end. It must never trample on even one human being. It can never kill one individual for the good of the state.

Worldliness is not just the source of economic... of materialism and totalitarianism. It's also a lot of things. But one more. In the macro, if worldliness and secularism radically affects the way in which we do things in society, also in the area of relativism. In other words, worldliness is a source of relativism. Relativism. It wasn't that long ago that, at an Ivy League university, not far from here, not this one, but near here. Aren't they all? And there was a high administrative official who gave a talk in a major convocation in which, I think it was a he, this major official said, we're going to have to start teaching values again here, fans. Because there's too much... There's a lack of respect for human beings, a lack of respect for property, there's too much cheating, dishonesty, there's ugly racial incidents we're going to have to start to teach values. And a student stood up and said, okay, whose values? And everybody clapped. And this great speaker was stumped and sat down in confusion of face. And the answer is this. You see, the reason the speaker, the president or the dean or whoever it was, was so confounded was that he, along with the student, shared the same worldview. And that is, if this world is all there is, if this world is all there is, then values are mere feelings.

And there's no basis for them. Values are mere feelings. You see, studying this world can never give you values. Science can't tell you what's valuable. It can tell you what's normal, what's abnormal, but not what's valuable. And therefore, what's right and wrong, they can't tell you. Therefore, unless this world is all there is, unless there's something beyond this world, there is no such thing as a real right and wrong. Values are feelings. And feelings, how will they... How do feelings get foisted on a society? It depends on who's strongest. That's just the macro.

Don't you see, your understanding of time and eternity radically affects the way in which a corporation is run, the way in which a state is run, the way in which a university is run, the way in which society is run. But that's the macro. In the micro, whether you are a worldly person or a Christian person in your thinking will also radically determine how you live today. In the micro. In the micro.

If you want to understand worldliness, look at the most extreme secularists, the most extreme worldly people in the whole world. You know who they are? They're the most radically worldly, the most radically... Remember what worldliness is and secularism is? Nowism. Timeism. The here and now. The most radically secular people in the world are children.

They live for now. One of the greatest jobs of parents or anyone who tries to socialize children into normal citizens is to teach them that you don't have to be a socialist. Don't blow all of your time. You don't blow all of your energy. You don't blow all of your money on now. What about tomorrow? If you step too late now, tomorrow you'll do terrible in school. I don't care. If you put all of your money into this sort of thing, then later on you won't have any money for that. I don't care. It'll be so much better if you just wait a month before we do that. I don't care. Now I have my needs.

I'm unfulfilled. I have my desires. I can't be happy.

One of the biblical words for worldliness is profane. We're told in Hebrews that Esau was a profane person. Esau was profane because of this. Esau and Jacob were brothers. Esau was the older brother. Esau had the birthright. Esau was going to inherit everything. And one day Esau came on in after a long, long, maybe days of a hunting trip, and he was famished, and he smelled this great stew that Jacob was making. And he sat down and he says, Give me that stew. And Jacob said, Okay, if you give me your birthright, if you just completely give me over your rights to the inheritance of our father. And what does Esau say? What good's my inheritance? What good's the future if I'm going to die of hunger? An exaggeration. Worldly people always exaggerate the importance of the now. What good if I'm famished? I have my needs. I have my urges. I have my desires. I've got to be fulfilled now. What is it? What is it that made Esau a profane worldly person? He was childish. See, from God's perspective, the worldly person is engaged in literally cosmic childishness.

I read last month in Newsweek magazine an article by a doctor, a professor at a med school, who works in a clinic and he treats AIDS patients. And he told about, one particular AIDS patient that he was treating. And he asked this AIDS patient whether there had been any sexual activity recently. The patient said yes. And he asked the patient, Did you tell your partner that you're infected? And the answer was, Oh no, Dr. Noble. That would have broken the mood.

My urges. My needs. Now. Now. Now. Cosmic childishness.

How are you living?

Is the now everything to you? Now you see, if you're a worldly person or versus a Christian person in your thinking, I'm not talking about whether you're going to heaven or not right now, my dear friends. I'm talking about whether you're a worldly person in your thinking and your behavior, whether you're a Christian person in your thinking and your behavior. It makes all the difference in the world. Let me give you three examples. Number one, A Christian person has a completely different attitude than a worldly person in your attitude toward material things. Jeff was already referring to it earlier on in the worship service. Now listen here. What are you going to do with that $100? Are you going to put that $100 into something that you will consume? Something that will be gone? Or even something that eventually with the end of the world will burn up? The end of the material world? Or do you put your money into something that lasts forever? Do you put your money into people? People last forever. To build up people. To alleviate suffering. To bring the word of God to them so that they'll live with you in heaven forever. In other words, what do you do with your money? Do you put it into people? People last forever.

Or else do you put your money into something that isn't going to last? Are you a cosmic child? Somebody who says, I don't care about tomorrow. Now I have my urges. I've got my needs. For example,

think about, did anybody see the New York Times article about the fact that Daryl Strawberry and Howard Johnson, because they profess to be born-again Christians, that they're going to tithe? Did anybody see that article? What was so fascinating was the reporter could barely contain his incredulity. These highly paid people are going to tithe? Do you know how much money that is? He said. In other words, this is reporter Joe noticing Jane talking to, in thin air.

Because you see, a worldly mindset cannot possibly support heavy generosity. The only way you can, somebody who lives in now-ism, somebody who says the here and now is all that matters. You know, you may have your values, you may have your private views about religion, but that's not very real. This is the real place. You can't be generous. You can work on a worldly person to get them to feel very guilty. You've got so much and they've got so little. That works for a while. But a Christian person says, this isn't my money and I want to put it into something that lasts. Hear me. A Christian person is saying, right now counts forever. Not right now counts for now. Right now counts forever. A Christian person says, five billion years from now, I will be a personal conscious person. And I will know what I did today. And I want to know that what I did today, built into somebody, built into me, built into eternity, built into heaven, did something that's going to bring benefits forever. I want to be proud of what I did five billion years from now. From the perspective of eternity, subspecie eternitatis, I want to know that how I live today can hold up under that kind of light. If any of you here say, that is the weirdest, most radical, most ridiculous thing I ever heard of, you are completely steeped in the world's mindset. Whether you think you're a Christian, or not. A Christian person says, I don't care about my urges. What's it going to look like next year? What's it going to look like next life? What's it going to look like five billion years from now? My money, where do I want to put it?

So it changes a Christian's attitude toward his material possessions, or her material possessions. It also, secondly, changes your attitude forever toward uncertainty. Toward uncertainty. In the Bible, what is worry called? You know what it's called? The cares of the world. Now listen very carefully.

If this world is all there is, and again, Jeff referred to it before in the morning service here, then what defines you is relationships or money or professional success because that's all you are. There's nothing else to you. You're just molecules. When you die, you're going to go, you know, you're just going to become chemicals again. But a Christian literally says, nothing is the end of the world. If you run around saying, this is the end of the world. This is the end. Even at a very low level, even down deep. Maybe some of you today, there's something that's happened or something that might happen, and deep down inside, you're panicked. Would you look at your panic? You are paralyzed. Would you look at your paralysis? Here's what you're saying down there. If that happens, this is the end of the world. And that betrays you. That is the essence of worldliness. Isn't it? The essence of worldliness is, this is it. This is all there is. If this collapses, that's all I've got. The Bible says, the mark of worldliness is anxiety. And the mark of a Christian mindset is stability, is courage. The Christian stands back and looks at the big picture. The Christian stands back and says, this is only part of reality. There's a God. He's in control. What really matters is that I please Him.

Real success is serving Him and knowing Him and loving Him. Real fulfillment is serving Him and loving Him and knowing Him. He's the judge. He's going to work all things out. Bitterness is essentially grounded in worldliness. It's the here and now. When is that person going to get what he or she deserves now? Depression is a form of worldliness because the here and the now is more important. It's more important than the big picture. This is the end of the world. You're a Christian. You can't say that. You know what a Christian can look at? When you start to get panicky, you look and you say, nothing's the end of the world. It's only the end of this world. But my world's bigger than that. And it changes, by the way, forever. A Christian's understanding. See, this teaching changes a Christian's view of material things. It changes the Christian's view of uncertainty. A Christian can live with uncertainty because nothing's uncertain. Things are only in a certain way. They're only short-term uncertain. You might lose a battle. You can't lose a war. You might get thrown for a loss in this down, but you can't lose the game. But lastly, a Christian's attitude toward glitz is changed forever. Totally changed forever. The brothers come to Jesus and say, Jesus, you just don't do things the right way. And Jesus says, that's right. Everything about Jesus' life was designed to purposely contradict the world's understanding of what is chic and what is good. And what is charismatic and what is right and what is... Jesus got born in the wrong place. He got born into the wrong kind of family. He conducted his ministry in the wrong place. He did everything wrong. And as a result, Christians as well must be people who have got x-ray vision. Do you know what that means? In other words, you look under the surface. The Christians do not play the world's game of fashion statements and sex appeal and chicness.

A Christian is able to look under the surface and say, this person, this person has got a beautiful soul, though unsightly, unpolished. This person's got an ugly soul, though gorgeous, and a monstrous eternity. This person over here could have a glorious eternity. A Christian doesn't sit around and say, are these people attractive? Are these people intelligent? Are these people the kind of people I want to be with? Christians never think like that. Christians never talk like that. Or if you do, you slip right back in to the world. And the thinking of the world. And you're probably worried, full of anxiety, and you're probably unable to part with material things. They all go together.

Dear friends, there's a place in Romans 13 where Paul says, the night is far spent. That's the saeculum, the time. The day is at hand. That's, you know, the eternal kingdom. Therefore, he says, wake up. It's high time to wake out of sleep. What he's saying is, worldliness is a kind of sleepiness. When you're asleep, you're attending to dreams, but you're unaware of what's really happening truly around you. What is Paul saying? He says, wake up. Worldliness is sleepiness. I thought I was only more attractive if I only had this, if I only could have landed this, if only the right person could have noticed me.

Friends, those are dreams. Wake up.

The mercies of God, the truths of the word, they are solid. They are solid. See?

Solid joys and lasting pleasures. You're just saying, none but Zion's children know. Wake up. Just imagine the greatness that could happen to you. Imagine the courage. Imagine the stability. Imagine the compassion. Imagine the patience. Imagine the insight, and the world would not be able to explain it. You know what it would be coming from? Because you stop thinking, living in a worldly way. I told you I was going to spend all the time on the first point, I really don't have much else to say, except these two things. If you start living an eternity-centered life, the world will hate you. And let me just apply it in this way, to comfort some of you. If you start to live an eternity-based life, the world will hate you. First of all, they'll write strange articles about you in the New York Times. Why are you giving away this much money? There must be something behind it. You must be a fool. Somebody must have, you know, there must be some, something's wrong with you. I mean, I knew a great policeman, was a New York City cop, who when he became a Christian, decided he needed to simply turn in the money that the pimps were putting into it. He said every time he would go into a, you know, he and his partner would leave the patrol car and come on back, there would be money stashed all over the car with little notes from various pimps saying, from so-and-so on this corner, please stay off this corner. And he said everybody in his department, just naturally, just considered that like tips. And when he started turning that in, it was tremendous heat on him. Now, what was he doing? He was just simply saying, look, the money is great, but how is this going to look like for eternity? And is this justice? And are these pimps really doing a good job in building up the women's lives, you know, that they're working with? What does this really look like from eternity? I'm going to live an eternity-based life. And as a result, he was pushed right off the force. It doesn't mean, by the way, that you can't be an honest policeman. It just meant in his one case, in his one spot, just simply living an eternity-based life, he got it. 2 Timothy 3.12 says, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. It doesn't mean every day. If you look at Jesus, you'll see people loved him, were attracted to him. Look at the book of Acts. We see that people were attracted to the church, and yet people persecuted the church. If you are always being persecuted, you're probably not living right. You're probably being obnoxious or something. If you're never being persecuted, you're being a coward. Do you hear that? You've got to be like Christ, who attracted people, and were awed by him, and who also repelled people who hated him. But nobody ever considered Christ merely pleasant. And nobody will consider you just pleasant. If you just blend into the, if you're a pleasant person, if you just blend into the woodwork, if people aren't attracted and repelled by you, if you're always being persecuted, if there's something wrong with you, you're not living like Christ. But if you're never persecuted, you're chickening out somewhere.

But let this be your consolation.

Two last things just to give you hope. Those of you who maybe, actually, here's three things. Are you not being persecuted? Then look at yourself. You probably are somewhere, someplace, living a worldly life.

Secondly, if you are being persecuted, if you are taking it on, if you're not on the chin because of your Christian life, if just because you're simply trying to be obedient, you're finding yourself losing out on job interviews and things like that just by telling the truth,

the Bible says, not just, sometimes you'll be persecuted, that's it, take it. It says, rejoice when you're persecuted for righteousness' sake. Blessed are you when you're persecuted for righteousness' sake. For great will your reward be. Do you know what that means? Anybody in this room who has ever, suffered, anything, any loss for Jesus' name, can know there's a tremendous reward. What is that reward? Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it entered into the heart of you. You can't imagine, Jesus says. Han Solo says, I can imagine an awful lot. Well, in that case, think about how great that's going to have to be. Unmixed joy, wonder, purity, glory, it's all yours. And you're supposed to think about that, and let it overwhelm you. And if there's anybody here, by the way, who, like Jesus Christ, stands alone in his family, and everybody despises your religion, take heart. Here's Jesus, and even though his brothers knew that he was great, and they wanted him to go to Galilee, did you notice, it says they didn't believe in him. In other words, they didn't really know what he was about. Some of you may stand by yourself in your family. You've got brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers, and children and friends who just think you're crazy or despise your religion. Take heart. There is tremendous consolation here and comfort. Some of you say, if I was a better person, maybe they'd see the truth. Well, how about Jesus? He was a pretty good person. He was a perfect person, and they didn't see the truth. And therefore, he drinks from the same bitter cup that you drank from. He knows what it's like to be isolated. He knows what it's like to be misunderstood. He knows what it's like to have people think you're talking to thin air. You're crazy. Go to him and pour yourself out to him. You know, the most amazing thing about this passage is that Jesus doesn't get gone. He says, my time is not yet. And he uses the word kairos. It means my moment, my crucial time. You know what Jesus is saying? He's saying, even though the world hates me, he says, I'm not going to Jerusalem yet because I've got an appointment with death and I'm going to keep it. And it's not yet. Jesus says, here's how I'm going to deal with my enemies in the world. I'm going to make them friends by dying for them. The brothers didn't understand that. They said, go up to Jerusalem and show yourself. There was going to be a public ministry in Jerusalem later on, but they were going to despise and kill him. And there was going to be a tremendous demonstration of God's power and glory, but not the way he thought, not the way the brothers thought.

This tremendous demonstration of power and glory is when Jesus Christ in the dark, where nobody could see him, not in a stadium, not with the cameras rolling, in the garden, gave himself to die for you and me. That was the appointment. That was the kairos. That was the thing that Jesus Christ, even here, as his own brothers misunderstand, and as people are out to kill him, and as he knows the world hates him, he says, but I've got an appointment with death. I'm going to die for my enemies to make them my friends. If there's anybody here who thinks about Jesus like the brothers, change your mind. Do you think of him as a miracle worker who could do great things in your life? And when is he going to start?

No. Instead, realize that here's somebody who died for the world and died for you. Make him your savior and king. Some of you know darn well that the here and now is all you've got. And it doesn't make sense by itself. And you're not satisfied with it and you know it. Then come to the one who died for the here and now. He died for the world so that you could have the universe come to him and see the wonders of his love. Let's pray. Now, Father, we ask

that you would be with the people, those of us who realize that because of our cowardice, because we're not living an eternity-based life, we are not looking like Christ. We're not taking any flack. Help us to be consistent. Help us to see that our worries, our depression, help us to see that our materialism, help us to see that our glamour consciousness, so much of this is simply a worldliness which is unbefitting a Christian and is keeping us from enjoying your best. Father, there's some of us who are right now actually suffering for righteousness' sake, suffering persecution, suffering the world's hatred. I pray, Lord, that you would comfort those who are here with the knowledge of your reward. And, Lord, if there's anyone here who, like the brothers, do not really believe in Jesus, but just look at him, your son, as a miracle worker, would you help them to see that they can only have the whole universe if they make him Savior and King, the one who died for the here and now in the world, so we might have more than the here and now. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.