The scripture reading this morning is found in Matthew chapter 5, and we're going to read verses 9 through 12, the last Beatitudes in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew chapter 5, verses 9 through 12.

Blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted because of righteousness, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you, and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven. For in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you. This ends the reading of God's Word.

We've been looking at the Beatitudes, and let's remind ourselves like I remind you every week, and that is that the Beatitudes are not talking about eight different kinds of people. We're not talking about eight different kinds of people. Blessed are the meek versus blessed are the peacemakers versus blessed are the merciful. we're looking at, instead, eight different characteristics of one kind of person, one kind of people, and those are the people who have entered the kingdom of heaven. Those are the people who, as Jesus says, have been born again so they can enter the kingdom of heaven. He says you must be born again to see the kingdom, to enter the kingdom. So the eight characteristics are actually characteristics of real Christianity. Now the last four Beatitudes we've looked at merciful, blessed are the pure in heart, blessed are the peacemakers. And these last four Beatitudes we've said are actually descriptions of the new life and lifestyle that comes to those people who have entered the kingdom and have been born again. It's actually describing eternal life. Biblically, eternal life is the life of the future brought forward and beginning now. now. Biblically, eternal life means the life of the age to come brought forward so that we can live in the present world out of the power of the age to come. And so here when we talk about blessed are the merciful, we mean that power from the age to come comes and transforms our relationships. We saw that. And the purity of heart meant God's power comes from the future age to now, and it transforms our psychology. We looked at that last week. Our inner life. Now we're talking about peacemaking. And that means not only do we have new relationships, and not only do we have a new psychology, but we actually have a whole new life direction, a whole new purpose in life. Blessed are the peacemakers. That's what you're living for. Now, I've noticed something about New York, and that is New York is a very, very democratic place. Every block has its own religion. I've noticed this. If you walk around and really look carefully, sometimes they're big buildings, bitty buildings, sometimes they're office buildings, but basically there's a religion on every block, and they all have different names. They don't usually call themselves religions. They may say we're the Society for Total Health, or the Society for Mental Energy, or the Society for Life Renewal. But if you scratch them a little bit and see what's underneath, they're religions. And usually they have little brochures, and it says, because I took these courses on life, mental energy, renewal, total health, I now have the ability to get more work done, or my relationships are happier, or another thing that will often come up is, I have lost all that inner tension that I used to have. And therefore, they're saying, come take our religion, because if you have my religion, you will get that extra boost to get to your goals. Jesus Christ never talks like that at all. Never. Because, and this is a very important but fragile distinction to make. Christianity absolutely does help you in all those areas. There's no doubt about it that in the long run, Christianity brings in happy relationships. It tends to give you a whole new ability to work. It definitely deals with inner tension. Yes, in the long run, absolutely. But now listen. Listen, well, before I even go on to there, I was just reading not too long ago in a book on missions an interesting phenomenon called lift. Do you know what lift is? I read this chapter called Redemption and Lift. One of the big problems that missionaries have is if they go into a particular town or particular community that has lots and lots of social problems, lots of family problems, lots of poverty, lots of troubles like that. And if a number of the families come to Christ or a whole neighborhood comes to Christ, they begin to experience lift. And lift means they begin to have more stable families. They find that they're able to be more disciplined in many ways. their lives stabilize, and they become middle class. And when that happens and they start to move on up, they lose their connections with the rest of the society, and they become a dead end for evangelism. And that means they no longer really can win anybody around them because people say, oh, you're not like one of us anymore. It's called lift. I think it's fascinating that Christianity can obviously have that kind of effect on people in such a universal way that a missionary would write a book about it. And say, you know what happens is people's work lives do stabilize. Their love lives do stabilize. Their family lives do stabilize in general. And that's one of the reasons why we have a problem. So you see, it's true what the little brochures say. Yes, Christianity will bring you those things. But never does Jesus Christ say, come therefore. Jesus never says, come to me and I will help get rid of your inner tension. Can you imagine that? Can you? Instead, he comes and says, come to me and live for me and live to spread my peace. And you'll have a whole new direction in your life. I want to recast all of your direction. And of course, there's many other things. He says, seek first my kingdom and its righteousness. And lots of other things will be added to you as well. But who cares about those things for now? Seek first my kingdom and its righteousness. Seek my peace. Spread my peace. Be a peacemaker. in life. And that's the reason why we can put it another way. Don't come to Christianity because it's relevant, even though it certainly is. Don't adhere and subscribe to Christianity because it's exciting, though it certainly is. Don't give your life to Christ because he will solve your problems, though he certainly will. Don't come to Christ and spread Christianity around because it'll solve society's ills, even though it certainly will. Come to Christ because he's true. I know that never occurs to Americans.

Americans say, is it relevant? Is it exciting? Will it help? Will it solve problems? What if maybe you just ask this question, is he really the king? Did he really create you? Is Christianity true? That's the only reason to accept or reject it. If it's true, you accept it. If he's really the king, you give yourself to him. You reorient your whole life around him. first my kingdom. And all these other things will be added on to you. So peacemaking, you see, is a you're living for this. And the Bible tells us once you become a Christian, once you enter the kingdom of God, you have a whole new direction to your life, a whole new purpose. And that is peacemaking. And the way you know you're in peacemaking is you get persecuted. That's what these two Beatitudes are saying. Number one, that if you become a Christian, you will have a whole new mission in life. And that's peacemaking. And number two, the way you know you're on that new mission, the way you know you're having that peacemaking job is you'll get persecuted. That's the sign of it. In other words, it says, blessed are the peacemakers that are children of God. That means you'll be like your father. You'll be like your brother. You'll have a family resemblance. You'll be like the Prince of Peace. And if you're like the Prince of Peace, you will have nails and thorns and spears coming at you. And that's what the two Beatitudes say. It's very searching, isn't it? We have to immediately ask ourselves, and you should all be asking yourselves, am I a peacemaker? And here's how you know if you're a peacemaker. You're getting it in the chin. Now, let's ask ourselves what these mean, and let's go at it like this. Number one, let me ask you, let me ask three questions, and let me not make anybody nervous about this. The first question we'll spend the lion's share of our time on and the second and third question we'll follow right after that. The three questions are, number one, what is a peace? What is this peace we're talking about? What is the peace that the Bible talks about? Secondly, what is peacemaking? And thirdly, why does peacemaking always bring persecution? Three questions. What is peace? What is peacemaking? And why does peacemaking bring persecution? Number one, in the Bible, the peace that God talks about is not the peace that is opposed so much to anxiety. It's the peace that's opposed to hostility. It's the peace as opposed to war. When the Bible talks about peace with God, it's not talking at first, usually, about an inner tranquility. It's talking about the end of hostility. Romans 5 says, now that we're saved through Christ, we have peace with God. Peace means antagonism's gone, the war is over. The warfare's gone, the hostility is gone. Romans 8-7 says this, The natural mind, that means the mind in the natural state, the natural mind is enmity against God. It's enmity, that's a strong word. The natural mind is enmity against God. of God, indeed it cannot. Romans 8 verse 7. Do you see what that's saying? Something very strong. It's saying all human beings are in their natural condition. We are all in a state of warfare against God. We're all hostile to God. We're all fighting against God. And that's the way it is. And the proof of that, the only time that God ever became vulnerable to us, the only time God ever became weak, the only time God ever became touchable, we killed him. Okay, now somebody out there is saying, whoa, wait a minute. What you mean we, Kimo Sabe? All right, you know. You're saying, wait a minute. Some of you are out there saying, look, let me be real honest. You wish you could say this to me. And I think I know what you're saying. I'm indifferent toward God. Maybe I'm even disobedient toward God, but I don't hate God. I'm not hostile toward God. I'm not in any war against God. You know, maybe he's got something against me, but I have nothing against him.

No hostility, right? I beg to differ with you. And this is such a touchy subject, I'm just going to have to speak completely in the first person. Listen, I believe the Bible is right when it says all of us are naturally hostile to God, angry with God, actually at war with God. I believe the reason most of us don't see it is because psychologists will tell you that it's the hatred that we hide from ourselves that really does the number on us. It's the hatred we have for someone else that we hide for ourselves that we won't admit even to ourselves. And that's the stuff that really, really, really can distort your life. The Bible says there is a hatred like that. It's down underneath everything else, and it is distorting your life. And unless you see that you're at war with God, unless you can make that hostility conscious, you can never have his peace. I mean, that's a pretty important thing. Do you realize what I'm about to do right now is a very important exercise, please listen. Listen, Jonathan Edwards, who everybody will, all the historians will say was the first great intellectual in American history, and some people will say is still the best one we ever had. He wrote an interesting essay some years ago called Men Naturally God's Enemies. And I read that thing, and he says the way for you to check out where the enmity shows its symptoms, where your hostility to God shows its symptoms, is to look at the three faculties, the mind, the will, and the emotions. Now, again, let me speak absolutely in the first person. I won't speak for you, because some of you will be unhappy if I do. Let me speak for myself. First of all, Edwards says, if you look carefully, you will see in your thinking a lot of hostility toward God.

Intellectually, you have a lot of hostility. Now, I remember that when I was growing up, vaguely religious at different times in my life. I don't think I ever got to the place where I said I disbelieve in God. And so I would have years ago said, hey, I'm not hostile to God. I may be indifferent to God. I may be disobedient, but I'm not hostile to God. But Edwards says, take a look at not just God in general, God as you imagine him, but take a look at how God actually reveals himself to be in the Bible. Look at the real God and then tell me you're not angry at him and you know I remember very clearly when I first began to read the Bible and I saw the God of the Old Testament how he said I'm a judge I will by no means clear the guilty and how God he would give stern commands and then he would follow through he would say don't touch the ark of the covenant and one guy named Uzzah touches the ark of the covenant and he's struck dead it's back there in the Old Testament and you have all this talk about punishment and sin and I said oh my the God Boy, I don't like that. Then I would get to the New Testament, and there is Jesus Christ, the great teacher of love, and he speaks about hell more than anybody else in the whole Bible. We learn more about hell from Jesus Christ than anybody else. And I began to realize, if I just try to snip out of the Bible all those things that I don't like about God, I got nothing left. And I began to realize, as I looked at the God, not just God in general, but God as he reveals himself to be, I started to struggle. I started to get turned off. Intellectually, I didn't like what I saw.

And then Edward says, don't just look at how intellectually you see your hostility to God, but look at your volitional hostility to God. Look at your will. Listen to me, friends. Probably like you, I've made a lot of promises to God. A lot. Whenever I would get sick, I would promise things to him. Whenever I get in trouble, I would promise things to him. after sermons. I would promise things to him. I would sit down and pray and I would write little things in my book. I would promise things to him. And I have broken those promises with such impunity. It's incredible. I have, I have forgotten. I haven't even broken them. I forget them. Just like that. I go back and I read things that I wrote a couple of months ago and I'm appalled. I promised that. In other words, I break my promises to God. And I think you probably do You would never ever tolerate. In your promises to your family. In your promises to your friends. In your promises to your colleague or your employer. We treat God far more lightly than we do other human beings. We break things. I do. I'm speaking for myself. And then Edwards says. Don't just look at how your hostility shows up intellectually. And also shows up volitionally. But also look how it shows up emotionally. Look at your coldness. I've had people do nice things for me. And just recently, this last Christmas, a friend of ours, some other place who doesn't live here, somebody else, gave us a very, very generous and beautiful and wonderful Christmas present. A very expensive thing. And it was just a wonderful thing. And we enjoy it constantly. And whenever somebody does something like that for you, there's an emotional response. You feel warm toward that person. You're comforted by that. And yet, if I have a bad day, if I have a disappointing week, I should turn to Jesus' death on the cross for me. And that should immediately console me. Should it not? But it doesn't. And remember, years ago, that little girl, that teenage girl that I knew back in my church in Virginia, that I was trying to console. I've used her as an illustration before. The reason I come back to it is because I recognize myself. I was talking to her. She was unhappy. Nobody dated her. And she was a Christian. And I said, well, you know, you've got all these things in Christ. You're born again and you're going to go to heaven and you've got his spirit in your life. And he's guiding you. And she looked at me and she said, well, so what if you're not popular?

Now, you know, you say, well, that's a 16-year-old kid. You know, she doesn't know enough that she's not supposed to say things like that in front of a minister.

She doesn't realize how unspiritual it sounds. But I'm looking in a mirror. I don't know if you are. because I look at my life and when I'm disappointed, I look at Jesus' death on the cross and instead of saying, this makes amends for everything, instead of saying, this consoles me for everything, instead of that, I say, so what if I've had a bad week? You know, when the rocks and the ground and the earth saw Jesus Christ dying on the cross, they split open. and yet my heart stays intact when I look at it. I don't know about yours. This is lingering enmity. This is residual hostility, friends. And you see, only now after years I can look back. I knew my enmity was so strong before I was converted and it was strong after I was converted and yet it's taken me years even to get to the place where I can see what's in my heart. and most of this enmity, most of this hostility sleeps deep until things don't go right. Until things happen in your life that you don't like or things that need to be happening in your life are not happening and you look at God and all of a sudden all that enmity wakes up, does it not? And your heart becomes like a bucket of little vipers hissing and spitting. You know, it may sleep deep for a long time God, cross your will. Let him do something in your life you don't like. And all that stuff that you have been hiding for a long time comes on up. I see it in me. And let me just say this. Unless you see it in yourself, unless you see that you're at war with God, unless you see the hostility there, you can never be at peace with him. You're just telling yourself a lie. You're saying, look, I'm indifferent. And maybe someday I'll get around and maybe I'll try God. You're at war with him. that's the reason why I constantly read these books that talk about man's historic search for God for centuries man has searched for God for centuries man has searched for God the Bible says for centuries the Bible says history is the record of God of man's monumental and unrelenting effort to get God off his back there is no way the Bible says history is a story of God of man's search for God of man's effort to get away from God, to get out from under his clammy hands. Now listen, if you understand this, then you'll see that the gospel is that God has gotten rid of the enmity. How has he done that? He's done that by sending Jesus Christ. And yeah, he sent Jesus Christ, and we did shoot him, and we did kill him. But when that happened, that took away the punishment for this unfair rebellion against our rightful master. And when that took away that punishment that we deserve, God was free to send his Holy Spirit into our hearts. And when he sends the Holy Spirit into our hearts, it changes us. Because as soon as we begin to see our hostility, then you know you're coming around. You're waking up. The Holy Spirit gets rid of the hostility by showing that it's there. And until you see that it's there, there's no way you can get rid of it. And when you finally begin to see it, When you finally begin to see what a fool you've been, the love begins to flow. Until that happens, you can't have peace. There's a great story in the Bible of Naaman. Naaman was a Syrian general. And as a Syrian general, he was a pretty important man, but he had leprosy. And he sent a messenger to Elisha, a prophet in Israel, and he said, I hear you can heal people. You have a God that can heal people. Heal me. And Elisha, instead of coming to this important man, sends a messenger back and says, come on down and bathe in the Jordan River and you'll be cleansed. And Naaman is so irked. He says, wait a minute. I'm an important person. Why didn't the prophet come and wave a hand over me and then heal me? Or at least have me washed in one of the noble rivers of Syria. But why do you want me to go down into that dirty creek called the Jordan River and wash? I won't do it. And one of his servants comes to him and he says, suspect? Are you too proud to be healed? And Naaman begins to realize, hey, I have a desperate condition here. And so he relents. He goes down. He dips. He's immediately cleansed. And my, does he change? And he says, what a fool I was. I was too proud to submit to God's word and do something that looks silly. And let me tell you something. Let me tell you this. Unless you're willing to ...to admit you're at war with God. You can never have peace. A lot of you might... ...there might be people here... ...that are just like Naaman... ...afraid... ...of doing what the Bible says you should do. You have to give your life to him. You have to admit you were at war with him. Right? You have to admit you were at war with him... ...and say, Lord Jesus Christ... ...be my savior, be my peace. And you're afraid. There's a lot of things in here... ...that seem old-fashioned. It could be... ...this whole born-again trip... ...sounds like it might be beneath you. you. It's certainly beneath a person of your station. You're afraid you'll look silly. You're like Naaman. And as a result, you can't be healed until you're willing to say, what a fool I've been. I've been at war and I've got to have peace and I've got to submit even if it looks silly. And only when you begin to see that does the love begin to flow. Only when you begin to see that Does the healing begin to start?

Now, what are the signs of this peace?

How do you know if you got it? Let me just give you a couple. Number one, one of the signs of this peace, if you want to know you have this peace in your life, you'll find worship is a great celebration. Instead of worship being a duty where you just go and say, yeah, yeah, I've got to praise God, I've got to confess my sins, I've got to listen to the sermon and try to be a better person. new side to it because you're constantly saying, I was at war with God and he should have crushed me or at least left me alone, but he didn't. He forgave me. He accepted me. And as a result, worship now is a completely different thing. It's a celebration. Another, well, anyway, that's the first sign of peace is that you're constantly amazed that God loved you in spite of your warfare. See, if you don't see your hostility, there's no way you get into that kind of worship. Secondly, another sign of peace is this. You are no longer scared to death of failure. Hear me? You are no longer scared to death of failure. Because look, before you understood that you were at war with God and therefore your acceptance by him is a matter of sheer grace. Before you understood that, you based your whole life on your performance. It was only when you felt you were performing well that you could pray to God. It was only when you felt you were performing well you could look yourself in the mirror. Even if you're not a religious person. It was only when you were performing well that you could look yourself in the mirror. So you see your performance is the basis for everything. And when you fail. When you don't live up to your standards. When you fail. What happens is. Your life is shattered. It all falls apart. Because how could you pray to God? How could you look yourself in the mirror? peace. When you fail, if anything, it draws you closer to God and his grace is more thrilling than ever. And you talk to God like this. You say, oh Lord, look at this. I've failed. I've sinned. Isn't this the sort of thing you've been telling me all along? I am like that. I guess I always knew it and it's a little hard to admit it now. It's very hard to admit it now. And yet I realize that your grace has covered that. You saw that in my heart years ago when I first gave myself to you. saw it all along. I haven't seen it till now. But now, my Lord God, thank you that you've covered it. I thank you for your grace. It's richer and more thrilling today to me than it was yesterday, because I see, I see your grace more clearly. If you've got the peace of God, you are no longer afraid of failure. You're not scared of it anymore. You've got peace. Because look, who cares about the approval of the serfs?

What's more important to you, the approval of the serfs or the favor of the king? And a Christian with peace begins to think like that. He begins to say, well, yeah, I lost this battle or that battle, but the real battle is won. I'm at peace with God. Or a Christian says, yes, this battle, that battle is in trouble, but I'm doing well. No, I'm doing well in this or that battle. But if I was at war with God, who cares about the battles? The point is, the Christian says, I've got a peace that shines over my other troubles like the sun shines so brightly you can't even see the stars even though they're there. Have you got that peace? Now, what then is peacemaking? Take a moment. Peacemaking is relatively simple. Some people think, some people think that peacemaking means to be the kind of person that doesn't like to create waves. Right? Have you seen people like that? No matter what happens to them, they say, don't make a fuss. Yes, that person did something wrong, but don't make a fuss. Don't make waves. But that can't be the peacemaking we're talking about here. Because peacemakers are like Jesus Christ. They're like the children of God. Right? And how did Jesus Christ make peace? By not making any waves.

Jesus Christ came and he made peace by confronting people, by setting his face like a flint to die. Real peace always makes waves. Peacemaking always makes waves. Always. Look at, the only way you can be at peace with God is if you admit you're hostile to God and you don't want to and I don't want to. It's a difficult thing. What is peacemaking then? Peacemaking is announcing the good news. Peacemaking is letting everybody know that your boss wants to make a peace with them. Peacemaking is coming and saying you're at war with God and you have got to make peace with him. Now that is called evangelism. And you have to keep this in mind. Sometimes peacemaking is very explicit. It can mean talking to people and saying here's how I was at war with God and God made peace with me. But other times it's really listening and prodding and probing a little bit and being very gentle. But the most important thing to keep in mind is a peacemaker now has a completely different attitude toward the people around him or her. Instead of being self-conscious, when you enter into a relationship, instead of saying, do I like this person? Does this person like me? What does this person think of me? Do I want to spend time with this person? Is this person worth my trouble? Is this person my level? That's the old way of thinking, isn't it? Back when the only way in which you had any identity was if it was based on performance. But now you're at peace and you're a peacemaker, which means you look at a person and you don't say, do I like this person? What's this person think of me? You say, what's God doing in this person's life and how can I help it along? Is God making peace with this person and how can I encourage that? Don't you see how that is a completely different direction? Do you see how it makes a totally different, creates a whole different purpose in life? And that's what peacemaking is. And if you're working at peacemaking, that means you've always got some folks you're really particularly praying about and reaching out to and looking for. How in the world can I encourage what God is doing in this person's life? Now, the last issue. Why does peacemaking always inevitably lead to persecution? I've already said that the first sign of peace in your life is that there's worship, is a celebration, and secondly, you're not afraid of failure. But there's a third sign. And the sign is this persecution parable. This persecution beatitude is critical. You have to remember that every single one of these beatitudes is true of all Christians. It's not like some Christians mourn, but others don't. Some Christians are poor in spirit, but others aren't. Some Christians are merciful, but others aren't. And therefore, you cannot say some Christians are persecuted and others aren't. And 2 Timothy 3.12 says, says, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Now, this is a very frightening, but very searching test. Listen to it. The Bible does not say that everybody who's persecuted is necessarily living godly. You can be persecuted for being obnoxious. You can be persecuted for being fanatical. You can be persecuted for being just a very unpleasant person. And a lot of people who are being persecuted because they're fanatical and because they're obnoxious and because they're unpleasant, and they happen to be Christians, thinks, I am being persecuted for righteousness sake. Now look, you also have to remember what Acts 2 says, and that is that new Christians, the early church, found favor with all the people. It's Jesus who is our model. And Jesus' model is this. The more God's glory is shining out in your life, the more you will both attract and repel people. If nobody is reacting either way, there's not much of Christ showing forth in you. If nobody's being attracted in because of your unusual love or being repelled because of your holiness, then there's not much going on in there. If you're always persecuted, you're probably being persecuted. You're probably an obnoxious person. But if you're never being persecuted, you're probably a coward. May I repeat that? If you're always being persecuted, you're probably obnoxious. Because Jesus wasn't always persecuted. But if you're never being persecuted, you're probably a coward. Because Jesus was. Don't you see that Christians, by just living a godly life, are going to upset people. Look at labor and management.

person, and you're right there on the assembly line, you're going to not cut corners. You're going to give a full eight hours a day. You're going to go all out. And I have seen that happen when Christians did that, and they were persecuted for it. Because everybody said, do you realize what you're doing? Do you realize the kind of production you're coming up with? You're making it terrible on all the rest of us. I remember a guy that just decided all he was going to do as a waiter, as a Christian, was to report all of his tips. And he practically got stoned to death. other words, as a laboring person, I'm just going to do a good day's work. And you'd get persecuted. On the other hand, if you're in management, management may come to you and say, I want your soul. I don't care what happens to your family. I don't care about anything else. We want you to sell your soul to the company. And so here's a Christian in management who says, I can't do that. A Christian can't overwork or underwork. A Christian has his priorities. You're going to get it on the chin. If you open your mouth for Christ, you're going to get it on the chin Sometimes at least you're going to get somebody staring at you. And you're like... Now is that much persecution? How much persecution is that? In most of our cases, it's more than we can bear.

How do you know if you're a peacemaker? You're getting some persecution. But are we going to end on a down note like that? Not the Beatitudes. They end on an up note. They end on this note. note. The note is, blessed are those, right, who are persecuted for righteousness sake. And it says, rejoice and be exceeding glad. It does not say, if you are living godly in Christ Jesus, you've got to grin and bear it and figure it's going to be a tough life, but I'm just going to get on the chin and that's just the way Christians are and that's the way Christianity is. And that's it. I'm just going to have to keep a stiff upper lip and go on through. The Bible says you can rejoice in your losses. How? By remembering. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, I'll close with this. David Martin Lloyd-Jones was a tremendous minister in England. He's dead now, but in the earlier part of the 20th century. And before he went into the ministry, his preaching gifts were so great that he had to go into the ministry, even though he was trained and practicing as a physician. And he was a very great physician. And when he went into the ministry, several things happened. Number one, he took a 90% cut in salary, which is a really interesting thing. A 90% cut in salary. Secondly, all of polite society immediately dropped him and said, we have another religious fanatic on our hands. And he was persecuted in that sense. And a few years later, a reporter came to him and said to him, was it worth it? On balance, you gained some things, you lost some things. On balance, was it worth it? You gave up a few things. You gained a few things. Having weighed it all up, what do you think? And Lloyd-Jones looked at the reporter and said, let me get this straight with you. I gave up nothing. And I gained everything. Now, what he means by that is this. He says, young man, you don't understand the first principles of Christianity. You're sort of looking at it like this. Well, you get some peace, love, and groovy vibes from Christianity. And you also get some of that and you lost some money and you lost some status. So has the peace and inner tranquility somehow outweighed the loss of money and status and some people thinking you're a fanatic? How did it come out all told? And what Lloyd-Jones says is you don't understand the first things about Christianity. Those things which I lost used to be my peace, you see. That was my peace, my performance. Now Christ is my peace. what I have in Christ to those things, and to actually even struggle. It's sort of like a person saying, well, I got a million dollars in the bank, but I just hate to spend this 25 cents to put on the stamp on the envelope that will get me the withdrawals, you see. Can you imagine if you were trying to get a million dollars out and all it took was a 25 cent stamp, would you struggle? struggle and Lloyd-Jones says, how can you ask me a question like that? Was it worth it? What a horrible thing. I gave up nothing. I gained everything. And that's the reason he was able to rejoice and be exceeding glad. My friends, there may be some of you here that when you consider what it means to give up, to give your life to Christ, it might mean somebody's going to laugh at you. It might mean that you may be called to do something that you don't want to do right now. And maybe you're saying, will it be worth it? It's as silly for you to ask that question as the person with that 25 cent stamp saying, will it be worth it? You give up nothing. By comparison, you gain everything. Do you have his peace? Let me just say this. I'm going to close in prayer. When I do this, we're going to sing a hymn and it's over. The service is over. I'm going to stay down here. And if there's anybody here who would like to come up, and you can greet me and say hello if I haven't seen you or you're visiting from someplace else. I'm not saying I can't see anybody else. But if you would like to see that peace in your life, if you are in the a place where you say, I'm ready to admit that I'm at war and I'm ready to make peace through Jesus Christ, I'd be very happy to talk to you about that issue. You can come on down and talk to me. Or if you want to, you could write me a note or call me later on and I'd be very happy to help you. And we're going to do that right now. And I'm about to close in prayer. If you want to make peace with him, you can do it right now. Let's pray.
