The scripture reading today is from Luke chapter 9 verse 49 through chapter 10 verse 2. Master, said John, we saw a man driving out demons in your name and we tried to stop him because he is not one of us. Do not stop him, Jesus said, for whoever is not against you is for you. As the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem and he sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him. But the people there did not welcome him because he was heading for Jerusalem. When the disciples, James and John, saw this, they asked, Lord, do you want us to call fire down from heaven? And to destroy them? But Jesus turned and rebuked them and they went to another village. As they were walking along the road, a man said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. Jesus replied, foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has no place to lay his head. He said to another man, follow me. But the man replied, Lord, first, let me go and bury my father. Jesus said to him, let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Still, another said, I will follow you, Lord, but first, let me go back and say goodbye to my family. Jesus replied, no one who puts his hand on the plow and looks back is fit for service in the kingdom of God. After this, the Lord appointed 72 others and sent them two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go. He told them, the harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers to his harvest field. This is the word of the Lord.

So we have been looking at a series of texts in the Gospel of Luke. And each time we're looking at a text that gets us down into the topic of generosity. That's our subject, generosity. Now, right away, when you hear the word generosity, you think money. But we've said each week that even though, of course, a generous person is generous with their money, but it's possible to be technically generous with your money, but not radically generous in all of your life, not radically generous in your heart. We've talked about the fact that there are different currencies of generosity. A currency is a medium of exchange. And there are more, of course, money is a medium. a medium of exchanging value, but there's others too. And we've talked about the fact that some people can be financially generous, but relationally and emotionally very ungenerous. Have you not ever seen that? People are very critical, holding things against people. They're ungenerous relationally. They're ungenerous emotionally, but they're generous with their money. And that shows they're not radically generous. They're not generous down to the bottom. They're not generous in their heart. Now, what we've been doing each week is we're looking at these different currencies. And the currency we get to today is a very important one. It's a non-financial currency, but it is a way for you to give value to other people. And it means being generous. We're talking about being generous with our time, with our talents, with our gifts. The theme is a theme you've heard before, and that is that every believer should be not just a ministry consumer coming here to get your needs met, but a ministry provider that you're here to serve. And that's one of the things that is very, very most important points we can make. What I like about this particular passage, not only does it tell us about that, but this passage gets us deeper into the subject of how to develop that heart generosity. Where does that come from? A generosity that's so deep that it's pervasive in every currency of life and every area of life. Now, the passage is a striking passage. And what I want you to do is see that we're going to move through it. What are you doing here? Wait a minute. Okay. Well, at least they get my better side. The more photogenic side they get. We're going to move through it backwards. We're going to start at the very bottom. We're going to take the last part first, the middle part, and then we're going to move through it backwards. The first part, second, and the first part, third. Now, you could try to do it this way, but probably it'll be hard to read. So I would like to show you that at the bottom, chapter 10, verses one to two, it's talking to us about a generosity of service, which is based on a generosity of discipleship. That's in the middle section, which is based in turn on the generosity of costly grace. Generosity of service means we give away ourselves to other people, but it's based on generosity of grace. Generosity of discipleship. We won't give away ourselves to other people unless we've first given ourselves away to Christ. But that's based on the concept, the grasp of costly grace. So it's the generosity of service, the generosity of discipleship, and then finally the generosity of costly grace. Let's go through it that way. First of all, look at chapter 10, verses one to two. The Lord appointed 72 and sent them out two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go. And he told them, harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. Now, the significance of this, the significance of chapter 10, verses one to two, cannot be grasped unless you first look at chapter nine, verses one to two. But we didn't read that. It's not printed there. So I have to tell you what it is. Chapter nine, one to two is where Jesus sends out the 12. He sends out his apostles. There's 12 apostles, and he sends them out to do things. He sends them out to do things. Three things, to preach, to cast out demons, and to heal the sick. Now, here in chapter 10, verses one to two, well, and actually afterwards, he sends out 72 disciples. And if you could go down into verse three, four, and five, and again, we wanted to limit how long the passage was to read. If you go down a little further in the chapter, you'll see that he sends the 72 out to do the same three things. Preaching means persuade the mind of the truth. Casting out demons refers to liberate the soul from the things that enslave it. And of course, curing the sick means to sustain the needs of hurting physical bodies. So the same three things, persuade the mind of the truth of the gospel, liberate people from enslavements in their souls, deal with hurting, broken bodies. The same three things are given to the 72 as to the 12. Why is that significant? Well, it depends on who the 72 are, right? Because, well, why did Jesus send out 72 disciples? In Jesus' day, many people read the Bible, which we would today call the Old Testament, the Hebrew Bible. They read it in Greek. There was a Greek translation. And in the Greek translation, if you get to the beginning of the Bible, you're going to see that the Bible is the Bible. If you get to the story about Noah and his flood in Genesis 9, and then you get to Genesis 10, it's the story of all the nations of the earth. It's called the table of the nations. So all the nations of the earth at that time are listed. There's 72 there. And because there were 72 nations on the earth after the flood, the word 72 became a symbolic number. It meant completeness. It meant everyone. 72 meant everybody. So when Jesus Christ sends out the 12, the clergy, the apostles, his leaders, the professionals, he sends the clergy out to do three things. And then later on, he sends 72, which represents all Christians, the whole church, to do the same three things. And he uses the word sent. You see, it says, verse one, after this, the Lord appointed 72 others and sent them. In Latin, that word is missio. To send is missio, the word from which we get our word mission. What's the point? The point is not just the clergy, not just the apostles, not just the professionals, but all Christians, every believer is a man or a woman in mission. Jesus Christ never calls you in to bless you and heal you and forgive you without then sending you out into the world to spread the benefits he's given you. Never. He never calls you in without sending you out. I love Genesis 12, where God comes to Abraham. Now, this is a paraphrase. Okay, let me just summarize what he does. He comes to Abraham. He says, Abraham, I'm going to bless you. I'm going to love you. I'm going to prosper you. I'm going to do all these things for you. Now, get out. Get out. Get out of your homeland. Get out of your familiar territory. Get out. Well, where am I going? I'll tell you later. Forty years later. Okay. Basically, right there, you see, God never blesses you except to make you a blessing. He never calls you in without sending you out. And what's interesting is that when the Bible talks about the fact that every believer is supposed to be out in the world serving people, some people do use their mind and their mouth. Some of us are called to do what I'm doing right now, which is to persuade people of the truth. But many other people are there just to embrace the suffering, you know, to embrace the hurting bodies, to embrace the hurting soul, just to love people who are suffering and in need. But Ephesians 2.10 puts it like this. Paul says, for we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which he prepared in advance for us to do. This is Ephesians 2.10. Listen carefully. We are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus to do good works, which he prepared in advance for us to do. Workmanship is a word that actually means we are a work of art. God has crafted us. So you are a work of art. It's actually the Greek word poema from which you get our word poem. So you're a work of art. But notice it says, God has crafted you. So there are certain good works, certain things, certain ways of serving people that only God can do. So you are a work of art. You can do. You say, what do you mean? Well, everybody's got different gifts. Everybody's got different talents. Everybody's got different abilities. But also, everybody's got different experiences in life. Do you know that even the things that have gone wrong in your life, even the suffering, even the failures, make you uniquely able to do what? There are certain hands out there that only you can hold. There are certain demons in people's lives that only you can cast out. There are certain ways of helping people that only you can do because of who you are, because you are God's workmanship. And if you've been called in, you're called to be sent out. Now, do you know how wonderful this is and what a contrast it is to what the world says is the case? See, right now, Martin Heidegger, who's a German philosopher, talked about the fact that we now believe there's no God. And that's true of a lot of Western civilization. A lot of people say, oh, we don't believe in God. So why are you here? Well, we're not here for any particular reason. Why are you here? We're here by an accident. We just happen to be here. Were you created for a reason? No. Were you meant to live in it? No. So you're just here by accident. And Martin Heidegger uses my favorite German word when he says people feel that they've been thrown into the world. Life. We've just been thrown in life. We haven't been, you know, there's no purpose. We're just thrown. And the German word he uses is geworfenheit. Isn't that a great word? Geworfenheit, okay? Use that on somebody if you want. He'd say, how are you feeling today? Geworfenheit, you know? And it means thrownness, okay? But the Bible says if you're a Christian, your life is marked by, you know, sentness. You haven't been thrown into life by, you know, the forces of chance. You've been sent. In fact, even the things that have gone wrong in your life have crafted you to become the kind of person so that there are certain things that you, there are certain people that you can serve. There are certain ways of serving people around you that only you can do. You're a work of art. And if you see yourself as not just a person who's, I come here to church to get my needs met, but I come here to church to get my needs met, I come here to get equipped to be serving the people around me in the city, serving the people in my networks of relationships, serving my neighborhood. If you see it that way, suddenly your life goes from one of thrownness to one of sentness. So there's the first generosity. A Christian is supposed to be a person who lives a life of pervasive unselfishness. Deep, pervasive unselfishness. You're here to serve. In fact, when you talk about this, when the Bible says God has sent you out, you're in mission, he's sent you out. If you say, well, what does it mean that a Christian is sent out? Out where? And here's the answer. Out of yourself. That's the essence of what it means to be a person in mission. Not that you go overseas, that's a very wonderful thing to do. Not that you, it's that you, first of all, you have to be sent out of yourself. It's almost like Jesus is saying this to you if you're a Christian. He says, look, before you met me, it was hard to be your own savior, wasn't it? It was hard that you had to, you had to, as it were, create your own significance and security through your career or through relationships. You were the one that had to do it. And yet, even though you were trying so desperately to feel good about yourself, you were always losing that battle, weren't you? There was always this inner sense of inadequacy, this inner sense of shame, this inner sense that you're an imposter, right? Right? And so when you, before you met me, it makes sense that you'd be absorbed in your own problems. It makes sense that you would be thinking more about yourself. But I've met you. I filled you up. You don't have to be constantly, because of that emptiness that you used to have and you needed people to like you and you needed to be successful. It's different now. I filled you up. I have dealt with that shame. I have dealt with that sense of inadequacy. I have given you the love and the beauty that your heart most desires. And now, get out. Get out of yourself. Stop being self-absorbed. There's no excuse for it now. Live for other people. Live for me. Do you hear him? So the first generosity, where we're shown here, is the generosity of serving others. The generosity of giving yourself away to others. But you will not be generous like that unless you first experience this second generosity, which is in the middle section. The generosity of what I'll call discipleship. You will never be equipped to really give yourself away to others unless you first have learned how to give yourself away wholly to Jesus. This middle section is fascinating. It's three people who basically offer to follow Jesus. And instead of Jesus saying, you want to follow me? Great. I got a class. Could you come on Tuesday night? He doesn't do that. In each case, he challenges them. And it's really kind of startling. But he's making a point. The first man says this. I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus replied, foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the son of man has no place to lay his head. Here's a guy who says, I want to follow you. And Jesus says, you're coming too fast. You haven't thought this out. Here's what he says. I am not the kind of Messiah who's going to save the world through winning. I'm not the kind of Messiah who's going to save the world through winning elections. Or through winning battles. I'm going to save the world by being arrested, condemned, dying. I'm going to be broken in body and heart. You want to follow a Messiah like that? It may entail loss. It may entail weakness. It may entail suffering. And I think this foxes have holes, birds have nests. It probably will certainly at least entail a lower standard of living. Are you ready for that? See, he challenges him. Are you ready to really follow me? Now the next two are actually different. With the first guy, basically, Jesus is saying, you're coming too fast. Stop and think about it. The next two, he's actually saying, you're coming too slow. Look, in the second one says, he said to another man, follow me. But the man replied, Lord, first let me go and bury my father. And Jesus said, let the dead bury their own dead, but you go and proclaim the kingdom of God. Still another said, I will follow you, Lord, but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family. Jesus replied, no one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the service in the kingdom of God. Now what's he saying here? We can treat them together because both of them have the same issue, family. You got to remember, let's see, when you first see this, Jesus says, no, you can't do your father's funeral. No, you can't do your father's funeral. You can't go back and say goodbye to your family. Follow me. It sounds pretty harsh, but you have to understand the context. You have to understand the context. This was a highly patriarchal society. Some of you have come from that, or maybe your parents came from that. And in a patriarchal society, family means everything. Family honor means everything. Parental approval means everything. If they're happy with you, then you're okay. If they're satisfied with you, then you have achieved what a human being should achieve. If they're not happy with you, you hate yourself, it's awful, you're shamed, all right? That's a patriarchal society. And Jesus is speaking to people in a patriarchal society, and he has the audacity to say, I perceive that you want to follow me, but I'm not first in your life. Because notice twice, notice both of them do this. Lord, let me go first. Let me first, pardon me. Lord, first let me go and bury my father. That's verse 59. And then down in verse 61, I will follow you, Lord, but first let me go back and say goodbye to my family. That word first is a little Greek word, proton, you know, proto, which means first. But you notice what each one of them is saying. They're saying, yes, Jesus, but first this. Here's what they are saying. I'll follow you if you let me do this. I'll follow you if you let me do that. I'll follow you as long as it pleases my family. I'll follow you. See? They're saying follow you if. And what Jesus is saying is, you're not my follower, you're not my disciple, if there's any conditions, any conditions at all. If you say, well, I'll follow you, Jesus, as long as this happens in my life and this happens in my life, as long as I don't have to stop this or that. As soon as you say, as long as, I'll follow you as long as, or as soon as you say, I'll follow you if. If you say, I'll follow you first. What Jesus is saying is, in other words, you're not gonna follow me. Because if you say, I'll follow you, but first, what's on the other side of the first, what's on the other side of the if, what's on the other side of the as long as, is the real non-negotiable. It's the real master. It's the real thing you're following. And Jesus in that situation is just a means to an end. You see? And he says, no, that doesn't work. I cannot be the means to an end. I've gotta be first. Because of who I am. When he says, by the way, no one who puts his hand to the plow and looks back is fit for the service of the kingdom of God, he's using a metaphor that they would know that we probably don't know. And that is when you were plowing, you hitched your plow to an animal and you only made one furrow at a time, right? The way you plowed a field was one furrow at a time. That meant you could never take your eye off the field. You know why? Because if you took your eye off the field, the plow could not be lined up. The furrow you were doing was not lined up with the other furrow and would destroy basically the whole plowing. But also, if a rock was in the ground and you didn't see it, it would break the plow, which was an absolute disaster for poor farmers. And so when Jesus says, you know what it's like to plow, you never take your eye off. You are absolutely and completely focused. What Jesus is saying is, I must be attended to exclusively, intensely, laser focus on me. But the other image he uses to get across the importance of putting him first in your life is this one, where he says, let the dead bury their dead. You come with me. What does that mean? Now, he can't be talking about literally physically dead people. He's not saying, let the physically dead bury their dead. Let the physically dead bury the physically dead. That doesn't work, by the way. Physically dead can't bury the physically dead. So who's he talking about? He's talking about the spiritually dead. And to be spiritually dead doesn't mean you're physically dead. It means you're blind to spiritual realities. It means that you're insensitive to them, just like a dead person is. Dead people don't notice whether it's lighter or darker. They don't notice whether it's colder or hotter. They are blind to the environmental realities. Jesus is saying this. If you think there's anything more important in your life than me, if you say, well, I would like to have you in my life, but as long as this or that happens, if there's anything more important to you than me, it takes a certain amount of spiritual deadness. Now, I want to give my own example. I've used this example before, I'm sure, because this is New York. Plenty of you haven't heard it. Plenty of you have. But let me show you how it applies here. Many years ago, after I'd been a Christian for a while, I was still a college student. I became a Christian in college. And I'd been a Christian for a while, but I heard an address at a camp, a summer camp for Christian college students, in which the woman who was the Bible teacher used an illustration. And her illustration was, if you took the 92 million miles between the earth and the sun, and you turned it into just a thickness of a sheet of paper, if this was 92 million, 92 million miles, just the thickness of this sheet of paper, she says, do you know how big the universe really is? Do you know that if that was the case, then the distance from the earth to the nearest star would be a stack of paper 70 feet high? Think of that. And the distance from the earth to the end of the Milky Way, the galaxy, would be a stack of paper 310 miles high? Okay, you think of every piece of paper, 92 million miles, 310 miles high, how far is that? How far is that? And then she says, if you think that's big, realize that the Milky Way is practically a speck of dust in the universe. There are so many galaxies. The universe is so big, the Milky Way is practically a speck of dust. That's big, right? Got it, everybody? That's big. She says, now, when the Bible says, Jesus Christ holds it all together, he holds the universe together with the word of his power, with his little pinky, as it were. She smiled and said, is this the kind of person you ask into your life to be your assistant? Is this the kind of person you say, don't call me, I'll call you? Is this the kind of person you say, well, listen, I would be very happy to have a relationship with you as long as you do these three things? She says, no. And at that moment, it's like the scales fell from my eyes. I knew, you see, I believed there was a God. I believed that Jesus was the son of God at that point. I believed that he was the creator of the universe. I believed all these things. But I had no concept. I suddenly at that moment realized, oh my goodness, if I'm a Christian, it's all or nothing. It's all or nothing. All the things I'm afraid of, all the conditions I have, he's gotta be absolutely first. He's gotta be absolutely the only reason I do anything. And I suddenly realized I had to take my hands off my life. And I did. Now you say, oh, you mean, that's the place where you really gave yourself to Christ. Well, it takes the whole of your life, and I don't know how successful I've been, but that was the first moment. I knew I had to. And I knew it had to be unconditional because the spiritual deadness that I had, even though I was a Christian, there was a certain amount of spiritual deadness. And only at that point when I said, wait a minute, yeah, the universe is that big, and he's that powerful. He comes in my life. What's going on? Has that happened to you? It has to happen to you somehow. Somehow. If Christ isn't the very center of your life, if he isn't the thing that you love the most in the world, and if his, his love isn't the most important thing in the world to you, if your relationship to him isn't the most important thing in your life, and come on, lots of you know it's not. You're a Christian, and he's in your life, and you believe it, but it's not the very center. It's not the very center. There's a certain amount of spiritual deadness because the minute you have a glimmer of spiritual reasonableness, you'll begin to see that you owe him everything. That's why Romans 12, 1, make yourself a living sacrifice, which is our reasonable service. Reasonable. The minute you get reasonable, you say, it's all or nothing. You've got to give yourself completely away. So the point here is, you can't give yourself away to other people, like it says in chapter 10, verses 1 to 2, until you've learned how to give yourself completely away to him. But guess what? I bet you I know something. Right now, you're saying, you know what? Every one of these points is getting worse and worse. You're saying, I kind of got this idea that we're supposed to serve people and we're supposed to reach out and we're not here just to be consumers. We're here to serve other people. That was hard enough. You know, I felt guilty enough at that one. But now you're telling me, I've got to be this radical, fanatical, you know, kamikaze for Jesus person. Everything, you know, for him and he's got to be first and I'm not like that and you're just making me feel worse. But there is a point three. In fact, if it wasn't a point three, you would die in point two. And the reason you die in point two is because we don't want to give ourselves away to Christ. Yes, we can't give ourselves away to others unless we first give ourselves away to Christ. But we can't give ourselves away to Christ because we don't want to, because we're afraid to. We're afraid he's not going to help. He's going to hurt us. He's going to disappoint us. We're afraid. We hold back. What will enable us to be truly generous toward others and toward Christ? To really give ourselves away? Not only to others, but Christ. You've got to understand and grasp costly grace. And here's where it is. It's in this first part. And there's actually two incidents here. Verse 49. Master said, John, we saw a man driving out demons in your name and we tried to stop him because he is not one of us. Do not stop him, Jesus said, for whoever is not against you is for you. Now, I hate to get into, not I hate to, I won't even, I don't have time. I'm not going to get into this whole subject of demon castration. I'm just going to keep casting out. People say, you really believe in demons? Look, put it this way. As I've told you before, all of us, until we make Christ the center of our lives, are spiritually enslaved to other things. If you know, you know that you've got to make money and if you're not making good money, you hate yourself, you feel like you're not even a person, then you are enslaved to a spiritual type God, a kind of idol, a kind of demon in your life. It's going to drive you into the ground. There's a lot of ways of understanding that. And I do believe in demons, by the way, real demons. But the point is this. In the Bible, Jesus several times says, you can't cast out a demon except through prayer and trust in me. So any man that is driving out demons in Jesus' name, he believes in Jesus, clearly is doing something good and right. Why does John want to shut him down? John wants to shut him down. You know, he says, he says, we try to stop him because what? Can I tell you what he literally says in the Greek? Literally, because he is not following us. In other words, he's doing good things. He's doing a lot of good. He believes in Jesus, doing all these good things, but he's not one of us. We need control over that. We need to get control of that. And Jesus says, stop it. Stop it. Do not stop him. You stop. Don't stop him. For whoever is not, against you is for you. Now, here we see what we've been talking about this entire series. A lack of generosity of spirit. They're just not generous toward this guy. They're not giving him the benefit of the doubt. They want to control him. They're turf conscious. You know, they're jealous. He's not one of us. And Jesus comes along and says, be generous. Okay, he's not with you, but he's still for you because he believes the same things you believe. You know, in a time in which we've never had a church more divided by denominations and fractions inside the church, we may, you might even say, since the Civil War, we probably never had a country that was more divided and more angry at one another and all that sort of thing. Here's generosity on Jesus' part, but the disciples cannot, cannot, they can't get it up. You're not in our party. You're not one of us. You're not in our denomination. We want to shut you down. We want to control you. And Jesus says, be generous. But they don't have that generosity of spirit. You see that? Let's move on. If they got upset with this guy, wait till they see, wait till you see this. Verse 51, as the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem and he sent messengers on ahead who went into a Samaritan village to get things ready for him, but the people would not welcome him. Now, he's on the road and they expect to go into the Samaritan, and stay there. And hospitality was a very important thing in those days. But clearly, this Samaritan village has heard of Jesus. They know what he's up to. And for reasons that we're not told, they reject him. No, you can't stay here. Wow. The disciples are furious. And we know already that they're much more concerned about their honor than Jesus' honor because they don't have that generosity of spirit. And what do they say? Verse 54, when the disciples, James and John, saw this, they asked, Lord, do you want us to call on you? Call fire down from heaven to destroy them. Okay, now, in spite of the fact that their motives are very bad, they actually have biblical precedent. In fact, I'll bet you the reason why they talk about fire coming down is because of what happened just a little earlier in the chapter. If you go a little earlier in Luke chapter 9, you'll see something that has been called the transfiguration. It's an amazing event in which Jesus Christ was on the mountain with his disciples, and suddenly, the humanity that veiled his deity and his divinity became kind of transparent, and they were able to see who he really was, and he became glorious, and he became as brilliant as lightning, and he was glorified before them so the disciples could see his greatness. And also, who appeared next to him on the Mount of Transfiguration? Moses and Elijah. And it was their way of being told that Jesus is the ultimate Moses because he's the ultimate deliverer from slavery, and he's the ultimate Elijah because he's the ultimate prophet. So he's the greater Moses. He's the greater Elijah. Now, what's intriguing is both Moses and Elijah knew something about the fire of God. When Moses led the people to Mount Sinai, and God came down on the top of the mountain, fire came down. But here's the more interesting question. They're probably thinking of Elijah because in 2 Kings chapter 1, Elijah, who's a prophet, is not in a good relationship with Ahab, the king of Israel, and the king of Israel sends 50 soldiers to come and arrest Elijah. Elijah's sitting at the top of a mountain. The soldiers come to the bottom of a hill, and the commander calls up and says, man of God, come down because we're going to arrest you. And Elijah says, if I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and destroy you. And down comes the fire from God and destroys them. So Ahab sends another troop of 50 soldiers. They go to the foot of the hill. They look up. The commander says, man of God, come down. We're going to arrest you. And Elijah again says, if I am a man of God, may fire come down and destroy you. And they're destroyed. And I'm sure that the apostles, they knew that passage. They read that passage. And when they read that passage, they went, yeah, yeah. That's the God I believe in. He destroys the wicked. He destroys the evil. Fire from heaven, yeah. Okay, now get this. If the rejection of Elijah, the rejection of that prophet Elijah, warranted the fire of God coming down and destroying people, wouldn't it be true that the rejection of the greater God, the greater Elijah, would warrant that kind of fire even more? Wouldn't it really deserve even greater judgment? It seems logical. So they turn around and say, Lord, do you want us to call fire down upon them? And Jesus, what does it say? He doesn't just say no. He says, he rebukes them. And it's not the word curse or something like that. But he's actually, you know what, he's basically, it's like this. They say, you want us to call fire down on these people, these awful people? And Jesus looks at him and says, just shut up. Just shut up. You jerks. And walks away. Follow me. That's really, that's what you have here. Why the difference? Boy, we need to, why the difference between Jesus and the disciples? Disciples are partisans, you know. They want to call down fire on everybody. Everybody's terrible but us. Why is there a difference with Jesus? Why can he forgive the Samaritans? What they did was wrong. Why the difference in Jesus and the disciples? In fact, why the difference between the ultimate Elijah and the older Elijah? And here's the answer. Jesus did come to bring the fire of God. He says so. A little bit later in Luke chapter 12, he says this. This is Luke 12, 49, 50. I have come to bring fire on the earth and how I wish it were already kindled. I have come to undergo a baptism and how crushed I am until it is completed. Now that's an astounding statement and the reason why it's astounding is because in the way of Hebrew literature, Semitic, oral, and written communication, one of the, you might say, one of the rules, one of the ways in which they made their points was through parallelism and repetition. Repetition, it was very, very typical for two statements to be side by side. Each one is a restatement of the other. In other words, things weren't said once, they were said twice and the second time was a restatement of the first time for emphasis. So when he says, I have come to bring fire, the fire of God, and oh, how I wish it were kindled. And then secondly, what does that mean? I don't know, except the second time he says, I have come to endure a baptism and oh, how I am crushed. Until it's completed. Well, wait a minute, he's been baptized with water. So what baptism is he waiting for? And what baptism is crushing him to even waiting for it? The answer is the second phrase, the second sentence is a restatement of the first. Do you know what he's talking about? Do you know what he's being baptized with? Do you know what he's being plunged into? When the soldiers really came for Jesus, the ultimate Elijah, they came to rest him. Remember in the Garden of Gethsemane, what did he do? When there was a fight and one of them had an ear cut off, he healed the ear. And when the soldiers were pounding nails into his hand, threw his hand into the cross, he said, Father, forgive them. It's almost the exact opposite of Elijah. Why? I'll tell you why. Jesus came not to bring judgment, but to bear judgment. He came not to bring fire down on other people, but to have the fire of God come down on him. He was plunged into the fire. The fire came down on him so that we could be forgiven. He took the punishment that we deserve so we could be forgiven. He took the fire of wrath, God's wrath and divine judgment on sin so that when you believe in him, the only fire you get is the fire of the Holy Spirit, a fire of love and of warmth and of power. And here's the secret. If you hear the call, please give yourself to Christ. Please give yourself. Give yourself away holy. Totally. Give yourself away. You're going to say, I can't. I can't. I'd like to. Maybe it's right, but I can't. If you just try to tell yourself, I need to be a servant. I need to be unselfish. I need to give myself to others. I need to give myself away to Jesus. It won't work. Your heart will just hold on like that. But if you see him giving himself away for you, see, when you give yourself away to him, he fills you. When he gave himself away for you, he was emptied. When you gave, when you gave yourself away, when you gave yourself away to him, you get embraced and loved. When he gave himself away to you, he was rejected. My father, my father, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? You get the Holy Spirit of love. Jesus Christ was abandoned and got nothing but cosmic, infinite agony. How can you come to grips with someone who gave himself utterly for you without you giving yourself utterly to him? You can't. It's only reasonable. You can't see the costliness of his grace and the power of what he did and also how he really heals you and he fills you with his love. It enables you to give yourself away. It frees you. There's nothing more burdensome than having to live for yourself. Make all your own calls, make all your own decisions and also have to, you know, actually achieve all your own self-esteem. You know, but when you have his love, it takes that incredible burden off and you are free to see himself giving his life away to you, enables you to give yourself away to him, enables you to give yourself away to other people. Hey, in conclusion, three things. Number one, being a disciple is a radical thing because there's nothing more subversive than Jesus saying in a patriarchal society, I want you to put me ahead of your family. That is amazingly subversive. Today, he'll be saying to you and me here in New York, I have to be ahead of money. I have to be ahead of power. I have to be ahead of, you know, sexual fulfillment. You've got to put me first. That's radical. But on the other hand, it's gentle. Jesus is saying, my followers never call down fire on people. They never say, you, you people, you people, I wish you would rot fire. See, listen, just turn on your computer. There's nothing but people calling down fire on everybody. There's nobody else. Jesus says, my disciples are not going to be like that. Right after 9-11, my wife, Kathy, had one of her immortal statements. She's had many of them, by the way. But she was hearing somebody say, fundamentalism leads to violence. Fundamentalism leads to violence. And she says, no, that depends on what your fundamental is. Have you ever seen an Amish terrorist? And what she meant is, if the fundamental of your life, if the fundamental thing in your life is based on your fundamental, is a man dying for his enemies, you'll never call fire down on anybody. And here's one more thing. Don't be afraid to follow him because he knows what you need. He's a wise, gentle counselor. You notice how with the first guy, he says, slow down and think about it. With the other two guys, he says, speed up and get going. You notice how with Martha, Martha says, Lord, my brother is dead. And Jesus says, I'm the resurrection and the life. Mary comes along and says, Lord, my brother is dead. And Jesus just weeps. Jesus knows when you need a punch in the chops. He knows when you just need an arm around the shoulder. He knows when you need to be pushed. He knows when you need to be just supported. Don't be afraid to give yourself to him. Follow him. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for granting to us this great promise, but also this great challenge. We thank you that you have given us this great promise. We thank you that you have filled us with your self-giving, Lord Jesus Christ, so that we can empty ourselves and give ourselves to others. And we ask that you would teach us, first of all and primarily, how to be your disciples. Change us in all the ways that we have just seen. Your word says we can change. And comfort us in all the ways the word says you will comfort us so that we're happy enough to be ministers in this world. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
