Tonight's scripture comes from Psalm 146, verse 1 through 10.

Jacob, whose hope is in the Lord, his God, the maker of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them, the Lord who remains faithful forever. He upholds the cause of the oppressed and gives food to the hungry. The Lord sets prisoners free. The Lord gives sight to the blind. The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down. The Lord loves the righteous. The Lord watches over the alien and sustains the fatherless and the widow, but he frustrates the ways of the wicked. The Lord reigns forever, your God, O Zion, for all generations. Praise the Lord. This is the word of the Lord.

Each week, we're looking at one of the characteristics, one of the qualities, one of the attributes of God. And what do we come to tonight? night. Many people accuse the Bible of being a document that promotes oppression and injustice. Don't believe that's true at all. Christians often do, but that's another sermon and another text to address that. But this text tells us that God is a God of justice. You know, Micah chapter 6, verse 8 summarizes what it means to be a follower of God. It says, very famous, it says, what does the Lord your God require of you but to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with your God? Okay? So what does it mean to walk humbly with God? To do justice and love mercy looks like two things. It's probably not. Probably the mercy is the heart. It's the motivation, the dynamic, and the justice is the life that you're supposed to live. And therefore, Micah 6.8 actually summarizes what it means to be a follower of God by saying, do justice. What is that? Why is that so important? This passage will help us. Let's look at it under three headings, the life of justice, the God of justice, and how to live a life of justice before the life of justice, the God of justice, and how to live a life of justice before God. First, the life of justice. Now, the word justice doesn't appear in this English translation, but it absolutely is here. When I told you Micah 6.8 says, do justice,

200 times that word justice shows up. It's the Hebrew word mishpat. And it shows up more times than you think in the Bible because when you're reading the English Bible, you'll find that this word is translated in very different ways in different texts. Sometimes it's translated, uphold the cause. Sometimes it's translated righteous. And sometimes it's translated justice. And in verse seven, right in the middle, it says, he upholds the cause of the oppressed. And that word actually means, or it's actually two words. He executes justice. He does justice. He makes justice for the oppressed. What does that mean? If it's 200 times in the Bible, it's an important theme. What does it mean to do justice? And to do justice means to give people their due. To give people their due. Now, essentially, there's two parts to that. There's two ways of giving people their due. One part is negative. One part is when people are doing something wrong, you need to stop them. And to stop them and to capture them and to punish them is to do justice. people just go on doing bad things and they never punished, you're not doing justice, right? That's why, for example, Leviticus 24, 22 says, you should have the same mishpat for the foreigner as the native. Do you see what that's saying? It means the same rule of law for the foreigner as the native. It means same punishments for the same crimes. There shouldn't be any partiality, same mishpat. So mishpat means, in some cases, it means to condemn and judge and punish the evildoer. But justice has another side. It's not just… doing justice is not just simply punishing those who wrong people. Doing justice also means to give the oppressed and the weak and the vulnerable, they're due. So, for example, Proverbs 31.9 says, defend the rights of the poor and needy. And Nicholas Wolterstorff, who's written a book on justice or two, says that if you read the Bible and you look up the word mishpat, almost not every place, but most of the places, so many of the places where the word mishpat shows up, you've got four groups of people that are mentioned, the widow, the orphan, the alien or the immigrant, and the poor. The widow, the orphan, the immigrant, and the poor. He calls these the quartet of the vulnerable. And these are people who are weak. They're vulnerable. They're easily trampled upon and harmed. And one part of doing justice, according to the Bible, is punish the wrongdoer. See? The Lord frustrates the ways of the wicked, verse 9. But the other thing we're supposed to do, as you can see, is to lift up the oppressed, is to care for the people who have been the vulnerable, the most vulnerable classes of society. Now, if you want to get an idea of what that means, you go to the book of Job. In Job, of course, you know the setting of Job is that Job believes he's suffering unjustly. So at one point, he looks at his life and he goes through how he's living, and he talks to God about the fact that he lives a life of justice. And notice what that means to Job. In Job 29, he says, I rescued the poor who cried for help and the fatherless who had none to assist him. I made the widow's heart to sing. Justice was my robe and my turban, mishpat. I was eyes to the blind and feet to the lame. I was father to the needy. I took up the case of the immigrant. You hear that? He says, justice was my robe and turban, which means it's the way in which I lived my life. Every day I was doing justice. What does it mean to do justice? It means to care for, look, the poor, the fatherless, the widow, the immigrant. But what does that mean? It's not just to condemn the wrongdoer. It's to lift up and to care for the weak and the vulnerable. What does that mean? It means two things. First of all, it means you must not harm the weak and the vulnerable. You mustn't kill them. You mustn't maim them. imprison them wrongly. Notice, by the way, it says in verse 7, the Lord sets prisoners free. Now, that cannot mean that God sets all prisoners free because some prisoners ought to be in prison, and if they weren't in prison, that wouldn't be just, right? But what is it saying? It's saying there's many, many people in the world and many people in history and many people today have been killed, imprisoned, enslaved, tortured, just because they were getting in the way of some powerful person's interest. And that's wrong. To harm the weak and the vulnerable is unjust. But it's not just unjust to harm the weak and the vulnerable. It's also unjust to ignore them. them. When you ignore the needs of the widow, the orphan, the alien, and the poor, when you ignore their needs, you just don't take care of them. You just don't notice them. That's not called a lack of charity in the Bible. That's called a lack of justice. Do you want to hear? Joe goes on in Job 31 and says, if I have denied justice to my menservants and my maidservants, listen to this list. If I've denied justice to my menservants and maidservants when they had a grievance against me, Two, if I have kept my bread to myself, not sharing it with the fatherless. Three, if I have seen anyone perishing for lack of clothing or a needy man without a garment and have not warmed him with the fleece from my sheep. Four, if I have raised my hand against the fatherless knowing I had influence in court, then let my arm fall from the shoulder. Let it be broken off at the joint. These would be sins to be judged, for I would have been unfaithful God on high. Did you hear what he said? It would have been a sin to be judged. It would have been unjust if I see people without food and I don't share my food. And I see people without clothing and I don't share my fleece, my wool, my clothing. He doesn't say, oh, that's lack of charity. Charity is an option. It would be unjust. It would be a sin against God. He'll be sinning against the Most High. This is pretty strong. This is really strong. It's not just...doing justice has a negative side, which is condemn, you know, and judge the people who have done wrong. But doing justice has a positive side. It means lifting up the weak and the vulnerable, caring for them. But it doesn't just mean it's unjust to harm them. It's also so unjust to ignore them. Proverbs 14.31, this is a translation by Bruce Waltke, who is an Old Testament guy, Old Testament commentator. He says, Proverbs 14.31, he who slanders the poor scoffs at his maker, but the one who is gracious to the needy honors God. And the word scoff and slander is a word that simply means to take lightly. And what that means is if you just ignore the poor, if you take them lightly, if you do not make them important in your life, if they have no impact on how you live your life, if they have no impact on how you spend your money, if they have no impact on how you spend your time, you're insulting God Himself. You're dishonoring God himself. So what does it mean to do justice? Would you like a little list? It's right here in verse 7, 8, and 9. Can I look at it? And let me paraphrase. Doing justice means engaging in activities like this, feeding the hungry. It means releasing unjustly imprisoned and enslaved people. people. It means working with the sick, the blind. It means loving and helping the burdened, the literally burdened. And that's actually counseling and emotional support. It means literally guarding the immigrant. You see where it says the Lord watches over the alien? Literally, it means to guard. It means to keep the immigrant, the refugee, the new immigrant from being exploited or hurt. Watch over. And then it also means relieving and strengthening the single parent family, the widow and the orphan. That's doing justice. And that's the first point. Now,

let me just ask you a question before moving on to the second point. Doesn't that all sound pretty liberal? All that talk about justice, we have to do out and we have to care about the poor and we need to share what we have with the poor. Doesn't that sound like a kind of liberal

address, but if we get to the places in the Bible that talk about gender,

family, and sex, then it sounds incredibly conservative. And what is that point? I guess I'd like you to know, I'd like you to see that when you come to the Bible, you need to shake your mind free from human political categories of liberal, conservative. The Bible does not fit in them. And you should not be trying to read the Bible through those kinds of glasses. You need to be open to what God says you should be living like. And what God says you should be living like is really fairly different than what anybody else tells you. So first of all, we have to live a life of justice. Number one. Number two, second thing we learn here is we have to live a life of justice because God is a God of justice. See, when people say caring for the poor is good ethics, Christians agree. But we go beyond that and say Caring for the poor for us is not just good ethics, it's good theology. Because we care about the poor, we pour ourselves out for the poor, not just because we're told to do so and therefore that's how good people live. We want to reflect the character of God, and God does this. What you have in the middle here of Psalm 146, and I want to drive this home for five minutes now, I want you to see the significance of the fact that God introduces himself. As the God of all power, omnipotence, he always introduces himself, or he likes to. This isn't the only place he does this. He likes to introduce himself as a God of incredible power who loves to use that power especially on behalf of the weak and the powerless. And so, see, he starts off by saying, who's God? The maker of heaven and earth, the sea, and everything in them. See, that's all power. But then he turns around and says, who upholds the oppressed, gives food to the hungry, sets prisoners free. It depicts this God of enormous power who especially loves to use the power, his power, on behalf of the weakest and most vulnerable members of society. This isn't the only place he does that. It's not the only place he does that. In Deuteronomy 10, the Lord your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, the mighty and awesome. See, same thing. And then it says, he defends the cause of the fatherless and the widow. He loves the alien. He gives them food and clothing. And you are to love those who are aliens for you, yourselves were aliens in Egypt. Over and over and over the Bible, God introduces himself and says, who am I? I am the father for the fatherless. I'm the defender of widows. Now, do you know how important that is? What do you put on a card? If you have a business card, on kind of the essence of what you do. Or if somebody asks me, if I'm speaking somewhere, almost everybody says, how should I introduce you? What do you want to be introduced as? Well, I'll tell you what the main thing I do in life. I do a lot of things. But the main thing I do out in the world is on the pastor of Redeemer Presbyterian Church in New York City. So wherever I go, if somebody says, how should I introduce you? I say, make it short, please. But just say on the pastor of Redeemer Presbyterian Church in New York City, God do. When God continually says, I'm a God who cares for the poor. I'm a God who defends the defenseless. I'm a God who cares for the alien, who loves the widows and the orphans. When he introduces himself like that, what he's saying is, this is at the very heart of what I do in the world. Now, you know how different that is than the other gods of ancient times? The other gods of ancient times always exercised their power, especially on behalf of the kings, the That's the reason why when Naaman the Syrian heard that the God of Israel could heal his leprosy, this is in 2 Kings 5, he comes down and he goes to the king of Israel and he's got boatloads of money. And he comes to the king of Israel and he says, I've heard that your God can heal lepers and I'm a leper, so here's your money, give me the divine healing. And the king of Israel tears his clothes and says, I'm sorry, our God doesn't operate the way every other God does. You don't do that. You don't come to the king to get your healing. Or, for example, in the book of Numbers, it's a very interesting place in Numbers 22, 23, 24, somewhere along there, where the Israelites are coming from Israel into the promised land, and one of the kings who's lived there, the king of Moab, his name is Balak, back. He hires a prophet of God to curse the Israelites. So he puts, his name was Balaam, so he puts Balaam up on a mountain. He says, now curse them because I'm going to pay you to curse them. And Balaam says, I can only say whatever God gives me to say. Well, curse them. So Balaam goes to God and he turns around and blesses them. And Balaam says, wait. And he takes them to another mountain. He says, maybe God will let you curse them from this mountain. So he puts them another place. And he says, I'm going to pay you. I'm going to pay you good stuff. And of course, Balaam keeps blessing them. And the reason Balaam keeps doing that is because all the other gods work this way. The gods of the nations work through the people of the top. The gods of the other nations work on behalf of the people at the top. It's the kings who were the mediators. It was It was the kings who were the ones who were put into place by the gods and so forth. But not the God of Israel. He doesn't work for the people at the top. He says, I have all power, but I love to exercise it on behalf of the people at the bottom.

Now, what does that mean? That's the end of point two. What does that mean for us? Please don't misunderstand me when I say this. because I'll say it more, I'll say it slowly and carefully. God does many other things in the world besides care for the poor. And yet it's so close to the heart of who he is, you know, grace to the powerless, loving those who are weak, loving those who know that they aren't strong. It's so close to who he is that his care for the poor is almost like his calling cards. He says, as this. And even though we as Christians have many things to do in the world, we are supposed to be telling people about Jesus. We are supposed to be opening our mouths and spreading the Word. And yet, our church and Christian churches ought to be famous for their care for the poor. It ought to be on our calling card, as it were. It ought to be something that people know us for. Because when they see us sharing the faith, when they see us doing evangelism, recruiting people. But when they see us pouring ourselves out for the poor, they get a little glimpse of the glory of God. They have all these filters on, so they can't see truly or rightly. But it's almost like caring for the poor shows them the character of God in a way that blasts through their filters. Very important. Are we famous for this? I don't think we are yet. I hope we can be. So we must live a life of justice because God is a God of justice. How? How can we become people who reflect the God of justice through a life of justice? Now, there's a basic answer. And I'm going to show you. It's not enough because there's a problem that goes with it. But the basic answer of this text is this. How do you become people of justice? Not just by discussing the God of justice. Not just by talking about the God of justice. But by praising the God of justice. By worshipping and adoring the God of justice.

146. Is this discussing the God of justice? No, it's praising him. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. The psalm is about praising God, and then it shows us as a God of justice. And the fact is that when you just tell yourself to do something because you ought to do it, that's fine. When you say, God's the God of justice, I need to do more justice in the world, fine, do it. Just because God says so, that's fine. But if you want to habitually be a person who does justice. If you want to be a person who is motivated to do it, something's got to happen deep in your heart. It's not enough just for you to kind of beat on your own head and tell yourself to do it. Something's got to happen inside. And you know what has to be? It has to be worship. Because ultimately, what changes the affections of your heart in general, what changes the way in which you feel and the way in which you behave is the thing that captures your imagination The imagination the most is what actually motivates and drives you. The thing that you praise the most. The music you love the most and you tell other people to listen to it. Or the books that you love the most and you tell other people to read it. Those are books or music or whatever that's captured your imagination. What are you doing when you say, oh, read this. It's incredible. What you're doing is you're praising it. And it's captured your heart. And it's captured your imagination. And as a result, it's shaping who you are from the inside out. That's what's got to happen here. it's not enough just to believe in a God of justice. You've got to be excited. You've got to praise him. You've got to adore him for being a God of justice. And you have to work on yourself a little bit. It says, notice, praise the Lord, O my soul. Who's he talking to there? He's talking to himself. One commentator says, what the psalmist is doing here is he is rousing himself to shake off apathy or gloom using his mind and memory to kindle his emotions. And that's what you have to do. See, praise and worship isn't something you have to be totally passive over. You get to your heart. You speak to your heart. You use mind and memory to kindle your emotions. You say, look at this God of justice. You've got to be so excited. You've got to be so moved by the God of justice it turns you into a person of justice. But we've got a problem here. We got a problem here. What is that problem? Do you know? See, it's one thing to get excited about a God of grace. Boy, who wouldn't be excited by a God of grace? It's one thing to get excited and to worship a God of love or of mercy. Wow, who wouldn't be excited by that? A God of mercy. He just loves us and He forgives us. But a God of justice who demands that you love your neighbor as yourself or you're punished, that's what a God of justice is.

wait a minute, that's kind of scary. That is kind of scary.

If you go to the Sermon on the Mount and you watch Jesus explain what it means to love your neighbor as yourself, and that's the kind of life God wants from you, it scares you. You know that place where he says in the Sermon on the Mount, you have heard it said, thou shalt not kill? Now, by the way, that's the ultimate form of injustice. It's the ultimate failure to love your neighbor as yourself, to kill your neighbor. Okay. So Jesus says, you've heard it said, thou shalt not kill. Right. Then he says, but I say unto you, and then uh-oh, he says, but if you're angry at your neighbor, your brother, he actually says, he says, you've heard it said, thou shalt not kill. But if you're angry at your brother, and then he goes even further and he says, or if you say to your brother, Raqqa, and the word Raqqa probably means you know, buddy. It's a way of saying, he says, don't kill your neighbor, but don't be angry at your neighbor. And then he says, and don't take lightly, don't disdain, don't treat as insignificant, don't ignore your neighbor. Or he says, all those things make you liable to hellfire. All those things are contributing to the injustice in the world. It's not just harming, It's not just unjust to harm the weak and the vulnerable, but to ignore them. And you do ignore them, and I ignore them. We're not loving our neighbor as ourselves. So how in the world can we worship? How can we adore a God of justice when we know what that means is that we should be condemned? How can you worship a God of justice when you know his justice means that you should be punished? It's pretty ironic that right in the middle of the passage, there's a place where it says, The Maker of heaven and earth, The sea and everything in them, it says, the Lord who remains faithful forever. That's a word that means stands by you. He's faithful. He stands by you. It reminds us of 2 Timothy 4, verse 16, where Paul was talking about the fact that, you know, he was in prison and he was on trial for his life. And at one point he says, everybody deserted me at my last trial. Think how scary that must be. Everybody deserted They were afraid. Then he said, but the Lord stood by me. And Psalm 146 says, the Lord stands by you. But how can he stand by us? He frustrates, he brings the wicked to ruin. There's two parts to justice. It's punishing the perpetrators and lifting up the oppressed. But the fact of the matter is, you know, until you begin to read the Bible and really get things straight, you have, oh, I'm a victim, I'm a victim, until you see what God demands, until you read the Sermon on the Mount. And then you see, I am not loving my neighbor as myself. I am not doing justice. I am contributing to the misery of this world, and therefore, I deserve to be judged. So how can I worship a God of justice when I know that justice means I should be condemned? Here's how.

When Jesus Christ preached His first sermon,

in Luke chapter 4, by the way. He chose Isaiah 61.

Now, I remember, by the way, my first sermons when I was a 24-year-old new minister, and I tell you, I did not preach whatever, you know, I mean, there's a lot of ways that you choose what to preach, but I, in those first sermons, I chose texts that I thought would get across to people what the ministry here should be all about. They were kind of like calling card sermons, like, be all about. Jesus chose Isaiah 61. And Isaiah 61 is another example. Isaiah 61 is talking about the Messiah who is going to come. And this is what he is going to say. This is an oracle in Isaiah 61 in which the Messiah is speaking according to the prophecy of Isaiah. And the Messiah says in Isaiah 61, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, anointed me, me. To bind up the brokenhearted. To proclaim freedom for the captives. Release of darkness for prisoners. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of the vengeance of our God. Does that sound familiar? So many of these passages that talk about the God of justice make the same list. It's very similar to Psalm 146 and many other places. Bind up the brokenhearted. Proclaim freedom for the captives. Release of darkness for the end of this, Isaiah 61, the Messiah says, I'm here to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God. There's the two sides of justice, vengeance against the perpetrators and favor for the oppressed. And Jesus identifies with the God of the Old Testament and he identifies with that messianic oracle and he says, I'm the Messiah and I have come. And he reads the Isaiah scroll. He reads this Isaiah 61 and says, that's what I'm about. But when he gets to the place where it says, the year of the Lord's favor, he stops.

He doesn't read the last part of the verse, which is, and the day of the vengeance of our God. See, Jesus says, I've come to do justice. And he says, I've come to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor, to lift up the oppressed, the brokenhearted, the captives. But then he stops, and he doesn't say, I'm here to bring the vengeance of our God. Now, why did Jesus do that? I mean, when you read Isaiah 61, it's very striking. Jesus stopped mid-verse. He read through all the justice part, and he only brought out the good news, the oppressed, and he did not get to the bad news. See, doing justice is, I'm going to lift up the oppressed, and I'm going to punish the wicked. Jesus says, I've come to lift up the oppressed, and stop. why did he do that? Was he just trying to, you know, not be offensive? You know, some ministers don't like to talk about hell and judgment and things like that. Was he just trying not to be offensive? Of course not. Jesus knew how to be offensive. Oh, yes, he did. No, no, then why did he stop? I'll tell you why he stopped. He didn't come to bring the vengeance of God. He came to of God. He did not come to bring judgment. He came to bear judgment. The reason he could say, I have come to lift up the oppressed and not say, I've come to punish the wicked, was because he came to take the punishment that we, the wicked, deserve.

Oh, he didn't just stand with us. He didn't just stand by us. When he went to the cross, Jesus Christ stood in for us. He took the punishment we deserve. The judgment came down on him. And because the judgment came down on him, we can be accepted, we can be loved, and he can stand by us forever, even when we fail, because our sins are forgiven. Now, what does that do? Here's what it does. The book of James says, let me just read it to you. James chapter 2 has a fascinating place where it says, if you have faith, but you look at others without adequate resources and do nothing about their physical needs, what good is that? Faith, if it is not accompanied by action, is dead. James is saying, yes, we're saved by faith. We're saved by faith in what God has done, what Jesus has done. We're saved by faith. But if you have been saved by faith, if you've been touched by the grace of God, you will care about the poor. If you've you've experienced grace, you will do justice. You'll look at the poor and you'll say, that was where I was, and yet God lifted me up. But here's what's going to be really unusual. Listen very carefully. This is my last point about how Christians in some ways are unique in the world. There are some people who don't care about justice at all. They're living for themselves. They say, yes, I know there's all kinds of suffering people out there. I can't be bothered or I can't do anything about it. Life is like that. You know, there we go. I'm just going to live for myself. So there's a lot of people who just don't care about justice. But then there's a whole lot of people that do. And, you know, there's different ways of getting big on justice. There's the conservative way. And the conservative way is rule of law. You know. And there's the liberal way. And the liberal way is we've got to do something about racism and injustice and poverty and hunger. Got to do something. Okay. So there's people who don't care about justice, and there's people who do, but I would like you to look carefully. There's a tendency for the people who really get big on justice to be really condemning, amazingly self-righteous, incredibly harsh, because they feel like I'm on the side of justice. And what's wrong with all you people out there, you apathetic people that don't care about these important issues? Have you ever noticed that? The people who care so much about justice very often are incredibly harsh, incredibly self-righteous. So there's people who don't care about justice. There's people who do care about justice. And then there's Christians.

Because Christians look at the cross, and that tells you two things. One is the cross tells you that justice is so absolutely important that God could not set it aside. That even his son had to die on the cross to satisfy the demands of justice. That means Christians know justice cannot be set aside. It's inviolable. God's justice is so important that Jesus had to die for us. But at the same time, we know when we look at the cross that you and I were the perpetrators of injustice. And the greatest injustice is that we have not treated God as we should. That's the ultimate injustice. God gives us everything, and we lived as if we belonged to ourselves. You know, it's a form of cosmic treason. God gave us everything, and we lived as on to ourselves. God forgave us for that. The cross not only tells us justice is important, but it also tells us that you have been forgiven. Because you've been forgiven and because you know that you were a perpetrator of injustice and God forgave you, that sends you out into the world with a unique balance. On the one hand, justice is important. On the other hand, you'll be gracious. You'll be humble. You'll be kind. You won't get haughty against the people who are indifferent different who are perpetrators of injustice. You'll be insistent. You'll push. Do you see how different that is? The cross makes you care about justice, but it sends you out with a kind of merciful, gracious, humble attitude. If you learn how to praise and worship the God of justice now in light of the cross of Jesus Christ. See, there's the secret. How are you going to praise the God of justice? How are you going to adore the God of justice? By looking at the cross. Oh, Oh Lord, thank you that you're so just that you couldn't set it aside. Thank you that you're so just that you have created a people to go out and do justice. Thank you that you're so just that in the end you're going to make everything right. But thank you that you're such a God of justice and a God of love that you were willing to come and take our punishment yourself.

Jesus Christ didn't come to bring God's vengeance. he came to bear it. And that, if you let that get to the heart of your heart, will turn you into agents of justice in the world. Gracious agents of justice. How can we escape if we neglect so great a salvation? Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you for giving us this wonderful,

it's just another psalm, it's just another part of the Bible, But every time we look at any part of your word deeply, we come away amazed, amazed at the uniqueness, at the distinctness of the vision, amazed at how this is so different than anything else we hear anywhere else in the world. It has the ring of truth. We know it's from you. It shows us who you are. The gospel, Lord, just changes our hearts, changes our lives, will change the community around us if we let the gospel turn us into gracious agents of justice Help us to be that. Help us to do that through Jesus. It is in his name that we pray. Amen.
