I'd like to call your attention to the first verses, the first 15 verses of John chapter 10. And I'll read verses 1 through 15. I tell you the truth. The man who does not enter the sheep pen by the gate, but climbs in by some other way, is a thief and a robber. The man who enters by the gate is the shepherd of his sheep. The watchman opens the gate for him, and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes on ahead of them, and his sheep follow him because they know his voice. But they will never follow a stranger. In fact, they do not recognize a stranger's voice. They will run away from him. Jesus used this figure of speech, but they did not understand what he was telling them. Therefore, Jesus said again, I tell you the truth. I am the gate for the sheep. All who ever came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them. I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. He will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life. The hired hand is not the shepherd who owns the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. Then the wolf attacks the flock and scatters it. The man runs away because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep, and my sheep know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. This is the end of the book. This is God's Word. Now when Jesus was speaking this way to his audience, he knew that they knew the 23rd Psalm. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. As a pastor who's done a lot of funerals, I know that from experience that 90% of the funerals I do, the family asks me, if I ask them, what scripture would you like? Do you have any scriptures that you would like to have read? 90% of the time they say the 23rd. And I'll choose all sorts of great passages about hope and about death. Psalm 40, Psalm 90, Romans 8, 1 Corinthians 15, and I'll read through them. But when I get to Psalm 23, everybody breaks down. Because the image of the great shepherd goes so deep. It goes so deep. It's the great shepherd, the one who takes me to calm places. The one who restores. Restores my weary, aching heart. The one who provides for me complete safety, deep satisfaction and peace. It touches the deepest nerve. It awakens a very deep yearning, so deep that some of you are being driven by it, trying to find it in other people. You're trying to find a great shepherd somewhere else. It's something that just shapes our lives. And in some of your cases, it's shaping it quite a bit. Because you see, unless you find him as the great shepherd, you will either try to find this kind of shepherding, this kind of care, someone to make everything all right. You'll either try to find it in some human being or some human institution, or you'll try to be it for yourself and you'll fail. Or you'll get tremendously cynical. And therefore, Jesus is touching on a very deep nerve here. And notice, knowing that, knowing Psalm 23, knowing we all know about it, knowing the deep nerve, he does a very characteristic thing. He quotes and says, I am the good shepherd. See, he touches the nerve and then he turns around and says, and here I am, friend. I am the great shepherd. I am the one that you seek. Characteristic of Jesus. An astonishing claim. But we've got to look at it because it's, you know, this particular understanding of Jesus, or of God as a shepherd, is something that I would like to call you all today to not just say I know that, because, as I said, the 23rd Psalm is surely the most famous chapter in the Bible. It's got to be. And so there's a vague understanding of God as a shepherd in almost anyone that has any kind of even peripheral attachment to Christianity or Judaism. They understand this idea of God as a shepherd. But I challenge you today, to consider whether or not you've really incorporated the shepherdness of Jesus into your understanding of God. It's so important because on the one hand, it's the reason that, one of the reasons that children can be Christians is because of this. Take a look at other religions. Other religions either tell you, here's how to know God through mystical experience, or here's how to know God through obeying this detailed ethical system. You can't do that to a child. You know, other religions really have to wait till the child gets older before they can initiate that. They can't initiate them into the faith. But that's not the way the Bible talks. The Bible says, let the little children come to me. Because children can get into the understanding of shepherd. They can receive and they can welcome a shepherd. There's a little English prayer that goes, that children are taught, that goes, Jesus,

gentle shepherd, bless thy little lamb tonight. I don't know if you've ever heard that. I think that's how it goes. Something like that. A child, a child can understand the shepherdhood of God. And yet, at the same time as I'm trying to show you that this concept, the understanding of God as shepherd, will fill up the greatest, the greatest holes in your soul, no matter how deep they are. Now, I'd like to look at what Jesus teaches us here today, only under two headings, just two. What Jesus is to the sheep and what Jesus does for the sheep. What he is and what he does. And in a sense, the first one has more to do, with how, what we ought to be giving him. When we say, what Jesus is to the sheep, what we're looking at is, what does it mean for us to treat him as a shepherd? What do we have to do? What is it we have to give him, if he's our shepherd? But then secondly, what does he give us, if he's our shepherd? See? What do we give him? What does he give us? What he is to the sheep and what he does for the sheep. First of all, what is he to the sheep? He's a shepherd. And you have to, for a moment, at least for just a moment, we have to remember that we're talking about an ancient and Near Eastern concept of the vocation of shepherd. Not the kind of shepherd you probably would see out on a ranch here in this country. When Jesus says, I'm the good shepherd, he is telling us this. He has got to be everything to you. Because when the Bible talks about the people, human beings as sheep, as often as it does, I want you to realize that it's not at all a very flattering thing. There's wild everything. There's wild horses. There's wild cats. There's wild dogs. But there's no wild sheep. Why? Because sheep are too dim-witted and helpless to be wild. You see, for example, if you let an animal go, you let other animals go, you might have an animal, you let it go, a couple things will happen. Either the animal goes wild, or the animal comes home. But not sheep. They wander around aimlessly. You see, you give a normal animal its freedom, and what does it do? It goes, Aha! Born free! As free as the wind blows. As free as the grass grows. But you set a sheep loose, and what does a sheep do? It says, Where the heck am I? And who's going to get me supper? You see,

you let a horse go. Without a rancher, the horse goes wild. Without a shepherd, the sheep dies. Sheep has no sense of direction. A sheep has no discernment about what to eat. A sheep will eat poison plants if somebody's not there to show it what to eat and give it something to eat. A sheep can get caught on its back like a turtle and not get back on its feet and die there. And therefore, who is a shepherd? A shepherd is someone who lives with the sheep. The shepherd never goes home. Not the kind of shepherd that Jesus is talking about. The shepherd lives with the sheep, sleeps with the sheep. The shepherd does everything for the sheep. The shepherd is the sheep's protector and provider and physician and leader and guide and owner. The shepherd is everything to the sheep. Now, I consider what that means. First of all, I'd like to appeal to you to admit this fact. Oh, I know it sounds wonderful to say the Lord is my shepherd. I have a feeling the reason so many people really cry whenever that comes up in funerals is just because of sentimentality. They're not really letting the truth of it hit them. It's nostalgic. It reminds them of, of happier days. It reminds them of, of sitting with their parents in a pew somewhere. I think that's it. But the point is, we don't really face the fact. What does it mean, the Lord is my shepherd? That means, that means he has to be everything to me. It means, as he says in John chapter 15, without me, you can do nothing. And we don't believe that. Everything about our heart militates against that. We might like the sound of the Lord is my shepherd, but we hate it. We hate the, we hate the truth. We like the truth of it. We hate the truth of it. Your heart basically believes that you're a pretty good person, more intelligent than most, and you can generally make the right decisions, except in a pinch. So you see, you don't really need a shepherd. Most of us don't want a shepherd. We want a consultant. We want somebody who, who's on, you know, on a retainer and can come when we need them. A shepherd is different. Completely different. Face the fact. You need a shepherd. If I could, if I could get in a little time machine and go back 10 years to your 10-year-ago self, and if I was able to sit down with you and say, listen, let me tell you the foolish and wicked things that you're going to do in the next 10 years, and I gave your 10-years-ago self an absolute, accurate record of what was going to happen, what would your 10-years-ago self say? You'd have a tendency to say, what do you think I am? I'd never do such a thing, but look what you've done. You need a shepherd. Admit it. But that's really not quite enough because, you see, you can admit something and still not practice it. You know, your doctor may convince you that because of your physical condition, you must not, you may not eat salt. You can admit that. You can face the fact. It's all right. It's true. But it's another thing to moment by moment practice the truth, isn't it? It's another thing to live as if it's true. You can admit that it's true, but do you live as if it's true? And in the same way, you can admit that you need a shepherd, but what does it mean to live moment by moment as if God is a shepherd rather than a consultant? I suggest that you have to do this. See, I've told you the first part of the sermon is really saying what we have to give him if he's a shepherd. To practice his shepherdhood, to incorporate it into your understanding of him, you have to obey him comprehensively, obey him existentially, and obey him joyfully. And unless you do those three kinds, see, I know all of you are out there, to some degree or another, to some degree or another, you think you obey God. You're kind of moral, you have standards, but to practice his presence as a shepherd in your life, you have to obey him comprehensively, existentially, and joyfully. Let me explain. Comprehensively. A sheep cannot say to the shepherd, okay, you can help me over here, but not over here. This is my job. I can do this on my own. But we do that to God all the time. We say, sure, this is an area in which I'd be very happy to listen to you, but hands off this area. There was a woman I once talked to who told me that whenever she would have her secret lover come in to her home when her husband was away, she was very careful to put every single picture of him face down. This was something she always had to do. And I said, why? And she said, well, because I didn't want him looking at me and I didn't want to have to look at him. Now, what she meant was I couldn't bear eye contact with him. I had excluded him from this part of my life. Aren't there areas of your life in which you, instead of being a sheep, are saying, Lord, over here, I need your help, over here, here, I need you here, here. But in this area, in this area, in this area, I will not look you in the eye. In this and this area, I have excluded you. Aren't there places like that? If so, you're not, you're denying the shepherdhood of God. You're not treating him as a shepherd. Aren't there areas like that? Areas that you've excluded him from? It's absolutely critical that you see that the relationship of sheep with a shepherd is one of comprehensive intimacy. There's no area in which he can be excluded. If he was only a king, if he was only a father, if he was only a judge, if he was only, if he was only a friend, if he was only a rock or a refuge or a warrior, as great as all those images are,

those kinds of people or persons or things only have access to part of your life. But a shepherd has access to everything. No area can he be excluded. Not one. And therefore, you come down to this. You know, the old navigators, the navigators had a little discipling book on the lordship of Christ. And what they would do is they did an exercise. It used to kill me every time I had to do it with a group of people. And they would do it and they would say, write down a list of every area of your life. Write it all down. The political, the social, the sexual, the professional, the financial, the family area, the recreational, the thought life, every single area. And then they would say, ask yourself two questions. Am I willing to obey everything I know God wants me to do in this area? And secondly, am I willing to thank him for whatever he's bringing into this area? And if you can't say yes to those questions, you're really denying his shepherding, his guidance. Am I obeying him in every area? And am I thanking him for what he's bringing into every area? Otherwise, you cannot say that you're obeying that famous verse, in all your ways acknowledge him. And he shall direct, he shall shepherd your paths. I mean, it's a tremendously searching thing, but someday, someday measure yourself up against Elijah. Elijah, on the last day of his life, the day he knew it would be his last day on earth, then he was going to be taken to heaven. Look at, you can read in 2 Kings what he did on the last day of his life. He went to Bethel and he preached, he went to Jericho and he preached, he went around. And when you're reading and you begin to realize that on the last day of his life, Elijah was simply following his normal schedule. The thing that's so scary about that is here is a man who so practiced the presence of his shepherd that he had eye contact with his shepherd in every area of his life. He had eye contact. There was no place in which he had to put God's picture down. The use of his time, his priorities, his thought life, he so practiced the presence of his shepherd in every area of his life that he didn't change a thing, knowing that would be the day in which he entered into the visible presence of his shepherd. See, the visible or the invisible presence, it doesn't, shouldn't make any difference. Measure yourself up against that standard. On the day that you have to die, will you have anything to do but die? Be sure, like Elijah, that on the day that you have to die, there's nothing else to do but die. Practice him as a shepherd means to obey him comprehensively. Then secondly, to practice his presence as shepherd means to obey him existentially. Now see, the sheep, moment by moment, depend on the shepherd. They know they've got no strength. They know they've got no smarts. Where's my supper? They're existentially, that means moment by moment, they're existentially depending on him. That is absolutely critical and it's something that is a discipline that will completely change your life around if you're willing to do it. To existentially, moment by moment, practice it. When I first came to New York, I knew that I didn't know anything about getting around New York. I would get up every day saying, I don't have any savvy. I don't know where I'm going. And I knew I was a newcomer. I knew I was dumb about New York. So I prepared. I took lots of advice. I called people up. If I was going someplace, I would get my maps out and I would check it out beforehand. Take that train and take that train and take that bus and so on. And as a result, I never got lost. And if I found that a train wasn't running, I had another contingency plan. And I was really careful about not going into places or acting in a muggable way. For example, I got lots of advice. I knew I wasn't savvy, you see. And so, I kept myself in a dependent condition. Always talking to people. Always making sure that I was getting lots of advice. But now, I know where I'm going so I'm continually getting lost. And I'll suddenly find, I said, what am I doing in Brooklyn? I'm trying to go uptown. And therefore, you see, when I was the most, when I felt the most disoriented, ironically, I was the most oriented. When I felt the most dependent, I was really the most independent. And this is an irreducible secret to the Christian life. Why do you think Paul can say, when I am weak, then I am strong? Why can he say that? How can he say that? He can say it because as long as you're existentially moment by moment living as if you're a sheep, there's no end to what great things that you can do. Now, what does this mean? It's a discipline that will revolutionize your life if you practice it. It simply means, frankly, moment by moment crying out to him, hour upon the hour talking to him, running things by him. One little exercise you can use if you're really trying to get serious about obeying him existentially is to make a list of five or six temptations that you're going to probably test, that you're probably going to come up against during that day. Think your day ahead and say, where am I most likely to get grumpy? Where am I most likely to get disappointed? Where am I most likely to, you know, what temptations are coming up? And then, cry out to your shepherd continually during the day, especially when you approach one. So, it's really a mental discipline. It goes like this. When somebody's aggravating you, what do you do? You say, dear shepherd, I know that I must be far more of an aggravation to you than this person is to me. Let me remember that and because of what you've done, let me be patient. Or, what happens when success comes to you? Affirmation comes to you. Somebody tells you how great you are. What do you do? You say, dear shepherd, I know who I am. I realize this could have just as easily turned out the other way. This is all you're doing. This is nothing but a gift. I give you all the glory. Or, what happens when a failure shows up? Or, some kind of difficulty shows up? What do you say? You say, dear shepherd, even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. You see, look it, he's with you every minute. He's holding you up every minute. That's what it means to say he's a shepherd. So the least you can do is turn around and practice this discipline and wait until you see the difference. Obey him comprehensively. Obey him existentially. But last, you have to obey him joyfully. And if you don't obey him joyfully, and I know a lot of you aren't, are not obeying him joyfully, you're thinking of him as a king or as a judge and those are very important. Or even as a father, that's very important, but you need to think of him as a shepherd. And then you'll obey him joyfully. Jesus Christ here says, I am not a hireling. There was really two kinds of shepherds. There were the shepherds that were hired by the owner of the sheep. And Jesus points out that those kinds of shepherds are basically in it for the money. We'll talk about that later on, this summer. They're basically in it for what they can get out of it. But he says, I'm not that kind of shepherd. I'm the shepherd who actually owns the sheep. Now what Jesus is saying here is something you've got to get the implications of it. Jesus is saying that just as in the Near East the shepherds' wealth was the sheep. The shepherds' entire wealth was the sheep. So that the sheep were the shepherds' joy and pride and honor and wealth. They were the shepherds' glory. They were everything the shepherd owned. So Jesus is actually saying, you are my joy and pride and my glory. Paul picks it up in Ephesians 1 when he says about the church, he says, you are God's pleroma, the fullness, the glory of God. Now we have to be careful here because the Bible tells us that the name of God is tetragrammaton, I am that I am. And that means he is self-existent. He doesn't need it. He doesn't need to be He doesn't need us actually. But what this must mean is that God has voluntarily bound up his honor and his glory and his joy with our honor and glory and joy. So that our joy and honor is his joy and honor. Now what does that mean? There's a place in Isaiah 49 where it says, Jerusalem, your sons will return to you and you will wear them as ornaments. If you've ever been, if you've ever seen parents at an awards banquet, you've watched them beaming or crying with their hands with joy. Why? I've also seen parents at the jail because their son or their daughter has just been brought in and I see the incredible shame on their face. Why? Because what happens is if your relationship, in good parent-child relationships, what happens is that the parents treasure the child and they love the child and they live for the child. They treasure the child. The child's their treasure. And that means when the child does well, the parent feels glorified. The world says, is saying, in a sense, the child is saying to the world who's getting an award, my father or my mother are like this. And it also means that when a child is shamed, the child is saying to the world, my father or my mother are like this. The parents, because they treasure the child so much, it means their joy and their honor and their glory is locked up. In the prospects of their child. Now, if you understand this, this brings about a joy and a comfort that is difficult to surpass. What Jesus Christ is saying is that you are my joy, you are my glory. Last Sunday night, we mentioned this. Every other religion gives you an ethical system and says, do this because it's right. Remember this? Do this because it'll make sense. It'll make society better. Christianity is the only one that says, do this and do not grieve the Spirit of God. To grieve means to suffer a shattering, crucial, personal loss. If you understand that God is your shepherd, that means the reason you obey Him is because He wants the best for you, He loves you, and He will be shattered if He sees you doing something that's going to harm you. The shepherd says, you are my joy and my honor, and all of my commands to you are merely expressions of my commitment to your joy. If you understand that, that becomes an engine in your life, a completely unique driving force to be prized and to be treasured. I know plenty of you don't have it. That's the reason I'm talking to you about it today. I know that I struggle for it. What is it that drives you? What is it that, what's the engine that gets you up in the morning? The Christian gene, the genius, the genius of the Christian faith is this, that I know my shepherd loves me and adores me and that actually his honor is bound up in how I do and his joy is bound up in how I do. And all the things he asks me to do are simply his expressions of his commitment to my joy. When my car was wrecked up, you know, I went to get a, I went to a body shop and how much is it going to cost to fix this door? And the body shop guy said, it'll cost a thousand dollars but I'll charge you. I'll charge $1,500. I said, why? He says, it's pretty simple. How much is your deductible? I said, $250. He said, fine. I'll charge the insurance company $1,500. They'll, you'll have to pay them $250 deductible but then I'll give you your $250 back and I'll get an extra $250 and so everybody's happy. I sat there and I said, that's very, that's intriguing and I thought in my heart, well, this is what's wrong with insurance. This is why the insurance is going through the roof. This is what's wrong with our society. But I began to realize that if the reason you obey the law is so you'll have a better society, you'll never have a better society because just wanting a better society is not enough of a motive to keep you moral. What you have to say is, this will grieve my shepherd. This will dishonor my shepherd. My disobedience will shatter his joy. In order for you to obey joyfully, you have to understand that you are his joy and you are his honor. He prizes you. You are his treasure. Until you understand that, something else will drive you. That should be the engine of your life. Obey him comprehensively. Obey him existentially. Obey him joyfully. That's what we have to do. Obey him. If he's a shepherd, that's how we have to treat him. Have you incorporated that in? Now, I just end with a second point because the second point is more a comfort than it is a practical admonition. What does Jesus give to the sheep? It says, I lay down my life knowingly. I, the shepherd, I give my life for my sheep. No one makes me lay down my life. I do it voluntarily. I know my sheep. Now, here's what it means. I'll just tick this off here as we conclude. Number one, this is teaching that if he's a shepherd, he knows you completely. He knows you to the bottom. You can do nothing to surprise him. You remember that story I love to tell about the Russian officer who, the young Russian officer who had been embezzling funds from his troop and he realized that he was going to be found out so he decided to go to the army. He was going to kill himself before he was discovered. Got himself drunk that night. Remember this? And he, getting ready to kill himself but he got himself too drunk and he passed out. And the czar himself came into the room, looked at the books that the young man had opened and he was passed out over, figured out what had happened and he left a note and he put his seal on it and says, I will make good the debt. And when the young man came to his senses, he looked down and he realized the czar has looked into the books. He has seen the books. He has seen my heart and sinned my sin to the bottom and he still will redeem me. And that, that's what the passage is saying. That's what this is saying. It's saying that you have a shepherd who knows you all the way to the bottom. Just like, you know, shepherds know their sheep inside out. He knows you all the way to the bottom and yet he says, I will lay down my life. What kind of freedom did that Russian soldier know? Freedom like he'd never known when he realized that someone had seen his sin to the bottom and still would redeem him. In the same way, have you ever known the glorious release of realizing that your shepherd knows you to the bottom and yet loves you to the skies? And it says he lays down his life for the sheep. The word there, there's a couple of different Greek words that you could use in that little word for. It's a couple of different Greek words. This literally means instead of. Jesus says, I, the good shepherd, I lay down my life instead of the sheep. I take their place

in the light. I take their cross so they can have my crown. I take their punishment so they can have my reward. I die instead of them. Yes, they're sheep. Yes, they're foolish. Yes, they're rebellious. But this is the reason they can be my glory. This is the reason they can be my joy. This is the reason I can love them in spite of their wrongdoings. I lay down my life for the sheep. So let's ask the ancient question. Shepherd, what are you doing up on that cross? Why is the Father forsaking you? Why? The answer, for the sheep. I lay down my life for my sheep. You say, shepherd, it's hard to understand. Of course you don't want the sheep to be destroyed by wolves. Of course you don't want the flock to be scattered. But to die for poor, pitiful, dim-witted, stupid animals, like this, you who are infinitely great and inconceivably glorious, what's the answer? Yes, I lay down my life for the sheep. I give my hands and my feet to the cruel iron for you. I take upon myself the fever and the bloody sweat for you. Now, that means this. I admonish you to do two things. Number one, I say, come and rest in him. When are some of you going to finally relax? If he knows you to the bottom, if he knows everything about you, if he knows everything in your heart, that means that you can't do anything to surprise him. Maybe next week you're going to do something that terribly shocks you and you're going to say, oh, I can't believe I'm capable of that. How can I face God now? But your shepherd knows you to the bottom. Your shepherd knew it was in there. It just, your shepherd knew, well, next week it's due to jump out. Your shepherd knew it was down there. He saw you to the bottom. He loved you to the skies. And that means you are safe. Remember chapter 6? Jesus says, all the ones the Father gives me, I will lose none of them. In John chapter 10, verse 27, we didn't get to it, but you see down a little bit further in this very chapter, because Jesus is a shepherd, what can he say? Go down a little bit further. It says, my sheep listen to my voice. I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. Don't you see? If he knows you to the bottom, you can't do anything to surprise him. You can't be lost. There's people who say, yes, I see what it says. It says, no one can snatch them out of my hand. But if a sheep decides to leave Jesus Christ, then that's it. But that's silly. Luke chapter 15 tells us what a shepherd does when, when one sheep out of a hundred wanders away. What does a shepherd do? He not only runs after that one sheep, but then we're told in Luke 15, he puts that sheep on his back, on his shoulders, and he comes home joyfully and he tells all of his friends, let's have a party. I found my sheep. That proves that the shepherd not only goes after stupid sheep,

but considers it his job. He doesn't come back saying, I don't believe I had to do this. I don't believe it. It's hard enough for me to protect these stupid sheep from predators, but now I have to protect them from themselves. This is not part of my job description. Of course, every shepherd understands that of course this is part of his job description. Not only, not only to save sheep from predators, but from themselves. It doesn't matter how confused you are. It doesn't matter how stupid you get. It doesn't matter how entangled you get in sin. It doesn't matter. I know what somebody is saying. Somebody's saying, well, that's great. I love this Christianity. This is marvelous. This means that once I give myself to Christ, I can do anything I want. Your teaching of the shepherdhood of Jesus Christ destroys the incentive to live a moral life. And I say to you, what incentive did you have? Before you found out that he lays down his life for you, that you are his joy and his glory, that the way you behave really is his joy and his glory, isn't that enough of a motivation for you? If knowing you're totally secure in his love destroys your motivation and incentive for living a moral life, the only incentive you ever had was fear and self-interest. Some of you need to relax. You need to rest in your shepherd. When are you going to see that a shepherd who comes back with a lost sheep, the stupidest of the 100, and who holds a party about it, who comes back and says, let's have a party. I found this stupid one. Proves what kind of heart he has. It doesn't matter how entangled you get. It doesn't matter what you've done. No one can snatch you out of his hand. He loves you because he loves you. No one can snatch you out. When are you going to relax? When are you going to rest in him? When are you going to realize that he's that kind of God? You don't see

the shepherd saying, you impudent punk, how dare you do this? The shepherd says, that's my job. I'm so glad I found you. Friends, rest in your shepherd and if you do all the things we said, obey him comprehensively, obey him existentially, obey him joyfully, rest in him knowing that he's a shepherd, you will find yourself. It says in verse 3, it says he calls his sheep by name. He calls them by name. He knows them by name. I will never forget in a time in my life in which I was a new Christian, but I was absolutely, I was living in ways that made me hate myself. And I went to hear a great Bible teacher at a conference. And I was just overcome by a feeling of insignificance at that time. I remember seeing a billboard, I was driving to the Bible conference and I saw a billboard on the highway and it said, at our bank, we call account number two, four, five, six, eight, nine, nine, oh, Harry. And the billboard was trying to say, you're not just a number, we know you by name, you're special. But I remember thinking, what's special about me? I remember thinking, I felt like one of those little circles that cartoonists draw in the background just to show you what a crowd looks like. One of those little circles without any faces on it. I showed up at that Bible conference and there was a minister there, a really great teacher that I had met two years ago. Afterwards, I walked up to him and I shook his hand and I said, I met you two years ago and before I could introduce myself, what did he do? He remembered who I was and he named me. He called me by name. And he said, let's go have a soda. You're in seminary, aren't you? Let's sit down and talk. Tell me how things are going. What do you want to do when you get out? He took me aside, sat down, bought me a soda. We sat and talked for an hour. I just woke up emotionally. Why? Because he named me. He called me by name. Now look, on the way home that night, I went by that billboard again and I said, you know, if I would wake up this way emotionally just to have a well-known, admired man name me, call me by name, affirm me, show an interest in me, love me, treat me in this way, what would actually happen to me if I let it dawn on me that my shepherd in heaven calls me by name? And knows me by name. I'm in his hand and I will never perish. He is committed to my joy and he's committed to my honor. And I began to realize my life would be totally different. It's never been what it really should be. But I call you to come to the fold. Some of you say, ah, but, you know, boy, the things that I have done, why would he receive me? That's the requirement to come to a shepherd. You've got to feel like a sheep. If any of you, if you here today feel that I've just overdone this stupid, dim-witted part, you're never going to know him as a shepherd because you've got to admit you're a sheep. Who else but a sheep would get into a sheepfold? You've got to admit you need him. You've got to admit you need someone to lay down his life for you. And if you do, welcome, my friends. Your shepherd awaits you. Rest in him and you will find yourself. Let's pray. Now, Father, all we ask is that in this moment, of reflection, as we offer ourselves to you, we ask that you would help, in some of our cases, help us renew the comprehensiveness of our obedience. Father, some of us realize there's areas of our lives where we cannot look at you in the eye. Help us to renew our existential dependence. Some of us are just not being disciplined in our walk with you, our prayer life, our conscious practice of your presence. And, Father, some of us aren't resting in you, in you as shepherd. We're just so afraid that you have rejected us and we forget that you know us to the bottom and that you've laid down your life for us. Father, we pray that every one of us would come to you and rest in you as shepherd and find, as we find you, that we found ourselves. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
