Mark 12, 13-17

But Jesus knew their hypocrisy. Why are you trying to trap me, he asked. Bring me a denarius and let me look at it. They brought the coin, and he asked them, Whose portrait is this, and whose inscription? Caesar's, they replied. Then Jesus said to them, Give to Caesar what is Caesar's, and to God what is God's. And they were amazed at him. The word of the Lord.

What we've been doing is we've been looking at a series of debates, hot questions that are getting asked to Jesus. And Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record this series that happened right after Jesus cleansed the temple, after he cast out the money changers and the animal sellers. And every one of these debates, is about a different subject. And tonight we get to the subject of politics. What are the politics of Jesus? That's actually what the questioners are after here. They're bringing out a specific and particular hot political issue of the time to smoke him out. You remember, the Pharisees and the Sadducees were theological opponents. They were at opposite ends of the theological spectrum. But look who asked this question. This question. The Herodians are opposites on the political spectrum. The Herodians were supporters of Roman imperial power, and the Pharisees were not. And what they're trying to do is they're trying to smoke Jesus out. They're trying to get him to come down on one side or the other, and they're trying to say, what are your politics, Jesus? What is your political persuasion? What party are you a member of?

Now, you know, in New York, I must say, it's hard to have any kind of political persuasion. You can't have a conversation about Jesus without the issue of politics coming up. New Yorkers want to, you know, you get into a discussion about Jesus or Christianity, next thing you know, the New Yorkers are saying, now, wait a minute, wait a minute. What does this mean politically? What does this mean? Does this mean I'm going to have to change my politics if I become a Christian? Or does to become a Christian mean you now have to march along a particular political agenda? Well, the answer to that question, will America... will America emerge as we see how he answers this question? And there's three things here in the text we see. Jesus, he gets asked, there's a revolutionary question. Then he gives a revolutionary answer. But in that answer, he points to a revolutionary revolution.

There's a revolutionary question, a revolutionary answer, and then Jesus actually points us to a revolutionary revolution. You say, what's that? I mean... The revolution of revolutions. The revolution that revolutionizes revolutions. Okay? The revolution that revolutionizes revolutions. So let's look at these three things. First of all, this is actually a revolutionary question. This is very important to understand. It's very important to understand the background, to understand really what the question is that's being asked. I didn't really get it very well until recently when I was preparing to teach this to you. But the tax that Jesus is referring to and the tax that they're asking about are not taxes in general, but it's a particular tax. We see that when Jesus asked for a denarius.

There were lots of taxes, all sorts of taxes on goods, but there was also a head tax. And the head tax was an annual tax of one denarius.

And when that tax was put into place, there was an insurrection. The tax was not a huge tax, as we're going to see later, but it was the symbol of it. It wasn't a tax on your goods. It was really a head tax. It was a tax for the privilege of being a subject of Caesar. And 25 years before this moment, 25 years or so before this time, when the tax was instituted, there was an armed revolt. And it was led by a man named Judas the Galilean. Judas the Galilean. Judas the Galilean. And when Judas the Galilean led the revolt, here's what he did. He did three things. First, he called on all Jews to refuse to pay the tax, the head tax. He called on all Jews to refuse to pay the head tax. Secondly, with an armed band, he went in and cleansed the temple. He got rid of all the foreigners. He threw out all the Gentiles, all the Romans. He cleansed the temple.

And thirdly, he said, now we're going to let God be our king, not Caesar. We're going to bring in the king. We're going to bring in the kingdom of God. We're going to get rid of injustice. We're going to get rid of oppression. We're going to bring in the kingdom of God. Now he was attacked, caught, and executed. And now it's 25 years later. And do you realize what's happening? First of all, Jesus Christ has built his entire teaching around the kingdom of God. He's been talking about the kingdom of God for years. That was the cornerstone of his teaching. And secondly, he has just cleansed the temple. He's just cleansed it. He's just thrown out the money changers and the animal sellers. And that's actually what instigates this whole series of questions. So now they come, and you see what they're asking. There's one thing missing, one part missing to the political armed revolt, and that is, what do you think of the head tax? Now you see, I don't know whether you've studied this before. This is a very important question. This is a very familiar passage. And as I said last week, sometimes the passage is so familiar that you just don't listen to them anymore. And I want you to know that my whole idea, my understanding of the background, was that I knew that the tax was unpopular. And therefore, it sounded like the questioners were just trying to get Jesus in trouble. They figured, well, it's unpopular, so if he says, yes, pay the tax, he'll get in trouble with one group. And if he says, no, don't pay the tax, then he'll be unpopular with another group. And he was just trying to get him unpopular. But don't you see, there's much more at stake here. You know what they're asking him? They're saying, are you a revolutionary?

You've cleansed the temple. You've called for the kingdom of God. What do you think of the head tax? Are you a revolutionary? And here's the trap. And oh, my word, it's a trap. On the one hand, if he says, no, don't pay the tax, he's calling for an armed revolt. See? This has happened before. And he will be crushed by the authorities. He won't just be unpopular. He'll be crushed by the authorities. But if he says, yes, do pay the tax, then everybody who's been hearing him talk about the kingdom of God will know he's been blowing smoke. Now, why? You say, why? If he says, yes, pay the tax, why would that invalidate his claims? And here's the reason why. We read the Bible. Through our Western, modern, cultural grid. And one of the things you have to realize, when we read about the kingdom of God, what do you think of the kingdom of God as being? When you think of the kingdom of God, you think of it as you completely spiritualize it. You say something like this. Well, the kingdom of God means that God lives within my heart and he brings me inner peace. Now, you have to realize that the Enlightenment, John Locke, Immanuel Kant, people like that, were the first ones in history to say, religion and spirituality is something for the private life. It's for the private world. It's just spiritual. You keep it away. It has nothing to do with your public world. Most people, most cultures, most societies, most centuries, most people didn't think like that. They figured your faith, your religion, whatever it was, had to do with all of your life. And when Jesus Christ invokes the kingdom of God, when he quotes the Old Testament prophets about the kingdom of God, the kingdom of God was not a spiritual inner peace. The Bible tells us the kingdom of God was going to deal with real poverty, real injustice, real suffering, real hunger. It was going to deal with those things.

And Jesus invokes that whenever he talked about the kingdom of God. His first sermon, Luke chapter 4, he quotes one of the great kingdom of God passages from Isaiah. He says, He says,

So Jesus has been invoking the kingdom of God. And if he says, oh, go ahead, I'm not a revolutionary. Pay your taxes. Just be a nice law-abiding citizen and get inner peace in your life. Then they'll walk away because they'll know he was just blowing smoke. Don't you see? If he says, yes, pay the tax, he'll lose the people. If he says, no, don't pay the tax, he'll be crushed by the authorities. How do you like that? Tight spot? Don't you see? It's a revolutionary question. What they're asking him is, are you a revolutionary bringing the kingdom of God?

So now what's his answer? You see the spot he's in? His answer is remarkable. You know, politicians, when they get a hot question, they just, they don't answer it. They pussyfoot. They just won't answer it. And when you're done, when a politician just refuses to answer a hot question, you're mad. You're frustrated. You know, you roll your eyes. Were these people mad? Were they frustrated? They were amazed. Because Jesus' answer is not no answer. And yet it's off the map again. It's outside the category. It's outside the category. The best way to outline this amazing answer is to notice what he's really refusing to do. See, he's being tempted in. He's being brought in. He's being asked to do something. And he refuses three things. He refuses political simplicity, political complacency, and political primacy. He refuses three things. He refuses, and if you're trying to be a follower of Christ, you have to refuse it too. He refuses political simplicity, political complacency, and political primacy. Now, let's see what I mean. Let's just take a look. First of all, political simplicity. The first thing we notice is the way they rephrase the question at the end. Notice that they ask the question twice. They said, is it right to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we or shouldn't we? Now, you know how deaf that is? He's saying yes. I mean, they're saying yes or no. Come down. Yes or no? One side or the other. And even though, without going any further, just, for a moment, even without me pulling it apart and trying to explain it to you, it's pretty obvious to the superficial reader that he does not do it. He does not say yes or no. He doesn't just say, sure. Nor does he say, no way. He doesn't do what they ask him to do, which is give a nice, simple yes or no answer. You see, Jesus, when he talks about his relationship with himself, when he talks about our relationship with him, he's incredibly simple. And incredibly clear. You know, whenever I, on Lexington Avenue around the 60s, there's a very, very blunt

diner. It has a very blunt name. Eat Here Now. Have you ever seen it? It tells you just what you want. You have no doubt what the proprietor wants you to do. Eat Here Now.

An awful lot of what Jesus teaches us can be boiled down to that. Obey me. Now.

Unconditionally. And he was incredibly clear and incredibly simple when he talked about his relationship to us or our relationship to him. But when he's asked a question about our relationship to the state, when he's asked a question about our relationship to politics, he doesn't give the simple yes or no answer. He gives a both and. We're going to see it's a balanced answer. It's a nuanced answer. It's almost a paradoxical answer. As we're going to see, he both resists what's on the coin and accepts what's on the coin. So they were really after it. They want a nice, simple yes or no. Which party are you in? And he won't do it. He resists political simplicity. Now, before even going on to the rest, let's just take just a few seconds to say, what are the implications of that? Let me suggest to you a practical implication. We must not do to Jesus what he wouldn't do. We must not do to himself. We must not say that political party, that specific political program, that specific political platform, that's Jesus's. Jesus is for that party, not for that party. Jesus is for that program, not for that program. Nice and simple. All Christians, real smart Christians, Bible-believing Christians, that's who to vote for. Jesus wouldn't do it. Why are you doing it to him? Not too long ago, I heard an African, American minister and a white minister who were in the same denomination, same doctrine, same milieu, and they were having a little bit of an interesting debate about the last presidential election. And I must say, it wasn't completely equal. I think the African-American understood the white man in a way the white man didn't seem to understand the African-American. However, basically, the gist of what they said to each other was this. How in the world could anyone, a Christian, with a brain in their head, have voted for the other guy? How could a Christian have ever voted for him? How could a Christian who has any belief in the Bible have ever voted for him? And they were both saying it about the other side. Now, I suggest you can't do that. What if you, think about this, is environmental stewardship important? Does the Bible say anything about the importance of us being stewards of the environment, of nature, I would say so. I mean, you know, the first couple chapters of Genesis are a little bit about that. What if you thought the crisis facing our society today, the crisis, was an environmental crisis? Well, then out of deep Christian theological conviction, you could have voted for Ralph Nader. And yet, an African-American, we have to excuse, the African-American Christian sits there and says, how in the world is national park policy, anywhere near as important as racial justice? And so it goes. Don't you see that on the basis of very deep Christian theological and very thoughtful Christian theological and biblical convictions, you could be going in a lot of directions. You could vote across a spectrum. You must not say, there's Jesus' party, there's Jesus' program. You shouldn't do that. He wouldn't do that. You're mixing up God and Caesar. It's one of the things he says not to do. So he realizes, he resists political simplicity. He resists being put in a box. That's not all. He also resists both political complacency and primacy. Okay, now what do I mean by that? Both complacency and primacy. Well, let's look at what he does. What does he do? He asks for a denarius. The denarius we know a lot about because we got them. You know, they're around. They're in museums. And a denarius was a silver coin. And he says, whose image is on it and whose inscription is on it? Now, the image that was on it was Tiberius Caesar. And he says, and the inscription was Tiberius Caesar, son of the god Augustus, Pontifus Maximus, high priest. So Jesus holds up a coin that says, king, son of God, high priest.

And what does he say about the coin? First of all, he says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's. What does that mean? He means, well, he says, whose image? See, he says, whose image? He uses the Greek word icon, by the way. The Greek word icon. And he says, whose image is on this? And they say, Caesar's. Okay. He says, therefore, pay taxes? No. Does he say, on the other hand, how dare this idolatrous image be in my hand and drop it? Let's not pay taxes. What does he say? He says, give to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, but give to God the things that are God's. Now, there's all kinds of interesting little intricacies going on here. First of all, by using the word image, he is implying this. Give to Caesar the thing that, only that has his image on it. Anything with his image on it, give to him. It's his. You know, it's his coins. It's his coinage. Literally, by the way, it was his money. It literally was minted out of his wealth. It's his money. Give it to him. Because his image is on it. But give to God what has his image on it. That's you. And when Jesus said that, he was doing a couple of things. First of all, this was the very first theory of limited government in the history of the world. Up until now, even the Jews had this view that the governor, the government, the king, the rulers had divine authority and could not be questioned by anybody. Every single government always said, the gods have chosen us. We are the choice of the gods. Every single king had said, I'm a god. Every government had always said, we're the choice of the gods, and therefore, we have absolute authority. You cannot question us. And Jesus says, don't you dare give any government that. Give Caesar the money, because it's his money. He printed it. But don't give him the allegiance. And let's put it this way. He's not only saying, give Caesar the money, but not ultimate allegiance. He's even being more ambivalent about Caesar than that, because he thinks, you know, he changes the verb that was used in the original question. In the original question, they say, should we give Caesar taxes? And they use a Greek word that means a gift. It means to present something. But Jesus uses a word that the NIV doesn't really give us a very good example of here. It's actually kind of hard to get across in English. Jesus changes the word and says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar and to God the things that are gods. The old King James Bible says render. The NIV here says give. But it's a word that literally means pay back what he deserves. Do you see how ambiguous that is? What does a tyrant deserve? Okay, maybe he deserves his money back, but doesn't he deserve some resistance as well? What Jesus Christ is saying is you may give Caesar some of what he wants, which is his money, but you cannot give Caesar ultimately what he wants, which is to completely accept his system, his system of coercion, his system of injustice, his system of injustice. His system of exclusion. He wants ultimate allegiance. He wants no one to sit in judgment on him, but we can't give him that. We cannot give him that. N.T. Wright, who's a very prominent New Testament scholar, says what Jesus is doing is a masterful example of refusing to say don't pay the taxes, which would mean revolt. He doesn't do that. He doesn't say revolt. But on the other hand, he does not say just acquiesce in the system, be nice taxpaying people. He doesn't just do yes or no. No, don't pay the taxes, that's revolt. Yes, pay the taxes, be nice patriotic citizens, don't rock the boat. He doesn't do either. And this is what N.T. Wright says is happening. Jesus Christ, had he told them to revolt or had he told them to pay their taxes? He had actually done neither in one sense, but in another sense, he had done both. Nobody could deny that the saying of Jesus Christ that you can't do anything, you can't do anything, you could not give Caesar ultimate allegiance was revolutionary. But on the other hand, nobody could say that Jesus had forbidden the payment of taxes either. The point of Jesus was this. Jesus the Galilean is envisioning a revolution. He is, but a different sort of revolution than Judas the Galilean. Jesus Christ was advocating neither acceptance of the system nor straightforward political revolt. Yes, Jesus is saying there will be a revolution happening. The temple is going to be built. The temple will be cleansed, but not in the way you envision. So that's the reason why they're amazed, because Jesus is not saying acquiesce, be a good citizen, but he's also not saying revolt, don't pay the taxes. He is saying something really different. He says, I am a revolutionary, but not the kind of revolutionary you've ever seen before. And this goes against complacency and primacy. See, there were two groups out there that Jesus was opposing when he said, render to Caesar. Two groups that weren't paying their taxes. On the one hand, the Essenes. Have you ever heard of the Essenes? Here's how the Essenes, there was a Jewish group, and here's how they dealt with injustice, corruption, and intractable social problems. They just dropped out. Have you ever heard of the Dead Sea Scrolls? The Dead Sea Scrolls are these very, very ancient documents which we found out in the desert because the Essenes went out into the desert and they left them behind. But the Essenes, what they said is, we're not paying our taxes because we're not going to be part of the system. We're not going to be part of the political system at all. The way we're going to deal, with the corruption and the injustices, we're just not going to have anything to do with it. We're going to live our own lives. We just want to be happy. We're just going to move over here. And Jesus says, no. Jesus says, you must render to Caesar. You may not. He does not allow his followers to opt out of the system and to become unpolitical and have absolutely nothing to do with the system. He won't allow that. But the other group that wouldn't pay their taxes is the opposite of the Essenes, the Zealots. They said, let's revolt. And Jesus clearly is not going that direction either because he's saying, he's not only against political complacency, but also political primacy. The idea that the main way, the primary way you deal with injustice in life is through politics. He won't let his followers drop out of the political process or see the political process as the only or main way in which to deal with injustice. And yet, Jesus will not give up on this idea of the kingdom of God. He says,

There is a kingdom of God coming. I am bringing the kingdom of God, but not in the way you think. And that's the reason why everybody is dumbfounded. Jesus is saying, In the narrow sense, I'm not political. In the broad sense, I'm incredibly political.

In the specific sense of a political program, I don't have one, at least not a detailed one. But in the broader sense of bringing the kingdom of God to deal with real problems, real poverty, real suffering, real injustice, real hunger, real brokenness, I will. I'm not bringing a spiritual inner peace thing. And that's why their mouths are all hanging open. What are you talking about? He won't back away from the reality of his revolution, but he will not do it the way anyone has ever done it before. So how does that happen? How do you have a revolution like this? And the answer is very... Even in this text, you can see it. Because of the irony of Mark. Now, the gospel writer Mark, of all the four gospel writers, loves irony. He loves enigma. And you see the irony in verse 15 that points to the answer to what kind of revolution this is. What kind of revolution is really going to change the world but not be fundamentally political? And the answer... Look at verse 15. Let me show you what's amazing about this. Jesus says, Bring me a denarius. Do you see the irony in that? Probably not. But maybe if you think about it, what was on the inscription? Remember the inscription? Here's what Mark is showing us. Two claims on the stage. Two claimants. Two people. Tiberius, Jesus. Both say, I'm king. Both say, I'm the son of God. And both say, I'm the high priest.

I'm the king. But look at how utterly different they are. One guy has all the coins in the world. Literally. One king... The coin's his. It literally is his. It was his money. It was his silver. That's one of the reasons why Jesus can say, sure, pay it. One king has all the coins in the world. The other king doesn't have a quarter to his name. Because look at, what does Jesus do? How does Jesus get this thing started? Does he reach into his pocket and say, look at this denarius? No. He's got to ask for one. He doesn't even have one. And the denarius was not a big amount of money at all. I said a minute ago, well, more than a minute ago, it's about 25 minutes ago, that the reason this was so, that this tax was so hated was not because it was onerous. The denarius was really one day's wages for the lowest of the low peasant.

Almost like having a quarter.

It was because it was symbolic. And yet, yet Jesus doesn't have one. A king without a quarter

versus a king with all the quarters. Now, I may ask you a question. When Jesus Christ says, I'm the king, not Caesar, I'm bringing the kingdom of God, it's going to not be Caesar's kingdom. He is really, he is not saying, I will replace Caesar. I'm a better Caesar. A king without a quarter, a king without any money at all, a king who says, foxes have holes and birds have their nests, but the son of man doesn't have a place to lay his head. This kind of king is not just bringing another, you know, a better, he's not going to be a better king. He's bringing an utterly different concept of kingship. And therefore, he's bringing an utterly different concept of revolution. His revolution revolts against revolts. It revolutionizes revolutions. And here's how you have to understand this. What does it mean? Why does it, is this king poor? Why does he have nothing? Well, the best way to understand the difference between the kingdom of God and the kingdoms of this world, the kingdom of God that Jesus is going to bring, is to go to a place, Luke 6. And in Luke 6, let me just read you what Jesus says. He says, blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who are poor, blessed are you who are hungry, for you will be satisfied. Blessed are you who weep, for you will laugh. Blessed are you when men hate and exclude you, leap for joy, for great is your reward in heaven. But woe to you who are rich, you will be poor. Woe to you who are well fed, you will be hungry. Woe to you who gloat over your success, you shall weep. Woe when all men speak well of you, for that's how they treated the false prophets. Now, if you noticed, Jesus actually takes four values, repeats them in both parts of that, and those four values are the dividing line between the kingdom of this world and the kingdom of God. And those four values are power, success, comfort, and recognition. Power, success, comfort, and recognition. And he says, now let me tell you the difference between the kingdom of this world and the kingdom of God. In the kingdom of this world, those four values dominate in three ways. First of all, if you're in the kingdom of this world, you've got to have those, that you live for those. You're decimated without those. You have to. You're desperate for them. Secondly, all of your life decisions are made on the basis of getting them. All of your life decisions are made on the basis of getting them.

People in the kingdom of this world have not moved to New York because they say, you know, New York is a place filled with people that need a good neighbor. No, you come to New York because they said, I think it will help me increase power, increase recognition, increase success, increase comfort. Maybe not the comfort, but everything else. In other words, in the kingdom of this world, we need those four things. Secondly, all of our life decisions are made to get those four things. And thirdly, we despise people without them. We see them as at the bottom of the totem pole, right? We see them as at the very bottom.

And Jesus says, every revolution inside the kingdom of man, every revolution inside the kingdom of this world is not really changing anything fundamental. It's not really revolutionizing anything. It's just changing the players because the people in the kingdom of this world, the people who have the reins are always there to get those four things. Every revolt is about saying, I want the power. I want the recognition. I want the status. I've been excluded. I'm going to get it. I was amazed, amazed some years ago, two years ago actually, come to think of it. I read a fascinating article. Well, it was a debate between Michel Foucault, famous postmodern radical French philosopher. In 1971, he had a discussion with Maoist and socialist activists who were setting up a people's court in northern France because there'd been a mining disaster and a lot of people had been killed and the socialists said, there's no way that the courts are going to give justice because they're going to protect the people with power. They're going to protect the rich. They're going to protect the people who own the company. We will set up the people's court and therefore we will seek the truth. And when they had a debate with Michel Foucault, who they thought would be an ally and who was himself essentially a socialist, and yet I was amazed. That was an, he just, he completely pulls apart everything they're about to do and they're very, very frustrated in the end. But here's what he kept saying. There's one place where he actually says, truth is a thing of this world and every person who claims to have the truth is really basically doing a power play. And he says, when you set up a court in which you say, we're going to be for the people, what you really mean is we're going to be for the people who agree with us about what the people need. We're going to only be for the people who agree with us about what the people need and we're going to exclude everybody and we're going to exclude everybody and we're going to exclude everybody else. And he says, every revolution is basically like that. You can't set up a people's court, he said, without basically accruing power for yourself and excluding the people who don't agree with you, the people who aren't your friends, the people who are not in your party. And that's basically what Jesus is saying. Do you realize that inside the kingdom of man, inside of the kingdom of this world, those four things reign, everybody's out for it, and every revolution inside the kingdom of man isn't really a revolution. It's just rearranging the furniture. It's not really making a real change. He says, let me give you a real revolution. The kingdom of God. The kingdom of God has a completely opposite, upside-down view of those values. Look at me. He says, I'm a king unlike any other king you've ever seen. I'm a king without a quarter because I've given my money away. I'm a king without power and I keep giving it away to the very end. I'm a king without recognition.

I'm not recognized as a king. I'm not seen as a king. I'm rejected and rejected until at the very end, even my father turns his face from me. Have you ever seen a king like this? Don't you realize that every other politician can't do a single good thing unless they get power, unless they get elected?

Jesus Christ says, the climax of my kingship and my career will not be when I get elected, but when I get executed, which is sort of the opposite.

And Jesus says, have you ever seen a king like me? I don't care about recognition. I don't care about success. I don't care about comfort. I don't care about power. In fact, I'm giving them away and I spend my time with the marginal and I love the poor and I heal the sick and I feed the hungry.

And he says, anyone who transfers into my kingdom will be like me.

Every member of my kingdom and only people who've been transferred out of the kingdom of this world into the kingdom of God will be like me. How will you be? You won't need those things. You're not driven anymore by power and success and comfort and recognition. Oh, they're great when you can get them. They're fine when you can get them. You use them, but you're not decimated if you don't get them. You don't need, you're not driven by them and therefore, you do not make your life decisions anymore on the basis of them. You live where it'll do good, not just where it'll help you get power and recognition and status. You spend your money. You hang out with your relationships. Everything is done, no longer to get those things in the case of a king. In the kingdom of God, you make those decisions on the basis of what will benefit others. Now, you say, who in the world can live like that? How can anybody live like that? Here's how. Why? You have to understand why Jesus is the king without a coin. Why is Jesus the king who doesn't even have a quarter? Why is he poor? Why is he rejected? As a political statement? As a wonderful example? No. He's a king without a quarter for your sake. The gospel is that on the cross, he took the poverty you deserve

so that we could have the incredible wealth of God's acceptance and welcome and his future. On the cross, Jesus took the anonymity. Do you realize that Jesus died of anonymity when even his father turned his face away from him? Died of rejection. Died of insignificance. Jesus received all the things that we deserve so that in God we can have them all. And when and only when you see, not Jesus as just an example, not just as just being an altruistic, wandering preacher who loved the poor and healed the sick, and that's when you see him being a king without a quarter for you, for your sake, taking your poverty, taking your anonymity, taking what you deserve. When you see that, and when you see because he did that, God can accept you now and have the great wealth and the great recognition and the great comfort, then and only then, only when you're transferred out of the kingdom of this world so it doesn't dominate you, the things of this world don't dominate you, only when you're taken out of the kingdom of this world are you finally free to love the people of this world sacrificially. Do you hear me? Only when you actually have the power of those things broken over you, they're not the main things anymore because Jesus Christ, work on the cross, then and only then, anyone in the kingdom of God is sent out into the world not just with inner peace, it starts with inner peace but it doesn't stay inner because you can finally live for him. You can finally live like him. You can make your decisions on the basis of what the people need, not what you need. You finally got the power for that. I wish Karl Marx was here because I'd say, Karl, you are right that religion in general is the opiate of the people but the gospel is the smelling salts of the people. And Karl, I'd like to ask you a question. If this world is all there is, why should I lose my job in sticking up for the truth? Why should I lose my status in order to help someone else up? If this status is all the status I'll ever have, if this job is all the job I'll ever have, what in the world is going to motivate me to live for other people? If this world is all there is, if this world is all I know, this is the only power, the only recognition, the only status, the only comfort I'll ever have, I've got to live for these things. I'm bound to live for these things. I may throw a few charity things here and there but I have to. But what if I'm transferred out of the kingdom of this world into the kingdom of God because of what Jesus did, the king without a quarter, the king who lost power, the king who gave everything away so that we could be taken in. Then and only then do I really become a revolutionary. See, this revolutionizes all revolutions because other revolutions are about getting power and this revolution is about giving it away and changing the world that way. And that really will, actually, do something about hunger. That will really do something about oppression and injustice. Really. Nobody understood this better than Tom Skinner, African-American minister. Used to live in the city here in New York but he's passed away. A great sermon he preached in 1970 at the Urbana Missionary Conference. He was thinking about the fact that at the very end of Jesus' life he was in captivity and so was Barabbas and Barabbas was a revolutionary, see. See? He was a literal revolutionary. He was a freedom fighter, a man of violence. And the powers that be released Barabbas because they understood, rightly so, that Barabbas was less of a threat. And this is what Tom Skinner said. Barabbas was a guy burning the system down. He's killing people. But if you let Barabbas go, you can always stop him again. The most Barabbas will do is go out, round up another bunch of guerrillas and start another riot. You can always stop him by bringing out the National Guard, putting down the riot. Find out where he's keeping his ammunition, raid his apartment without a search warrant, shoot him while he's still asleep. You can always stop Barabbas. But how do you stop Jesus? They nailed him to a cross, then they buried him. They rolled a stone over his grave and they wiped their hands and said, there's one radical who will never disturb us again. Three days later, Jesus Christ pulled off one of the great coups of all time. He got up out of the grave, the leader of a new creation, who has overthrown the existing order and established a new order that is not built on man. To put Barabbas to death ends his revolution. To put Jesus to death only launches it. To take away power from Barabbas ends his revolution. To take away power from Jesus only launches it. So keep in mind, my friend, that with all your militancy and radicalism, that all the systems of man are doomed to destruction. Only God's kingdom, only God's kingdom will prevail. And you will never be truly radical until you become part of that order. And then go out into a world that is enslaved, a world filled with hunger, poverty, and racism, and all those things that are the work of the devil. Go and proclaim liberation to the captives, sight to the blind, liberty to them that are bruised. Go into the world and tell all that are bound mentally, spiritually, and physically that the real liberator has come.

How do you stop a revolution like Jesus' revolution? See, it's the revolution that revolutionizes, revolution. Because you kill him, he just gets more revolutionary. You kill him, he gets more powerful. It launches it. Am I saying don't be political, just change individual lives? No, you do it. Remember, he's against political complacency, but he's against political primacy, and he's against political simplicity. And somebody says, oh, really? Well, how does this actually affect me politically if I meet this Savior? And the answer is, here's how you know you've really met Jesus. You will be politically moved

from somewhere to somewhere else. Ah, somebody says, now you're finally getting down to it. When you meet Christ, do you move that way or that way? And I'll tell you the answer. Let me tell you quickly. Number one, I have found that people who are on the ends, people on the left and the right, when they meet Christ, there is a moderating influence. And the main reason is because people on the left and the right, think the enemy is over there instead of the enemy being in here. And the gospel always humbles you away from that. Ah, you say, ah, so what you're really saying is if you really become a Christian, you become a moderate, a centrist. Oh, no. Let me tell you something. I ought to know about this. There's two reasons why people love to be sort of middle-of-the-road, centrist, moderate, you know, kind of, you know. One reason is they have no hope. They really don't believe anything's really going to change. Let's just keep things the way they are. But you see, the gospel says God's future, God is for the perfect, renewed world. So you should have hope. Another reason people stay in the middle is just indifference. They just keep things as they are because I just want to have my life. I just want to have my life. But the gospel changes you, makes you start to live for other people. You're no longer living for the same things. You're no longer living for those main values anymore. No. People who are in the center get radicalized by the gospel. People who are on the outside become more moderate. In other words, here's how you know whether you've really become a Christian. You've moved. Your politics are changed, number one, somewhere, some way, some direction. You always move. Number one. And number two, you actually get more political than you ever were. What do I mean by that? A lot of people think Christians are idealistic. Uh-uh. Let me tell you something. The thing that's great about the gospel is it humbles you. It makes you see that you're such a big part of the problem. And if the gospel changes you, you will never be able to change. You will never see anybody else anywhere else as being the enemy, the real problem with the world. It makes you more able to cooperate with people, more able to make common cause with people. I know it. And therefore, ultimately, more pragmatic, more willing to compromise, more willing to do things with people. You become more political if you become a Christian, I think. Only self-righteousness makes you look at other people saying, the people over there, they're the bad guys. They're the real problem here. Jesus doesn't do that. How do I know whether you've been politically transformed? You've moved, and you're more able to work together and make common cause. Jesus Christ paid back what you deserve now. Pay him what he deserves. Join his revolution. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us this revolutionary. Jesus Christ is the one revolutionary that cannot be stopped. Martyrdom doesn't stop it. Loss of power doesn't stop it. As a matter of fact, it's made. This is a revolutionary that moves on giving away power, giving away money, giving away status. We thank you for what you have done for us. Oh, Lord Jesus Christ, you are a king who came poor in rags, unrecognized, for us. And because you're a king like that, it frees us to live sacrificially. How? How weird. That to be freed from the kingdom of this world makes us more useful for the people of this world. How weird. But we thank you for the counterintuitive, off-the-map answers of your wise son, Jesus Christ. Give us his wisdom. Help us to follow him, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.