The reading for today is taken from the book of Genesis, chapter 50, verses 15 through 21. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph holds a grudge against us and pays us back for all the wrongs we did to him? So they sent word to Joseph, saying, Your father left these instructions before he died. This is what you are to say to Joseph. Now, please forgive the sins of the servants of the God of your father. When their message came to him, Joseph wept. His brothers then came and threw themselves down before him. We are your slaves, they said. But Joseph said to them, Don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God? God, you intended to harm me, but God intended it for good, to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. So then, don't be afraid. I will provide for you and your children. And he reassured them and spoke kindly to them. The word of the Lord. Now, for a number of weeks we've been talking about the series we've been calling Public Faith. And what that means is we've been talking about talking about our faith in public with people who don't necessarily share our beliefs. And we've been talking about how to do that in a way that's very honest about who we are and even provocative, but also respectful, gracious. And yet I think during all this talking about talking about faith, a lot of us certainly feel somewhat uneasy. Those of us who might be more retiring personalities starting to feel pressured, like, do I have to force conversations with people? I have to do. And today's passage, believe it or not, though it may seem difficult to apply right off the bat, one of the great stories in the Bible speaks to this, and that is that everything that happens, and that means that all the people that you just happen to be around, the people you work with, the people you live with, the people you're related to, the people that you are near. The people at hand are there by God's appointment. You don't have to force anything. They're there for you, and you're there for them. Now, we'll get back to that, but first I'd like to look at one of the great stories of the Bible, which actually has breadth of application. We'll at least touch on them before coming back to this particular issue. I want to tell you this story. It's the story of Joseph. It is a long story. It actually starts in of Genesis stretches all the way to chapter 50. And so it's a long story, but this little passage that was just read to you is the climax of the story and actually looks back to it all. And therefore it's a good place to, a good vantage point from which to recount the story and then see how it ends. What we're going to do is, since the story of Joseph, we're going to look at the story under three headings. Why Joseph wept. See, he's weeping. What Joseph said in response, and who Joseph is. Why Joseph wept. What Joseph said. Who Joseph is. So first of all, why Joseph wept. See, it says when their message came to him, verse 17, Joseph wept. thing? Well, you have to recount the story, and the story goes like this. Jacob was a man who had 12 sons. Jacob had 12 sons, and he had them through different wives. One of his wives, Rachel, was his favorite wife. She had two sons, Benjamin and Joseph, and Jacob particularly favored Joseph, very obviously favored Joseph over all the rest. Now, by the way, Anyway, there are a lot of things that the book of Genesis teaches directly and indirectly. I just want you to know that one of the most clear messages of the book of Genesis is the destructive nature of the institution of polygamy. We don't usually list that as one of the main points of Genesis, but what you see over and over and over again is how devastating the impact of polygamy is on all the people in the system. often I run into people who say, well, you know, the Old Testament supports polygamy. It does? Well, yeah. All those Old Testament figures like Abraham and Isaac and Jehovah, they all had multiple wives. So it's a poor. I said, well, in other words, you haven't really read the Old Testament, have you? Because if you read the Old Testament, you would never come away saying it supports it. Because Joseph was favored over all the others, it poisoned the whole family system. And it poisoned everybody in the family. so first of all the brothers were filled with anger and resentment and jealousy and Joseph himself was arrogant and self-important even as an adolescent and he was headed for the kind of miserable life of broken relationships that people like that have and then everybody's life blew up and the reason everybody's life blew up was at one point the away from everyone, and Joseph was there, and they saw their chance. They saw a chance to rid themselves of Joseph. So what they did was they sold him to some traveling slave traders that were on their way to Egypt, and then they took his coat, and they killed an animal, put the animal's blood on the coat, faked a death. In other words, brought it back to Jacob and said, look, your son your son Joseph is dead. Some animal must have slain him. And Joseph went into terrible grief. And things got worse and worse. Because almost certainly what the brothers were hoping for was that after a time of grief and mourning, that Jacob would then start to give them the attention and favor and love that he had given Joseph. But that didn't happen. Jacob went into a long darkness. And he didn't love them more. He loved them less. Joseph may have had hopes that once he became a slave, he could sort of work himself out of slavery. But he did become a slave, but then he was thrown into a dungeon. He was thrown into prison on trumped up charges. And there's a sense in which everybody with Jacob into a kind of lifelong depression and the brothers just now on top of their anger and resentment and jealousy, they've got this shame and guilt for what they've done. And Joseph in prison, it's almost like year after year after year went by, and God was just absent. It seemed like God never answered a prayer, just absent. Oh, but then the turn, and here's what happened. Immediately before this happens, what goes on is this. If Jacob had, pardon me, if all those bad things hadn't happened to Joseph, if Joseph hadn't been sold into slavery, if he hadn't gone to Egypt, if he even hadn't been thrown into the prison for incredible, tremendous things would never have happened. If all the horrible stuff hadn't happened, if all the years of the horrible stuff hadn't happened, four tremendous things wouldn't have happened. Number one, he never would have met in the dungeon a prisoner who was an official of Pharaoh, the king of Egypt's court, who later on brought Joseph into the court of Pharaoh where Pharaoh's dream was interpreted and Joseph's talent was recognized. And he was lifted up to a high administrative post almost prime minister of Egypt. If the horrible things hadn't happened, that wouldn't have happened. Secondly, Joseph would not have been in a position to create this massive hunger relief program that during the seven years of famine saved thousands of lives. That's what he's referring to. That's one of the things he's referring to. When he says it's all happened for the saving of many lives. So that hunger relief program would never have happened. And all those people's lives wouldn't have been saved. Thirdly, Joseph's own character would Oh, he had a horrible life. But you know, his humiliation and his exaltation

saved him from the shallowness and foolishness that he would have spent his entire life in and brought him into depth and power of character. But lastly, if all these horrible things hadn't happened, Joseph would not have been in a position to actually redeem his own family. because eventually the brothers showed up literally on Joseph's doorstep coming to Egypt trying to buy grain because of the famine. And when they got in front of Joseph, they didn't recognize him. He was considerably older, of course, and dressed very differently, and they did not recognize him. And Joseph used that as an opportunity. He hid his identity, and over a period of time, and that's the chapters right before Genesis 50, over a period of time,

carefully and very slowly led the brothers through a process by which they had to relive their past. The past that was haunting them, that was distorting their lives with shame and guilt, he made them relive their past. And it broke them open. And they repented. And when they saw the repentance and the change, he revealed his identity and they were amazed. and then they brought Jacob down and he was amazed that his lost son was found and they were all reunited in Egypt and Jacob lived his lives out happily and full of years and he's just died. He has just died. And when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, verse 15, suddenly they said, what if Joseph holds a grudge against us and pays us back for all the wrongs we did to him? In other words, they're there saying, he has to still be mad at us. He has to. And he's got the power. And if he's got the power, why in the world hasn't he paid us back? And the answer must be he didn't want to dishonor his father. He didn't want to grieve his father anymore. And now our father is dead, and so what do they do? First of all, they send an intermediary, notice? So they sent word to Joseph. They don't go themselves. They send an intermediary. Secondly, they lie. Almost certainly this is a lie. lie. They said, your father left these instructions before he died. This is what you were to say to Joseph, said Jacob. I ask you to forgive your brothers. Almost certainly, that was a lie. And Joseph wept. Why? Well, it's like because the ice is forming again. You know, over the brothers' hearts, there's the deception. There's the, you know, there's the lie. why? There's the fear. And so that's why Joseph wept. That's the story up to now. So then what does Joseph say? What does he say in response? But Joseph said to them, don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God? You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. So then don't be afraid. I will We'll provide for you and your children. And he reassured them and spoke kindly to them. So what did he do? There's actually three things here. First of all, he says, I have forgiven you. He says, don't be afraid. I will provide for you and your children. And he reassured them and spoke kindly to them. See, over and over. Don't be afraid. I'll provide for you. I reassured you. I speak kindly to you. I have forgiven you. I am not going to wreak vengeance. I'm going to use my power to take care of you. Why? See, how could he be in that position? didn't believe it. Nobody who's been through anything like what Joseph went through would believe it. How could he be that in that condition? He gives two answers, and this is one of the, well, this is one of the high points of the Bible, because Joseph is actually, in a sense, taking the lid off his heart and showing us how you heal, how your character changes, how you really change from the inside out. He shows two operating principles that clearly were things that he himself was saying to himself and that actually had really changed the very structure of his relationships, his self-image, his identity, the motives of his heart, the pathways of his emotions, everything. Look, first of all, he says two things. First of all, he says, am I in the place of God? That's a rhetorical question, of course. The answer is no. But am I in the place of God? first way in which he says, my heart has been changed so that I am not going to retaliate. I have forgiven you. My heart is healed. The first reason is because he asked himself this, am I in the place of God? See, in other words, they said, Joseph must have a grudge against us, which means he still bears ill will. He's resentful. He's got a grudge against us. And Joseph says, no, I don't have a grudge. You know why? Because I'm not in the place of God. Now, How does that work? Well, let's think this out. This is a way of thinking. Let me ask you a couple questions. Who has the knowledge to know what people deserve for what they've done? Who has the knowledge to know what people really deserve? Do you? Do I? Do you know all about the motives of the person's heart when they did what they did? Do you know everything about their background? Do you know all about the pressure they were under? Do you know how their father treated other treat them? Do you understand their cultural pressures? Do you know exactly how culpable they were? Do you know exactly what they did? Who knows? Who has enough knowledge to know what people deserve? Not you and me. Only God. Or here's a second question. Who has the right to give people what they deserve? Who has the right and the authority and the power to give people what they deserve. Not you and me. We're sinners ourselves. We have flaws ourselves. So who has the knowledge to give people what they deserve? Only God. Who has the right to give people what they deserve? Now what does, only God. And so what, here's what, what, what Joseph is saying is anyone who holds a grudge. Now a grudge could mean that you're, you're, you're actively trying to pay people back for what they've done. Cause you think you know what and you feel like you have a right to meet it out. Or you say, oh no, I'm not going to revenge myself. But what does a grudge? A grudge is sitting around rooting for somebody else to do it. If you have a grudge against somebody, let me say, oh no, no, I'm not going to take any vengeance, no payback. But you're rooting. If you hear something bad happens to them, you go, yeah, like that. See, what do you even do? You're rooting. Why? Because you think you know what they deserve. You think that they have a right to be paid back. and Joseph says, when you put yourself in a place of God, I'll tell you what that's going to do. It's going to mean devastation for you and everybody around you. Are you in a place of God? How dare you put yourself in a place of God? Do you not realize how incredibly underqualified you are for the job? You talk about having an imposter syndrome. I mean, you ever get in a job where you realize you're underqualified and you realize, well, I'm supposed to know all these things and I don't know all these things. It's called the imposter syndrome. Nothing compared to this. this. We should all have the imposter syndrome. So first of all, he has done this kind of reflection and worked on his heart and said, I've gotten rid of my anger because I'm not in the place of God. But secondly, he goes beyond. This is further. This is even more healing. This is, I think, even more radical. The other thing he says is, you intended to harm me, but God intended it for good. Or some translations say, you meant it for evil, God meant it for good. Now, let me show you why this goes beyond the first. What is he saying? Well, Gerhard von Rod, who has a great, isn't that a great name, Gerhard von Rod? And he's an Old Testament commentator, and he's written a classic commentary on the book of Genesis, and some years ago, many years ago, he wrote it. And at this point, he says, this is the climax of the whole story and even of the whole book. And here's what he says. This is the climax. God had all the strings in his hand, but the guidance of God

incorporated man's evil into his saving activity. God incorporated man's evil into his saving activity. The point of the story is that God overcomes evil not merely by stopping it, which he does finally, but by so thwarting its destructive purposes, it is used to further the saving objectives of God. For if Joseph hadn't been betrayed, the family would not have been saved physically. The famine would have killed them. Or spiritually, their sins would have killed them. Now that's radical. it's saying God doesn't just stop evil he so completely frustrates it he so completely triumphs over it that the destructive purposes of every evil act only in the end serve to accomplish the opposite of what they intended

and see this is the Old Testament you meant it for evil, God meant it for good is the Old Testament equivalent actually in some ways a better one because it's more personal it's part of a story, the Old Testament equivalent of Romans 8.28, which is more of an abstract principle, where Paul says, all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. And here's what Joseph is saying. I not only don't have the right or the knowledge to retaliate against you, I don't have the need. I don't have the need. Why? Because I know that nothing bad that happens, nothing bad that happens is

overcome by God. It's going to be judged. It's going to be used. It's going to be woven into a kind of tapestry. Do you realize how incredibly ironic, it's not just ironic, it's astonishing. It is when it says his brothers then came and threw themselves down before him. If you've read the story of Joseph, you realize that the thing that triggered everything was Joseph was a spoiled brat. He was full of himself. He was arrogant. He had delusions of grandeur. and as a result, he had two dreams. And he told them to his family, saying, gee, I wonder what these dreams mean. And in both dreams, the family, represented by the stars and the moon or sheaves, in other words, in both dreams, the family bows down before Joseph. And when the brothers heard that, it just infuriated them. And weirdly enough, the dreams, which obviously came from the pride of Joseph's heart, triggered, it was like the last straw, and it triggered more anger and more resentment and actually led to the very selling into slavery and the tragedies and the dungeon, which actually in the end led to everybody's salvation. And here they are, bowing down. God, all things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. At the end of time, perhaps God will give us a high mountain to go on to. Where we can actually see all of history at once. I love getting up high. I love sort of traipsing through. Terrain that I can sort of see. But getting up high enough. To look back. Where I came from. And to see it all. So that's where the creek is. And that's where that is. And that's how they all relate to each other. And I hope there might be a mountaintop. Somewhere we can see all of history. And when we do. We're going to realize. That every single. If we do. We're going to see. That every horrible thing. happen was allowed by God so that God could use it to bring in greater glory, greater love, greater joy to us all that would have been there otherwise. In other words, he only uses evil to do the opposite of what was intended, though we're probably going to have to wait to get on that mountaintop at the end of history to see it all. But Joseph is saying practically this. He's coming very close to saying, God gave me what I would have asked for in prayer if I knew everything

Now, you know what this is? Behold, theologically rich faith working itself out into love. There's a place in the book of Galatians where it says faith works itself out into love. But here what we have is we have, when Joseph opens his heart and says, am I in the place of God? You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. What we see is theological richness. richness. These are profound doctrinal theological concepts. This is a high view of God. God is a judge. God is sovereign. And Joseph is showing this is how I've worked it on my heart, so I'm healed. I'm healed. See, he's not a typical guy. Okay, guys, let's be honest, except all of you married, your wives know. Okay. How do you deal with stress? How do you deal with somebody wronging you. How do you deal with this? You say, no trouble. No problem. Don't bother. Nothing. It's all right. I'm fine. Well, I hurt you. No, no. It's okay. Don't even think about it. Ten years later, you're on the therapist's couch. I guess I was really mad. That's not Joseph. Joseph is not saying, hey, don't even bother, guys. It's all right. It's okay. I'm over it. It's fine. No, it hurt. But see, Joseph is not vengeful, and he's not in denial. He's healed. And how is he healed? Not just by keeping a stiff upper lip. Not just by sort of, I'll be okay. He took theology. He took knowing God. He took an understanding of God and his relationship with God and the dealings of God and the grace of God and the providence of God. He used them on his heart. And he just opens his heart here just to say, here's how I operate. But we're not done, and here's the reason why we're not done. We haven't learned everything we need to learn, and the reason is when he says, you intended to harm me, but God intended for good. You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. What is the good? Now, so far, you and I have actually talked about the fact that all the evil turned out to be good for Joseph. Joseph is healed. Joseph is a man of character. Joseph was redeemed, as it were. Joseph was saved from the path he was going on. Joseph has power. Joseph has money. I mean, so you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. And so we right away, if the sentence ends there, you and I as individualistic American people, part of an individualistic culture saying, oh yeah, yeah, they meant it for evil, but God helped his self-esteem. You know, God, he feels good about himself now, but he doesn't say that. The good is not in Joseph. What does he say? To accomplish what has now been done, being done, being done, the saving of many lives. You see, we have a tendency to say, oh, I guess God lets bad things happen to me just to, you know, to make me a better person. Yeah, of course. You know, Nietzsche said, whatever does not kill me makes me stronger. And we, you know, modern people, you know, we resonate with that. That's right. Bad things will make me better. That's not how Joseph looks at it. He says, the cup of suffering that was given to me has actually been for the saving of others. I was put in a position where I could save people. I could save them from famine. I could save you from your sins. In other words, all this bad stuff happened to make me useful. Not just to make me happy. Not just to give me higher self-esteem. Not just to make me feel better about myself. To make me useful. To make me helpful. To make me somebody who can serve other people. At this point, I think we've got to recognize something. Joseph, as inspiring an example as he is, and at this point, I think we're really we're getting kind of a spiritual nosebleed. Because not only is here a guy who is forgiving, but he's actually saying, what I see the purpose of my life is just to serve other people now. And all the bad things that happen is fine with me. Why? Because it's put me in a position of being useful to people. Before I would have been just totally self-absorbed. If all the bad things had happened to me, I would have nothing to give to anybody else. But it's all worth it. Why? Because through me, I see God helping all sorts of people and reaching all kinds of people. And at this point, you're getting a nosebleed. You say, guys, I don't think I can be that selfless. I don't think I can be that wise. I don't think I can be that unflappable. I don't think I can be that forgiving. See, great examples are only useful up to a point. At first, they inspire you. Then they start to crush you. They start to make you feel like, I can't ever do that. And you know why they inspire you but they crush you? is because they can't actually give you the power to actually execute. They can't give you the power. Joseph can't reach down and give you some power to make you like him, but there is somebody who can, and he's the one to whom Joseph points. Don't just look at Joseph as an example, but look at him as a signpost. Now, who does he point to? Well, let me restate what I just said a little more poignantly. Here's what he's saying to his brothers. The cup of suffering you gave me was not really your cup. gave me that cup so that through my suffering, I could save others. You gave me a cup of suffering, but I don't see it as a cup you gave me. I accept it as God's cup because through that suffering, I can save other people. Does that remind you of anybody? Centuries later, Jesus Christ comes into this world, and let me point a couple things out. John chapter 1 says he went to his own, but his own received him not. He was rejected by his family. The Bible says that when he was betrayed by Judas, he was betrayed for silver coins, just like Joseph, who was sold for silver coins. When Jesus Christ was arrested, though he wasn't guilty of anything, he was like Joseph, who was thrown into that dungeon, false pretenses, numbered with the transgressors. importantly, when Jesus Christ got into the garden, he talked about a cup. It was a cup of suffering. And well, who was mixing that cup? Well, you know, from one point of view, it was his enemies that were doing it, and his friends by being foolish and stupid and betraying him and denying him and forsaking him. You could say his friends and his enemies were actually stirring that cup, but that's not how he saw it. He called it, in the book of John, the Father's cup. up. Why? Because through that suffering, he would be saving many lives. And because he suffered so far, he was raised to the right hand of power, just like Joseph. And once he got to that right hand of power, what did he do? He forgave the people who caused his suffering, just like Joseph. Now, if you see Jesus Christ as your ultimate Joseph, Joseph, if you see him, not just as an example, but as a pointer to Christ, and you recognize that he's your Savior, that he's done that for you, that even though he came to earth and died because of our sin, doesn't blame us. He saw it as the cup that the Father had given him, and he was happy to do it. He was happy to do it, just like Joseph. The results of his suffering he shall see, and he shall be satisfied. He was satisfied. satisfied. And so he did that all for you. Now, when you see that, that gives you three things. If you believe that, if you see him doing that, if you're moved by that, if you trust him, first of all, it does make you a forgiving person, but we've already covered that. Actually, as a Christian, you have far more resources for forgiveness than Joseph had. Far more. How humbling it is to know that we're sinners saved by grace. That makes it hard for us to feel superior to people and hold grudges. But also, when you realize how loved you are, it makes it easier to forgive too. If somebody's wronged you, what have they done? Taken away money? If your true wealth is in Jesus, then the money they took isn't the main thing. Did they take away your reputation? But if you're in Jesus, your ultimate vindication, your ultimate self-regard comes from what Jesus thinks about you, then the reputation they robbed you of isn't the ultimate thing. you have a kind of wealth, a spiritual, emotional wealth in Christ that makes it possible for you to forgive. Secondly, if Jesus is your ultimate Joseph, you also have a kind of, I think, unflappableness. You begin to say, look at the cross, the ultimate example of God bringing good out of evil, the ultimate example of something that made no sense. Why would God let this happen to this man? Jesus Christ did all this good. Why is God abandoning him, forsaking him? My God, It was all for the saving of many lives. And see, when you see that Jesus is doing that for you, then you say, all right, all right, what about me? It says in Ephesians 2, verse 10, we are God's workmanship prepared for good works that God has set apart for us to walk in. We are God's workmanship prepared for good works apart to walk in. Now, the word workmanship means work of art. It's the Greek word poema that means poem or work of art. And it means that everything that's going into your life, it's not just your gender and your race and your age and your family background, but even your experiences and your struggles and your problems. It says there are certain good deeds that you have been formed by God to do. Just like what Joseph understood. What that means is there are some hands that you're one of the best people to hold. There are some problems that you're one of the best people to listen to. There are some bedsides that you're one of the best people to sit on. Because you're as unique as a thumbprint. You're as unique as a snowflake. There are some deeds that you're the best person to do them. And that means that the people who are at hand, the people who are around you, you don't have to force, by the way, a conversation with everybody. Because Joseph saved many lives at multiple levels. He was a great example. And he also helped the poor, the hungry. But he also redeemed his brothers really from their sin. And so when you do, you realize there were multiple ways in which he was saving many lives, you see. And it's the same with you. Around you, there may be people that you need to talk to. Very directly. Some cases you just have to listen to them. Some cases they're watching you. And they're watching how you handle life. In some cases, you're there to pray for them. And they may never know until we get to that mountain looking over all of history that your prayers were a big part of what happened in their lives. But you see, everything that happens to you is for the saving of many lives. All the people around you. All the people at hand. All the things around you. There are bedsides that only you should sit on. There are hands that only you should hold. There are problems that only you should listen to. Because of who you are. Because you are God's workmanship. It's the same thing with Jesus. Same thing with Joseph. It's the same thing with you. So. Consider. The great love of the Lord. let's pray our father we thank you that you would give us this kind of assurance that other people mean things for evil but you mean them for good and that you are going to thwart evil in history and you're going to thwart the purpose of evil in our lives that we are someday going to look back perhaps from that mountaintop and see it all but for now we trust you We recognize that we're not in the place of God, but you are sovereign, and you are judge, and you are gracious. And as we turn these thoughts over in our own hearts, we pray that you'd make us into, give us the kind of regal, princely character of Joseph. Gracious, unflappable, forgiving powerful make us like Joseph because we believe in the one to whom Joseph points even your son Jesus Christ in his name we pray, amen