This is Jesus' high priestly prayer to his Father, but he's talking about the church. He's talking about them and they, and he's talking about his disciples, but he's talking about not just the twelve apostles, but the church, his people. He's praying to God on their behalf, and here's what he says.

Verse 6, I have revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world.

They were yours. You gave them to me, and they have obeyed your word. Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you. For I gave them the words you gave me, and they accepted them. They knew with certainty that I came from you, and they believe that you sent me. I pray for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours. All I have is yours, all you have is mine, and glory has come to me through them. I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world. And I am coming to you, Holy Father. Protect them by the power of your name, the name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction, so that the scripture would be fulfilled. This is the end of the reading of God's word. We're looking this summer at what the blueprint, the biblical blueprint of the church, should be.

And about a year ago, when we first started meeting, we began meeting in an evening service. Some of you were here roughly a year ago or more. During the summer, we met right here, fanning ourselves in the evening. We really began the church in some ways officially in the fall with a morning service, along with the evening service. But I was pretty careful at that time not to do much teaching on the church. And here's why. I really think the main business of the church is to get together, and when we get together, to meet Jesus, so that we know how to do his work in the world. It's fairly simple. We get together, but we have a purpose. The purpose is to meet Jesus himself when we get together. We meet Jesus himself. We come into his presence. We have an actual experience of Jesus Christ through his word and spirit, so that we are then equipped to do his work in the world. That's fairly simple.

And therefore, the worst thing you can do, in fact, in some ways, I'm doing it now, and I'll show you why there's a disadvantage to it. The worst thing you can do is to make people too self-conscious about themselves. If you sit around talking too much about the church, the church, the church, you're actually forgetting what the church is about. The church is not about getting together to meet the church. We don't get together to talk about the church. We get together to meet Jesus so we can do his work in the world. So, we get together to meet Jesus so we can do his work in the world. It's a little bit like a bicycle. I remember when I was a kid learning to ride a bicycle. I would get on the bicycle, and I never used training wheels. I'm not sure why. My father used to run me up and down the road and let me go, and then I'd be doing okay. And in the earliest stages of learning to ride a two-wheel bicycle, I remember as long as I didn't think what I was doing, everything was fine. But sometimes I would look down and I would say, why am I standing up? To a seven or eight-year-old, the idea of being able to stay, at least for me, okay? I was over-analytical, I'm sorry. But, you know, I would look at my tires, and they're like two inches, and I was moving along at 20 miles an hour, 30 miles an hour, and my odometer would tell me, and I would say, why am I not falling over? And then I would fall. You know, as long as I was not thinking about what I was doing, everything was fine. But as soon as I started saying, oh, my word, my guess is tightrope walkers have the same problem. The best thing to do is not to say, oh, I'm on a tightrope. Hmm. Gosh. How is this possible? How is this possible? And in the same way, that can happen to the church. If you spend all your time thinking about what makes a church good, how are we doing, and how are other churches fitting into what the Bible says about the church, it immediately begins to get you to think self-consciously about yourself, which is bad. It immediately begins to make you compare yourself. It immediately makes you begin to look at other churches. And all of that is a necessary evil, but we have to do it in a fairly careful way.

Uh, you know, the main thing you want to do, I hope, when you come to church is to meet Jesus. And nobody, when you listen to a talk on the church, goes away saying, oh, praise you, oh, church. Glory to you, oh, church. The closest we've got in our hymnology is, glorious things of thee have spoken, Zion, city of our God. See, that's a good way to put it, and that helps us praise God for what he's done by creating the church, but it makes you horribly self-conscious. And, therefore, I've decided, though, eventually, after a year, to spend a little bit of time on it in August, because my own particular belief is that in August, we're more likely to gather people who want to know more about how can we build a church that will really serve the city. If anybody is here who's really not even sure what you think about Jesus, and you're not sure, really, how you're oriented to the Christian faith, whether you believe it or what you think about it, you're still just looking for him, and you're not sure what he's like, then I'm putting a little bit of time on it. I'm putting a little bit of a burden on you just to get into the subject,

because it's distracting. But I want you to know that when we talk about the church, you can learn a lot about Jesus. When you look at the Grand Canyon, you can learn a lot about God. You don't really meet God there. You have to go direct. And when you look at the church, you learn a lot about Jesus, and you can learn, but I put a bit of a burden on you, and I want to apologize right up front. We have said that the church can, only be the church, if there is something called a revival dynamic going on. The revival dynamic is an extraordinary outpouring of the Holy Spirit on the church, so that the ordinary operations of the Spirit of God are intensified. Now, I defined that before, but I have to define it again. I don't want to lose anybody. But I'll be brief, even though, because we talked about it before. Some people don't believe in revival at all. Many churches don't. They don't believe there's a need for a great outpouring. of the Spirit of God. Whenever they hear about it, it makes them feel like, well, I don't know what that is, but I really don't want to be around when it happens. They're not real happy about the idea, and they get kind of unhappy if somebody suggests their church needs it. Our church needs it, and I hope nobody here is insulted by that. There's another group of folks that basically think of the revival as the work of the Holy Spirit, which is characterized by great emotion and miracles. And even though we've said that can be, that can be part of revival, that's not the essence of it. That's not the heart of it. The heart of it is, the Holy Spirit's job is to make Jesus real. When you read John chapter 15 and 16 in particular, you see right there, Jesus tells you the whole job of the Comforter, the Holy Spirit. When He comes, He will speak of me. He will take of mine, and He will give it to you and show it to you. The whole point of the work of the Holy Spirit is to make Jesus real to you. If I sit down and say, you know, if you're talking to me, and you say, I am so discouraged

because somebody has rejected me, and I say to you, go back and read where the Bible says that Jesus Christ will never cast you out. And you sit down and you read it, and you say, yeah, that doesn't really help. I'm still hurt. At that point, Jesus is an idea, but He's not real to you. But if the Holy Spirit is doing His thing, the Holy Spirit takes what He has, what you're reading. He takes of mine and He shows it to you. He will glorify me. And you read the idea, you read about it, you say, He will never cast me out. That soul that on Jesus hath leaned for repose, I will not, I will not desert to its foes. That soul though all hell should endeavor to shake, I'll never, no, never, no, never forsake. And that thought, that sentiment begins to shine. And it begins to radiate, and it begins to change you, and it begins to lift you up, and you begin to think, and you begin to say, yeah, I was rejected, but so what? That's the Spirit's operation. It's that, you know, I hope that you know what that is. I hope you know what it's like to sit down and have Jesus be real to you because of the power of the Spirit. The power of the Spirit is a mystical, deep, and profound thing, but it's an easy thing to describe. His job is to make Jesus real. And when He is doing that on a congregation, the result is revival. And when that dynamic's going on, there's five things that the church is characterized by. And it comes directly from Jesus being real. One is transcendent worship. People sense the presence of God. People are there to meet God. They're not there, and we'll talk about this next week, the purpose of worship is not primarily teaching, or evangelism, or fellowship. It's to worship. And we can talk about that next week. Also, people begin to study the Word because the truth begins to shine in their lives, as we just said. Thirdly, people's barriers come down to sharing openly with other people because Jesus is real to them, and you no longer have to hide from people. So intimate fellowship and dynamic community and deep friendships develop, thirdly. Fourthly, there's aggressive outreach and evangelism, and many people are converted. People who have no interest in religion at all find themselves attracted and are converted, attracted to the church. And fifthly, there's a major impact on the society around turning the society more like the kingdom of God. That is a society of justice and mercy.

Worship, deep teaching of the Word, intimate fellowship, aggressive evangelism, compassionate social concern. Those are the five things. And I'm just giving you the framework, and the framework is that we said last week, those five things together, when you find a church is strong on all of them, it's a sign of the operation of the Spirit of God. The tendency is for most churches to have one of them only, and to be very, very condescending toward anyone else that doesn't have their one. You see, because if you're a church with great sound doctrine, your worship isn't very good, your fellowship isn't very good, your social concern isn't very good, they look at other churches, and the only thing they tend to look at is they say, but do they have our sound doctrine? And they'll reject you, even though in every other area it's strong, they're weak. Same thing happens with fellowship, and with the church itself. Same thing happens with worship. The one vitamin that you've got makes, tends to make the church haughty, and look down its nose at other people that don't have their vitamin. But we said when you have all five, it's a sign of the work of the Spirit, and the five continually change one another. Those five things are actually constantly stimulating each other. You really can't have one without the others. Because real worship always leads to teaching fellowship, evangelism, and social concern. And real teaching always leads to real worship, evangelism, fellowship, and social concern. And real evangelism always leads, and so on. Those five things are interrelated. When they're there, they stimulate one another, and they encourage the renewal dynamic. And a church that wants to be this kind of church, is ruthless in making sure that it is doing what God says in every one of those five areas. That it's finding people with gifts in those areas, and unleashing them to do the work. That it's stimulating them, and they're stimulating each one of those areas, and they inter-stimulate one another. That's the way it's supposed to go. Now, what we're doing is we're looking at each of the five for the next few weeks, and tonight I just want to talk about the first one. And the first one is what Jesus is talking about here. The first of the five vitamins, the first of the five signs of the presence of the King, is deep teaching of the Word of God. And you see what Jesus is talking about, in John chapter 1, John chapter 17, is that these people, he's talking about his disciples, they're characterized by a knowledge and an acceptance and a reception of the truth, my words.

Now, what we mean here is, and like I said, I am going to try to be briefer, even though there's a lot of things I'd like to say, I'd rather be briefer and then begin to let you ask questions. So, if I slide over something quick, don't say, that was hard to understand, what did he mean by that? Ask, and it's your fault if you leave, and you don't know because you didn't ask. I really want to hear it, so let me go more rapidly than I would maybe under other circumstances. I want you to draw the truth out with questions. We're saying that any church, if you look at this middle paragraph, any church that is a church the way Jesus wants the church to be, has a very high regard for the truth. An attitude on the part of everyone, for serious study of the truth, and serious practice of the truth, and more than that, serious joy in the truth. You know, there's a big difference in the old writers between a knowledge of the truth and a knowledge of the power of the truth. It's one thing to say, I believe that, it's another thing to know the power of that. How much do you have to believe in the grace of God? You have to believe, how much do you have, what do you have to know about the grace of God? Do you have to know enough that it just thrills you and lifts you up and keeps you from despair because you know who you are? How much do you have to know about the doctrine of sin? You have to know enough to taste it. To see it in yourself so you lean more than lean more than ever on your Lord. See, how much do you have to know of these doctrines? You have to know enough so that you're sensing the power of it. So that your sense of the power of it. So that your sense of the power of it. characterized by this particular mark of the church, is a church that has not only a high regard for the truth, but an attitude of serious study and practice and joy in the truth. Now, what Jesus says is, a true church believes the word, receives the word, and keeps the word. Now, I'll just explain those three things, and then you can have time to pull me out. Number one, Jesus Christ, in verse 7, says, Now they know, he's talking about his disciples, that everything you have given me comes from you. And then he goes on and says, For I gave them the words you gave me. Now, what he's saying is, the apostles believe that the truth, the teaching I gave, is actually of divine origin. They believe the teaching I gave them is not just teaching, but it's revelation. It's authoritative, absolute truth. And what's interesting, even though I didn't read verse 20, down in verse 20, Jesus says, And I pray for those that believe on me through their word. You know who that is? He's talking about the apostles, the disciples. I pray for those who believe on me through their, the apostles' word. Who's that?

That's you. That's me. Here, Jesus is praying for the people who believe that the apostles' teaching is Jesus' teaching, and therefore, is God's teaching. And what I put down here is, Jesus is saying that the church is the body of people who accept the apostolic teaching as divine. Now, that is a heck of a definition. Because what Jesus is saying is, you're not a church if you don't believe that what the apostles have written and taught you is right from God's mouth. So now, what this means is that, you see, Jesus has a view of truth, of truth, and the church is supposed to have a view of truth that's completely outmoded.

Put it this way.

For thousands of years, we've always had two ways of talking about truth. We've had objective truth and subjective truth. I know that these are not philosophical categories. Those of you trained in philosophy will know that. I'm talking, as far as I know, in the way the average person thinks and talks, and has for years. There's objective truth and there's subjective truth. Now, I think I might have mentioned this sometime, some time ago. For example,

protein is objective truth. When we've, somebody discovered that you need protein. If you don't get protein, I don't know what happens. What happens if you don't get protein? Something bad happens to you, right? I don't know what happens to you. I mean, your mother spanks you, but besides that, I forget what else is wrong. Anyway, when you don't have protein, it's bad for your body. Your body decays. It deteriorates. If you do have protein, your body is built up and great. All right. That's fine. Now, that's objective truth because it's true for you, regardless of what you believe. It's true for you, regardless of whether you believe it or not. No matter how sincerely you believe that protein is bad for you, it's good for you. No matter how sincerely you believe that protein is bad for you, it's good. And if you don't have it, you'll deteriorate. Now, let's think of subjective truth. And let's think of Baroque music. Now, some people love Baroque music. Other people, they'll be in a hurry to yawn at Baroque music. And therefore, when someone says, that is the best music, that's a subjective truth because though there's plenty of people who will argue that's the best music, nevertheless, even the people who are arguing for it know in the end that they cannot demand that everybody admit that it's the best music because some people like other kinds of music. It's subjective truth. Now, we've always had objective truth and subjective truth. Truths that you have to believe, whether you believe them or not, they're true for you. And truths that are not true for you if you don't believe it. For thousands of years, everybody believed that religious truth was in the first category. In other words, if somebody came up and said, God is one person and one person only, and Jesus Christ is a good man, but he's not God. And another person says, oh no, God is tri-personal. He's three in one. And Jesus Christ is also God. And the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit are all equally God. They all know one another and love one another. They're one in three. Now, when two people would square off like that, because they're talking about religious truth, everybody everywhere knew that one might be right and the other wrong, and the other might be right and the other wrong. Or a Muslim might believe that both of them are wrong in some ways, or a Buddhist might believe both of them are wrong in some ways, but everybody knows that they're wrong. Everybody knows they couldn't both be right. Couldn't be. Why? Because religion, religious truth is absolute truth. That's how people believed for years. They said, look, you know, why would religious truth be more subjective than science? Science, people say, is very objective, and yet science grew out of Christian principles. If you want to do a history of science, you'll see that science did not really grow out of Buddhism or Hinduism, because other religions, Eastern religions, did not believe in the reality of the universe, the material universe. They believed that it was an illusion, Maya, you see. But Christianity comes along, and Christianity says, God is not an impersonal being, but God is a person, and therefore God thinks and speaks and is rational, and since he created the world and it's real, that world is the creation of a personal rational being, and therefore, if you study it, you'll find order to it. Science could not have come up, you know, come up with a theory that says, well, I'm not going to do anything. I'm going to do something that's not going to come up under any other basis. I mean, religious principles and religious truth was the basis for scientific truth. Everybody always said, hey, the most absolute truth is religious truth. Until a couple hundred years ago when people started to say, oh, no, religious truth is like subjective truth. It's like music. It's like Baroque music. You believe Jesus is God. You believe Jesus is not God. You're both right, because if you believe it's true for you, and if you believe it's true for you. Now, we realize that was a completely arbitrary theory. arbitrary thing to do. For years and years and years, we always said, hey, look, it's over here. It's the most important truth in the world. It's the most objective truth. It's more objective than scientific truth. It's more real. It's real absolute truth. Because scientific truth is never certain. Because people, you know, say this is what we've proved by our empirical research, and yet we're not omniscient. We haven't looked on every other kind of experiment. Even scientific truth is nowhere near as sure as religious truth. And yet arbitrarily, a couple hundred years ago, a lot of people began to say, oh, no, that's not the way it is. It's over here. And they arbitrarily jumped, dumped it over with Baroque music when it should have been over with protein. Now, I'm not going to argue, you say, well, how, you know, prove to me that they were wrong. I can't do it tonight. That's not my subject. But I want you to see this. Jesus Christ says, I'm passing along truth to my disciples. The disciples pass along to other people. There's a body of truth. There are things that I can pass along to you that you must believe and you must see that they come from God or you don't belong to me. Jesus' view of truth is the original view of truth. Jesus' view of truth is pretty simple. He believes that the Bible was supernatural revelation. He believes every part of it is supernatural revelation. He believes, he says, not a jot or a tittle can pass away from the law till all is fulfilled. The scripture cannot be broken. Jesus did everything on the basis of the word. He said it can't be broken. There's no way you can question authority.

And nobody doubts that Jesus believed that about the word. Jesus says, if you want to be my church, you have to have that same view of truth. I'll tell you something. A lot of people think that particular view of truth is dangerous. You know why? Because people go to war over it. A lot of folks today will say, that's terrible. If you believe, in absolute, religious truth, that's what leads to wars. Why do you think the Catholics are fighting against the Protestants and the Muslims are fighting against the Christians? It's dangerous.

Well, yes, of course it's dangerous.

Just because something is dangerous doesn't mean it's real. Lots of real things are dangerous. Lots and lots of real things are dangerous. Now, when they discovered nuclear energy, they didn't say, well, it's dangerous, so it can't be true. Let's stop believing in it. That's not the way you deal with nuclear energy. And the same way to say, well, it's dangerous to believe that this truth is the truth because it leads to war. But if you don't believe in truth, what happens is nobody has anything worth dying for. Nobody has anything worth living for because if you don't have nothing worth dying for, no absolute truth, the only thing that's left is my own happiness, my own goals, what turns me on. And if you think you can run a society better like that, then in the old, I think you've got another thing coming. Think. Jesus' view of truth is this. If you're the church, you believe the word of God is of divine origin. All right? Secondly, now somebody's going to ask a lot of questions about that. I hope you do. Go ahead. Secondly, the church receives the word because in verse 8, Jesus doesn't just say, in verse 7, now they know that everything you have given me comes from him. And then he says, for I gave them the words you gave me and they accepted them. I gave you the words. See, there's a body of truth here. Not just God gave him some kind of consciousness and he passed it on. The Father gave him words and he passed the words to the apostles and those who believe in the words of the apostles belong to Jesus. But it's more than belief, it's accept. There's a difference. You see, there's a lot of people who believe the word of God, believe the Bible's authoritative, who are lost and will be lost because it's one thing to believe the word of God, it's another thing to come under the power of it. And I mentioned that before, I'll say it again. To receive the word of God into your life is what the Bible says you're supposed to do with it. The word of God is alive. It's not just truth that's abstract. It's living truth. And that's the reason why it says in Hebrews 4, 12, the word of God is alive and active like a two-edged sword. And why in 1 Peter 1, I think, yeah, 23, the amazing statement is, is made that Christians are people who have been born again by the word of God. Now think about that. That means the word of God has got substance to it. One of my favorite quotes from Luther, Luther is a great quote. Luther says, a man's word is a little sound that flies into the air and is gone in a moment. The word of God is greater than heaven and earth, yea, greater than death and hell, for it forms part of the power of God and endures everlastingly. I don't know what you think of this. Is that real? The word of God is more real than that, Luther is saying, because that will burn up eventually. And the word of God will endure beyond this. It'll endure beyond matter. It'll endure beyond all these. When it comes into your life, it begins to tear things up. It comes on in and it begins to tear things down and put walls up and you know that you're a Christian, by the operation of the word of God in your life. You see, because you're made of water, you get thirsty. How much are you? 80% water, 70% water? Right now, somebody said, I feel like about 97% water right now. Because you're 80% water, you get very thirsty. You get dehydrated unless you're getting lots of it. Why? Because you're made of it. And how do you know where the word of God has actually come into your life as a living thing and made itself part of your very substance and fiber? Because you hunger for it. You want it. You study it. You long to understand more of it. You are nourished by it. It's one of the easiest ways to tell whether or not you're just a moral, nice person or whether you're a Christian. And the Church of God is a church full of people like that. How about you? Think about this. There was a philosophy professor, I guess, at Princeton College, Princeton University, some years ago, named Emile Callier, who was an atheist in his younger years and became a Christian later. I think, I don't know if he taught there or not, but anyway, I read an interesting article by this fellow who said that when he was a young man and he was an atheist, he decided to write a book that really understood him. The name of the article was a fascinating article. It was called The Book That Understands Me. And he said, when he was a young man and he didn't believe in anything, he would sometimes read a book and one page would just leap out at him and it was very, very helpful. Really, really helpful. God, I'm very excited. A lot of the rest of the book was good, but that page just struck him. Then he would be reading another book and a poem would come and just overwhelm him and he says, you know what I need to do. I need to go through and pull out all these parts and put it into a single book. And then, any time I wanted to, I could sit down with this book and just read 20 or 30 pages of all of the life-changing words that I had ever found. And so, he was creating a book that would always build him, that would always say, comfort him when he needed to be comforted, that would challenge him when he had gotten lazy, that would convict him when he had done something wrong. He was trying to create a book that understood him. And, you know, he actually worked on this for like months and after almost a year he realized he had never sat down and tried to read it all the way through and he pasted things in and copied things in so he stuck all these things in and you know what happened? One day, he sat down under a tree, he remembers it very clearly, and opened the thing up in order to read it and to his absolute abject despair he discovered that he'd changed. And, you see, the book no longer was speaking to him because he was a different person. His needs were different, his interests were different, his understandings were different, his sins were different. And the way he put it was it's almost like he had set up this gun and he put it on a stand and then he had sat down and he said, anytime I pull on this string it'll go off and it'll hit me. But he found out that he never stayed put. There was the book aimed at the spot that he was at on September 1st, you know, 1940. But by September 1st, 1941 he was over here and it no longer related. He said, years later, he came to know the Lord. Came to Christ. He was told, told now. Now that you really belong to him you will find that the Word of God is not just something that you've got to study because you believe Jesus is the Son of God and now you've got to do whatever he says. But rather, the Word of God is alive and active. It's come in and become part of you and you will find that you will hunger and thirst for this thing and it will just have a wonderful ministry in your life. And he found out when he sat down and began reading it, oh my gosh, this is it. This is the book that understands me. This is a mobile canon, not a story. It's a stationary gun that no matter who I am and where I am and where I, what I'm feeling, this thing moves. This book moves around and wherever I am it can shoot right through my heart. The Word of God is alive and active. It's like a two-edged sword. Are you a believer? Then you will find that you love it and it will come to you. Actually, John Calvin, he even has this fascinating statement which just shows how the Word of God operates in your life is such an important indicator of whether or not there's spiritual reality in your life at all. Yeah, John Calvin said, Reprobus effluent sermodei, which means the Word of God flows away from the wicked. And it was his way of saying it's not just that wicked people or unbelieving people disbelieve the Bible but they don't get it. And it's not just that believers believe the Bible but they receive it. It comes on in. William Wilberforce was a wonderful minister. No, he wasn't a minister. He was, pardon me, he was an MP, Member of Parliament. He was a dynamic Christian who worked and eventually abolished the slave trade in the British Empire in the early 1800s. Great Christian man. And he had a very, very good friend named William Pitt. William Pitt was I guess the grandson of the Prime Minister after whom Pittsburgh is named and so on. Anyway, William Pitt was a young man, very brilliant, very great, very influential. And Wilberforce was always trying to talk to his friend Pitt about the Lord and he was never interested. One day, for some reason, William Pitt said, Hey, I'll go with you to church this Sunday. And Wilberforce was amazed. He couldn't believe it. He was excited. He took him down to here, downtown London here, one of the best preachers of the age. His name was Richard Cecil. And Richard Cecil was preaching up a storm that day. And you know, Wilberforce, like a lot of Christians, is always afraid that on the day that my friend comes to church it'll be Stewardship Sunday. You know, but luckily that day there was Richard Cecil absolutely preaching up a storm and Wilberforce couldn't believe it. He says, Finally, finally, my friend is hearing this. His own heart was just ripped to pieces by the Word of God and healed. See, the Word of God is a surgical knife. It comes on in and sews you back up. Taking out tumors, doing plastic surgery, it's unbelievable what it can do. And there was Wilberforce just being all cut up and all healed and he couldn't believe his friend was experiencing this. He said, This is my prayers are answered. On the way out he turned to Pitt and he says, William Pitt? He says, What did you think? Pitt looked around and he says, Wilberforce, I haven't the slightest idea what that man was talking about.

Brilliant man, smarter man than Wilberforce, but his heart was closed.

The Word of God flows away from the wicked. Now, listen, what does that mean? It means, just like Jesus says, God, the sower sows the seed, which is the Word of God, on stony hearts and Satan pulls it away. There's a cooperation that's got to happen here. If you are a person who's seeking for Jesus, you have got to cooperate with the Word. You've got to look at it. You've got to try to take it seriously. You don't have to believe every single part of it is alive. You don't have to believe every single part of it is true, even though it is. You don't have to believe that. You don't have to believe that. What you have to do is you have to let it do some cutting. You've got to just simply say, In here, I'll essentially learn the substance of what Jesus Christ believed and taught me. And He can speak to you through it because it's alive. You don't have to believe in a knife for it to cut you. And it's not the knife of a thief. It's not a switchblade of a mugger. It is the blade of a surgeon and He loves you. Now, you have to receive it. You have to take the Gospel in. But secondly, the Church receives the Word by teaching it. And, uh, just, just a couple quick, quickie words on that. Uh, if you read the Bible, you'll see that God expects that Christians are people who are constantly growing in their knowledge of the Word. So Hebrews 5, 11 and 12 and 13 and 14, the writer of the Hebrews says this. He says, You should by now be teachers. He's talking to the whole Church. He says, You should be teachers, but you're still on the basic milk of the Word of God. You ought to be moving on to advancing doctrines and you should be getting in a place where you can teach other people, but you haven't. And he says, Therefore, you're not mature or able to discern good from evil. And what do we learn about that? Just look at what I put down here and this is near the end. Uh, it proves, number one, that everybody in a Church that's really being a Church built on the truth with a high regard for Scripture, everybody in there is a student and a teacher at the same time. You not only are digging in deeply and you're looking at learning like crazy, but you're also imparting it and talking to the best of your ability to the people and instructing people around you. Secondly, it's clear from what the Bible teaches that there's a body of truth that's to be passed along and you can be in a place where you know some of the basics and you haven't moved on to the more advanced stuff and every Christian should be just doing his or her very best to climb up that ladder and get out of the milk and into meat. Thirdly, the goal of the Bible the goal of your study and the goal of teaching is never just knowledge but it's wisdom because the Hebrews writer says in Hebrews 5 that because you don't understand the word you are immature and unable to discern good from evil. One of the hardest things, in fact, you know, to be honest with you, one of the main things that I talk to you about is where you call up or you come by and you say I'm in this situation at work, I'm in this situation in this relationship and I don't know what the right thing to do is. It's not just that here I know what's right but I don't want to do it though there's a lot of that problem too, isn't there? But I don't know what the right thing to do is. And many times I don't know what the right thing to do is and so we pull our ignorance together and we pray to God desperately together and that's pastoral care.

But what you have to realize is the reason you and I are not able to discern those fine shades is because we don't know the word of God like we should.

We're dehydrated.

A lot of the restlessness in your life and my life comes because we're thirsty for truth. If you're really thirsty, usually you know you're thirsty but sometimes you don't. All you do is you feel just really restless, itchy. A lot of us are feeling that way spiritually, cosmically and it's because we don't have the word of God, we're not immersed enough in the word of God especially in a place like New York where there are so many places where you say what's the right thing? What's the good? What's the evil? What's the right thing to do here? You have to know the word of God. You have to be saturated in it. You have to be soaked in it.

Now, we're just, lastly, the last thing but I'll just, this is literally a 60 second thing. The Bible also says you move from belief to reception which is study and love of the word and taking it into yourself and so on but eventually the whole purpose of it is obedience. Isn't that right? And that's where this one vitamin flows out into everything else because when you begin to practice the word of God it leads to worship, it leads to fellowship, it leads to evangelism and it leads to social concern. Well, I'll leave it at that because we got some time for you to say I want to hear a lot more about that subject. I'd like you to explain yourself. I'm going to give it a shot again. Each week so far it's been pretty good. Now, what I want you to do is think about questions. If you've written them down that's ideal. Just put your hand up say it I'll repeat it so everybody can hear and I'll give it my best shot. Try to keep the questions on the subject of the word of God the scripture its place in our lives and its place in the life of the church if you don't mind because we have a big group. If it's a small group I don't mind tangents but if it's a big group we need to stay as much as possible on the subject. Who wants to try? Anybody got a question? Okay. Who wants to take a shot? Okay. Back there first.

The question is what's the Bible say about the relationship between the church and the state? It's a fair question unfortunately because it says well if you really believe in absolute truth and the word of God speaking to every area of life and we're under the authority of it what about the relationship of church and state? The short answer is that in a church is struggling to be the church that Jesus describes here. They will not say oh that's not true. That's not something that we talk about here. We're only here to talk about spiritual things. Well the Bible says a lot of things about the church and it says a lot of things about the state and the short answer is that every church ought to decide what do we believe about that and what are we going to do about that and how are we going to try to equip our people in our congregation to live in the world with regard to that especially those of you who are directly affected by that because you're saying I'm a Christian I'm working for the government. I'm working in the state department or something like that. So the short answer is that's something that has to be addressed. That I've been in churches where nobody wants to address that and I think therefore it's less than what God wants the church to be. The long answer is to try to tell you a personal opinion and I almost feel like that would be a subject for another you know it wouldn't even be a subject I don't think for an evening sermon it would be a subject for a good seminar.

The fact is that I certainly think that there is lots of good biblical warrant for a separation of church and state there is some because in the Old Testament the church and the state were truly totally wedded so that they were together so that if you were religiously guilty of a blasphemy you were also subject to a civil sanction. So if you taught false doctrine you could be executed because the church and the state were together. In the New Testament you don't really see that you know as an example in the Old Testament if a person was caught in adultery he or she was stoned because a civil sanction you know the civil government has the power of that sword the civil government could punish for somebody who breached the you know the religious code but in the New Testament you see that when someone commits adultery instead of being stoned they're excommunicated they're put out of the church which means there's been there's been a division so that even though there's been a division so that the state does not run the church and they're not wedded in the same way. Having said that though today in America the people read the division of church and state as the division between secular and sacred. You see in other words originally in this country division of church and state meant that the government could not support an individual church. It does not mean that Christians aren't supposed to practice their religion publicly. Those are two different things see. Today we're told that if I at a in a public ceremony say I'm a Christian you should be too that is that's the state supporting the church. What church? Tell me what church that is. That's not a church. That's a Christian citizen being Christian about his citizenship. And so I think that's silly and the reason the reason that happened in this country the division between secular and sacred was because people have bought into the idea that all religious truth is in the second category. Remember I was talking about the categories? If you believe religious truth is completely subjective it would be silly to ever bring it out in the public arena. But if it's in the objective categories then you'd want to bring it out in the public arena. It doesn't mean that you are necessarily supporting any particular church. So what's really happened is the original idea of the separation of church and state there's some biblical warrant. The way it's interpreted now meaning that Christians must make sure that they do not let their religion affect their politics or their business or educational practice and so on is really bad and really wrong and there's no warrant for that. Now that's even that's a short answer. But see don't you see that there's a lot of stuff we have to talk about there and a church that's trying it's struggling and wrestling to be a church like that. Like the one we're talking about here. We're not yet. We're not. I don't know if we ever will be. But we would take a hold of that and we would work on it. The people who say I'm called I want I need to work on that let's study the scripture we work on it together. Okay. Wow. Alright. One, two, three. I'll move up. I'll start down here and move on up.