The scriptures this morning are from Psalm 119.

Blessed are they whose ways are blameless, who walk according to the law of the Lord. Blessed are they who keep his statutes and seek him with all their heart. They do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways. You have laid down precepts that are to be fully obeyed. I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. I rejoice in following your statutes as one rejoices in great riches. Keep me from deceitful ways. Be gracious to me through your law. Fulfill your promise to your servants so that you may be feared. I will walk about in freedom for I have sought out your precepts. The unfolding of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple. Make your face shine on your servant and teach me your decrees. Yet you are near, Lord, and all your commands are true. Long ago I learned from your statutes that you established them to last forever. Amen.

we're in a series in which each week we're looking at one of the attributes or characteristics of god according to the bible and this week we're going to look at how god is a god of truth and therefore how god gives us his word of truth by inspiring the authors of the scripture to write the scripture. The Lord of the word gives us the word of the Lord. And Psalm 119, which is the longest chapter or Psalm in the whole Bible, which has 176 verses, is all about how the scripture isn't just wonderful set of wise teachings, but it is itself God's word of truth. And what we've done is we've pulled out a certain number of them so we can give overview of this very important part of Christian belief. What we're going to see here is four basic ideas. These verses tell us four things. It shows us the truth God gives us and then what that truth can do in you if you embrace it. Then how you must use that truth if it's going to do that and who can help you do it. The truth, what it can do for you, how you have to use it if it's going to do that for you and who can help you do it. First, let's look in general at the truth God gives us. And let's just read the first four verses in which you're going to see four ways, four descriptions of the scripture. These are all describing the scripture, at that time, of course, the Old Testament. But of course, in the New Testament, the same words are used for the New Testament. Blessed are they whose ways are blameless, who walk according to the law of the Lord, who keep his statutes, who walk in his ways, and who fully obey your precepts. Notice that the words of the scripture are called God's law, his statutes, his ways, your precepts. The things that the Bible says are actually God's words. In fact, look at verse one, where it calls the whole Bible the law of the Lord. Not the laws of the Lord, the law of the Lord. And many places in the Bible, the whole Bible is called law of the Lord. In fact, Jesus does that. In John chapter 15, Jesus quotes a psalm, which is a poem, and calls it the law. Now that's kind of weird because we do have laws in the Bible. We also have poems and narratives and history. And so why would you call the entire Bible the law? You know what the answer is. It means if a biblical author makes the point, his point, by poetry or by story or narrative or however, whatever that point is, you must believe it. You must obey it. It's all law in that sense. It's normative. It's authoritative. and then of course down here at verse 151 all the way to the bottom all the way to the end of the verses it says you are near Lord and all your commands are true all and that's what the theologians call the plenary inspiration of the scripture you can't go through and find some things that are inspired, some things that are true and not others it's all God's truth. When, when, if you read through Psalm 119, especially if you've been coming to Redeemer in light of this series on God's attributes, one of the things you realize is that every attribute implies that God's a God of truth. Every attribute of God means that God's a God of truth and finds expression in God being a God of truth. So let me give you a couple of examples because God's a the creator, the scriptures, every scripture that he inspires is consummate wisdom. Because God's creator, it's wisdom. You see the word precepts here in verse four. That is a word that means wisdom. And it's good that the English translators give us a word that sounds like prescription because it's very similar. Because God's the creator, because he created you, because he made So anything he tells you to do, you need to do. Because it's how you were built. Got it? So when your mechanic tells you what to do with your car. Or your doctor tells you what to do with your body. They're not just making up laws arbitrarily, are they? They don't want to just boss you around. Though occasionally maybe a couple of them do. But the point is that a mechanic or a doctor says do this with your car. Do this with your body. Because if you don't, it will break down. down. Because I as the mechanic, I as the doctor, I know how these things are designed. And if you violate what I'm telling you to do, you are violating your own vehicle, your own body. If you transgress against me, you transgress against yourself.

And so if God's the creator, then everything he says in the scripture would be consummate wisdom. Secondly, if God is the king, which he is, we've seen that, then everything he says in the scripture is authoritative it's not just suggestion or if god is holy and righteous which he is then everything in the scripture is accurate to reality and if god is sovereign and we've looked at that if god completely controls all circumstances every little thing that happens in history then he can prepare his prophets and his apostles everything that happens in their life to write exactly the things he wants them to write so that everything they write, every word they write, you know, Jesus said every jot and tittle, that means every letter and every part of a letter is true. Every jot and tittle of the word of God is true. So for example, second Peter one says this, no prophecy of scripture ever came about by the prophet's own interpretation.

No prophecy ever had its origin in the will of man. But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So because God's a God of providence, a sovereign God of all things, he can produce human beings who their entire lives are prepared to write exactly what he wants them to write.

everything the scripture says every part of the scripture is God's words and they are absolutely true do I need let me just stop for a second because we're almost done here with our first point we're talking about the plenary inspiration of the scripture we're talking about it being authoritative the only rule of faith and practice and however let's just stop I want you to see that we, when you say God is love, that doesn't bring us into a head-on collision with a culture, but when you say God is a God of truth, it does.

And I'd like to just ask, urge you to be sensitive to the fact that you're being bombarded with a very different understanding of things, of truth. The culture tells you the truth is a subjective inner thing that you discover and is relative to you, not an objective outer reality which you submit to and is true for everyone. The Bible says truth is an objective outer reality that you submit to and is true for everyone. The culture says it's a subjective inner thing that you discover is relative to you. There's 100 million ways in which that's happening all the time. Kathy just told me about one recently. Remember the older vampire stories in movies? What was one of the ways you could stop a vampire with holy water or with a cross? They, they, it burns them, right? Why? Because the older idea was the cross focused the objective reality of God on the vampire and destroy them. But now, uh, I think in the newer and near the end of the Buffy, the vampire slayer, and in the newer vampire stories, um, people can use all sorts of religious symbols from all sorts of religions. Now, right away you say, ah, the vampire has got diversity training, but no, No, no. You see, the theory is that as long as you believe something, so if you're trying to defend yourself against the vampire and you believe in a particular religion, then the, then the relic or the artifact focuses your inner strength against the vampire. See utterly, in other words, truth is not an outward objective reality. It's an inward subjective feeling. And we're being bombarded with that. But I'm like, friends, listen, The Bible says that God is infinite and he's personal. He's not just a personal God like the finite gods of Greece and Rome and Europe. But he's not just an infinite God like the Eastern religions that say God is a completely, you know, kind of an impersonal force. He's personal and infinite. And because he's personal, he speaks. But because he's infinite, his words are absolutely true. and therefore God gives us truth. That's point one. Point two, if you embrace this truth, what will it do for you? Now, one of the most wonderful exercises is to go through the whole Psalm 119, all 176 verses, and just choose everything it says that the Bible, the word of God, that God's word of truth can do for you. But I've just pulled out three because I don't have time for three, but they're very important ones. the Bible as the authoritative word of truth, then the Bible can free you to think independently, empower you to act decisively, and enable you to encounter God experientially. First of all, it can free you to think independently. Now, I know that's a little counterintuitive for us modern people. Notice verse 45, how crazy this verse sounds to us today? I will walk about in freedom. Why? Because I have sought your precepts. I'm absolutely under obedience to these precepts and therefore I'm free. Wait a minute. What? And down at the very end, it says, long ago, I learned from your statutes that you established them to last forever. Now the word statutes means permanent, permanently relevant, relevant, not something that is culturally relative or was true for that time, but always true and true for all times. And here's what I would like to say about this. Many people in New York constantly say, oh, when I was growing up, I believed the Bible, but now I see there's certain things in the Bible that are culturally regressive. In fact, they're offensive. And so I accept some parts of the Bible, but other parts, I just do not, I don't accept those traditional ways of And I have two things to say in response. Here's the first.

If the Bible were really from God, if the Bible were, just for a moment, for sake of argument, let's grant that the Bible is not ultimately from any one culture or any one century, but it's actually from God. If it really was from God, then it would have to contradict every culture and every cultural moment in some way. And it does. Because if you take the Bible to the Middle East, you will see that they love what it says about sex and the family there. But they really troubled by what it says about loving your enemy and forgiving infinitely and turning the other cheek because those are honor and shame cultures over there and the Bible contradicts that part of their culture. But if you bring the Bible to Manhattan, everybody here loves everything it says about turning the other cheek and loving your enemy and forgiving. I think that's great. about sex. The Bible says about sex. Because we are in an individualistic culture. We are offended by it. But if the Bible really were true. It would have to offend you somewhere. And if you are offended somewhere. It is only one sign among many that the Bible actually is true. So in other words. It is absolutely no way. The fact that it offends you. Is any evidence that it is not God's truth. In fact, it's evidence that it is. And here's the other thing I'd say. Don't you dare think that the Bible makes you think inside the box and that if you reject the Bible, you're a free thinker. You know, if you go to see Merchant of Venice sometime or watch it on TV or something like that, it's, you know, Shakespeare. It's a great play. And yet, no matter how hard they try, it's almost impossible to get out from the fact that it's an anti-Semitic play, certainly at certain points. you know up until the 19th century nobody ever played Shylock sympathetically but now everybody does because they're trying to get away in a way from the fact is that Shakespeare though he was a great man was a man of his time and many of the racial stereotypes that were completely accepted by everybody in his day he just he imbibed it was a man of his time he couldn't get beyond it and you think you have gotten beyond your time you think you're not blind to anything right now? You don't think that 60 years from now your great-grandchildren are going to be embarrassed by a lot of the things that you and everybody who's smart that you knew believed? Of course you... It's almost impossible to think outside of the cultural box. It's almost impossible to escape the tyranny of your cultural moment and think outside that box because everybody's thinking this way. And yet of course people in 60 years, it's going to be obsolete. Is there any way to think outside the box? Yeah. If you would accept a standard of truth that already contradicts every culture. Let me give you some examples of how believing the scripture enables you to think independently. Let me give you four that you can pretty much prove from history. Where did the idea of romantic love come from? The idea that you ought to marry for love, not for status. it's been an awful lot of scholarship working on that but in the last 20 years it's come out it's pretty much comes out of the out of the french christian poets of the 8th and 9th century really had a it took the bible and applied it to ancient ideas of women as chattel or marriage for status and changed it where did the idea of human rights come from the idea that every human being has an inviolable dignity regardless of their ethnicity or their race or their class where Aristotle, of course, said some people are born to be slaves. So where did it come from? And now there's very strong historical scholarly case being made. But it came from the Christian canon lawyers of the Middle Ages, the 11th and 12th century, who were reflecting on what the Bible says about the image of God. Where did philanthropy come from? You know, when Christians started to do things like hospitals and orphanages, the early Christians in the Greco-Roman world, that was totally revolutionary. They didn't even have hospitals except to patch up wounded soldiers to get them back on the lines. The very idea of philanthropy and caring for the poor and almost all of those modern ideas came from Christianity. You can look it up. It was thinking outside the box. Why? Because they had the Bible. Or let me just give you one other example. I had a friend of mine who was years ago was doing a Ph.D. at Yale in American history. and he was sitting, Sidney Alstrom and Edmund Morgan, two luminaries at the time, great American historians. And they said to him, when it comes to thinking about slavery and abolition, they said, we modern people think in a very kind of chronocentric way. We say, how could those awful people in the past have ever believed in slavery? How stupid. He says, that's not the question a historian asks. The question a historian asks is this, was accepted by virtually every century in virtually every culture as far back as anybody could remember. Where did the idea ever come from? Why did it occur to anybody that it was wrong? Who ever came up with that crazy idea? And I remember my friend said, well, most of the people who started with that crazy idea that came up and said, it's absolutely wrong, got that idea from in the Bible? And they said, yeah. Thinking outside the box. I walk about in freedom in my culture because I have sought by precepts. So the Bible can help you, free you to think independently. Secondly, it can empower you to act decisively. If you buy the culture's idea that truth is a subjective inner thing that you discover in your heart. It's basically what your heart most feels is truth. I don't know how in the world you're going to make it through life. What about all the places? And there's so many places in which your heart just does not speak clearly. It's just divided. It just doesn't know. Or what about all those awful places that you know about in other people's lives where people's passions swept them up because they wanted this and they wanted that. And they did stuff that blew up their lives. In the last six months, I've read a couple of articles in the New York times about people who had affairs and just blew up their lives. And they look back and they say, why was wrong with me? Or people that did things that they knew were financially shady, but they just, they just, it was just too hard, too hard to, to resist. And they, and then they look back and say, what was wrong with me? How are you going to get an anchor, a rock that will tell you what is the right thing to do, regardless of the storm and the wind that is raging inside your own heart or outside? Where can you get an anchor for your soul? I'm sorry. I still can't find a better place than this. It's a place where Jane Eyre is being asked by Mr. Rochester, please come with me, even though he's still got a living wife and he wants her to come with him. And what does he say? She says, while he spoke, my very conscience and reason turned traitors against me and charged me with crime in resisting him. They spoke almost as loud as feeling, capital F. And that clamored wildly. Oh, comply, feeling said. Still indomitable was my reply. I will keep the law given by God. I will hold to the principles received by me when I was sane and not mad as I am now. Laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation. They are for such moments as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigor. Stringent are they, inviolate they shall be. If at my individual convenience I might break them, what would be their worth? Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations are all I had at this hour to stand by.

and I did. Do you want to know what the right thing is to do even when your heart doesn't so that you can look back and say, thank goodness I didn't listen to my heart. Do you want to have a rock? Do you want to have the power to act decisively?

Believe in the authoritative word of God and trust in it. So the truth can free you to think independently. It can empower you to act decisively. But also, the Bible here says it enables you to encounter God experientially. See, verse 135, make your face shine on your servant and teach me your decrees. Actually, it's the same thing that's being said, though I don't have time to unpack it. Fulfill your promise to your servant that you may be feared. the purpose of reading God's decrees which is his word is not just to learn information about the decrees it's to see his face

it's to actually have a relationship with him to actually have an encounter with him you go to the word of the Lord to find the Lord of the word

and I don't believe you can find a real living breathing God unless you accept the Bible as the word of truth What do I mean by that? Well, here's, if you, listen, look at your computer. You got a computer? If your computer is being everything a computer is supposed to be, it will never fight with you. Now, of course, that's not what happens. But if a computer is being what the computer ought to be, it will do only what you program it to do. Right? Only what you program it to do. And you should get along fine. But if a person is what a person ought to be, persons are not computers. They're not robots. They're not animals. In other words, they have their own will. They have their own views of things. And therefore, if you're in a relationship with a person, you sometimes clash. You sometimes conflict. You sometimes contradict each other. You sometimes fight. And if you're in a relationship with any human being and there's never any difference of opinion. There's never any clash at all. It means one of you has turned the other one into a computer. You've turned the relationship into a mechanical thing or one of you is hiding who you really are. I mean, if it's a real personality, you know. Okay, now, when people say, oh, I want to believe in a God like this. I don't believe these things in the Bible. I like to think of God like this. I don't accept things like this. What's the comeback? back. The comeback is, okay, you believe in God, but you don't believe in this or this, and you don't believe these parts of the Bible. I want to know, how can God contradict you? How can your God have a fight with you? How can your God tell you something you don't want to hear? There's a place where Dietrich Bonhoeffer says that if you decide what God is like, this is what happens. He says, if it is I who say who God shall be, I will always find there a false God, a God who in some way corresponds to me, who fits my nature, who is agreeable to me. When you decide what you want to believe in the Bible, what you're actually doing is creating a computer. You're creating a cardboard, a one-dimensional, a cartoon God. You're creating a God that can't talk back to you. As far as I know, the only way you can have a God who can tell you things you don't want to hear is if you accept that the scripture is his word of truth. Now you can have a fight. Now you can talk. Now you can have a dialogue. Now you can hear him say things and be sure he's saying this to you. Some things are wonderful. You know, some of the things he says to you in your word are too good to be true. And yet because of the word of truth, you got to accept them. And there's other things that are almost too hard to accept. the Word of Truth. You do. And frankly, that's how anybody grows. And that's how anybody grows in a relationship. Do you want to know him experientially? Do you want to have an anchor so that you can be empowered to act decisively? Do you want to have a resource to think independently? You have to accept the Bible as the Word of Truth. So that's the Word of Truth he gives us. And that's some of the things that he can do. But only if you use the Word of God in this way, in these ways. Look at these texts and you're gonna see none of these effects will happen to you unless you unfold the word, hide the word, and rejoice in the word as great riches. You see these three things? First of all, verse 130.

The unfolding of your word gives light. It gives understanding to the simple. Now, something that is folded cannot be read or understood or really seen to be what it is unless you unfold it. If you look at it on the surface, you can't really tell. Maybe you can see some of it, but not most of it. You have to unfold it to see what it really is or what it's saying or what's in it. On the one hand, the Bible in its main points is absolutely crystal clear. Even a child can understand it. But in many, many, many ways, the Bible, if you're going to understand what it says, it needs to be unfolded. There is depths there. And only patience and discipline and a certain humble willingness to reflect in a sustained way will ever plumb those depths. Now, I want you to know that both believers and non-believers are really bad about this. They don't see the Bible as something that needs to be unfolded, to be thought about, to be worked out. they just look at it and they say, oh, there it is. They just look at it on the surface. That's it. Now, here's how believers do it. Years ago, it was really probably one of the, you know, and I look back, it's really probably one of the life-changing moments of my life. If I think about it now, when I was a new Christian, I went to a Christian camp and there was a woman there teaching us how to do a Bible study. And she told us, take one verse, it was Mark 1 17. Jesus said, follow me and I will make you to become fishers of men. She said, She said, take one verse. I want you to go off by yourself, all of you, and take 30 minutes to study that verse and write at least 50 things down that you see in it. And she said, after about five or 10 minutes, you're gonna say, that's it. I've seen everything. She says, keep unfolding. Think, think, think, think till you see new things and you'll start to see new things. And it was true. After about five or 10 minutes, you just said, I'm done. It's only one verse. There's only like nine, only these few words. I had to stay. And after about 10 minutes, you started to say, oh, wait a minute. And then you saw some blue thing. And then, then you got bored again. Then after another five or 10, wait a minute, I see something. She got us all back together. She said, now choose the number one, most life transforming thing you learned from your study. And, and she says, now call it out. And then she put them up on the board. And then afterwards she said, fine. How many of you found your most life transforming thing? After five minutes, raise your hand. No hands. 10 minutes. No hands. 15 minutes. A couple of hands.

When's the last time you stared at a verse for 15 minutes and tried to unfold it and think out everything about it? The unfolding gives light. See, we're believers. We look at it and we say, oh, there it is, or there it's not. I mean, there's the verse one. Yep, I see what's there. It's not much. Yes, there is. It's unfolded. But it's also, and this is something we need to say in good faith to our friends around us. Increasingly in our culture, non-believers write books that say the Bible is filled with contradictions and filled with silly stuff. Recently, there was a couple of books written on how you cannot look to the Bible for any information about how to behave when it comes to sex. The Bible has no sex ethic, this one writer said. No sex ethic at all. No coherent statement about sexuality at all. Because there's nothing

and I said, okay. I said, really interesting. I read the Bible through every couple of years. I've never noticed all these contradictions. And she says, well, for example, she's in the old Testament. It says you can go to a prostitute in the new Testament says you can't. And the old Testament says you can have as many wives as you want in the new Testament. You can say that it says you're going to have one. Okay. So, um, like what? All right. Well, in Genesis 38, Judah, one of the 12 sons of Jacob, has sex with a prostitute, thinks it's a prostitute. It's actually his daughter-in-law, his widow daughter-in-law. You know that story? Yes, all through the Old Testament, you also see in the book of Genesis, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob all have multiple wives. Okay, but let's just spend some time. When you're reading a narrative, you know that the narrator has a point of view. So do you think the narrator is saying sex with a prostitute is fine? When you read the story of all the devastation that came out of what Judah did. Or is he saying that having multiple wives is fine? When absolutely every place through the whole Bible, the fact that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob all had multiple wives, there's nothing but misery that comes from it. Nothing but devastation, dysfunctional families. It's horrible. You read to the end and you say, oh my goodness. And we're going to look to Genesis and say, well, Genesis, it says it's okay to go to a prostitute. Genesis says it's okay to have multiple wives. Not if you read it.

not if you take a moment to unfold it a little bit, just to sit back and say, well, what is the author trying to get across? Nobody in the world would think the author was actually trying to say, go to prostitutes. See, the unfolding of the word gives light. As a believer or as a non-believer, if you don't see that, you're headed for trouble. The second thing we're told we have to do is hide the word in our hearts. verse 11. I have hidden your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Now that is perhaps the best thing. The most comprehensive thing in the whole Bible that describes very, very briefly what the word, what, what your relationship should be to the word of truth. Cause to hide something in the heart doesn't mean less than study it. To hide it in the heart means you are meditating on it and you are maybe memorizing it and you are studying it thinking about it. But to hide it in your heart means you're making it part of you. It means it becomes instinctive. It means it becomes part of your very blood. It means that the summonses and the assurances and the warnings are just part of you. They're just part of you. You walk around with them. You know, I remember the one incident. I mean, one morning, I don't do this like I should. I hate to use myself as a good example. I really wasn't. Deuteronomy. And Deuteronomy says, it says, it's talking to the children of Israel saying, you've got a lot of immigrants. You have aliens, people from other countries who live among you. And he said, it's, and the, and God says, be kind to the aliens and immigrants among you. For you were once aliens and immigrants in Egypt. And I brought you out not late later in the day. I was in a line at the local Gristiti's and, and, you know, grocery store and it was taking forever. It was taking forever. It was a long line and like it wasn't moving at all. And all of us were just so angry. And then as I got to about the third from the top, I suddenly realized the reason was that the cashier woman didn't know English very well. And she, you know, she was making a lot of mistakes and I was sitting there saying, why can't you even know English? And then suddenly I remembered, be kind to the aliens and immigrants amongst you.

For you were an alien and I brought you out. And when I got up to the cashier, I looked at her and I said, hi.

Because accidentally, frankly, I had a part of the word of God was hidden in my heart. You know, it doesn't happen enough. It doesn't happen enough. So you have to unfold the word. You have to hide the word. It says, I rejoice, this is verse 14, I rejoice in following your statutes as one rejoices in great riches. Now, the third thing you have to do if you really want all these benefits to come to you is besides unfolding it and hiding it, you've got to rejoice as in great riches. And by the way, this is the sort of thing that got C.S. Lewis very confused. Because there's a lot of places in the Bible and in the Psalms, and he wrote a book called Reflections on the Psalms, a lot of places in the Psalms where you have the psalmist saying, I rejoice in the law. See, the word statutes, we already talked about this, the word statutes means a permanent decree. In fact, the Hebrew word is well conveyed by this English word sounds like statues, doesn't it? Statues are heavy. They weigh you down. Don't let one fall on you. And if you're a visual artist and you want people maybe to still see your art 3,000 years from now, make a statue. It's your best chance. They're around. 3,000 years later, they're the statues. Statues are there and they're heavy. And of course, the laws of God are very heavy. I remember some years ago, um, talking about, uh, listening to a minister preach on the sermon on the Mount. And he says, I can't understand people that say how wonderful the sermon on the Mount is so beautiful. The sermon, all these things that God, Jesus says, you ought to live like this. You ought to live like this, live like this. This is look at these things. He says, you've heard it said thou shalt not kill. But I say to you, don't even call somebody a fool and disdain them in your heart, or it's as if you've murdered them. You've heard it said, don't commit adultery. But I say to you, don't even look on another person with lust or you've committed adultery. You've heard it said, when you go into court, swear on the Bible and then you have to tell the truth. But I say, let your yes be yes and your no be no. No, let every single thing you say be as full of integrity as if you were in a courtroom, you know, swearing on a stack of Bibles. Look at the Sermon on the Mount, the minister said. Look at what it's saying. Look what it's demanding. God save me, he said from the Sermon on the Mount. Anybody who really sees what the law of God requires, what it really demands, is going to be just crushed. It's like a statue. It's like a rock.

Mark Twain had a recurring nightmare of laying down sleeping and having this huge Bible coming down on his chest, crushing him and suffocating him. How's that for a nightmare? You know why? He probably understood the Sermon on the Mount. And that's the reason why C.S. Lewis looks at places where it says, says, I rejoice in your statutes. Or like in Psalm 1, where it says, I delight in the law of God, and I meditate on it day and night. The law of God. And C.S. Lewis says, hey, he says, I can well understand this sort of thing being said of God's mercies. But the psalmist is talking about God's law, his commands. This was, to me, very mysterious. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not I commit adultery. I can understand that a man can and should respect this statute and try to obey them and assent to them in his heart, but it is very hard to see how they could be delicious

or exhilarating. How can we look at the law of God and just rejoice in it? That's what will get it into your heart. That's what will give you the impetus to unfold it, but how can we do it? and here's the answer. Galatians chapter three, where it says, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. He redeemed us in order that the blessing might come to us through Christ Jesus so that by faith we might receive the promise of the spirit.

When Jesus Christ went to the cross, he died. Why was he dying? He was taking the curse of the law. He was taking the punishment that we deserve for not obeying the law of God. He was being crushed by that great big Bible that was in Mark Twain's nightmare. It was coming down and crushing him, but he took the punishment we deserved. And now, instead of when you and I look at the law, if you believe in Jesus, do you realize what that means? When you and I look at the law, now we know it cannot condemn us because its condemnation fell on Jesus. crush Jesus. And now when we look at the law of God, we see God's character because this is what he is like. And it's beautiful. And we see a way to please God. And we see a way of resembling God. And we see a way of getting close to God. And now the thing that once crushed us and was horrible and fearful is a beautiful thing. Jesus Christ not only satisfies that law and makes it possible for us to rejoice in it so it can come into our lives. But I want you to know he's the ultimate example of somebody who hid it in his heart. And in the end, and by the way, recently two or three people just walked up to me after a service or somewhere and said, you treat the Bible as if it's authoritative, but how do we know? Let me just, let me give you a personal experience. Years ago, I read a little book by John Stott called The Authority of the Bible. and he said something in it that stayed with me. He said, look at Jesus Christ. Jesus speaks 1800 times. There's 1800 verses in the Bible of Jesus' sayings. 1800 verses. 180, 10% are scripture quotes. He was saturated with the word of God. He said, you know neither the scripture nor the power of God. He said, the scripture cannot be broken. He said, not a jot or tittle of the scripture way till all is fulfilled. He believed it. He was saturated with it. And when the troubles hit him, when he was three times, he was assaulted by Satan in the desert. And every time, what does he say? Gagrapati. It is written. And in Matthew 27, we talked about this last week, I think when, you know, uh, he's being assaulted in the garden of Gethsemane. There's a storm for you. There's everything happening all around and he's being arrested. And remember, somebody pulls out a sword and he says, I could call 12 legions of angels, but how then would the scripture be fulfilled? The scripture is his lodestar. The scripture is his compass. He's thinking about the scripture. On the way, on the Via Della Rosa, on the way to the cross, the women are weeping. He turns and he says, women weep for yourselves. Don't weep for me. And he quotes Hosea. And on the cross, he says, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? which is Psalm 22.

If you say you believe in Jesus, this is what I realized, and this is what John Stott said in the book. If I say, oh, I believe in Jesus, but then I reject the very foundation of his life, the very foundation of his life, the dynamism that was at the heart of his life was absolute trust in the truth of God's word. That was the thing that made him tick. That was the thing that got him through. That's the reason why you and I can be saved. It was the very basis of his life. believe in Jesus, but there's parts of the Bible I can't accept is vile and it's crazy and it's wrong. They go together. Look at Jesus Christ and you'll see the beauty of a man who completely had all the scripture hidden in his heart and it made him, it made him a jewel. It made him a gem.

Go into the word of the Lord to find the Lord of the word. And he's a beauty. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us to have these great things in our lives, the ability to think independently, outside the cultural box, the ability to do what is right in the most difficult, stormy times in our lives. But most of all, we want to know you and we want to know your son and we know the only way to find you is in your word. So we pray, Father, that you would make us people of the book. And we pray that you'd make us people here in this city who are so saturated in the word and have so much of it hidden in our heart that we can love the alien and the poor and we can forgive that we can face any trouble or any problem. And we can be walking in the same footsteps as your son. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.
