Please turn to 1 Corinthians 13. Next to Psalm 23 and maybe the Ten Commandments, it's hard to imagine that we have a more popular and familiar passage. But we're looking at the fruit of the Spirit. We looked at them in general last week when we looked at Galatians 5. And starting this week and moving through the next nine weeks, we're going to be looking in order at a good passage on each of the fruit of the Spirit, and joy and peace and patience and kindness and goodness and meekness and gentleness, self-control, and so on. Tonight, let's read something that surely you've heard before, and it's familiar, but it's the locus classicus. It's the classic text on love in the Bible. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels but have not love, I am only a resounding gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I that can move mountains. But have not love. I am nothing. If I give all I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flames and have not love. I gain nothing. Love is patient. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not rude. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered. It keeps no record of wrongs. Love does not delight in evil but rejoices with the truth. it always protects, always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. But where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. Now we see, but a poor reflection is in a mirror. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. And now these three remain, faith, hope, and love. But the greatest of these is love. Well, we have a long sermon series in this passage, but we can't do a sermon series at all. Let's take a look at your handout. Let's remind ourselves for a moment, as we plunge into the study of the fruit of the Spirit. Let's remind ourselves what the fruit of the Spirit is. The fruit of the Spirit is really just a breakdown of holiness. If you could take holiness and put it a prism, so that the prism somehow, I don't know what kind of prism this would be, could break down holiness into its constituent parts, you'd have the fruit of the Spirit. They're the same thing. You can see it, for example, in Romans 6. Don't turn to it, but in Romans 6, God, Paul, talks about the works of the flesh and how we must not produce works of the flesh, but instead we should be holy and put on holiness. In Galatians 5, the works of the flesh are contrasted with the fruit of the Spirit. 1 Peter and a number of other places, the works of the flesh are contrasted with holiness. So, the holiness and the fruit of the Spirit are the same thing. Now, the secret of holiness and the secret of the fruit of the Spirit, let's not forget, we looked at it last week, the secret is not to live under law, but under grace. I put this down here. In other words, if you are doing, if you're trying to do good, if you're trying to live up to standards, if you're trying to be moral out of a belief that being moral will earn you heaven, will earn you acceptance with God, will earn you anything with God. If you are being moral out of that motivation, it will produce works in the flesh. If, on the other hand, you understand the gospel of grace, and that is that through Jesus Christ we're accepted fully now. because God has laid our sins on Jesus Christ, and then God also transfers, when we believe in Jesus, his righteousness and his great record to our account so that we're fully accepted now. Then when we seek to live a godly life, with that motivation, it produces the fruit of the Spirit. That's fairly simple, and I was thinking last week when I was all done, why do I take 30 minutes to say these things? Why don't I just say it in a sentence? That way nobody will get it mixed up. a sentence. If you're trying to be good. I mean, everybody knows if you're trying to be bad and evil and wicked and shoot people and so on that you're going to produce works of the flesh. But if you're trying to be good under law. If you're trying to be good because you hope then God will answer your prayers and put power in your life and help you out. It will produce works of the flesh. It'll produce pride. It'll produce sensuality. It'll produce a lack of self-control. a lack of kindness, all the unholy things. If, on the other hand, you say, I see that I'm accepted wholly because of what Jesus has done for me, and now I want to live a life of grateful joy and grateful obedience to God, you'll produce the fruit of the Spirit. It's the same with the fruit of the Spirit as with holiness. Jonathan Edwards wrote a book, which is still probably the best book I ever read, next to the Scripture, of course. And if you asked me, if you put a gun to my head and said, what's the greatest book ever written? I might say, I mean, why would I ever want to say what the greatest book ever written is? But if I had to, I'd say that was it. And in that book, he says, it's one thing to love God for his mercy. It's another thing to love God for his power. And, of course, a real Christian will love God for his mercy and his power. But only a real Christian can love God for his holiness. Now, why did he say that? He said it because of this. It's possible. Actually, I guess we talked about it in the morning, now that I think about it this morning. It's possible to come to Christianity the way you come to a self-help book, or you come to a seminar that's going to help you get your life together. You come and you say, ah, I have got problems in my life. I'm hitting a rough a rough patch. And I need something to get me over that hump. Get me through this bad time. So just tell me what the requirements are. What do I need to do? Come to church more often? Read certain books? Clean up my life in this or that way? Just tell me what it is because I want that power in my life you talk about. Or just tell me what it is because I feel guilty and I need to do something about these guilt feelings. So I want that mercy which you talk about. See it's possible to use God to get his power. See not to love but just to say, I love God for his power because I need that power to deal with my problems to reach my goals. Or it's possible to love God even for his mercy because, oh, how we hate these guilt feelings. It would be so great if we could know that mercy so that, again, we're using God to get the mercy so we can feel better. And Edwards says real Christians love God for his mercy and his power, but non-Christians can too. People who want to use God, people who really want to treat Christianity as a self-help course, and they don't know it. Because they're trying, you see, in order to make themselves feel good about themselves. They're just doing whatever they can, using religion, using God, in order to get there. But Edward says, if you love God for his holiness, for his purity, for his perfection, for his goodness, for his greatness, then you're actually loving God for himself. And that's only possible if you believe the gospel. It's only possible if you say, Lord, the reason I love you is for what you've done for me. I can't use you to get anything. You've already given me everything I possibly could ever want. Now I gaze upon you out of grateful joy, and I love you, and I want to be like you simply because you are you. Dr. Ed Clowney, former president of the Westminster Seminary, used to put it like this. I think I've brought this up somewhere else. If your wife comes to you and says to you, he used to say this, Your wife comes to you and says, why do you love me? And you say, well, I love you because you're serviceable. I added things up. I looked at all the other women, and I figured this woman, of all the women, looked like she will help me reach my goals. She will give me the greatest sense of well-being. She will probably be the most compatible person to operate a household with. I ran through the computer and, you know, you were the one, honey. And what will she say? She won't say much, not all day, not all week probably. Because you see, when somebody says, why do you love me? What you want the person to say is, I love you because I love you. I can't get behind the love. There isn't any reason for the love other than itself. Now, God's love for us is like that. He doesn't come to us and say, I love you because I see that you are serviceable to me. I see that you are going to do all these great things. Heck no. God says, I love you simply because, not of what you are, but because I love you. That's why God is always saying in the Bible, Deuteronomy 7, he comes to Israel, and this is an amazing place in Deuteronomy 7. He says, oh, Israel, I did not love you because you were the greatest of nations. I did not love you because you were the largest of nations. I did not love you because you were the most skillful of nations. God loved you because he loved you. It literally says that. Now, when you experience God's love like that, when you accept Christ as Savior and you know you're completely accepted now, In spite of your bad deeds now, you're totally accepted. You're in. You're in him. You belong to him. Then you turn to God and you begin to say, I love you simply because I love you. I don't need to use you anymore. That's the reason why Edwards can say the mark of real Christianity is you love God for his holiness, namely, i.e., you love him for himself. And when you begin to love Him for Himself, you grow in the fruit of the Spirit. To the degree that you look at Him. See, the fruit of the Spirit, as we put down here, are the incommunicable attributes of God. Pardon me. The communicable attributes of God. Not the incommunicable. That is a mistake. I read my own writing and look. The incommunicable attributes of God are His omnipresence, His omnipotence. Things that we'll never have. Even in Heaven. We're never going to be able to be everywhere at once. knowing and all-powerful. But then there are other attributes of God called the communicable attributes of God. Mark out that little N there, all right? The I-N, mark it out. And the communicable attributes of God, his love, his greatness, his wisdom, these things, through our intimate contact with him, will grow in us. And how do we become like him? We become like him the closer we get to Him. The more we gaze at Him. The more we actually thrill under Him. Now, I know it's pretty hard for you to understand a Presbyterian talking like this. But, you know. Look. It's one thing to know intellectually that He's wise. It's one thing to know intellectually He's gracious. It's another thing to actually stare at Him. To let the truth wash over you. To sit in its presence and just let it sink in. If there is a secret to holiness, that's it. And that is that there's no secret. Your typical book on the victorious Christian life. I'm sorry. You know, the last thing I read, people say, what do you read for devotional? You know, what do you, what kind of devotional reading that you do? And I say, well, I have lots of devotional reading. But the one thing I never, ever, ever read is devotional reading. I mean, anything in a Christian book store, it says devotional reading. I ordinarily stay away from it. Because devotional reading and books on how to, you know, be a better Christian and how to have victory and so on, ordinarily they start like this. You have problems. You've got troubles. You have things you have to overcome. Just follow these three steps. Everything will be fine. But the Bible always says instead of starting with you, it starts with God. It says, be ye holy for what? Because you got troubles? No, for I am holy. Be ye holy for I am holy. Look at me, come near me, see me. You know, how did Isaiah get holy? Through a book. Isaiah got holy because he saw God. And you know, when Isaiah got a hold of who God was. He was different. He saw him face to face. Remember that? He comes on in and he sees the angels high and lifted up. You have God and there was smoke and there was trembling and he saw God and he fell to his face and he was changed. How did Job become holy? Job says, I heard of you with my ear, but now I see you with my eye, and I repent in dust and ashes. How did Peter become holy? You know, Peter sees Jesus Christ bringing all these fish into the boat, and he says, depart from me, for I'm a sinful man. He came into contact. He saw who Jesus was. They saw who God was, and that changed them. And all the methods, the methods, who cares about the methods? Oh, I'm not saying there's no methods. After all, we spent five weeks talking about disciplined Bible study focusing a prayer life and spending plenty of time with other Christians in fellowship. I'm not saying there's nothing you can do. I'm not saying you should be passive, but it's not methods. It never has been methods. Every time, look, every single time you find yourself losing courage. Now, courage isn't one of the fruit of the Spirit exactly that's listed here, but it's one of the aspects of holiness. You know, the Bible commands courage. Do you know the Bible doesn't just it. The Bible doesn't just say courage is a great thing for those of you who are born with it. We tend to think like that. It says in Revelation 21, into the lake of fire will be thrown who? Yes, the liars. Yes, the whoremongers. Yes, all those people. And who else goes into the lake of fire in Revelation 21? The cowards. I remember the first time I read that, I said, oh my word. wait a minute cowardice I mean hey you know I know I shouldn't lie but I can't help that I'm a chicken that's not what the Bible says this morning in the call to worship we were looking at Isaiah 51 and Isaiah in Isaiah 51 God says who are you that you fear mortal man I have been living with that verse for two weeks. I couldn't wait to lay it on other people. Misery loves company. Who are you? Do you know what God's saying? He's saying, how dare you? Who do you think you are that you're scared? I remember thinking about that. What he's saying, he's saying, if you are afraid of people, it's your fault. Who do you think you are? He says that you are afraid of mortal man and you forget get, Lord God, I'm the one who churns up the sea. Look, if you are a coward, it's because you're failing to confront yourself with the truth. This is how the fruit of the Spirit grow in anybody's life. This is how holiness grows in anybody's life. You confront yourself at the moment you need to be different with the truth about God. And what is the truth? You don't want to be a coward? Just keep thinking this. God, the infinite almighty God, to whom the entire universe, the entire galaxy, which is 200 million light years across, is but a piece of lint, has said that he is for me. So what can be against me? Now, you say, that helps me now, but what about tomorrow? You have to take it with you. It helps me now. It feels good. I'm in here. way the world is. I can almost begin to believe that the world's like that. But when I get out there, it's different. You have to take it out there. And don't you begin to see it's not the methods. It's not the methods. It's taking the truth of who God is and keeping your eye on Him. That's the reason why the fruit of the Spirit are just the communicable attributes of God. They are just God's qualities burned into our soul because we keep looking at them. You know, there are people, they say, that if you've been married a long enough time, you start to look like each other. There may be something to that. But I know that's true about God and you. It says so. We're being transformed into the image of his Son, the communicable attributes. Every fruit of the Spirit, every aspect of holiness comes from looking at God himself, not by method. Now, one more thing about studying the fruit of the Spirit, and then we'll at least get into love for a while. Get into love? 15 minutes on love. Oh, well. I put down here something kind of important to keep in mind every week. In Galatians 5, it says, The fruit of the Spirit are love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, right. You know the word fruit there in Greek is singular. And that's fairly important to keep this in mind. It doesn't say the fruits of the Spirit. Now, one of the reasons why we may not notice that is in English, the word fruit can be sometimes singular and sometimes plural. It's one of those, those of you who, English is not your first language, of thing that makes you pull your hair out, right? Because English is so inconsistent. We're sorry about that. I'd do something if I could. Fruit here is singular, and that means that love, joy, peace, patience, and so on are not actually separate things. That's very important. Instead, you should think of the fruit of the Spirit like a diamond, and every one of these things are truly facets or aspects. You can actually look into the diamond through any face and see all the rest of What this is saying is that ultimately, if you have one of these attributes or one of these fruit, all the rest of them would be there. In fact, it's extremely clear in the case of love, though it's true for all the rest. If you look at this passage on love that we're about to look at or we have been looking at, 1 Corinthians 13, you'll see that all the other fruit are there, right? Love is patient. Love is kind. What are those? Those are fruit of the Spirit. Oh, then you say, well, maybe love is the only thing and all these other things are derivative. No. love the way the Bible says you love, then you'll have joy. You'll have peace. You'll have humility. They're all in there. If you have joy, you'll have love and peace and all the rest. If you have peace, you'll have love and joy and all the rest. That's because they're all of a piece. And you can't really, really, really have one without developing the rest. Now, you can certainly be lagging behind in some. There's no doubt about it. And if you want to grow, you have to know which ones you're lagging behind in. But one of the things that Jonathan Edwards says in The Religious is affection, is he says that any one of these things individually, any one of these fruit individually can be counterfeited by Satan, can be counterfeited by the natural constitution of the human heart. But what makes you know the difference between a real Christian and anybody else is that only a real Christian, or we should say only the Holy Spirit, can produce all of them together. There's a symmetry about holiness. You see, it's possible, for example, to be extremely courageous in the flesh. You're just a person who's hard-headed. You're just a person who's not very afraid. You're just a an assertive aggressive person. And so all the things the Bible says about faithfulness and about truth and about courage, you say, that's me. But what about all the things the Bible says about gentleness and humility and approachability? Are you approachable? Do people actually want to come talk to you about their problems, even when you're really too tired but they come after you? Well, most of us, see, if you're the person who temperamentally is courageous and truthful, you know, you're always telling people the truth and you're a straight shooter, you're probably not the kind of person that people are going to come after, are you? No. Because, you see, they can be counterfeited. Those kinds of attribute and fruit can be produced by the natural human heart. But it's all of them together. And there's some of us, of course, that are very, very approachable. And we wouldn't harm a fly. And nobody in the world would be afraid of us. But we're also fairly cowardly about a lot of things. You see, your natural temperament, your natural constitution can produce some of these. But real spiritual fruit is all of a piece. And the way you can tell that something is going on supernatural that cannot be accounted for in any other way in your life is that they're all growing together. And that's the reason why fruit is singular. the way, here's four, oh well, I'm just looking at the time, but these four books I would suggest at some point would be awfully helpful if you want to understand Christian character. They're right smack in the middle of the first page here. If you want to understand godliness or holiness or the fruit of the spirit, and these are all the same thing. The book I would start with is Jerry Bridges' The Practice of Godliness. It's a NAF press book, very good. Secondly, a book by John Sanderson called The Fruit of the Spirit. I don't know that's in print anymore, but it's a good book. Jonathan Edwards, A Treatise on Religious Affections. I would generally say very few of you ought to run out and get that book. It's not an easy book to read. You need to read some other things first. But if you've got it, treasure it, don't sell it, stick it there, and hopefully someday you'll be able to find Mind the Riches. And then there's a book by C.S. Lewis itself called The Four Loves, which is also a marvelous book, really, about Christian character. So let's, I'll tell you what I'm going to do. We read 1 Corinthians 13, but I'm going to have to be brief in order to really give you the overview of this fruit. And the reason I got to stay on schedule is because I printed the schedule on the back and now you see I can't take two weeks on love. We got to go right to joy. And some of you look like we need to get there soon. So let me give you an overview of this particular fruit. If you take a look at the, if you look at 1 Corinthians 13, you see it breaks down into three parts. Verses 1 to 3 are all telling you why love is more important than anything else. And here you actually have a statement from Paul very much along the lines of what I just said Edwards, Jonathan Edwards says. Paul is saying the way you can tell real Christianity is by love, not by, and he says, tongues or prophecy or knowledge or faith or giving of his possessions to the poor or even martyrdom itself. Now, what he's talking about in that list is gifts, a gift of the Spirit, spiritual gifts that talk, there's There's many lists in the Bible of spiritual gifts, like prophecy and teaching and pastoring and helps and so on. Gifts are activities. And what Paul is saying is a frightening thing, and we have to keep this in mind. He says Christian activities, as busy as you can get, doing evangelism, for example, doing teaching, doing discipling, helping the poor, teaching and preaching in church and leading worship, all these things, as great as they are, can be absolutely counterfeited. In fact, if you want to know the truth, every other religion has them. Every other religion. Tongues, some people think only Christians speak in tongues. It's just not true. Tongue speaking happens in other religions as well. Prophecy, teaching, lots and lots of money that you're giving to the poor, and a willingness to die for your faith. Let's face it, every religion has produced tons of people like that. So how in the world are you supposed to tell? What Paul is saying is not that you should stop. giving your money to the poor, or not that you should stop teaching and doing all these things. He says, the way you can tell real, real, true Christianity is not by how busy you are and how active you are, but whether or not actual supernatural character is growing. It's the fruit of the Spirit that cannot be counterfeited by magicians or by science or by Satan, but the gifts of the Spirit can. In fact, you have in Matthew 7, that frightening verse that I'll continue to bring you back to. It says on the final day, people will come to Jesus and say, Lord, Lord. Now, Lord, Lord is an important, a very important address. By calling him Lord, it shows that they intellectually believe he's God. Kourios, they use this great, you know, address. And they don't just say Lord, they say Lord, Lord. That's important. In the Bible, whenever you see a doubling, it means intensity of feeling. You know, when David's son Absalom is killed, he doesn't just say, Absalom, my son. He says, what? Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son. It's intensification of emotion, the doubling. And here we have them saying, Lord, Lord, didn't we do great deeds in your name? Deeds. Didn't we cast out demons? Didn't we prophesy? side. Didn't we do mighty deeds in your name? And Jesus doesn't say to them, you know, I'm sorry, but you backslid. He doesn't say that. He says, depart from me. I never knew you. And what he's doing is he's just simply giving, you know, he's giving credence here. He's simply saying the same thing that Paul is saying. Paul is saying that whereas Christians certainly must be active and must be busy. That's not what actually shows that your faith is real. What shows that your faith is real. That you are getting more like Jesus. In the way in which you behave. In the way in which you love. In the way in which you are in yourself. It's a scary question. But here it is. Are you less irritable than you were last year? Are you less anxious than you were last year? Are you more patient than you were last year? Are you a happier person than you were last year? Is there more peace in your life than there was last year? That doesn't prove that you're not a Christian. But it proves this. If you can't answer those things in a satisfactory way, it's serious if you're not growing. It's serious. Because I'll tell you why. When you don't see yourself growing, you do tend to lose your assurance of your salvation. And without assurance of salvation, there is no power. There is no power. So get on the growth track growing in your life. That's what Paul's saying. You wondered when I was going to get that. See, some of you say, you never use notes. You're not watching. I do use notes. Okay. Now, the second part of 1 Corinthians 13 is the facets of love. And the facets of love are fascinating. And by the way, same word, they're fascinating. Fascinating must mean, you know, there's all these facets to a subject. And instead of going into it, I'm going to distill the essence out of it. But we're told, for example, that love is patient. And patient means literally suffers a long time. In fact, as we'll see in a minute, one of the essential characteristics of love is that you stay vulnerable. When you're getting beaten, you don't immediately retreat. Being patient is an amazing thing. By the way, this is just a story that's always meant so much to me. you know the guy named Stanton who was Abraham Lincoln's political opponent what was his first name? some of you know a lot more about this than me was it William Stanton? Edwin Stanton close, good, Ed

Edwin Stanton was a political opponent and when Abraham Lincoln was running for office you've got to remember Abraham Lincoln was a Midwesterner He was called a hick by Edwin Stanton. He was called a gorilla. You know, he does look a bit. Have you ever noticed that? Abraham Lincoln does look a bit like a gorilla. He does. And he called him a gorilla. And he called him a monstrosity. And he called him a hick. And he called him all kinds of things. And when Abraham Lincoln won the election. And he looked around to find the most able person possible. To be his secretary of war. Or secretary of the military. He chose Edwin Stanton. He chose him. And put him in his cabinet. put up with an amazing amount of stuff turned him into his friend because he said I know this man is great and you know when Abraham Lincoln lay dead at his funeral Stanton was there and he got up in tears and said here lies the greatest ruler among men in the earth just amazing patience was the way in which Abraham Lincoln loved him there's no way to be patient unless you understand the old King James word for this Patience is long-suffering. It's the same thing. It means you stay put and you love somebody even when you're getting it, even when you're taking an arrow in the shoulder and you're taking a bust in the mouth. You stay put because you say, the only way in which I can love you is to stay put. Patience. Kindness. The Bible talks about love being kindness because love is not a feeling first. It's not possessive. Very, very important. important. You know, it means, for example, that instead of wanting to use the person, you instead want to free the person. C.S. Lewis in the book For Love says, what most of us think of as love is really a kind of hunger. What most of us consider the feeling of love is actually a feeling of wanting to use somebody to meet our needs. When you see somebody is, oh, first of all that person is, well, you know, it depends. You know, if we're thinking about somebody with the opposite sex, here's what most people think is a feeling of love. Number one, the person accidentally happens to fit the body type of the paradigm in your mind that you've always thought was attractive. That's the first thing. Right? In other words, you've got a body type in your mind and you look at all these people out there, the opposite sex, and you have no idea what they're like, but the ones that you immediately knock away are the ones that don't fit the body type. You don't even know anything about them. Then you go after the ones that do. Then secondly, you talk to them. You begin to say, hey, these people are sharp. I would be, you know, I would feel like I was getting into an echelon where I would feel like, hey, this person would, I would look good with this person. And what's going on is you're falling in love. You're feeling attracted. But what it means is the soul hunger that needs somebody to come in and meet those needs is starting to, It's starting to throb. You know, that little need thing in there is starting to throb, and you call that love. Real love, what? Is not possessive. That means it, love is patient, love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It is not proud. It is not self-seeking. It's selfless. It's not there trying to use somebody, but trying to free somebody. Not irritable, which we've talked about a little bit. have time to go through all that. Go to the back. Verse 8 to 13 is very famous. Love never fails, but where there are prophecies, they will cease. Where there are tongues, they will be stilled. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part and we prophesy in part, but when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. Now, what's this saying? Number one, it says real love never fails. This, we've already said one difference between real love and kind of a fake, false, counterfeit kind of love, is that real love stays put and you make yourself vulnerable. Another mark of real love is that it is not trying to be selfish and meet your needs, but it's actually trying to meet the needs of the person. Now, one of the ways, Paul says, you can tell the difference between selfish, need-meeting love and actual service and commitment to somebody is that real love never fails. That means it stays put. Now, you can understand why. If you love somebody on the basis of what they can do for you, your feeling for that person will change and will wax and wane depending on their behavior toward you, right? If the basis of your love is whether or not that person's meeting your need, then you will find that you love them more. and you'll love them less when you're meeting a need less. But if instead your love is based on a desire to serve someone and give to them and help them, then it doesn't matter how they act. In fact, when they act worse, when they act more messed up, if anything, you have more of a basis for your kind of love, for God's love. If you're there to meet a need instead of have your needs met, then the more needy the person gets, the more you can love. And that's why Paul says the real difference is that need love tends to dry up. up. It collapses. Literally, the Greek word here is to collapse like a city collapses when it's under siege. And therefore, Paul says, it doesn't give up. Let me talk to you about the economics of it. If I, like most of us here, maybe not all of us, most of us are not independently wealthy. Most of us have got to go out and work. Why? Because we have, we got so much time, and we have our bills, and we've got to spend at least a certain amount of our time making money. So when somebody comes up to you and says, hey, I really need for you to spend a day with me. I got a problem. Well, you know, you can only do that so far, right? Because you're not independently wealthy. You've got to set aside a certain amount of time. You can only be so generous. But what if you were infinitely wealthy, just about? What if you had billions and billions of dollars in a trust fund? Then you find out you can suddenly be incredibly generous everywhere you're not operating on a system where you have to make sure that you are getting a certain amount of money for your time. Now, the same thing works with love. If you, in your natural state, realize that we all have got to have love from somebody, we've got to. I mean, you've heard about all the experiments that show that little babies die if they're not being held. I mean, that is the most amazing thing. That babies have a much higher infant mortality rate if they're just not loved. How much more clear can it be that human beings need love? That's our natural condition. So we move out into the world like this. I've got to get at least as much as I'm giving. I have to. Otherwise, I'll die. My ego will go bankrupt. I'll go into the red. And I can't just give and give and give unless I'm getting. So you go out on there and you look around and you have to almost choose. You might have one or two charity cases, yes. People that you give to who you get nothing from. There's nothing about them that's appealing to you. have one or two charity cases. But in general, you have got to spend time with people that make you feel good about yourself. People that you want to invest your love in because you need their love and you want their love and it meets your needs. Therefore, you move out into the world like this. You don't really love people. You love the love that you're getting. You don't love them directly. You love what you can get from them. And I know that, like I said, there's some people that, you know, you spend a lot of time with. be philanthropic with your love. But what if you were independently wealthy in love? What if you knew, no matter what other people said about you or what other people did to you, you knew you were valuable. You knew you were loved. You were loved with an infinite love. You were loved by somebody that as long as he loved you, it didn't matter what anybody else in the world thought. What if you were independently wealthy when it comes to love? Well, are you a Christian? You are. You're supposed to be. Or better yet, You've got the money there. But a lot of us are living on the street. Every so often you read about people who've got this incredible amount of money that's in their name in a bank. For whatever reason. Either a little bit a little bit eccentric. They never draw on it. Instead. They live in abject poverty. A lot of us are like that. The Economics of Love says. Real love never fails. Let me give a final definition. In summary, it's down at the bottom. What does the Bible say? Number one, love is meeting the needs and concerns of others before or instead of your own. That's the definition of love. Feelings are not of the essence. That's the reason why C.S. Lewis says up at the top, though natural likings, now liking, by the way, is an emotion. Likes is an emotion. Love is not, Not biblically. Though natural likings should normally be encouraged, it would be quite wrong to think that the way to become loving is to try to manufacture affectionate feelings. Do not waste time bothering whether you love your neighbor. Act as if you did. See what he's saying? He says it doesn't matter whether you like your neighbor or not. Do for him. Help him. Serve him. And as soon as you do this, you will find one of the great secrets. When you're behaving as if you love someone, you will presently come to love him. Now, there's an exception. if you do him a good turn not to please God and obey the law of charity, but to show him what a fine, forgiving chap you are, and to put him in your debt and sit down to wait for his gratitude, you will probably be disappointed. Christian love is distinct from affection, but it leads to affection. And oh my, have I seen that. And you have too. I don't know how many times I have sat with people who have been married for about 20 years, and they say there's no love left in the marriage and I went out. And I can tell you exactly what happened. They had children. And when you have a child, what happens is you have a child, you have a person who needs to be served. And the essence of love is to serve somebody else's need regardless of what you want to do. Your child is up in the middle of the night screaming and wailing. You know, he's three weeks old. What do you do? You say, hey, this is no good. You know, I'm tired. I'm going to bed. You get up. You feed them. You do whatever you have to do. And you get nothing from that kid for a long time. After several weeks, the kid might actually reach up and grab your finger and smile at you. Wow. I mean, you get so little and so little. And the fact is, as time goes on, you're giving and you're giving and you're giving and you're giving. You're giving just very, very little back. And as a result of you giving and giving and in spite of your feelings, what happens is your love for that kid grows incredibly strong. wrong. Meanwhile, what happens when your spouse acts like a baby? What happens when your spouse is acting in a way that's immature and silly and awful, and you're called upon to continue to be loving to her or him in spite of how that person is acting, what do you do? You say, well, if she's not going to be the wife she used to be, what the heck do I have to be the husband I used to be? And you immediately start to say, since I don't like him, I don't have to love him. and then what happens is the less you love Him, the less you like Him, and the less you like Him, the less you love Him, and so on and so on. After 20 years, here you are doing the biblical kind of love to your kid, even though the kid's giving you nothing. And by that, after 20 years, your kid could be an absolute jerk, and you love Him. And in those same 20 years, you are operating in a completely selfish way with your spouse. And instead of continuing to serve, even when you don't like,

And you think, in other words, your love for your kid is biblical because it doesnt, it leads to affection. Its not affection. Essentially, its service. Your love for your spouse, you think of it as basically an affection. And if the affection and the erotic feelings arent there, theres no reason to give. And as a result, the opposite thing is happening. Here. The more you love, the more you like. Here. The less you love, the less you like. And the less you like, the less you love. And after 20 years, no love between the spouses. Lots of love between the parents and kids. Even when the kids are rebellious and a mess and so on. And they look at me and they say. There's no love left in the marriage. No kidding. Because the way they define love isn't biblical. Love is meeting the needs and concerns of others before or instead of your own. Secondly, the opposite of love is not hate then, but fear. It says in 1 John 4, 18, perfect love casts out fear. Maybe you thought the opposite of love is hate. Not biblically. The opposite of love is fear because love is self-opening. Love is service. you serve somebody, you make yourself vulnerable. And take a look at the second Lewis quote up above, which is an amazing thing. Love anything and your heart will certainly be wrung and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, you must give your heart to no one. Wrap it carefully around with hobbies and little luxuries. Avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in a casket or coffin of your selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, motionless, airless, it will it will not be broken. It will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. The only alternative to tragedy, or at least to the risk of tragedy, is damnation. The only place outside heaven where you can be perfectly safe from all the dangers or perturbations of love, great word, is hell. The opposite of love is not hate, but fear. Thirdly, the counterfeit of love we've already talked about. The counterfeit of love is the hunger. It's a need love. It's basically a manipulation and a way of using somebody. Lastly, how do you develop this in your life? Don't forget what we said in the beginning. We can wrap up like this. In the beginning, we said the way to develop any kind of fruit of the Spirit is by looking at a particular attribute of God. In this case, it's the costly love of God. Ephesians 4, 31, 32 says, Love one another as God in Christ forgave you. The cost, look,

when Jesus Christ was on the cross, we were told that God forsook him. Do you know what that cost? John Gerstner, one of my favorite preachers, retired man now, put it like this. Christ says, I know this is kind of strong, but let me close with this illustration. Jesus Christ says, fear not him who can destroy your body, but fear him who can destroy body and soul in hell. Now, do you know what Jesus was saying? Jesus was talking to his disciples, and he knew that some of his disciples, in fact, all of them but John the apostle, would be put to death in the most horrible terrible ways. They would be crucified. But it gets worse. Some of his disciples were cut in half while they were still alive. Some of them were, had, you know, this hand and this leg tied to one horse. And this hand and this leg tied to another horse. And the horses go in that direction. And they were dismembered. Some people were put on a. Some of the disciples. I'm not sure. The apostles. But some of the disciples that Jesus was talking to. We're covered with pitch. And then impaled. On a stake. Right up here. Right. Through their body while they're still alive, and then lit as torches in the Roman circus. Some of the disciples had little holes drilled in the top of their head, and while they're still alive, molten lead poured into them. And Jesus has the audacity to say, that's nothing compared to hell. And then we know this. Jesus Christ took all of our hells. Now that must have been pretty amazing, because he did it all. he paid everything that we ever could have paid for our sin in three hours. So it's got to be far worse than anything that any one individual could have ever suffered, even if you've gone to hell. And then it was all compressed into three hours, and all of our punishments on top of him at one time. And Jesus Christ was up there looking not just at the people at his feet, but everybody in this room. And in the greatest act of love in the history of the world, he stayed. Now, you look at that and look at that and you will become a loving person. And there's no other site that can do it. No other site that can really make you stay put. Jesus Christ loved. Love one another and forgive one another as God in Christ forgave you. His love is an infallible love.