Strategies for Christ-centered application, I call it getting down to earth, getting the sermon down to earth, page 29. See up to now what we've been saying is we're trying to lift up Jesus Christ in his saving work, showing people the beauty of who he is and what he's done, and increasing faith in him because what we've said, all I did in the morning was to try to say that if you're trying to get at sin, if you're trying to stop sinning or if you're trying to get a more holy life. It's faith in the finished work of Christ. Faith in the saving work of Christ is what replaces and dismantles the unbelief and self-righteousness, which is at the root of our sinful behavior or ungodly behavior. And so that's what I tried to set up this morning was to say that we are sanctified by faith, not just justified by faith, that we've got to increase faith in a particular way. But I haven't, and that's the reason why going back again to that good question yesterday if you have the story of Joseph and Potiphar's wife do you preach do you say this teaches us to be sexually pure or do you say this tells us something about Jesus Christ who is the greater Joseph or do you say both and my answer this morning was that you have to say you're never going to be able to act like the historical Joseph unless you embrace by faith and rest and rejoice in what the greater Joseph did. In other words, unless you live by faith in the one to whom Joseph points, you'll never actually live like Joseph in this text. So they have to be integrated. Well, that's nice. But let me go into more practical ways of doing application, writing application. You exegete your text, and you're starting to get a sense of what the text is about. but how do I apply it to people in a way that doesn't just fall into general moral exhortation? That's the question. I've got three what I call macro strategies. When I say they're macro strategies, I mean they're not completely parallel or symmetrical. In other words, they can overlap. They can all three be. You can see all three of them sometimes in a sermon. It's not a question of choosing one or the other. I think you'll see what I mean when I get done, but I really want to plow through all three of them. Basically, the three macro principles for writing, three strategies for writing Christ-centered application is to critique religion as well as your religion, A. Then B, to get to aim at heart motives under as well as the behavior you're talking about. The second strategy is to aim at the heart motives as well as the behavior. And the third is to apply, is to look at the text through three application perspectives. See what I mean by saying they're not really symmetrical? They're not like you choose one of these three. You could actually do all three of them, and I can show you how it's possible. But if you have these in mind, I'll tell you something. If you have these in mind as basic ways in which you're going to apply a text, you're not going to have any problem coming up with practical application, which an awful lot of preachers do, let's face it. Okay, number one, what I mean, or A, what I mean by critiquing religion as well as irreligion, to me this is a very, very important part of how I'm applying the text. And this is real up-to-date. One of the most important ways to get a hearing from postmodern people, I hate the word too, I'm tired of the word too, but as some people point out, what was the first word for an automobile, what did they used to call an automobile in the earliest days? is? Horseless carriage, which means we don't really know what it is. We just know that it's not what we used to have. And for a while you define something new in terms of what it used to be, what it's not. And postmodern is like the term horseless carriage. But by and large, I think most people now, at least in Christian circles, minister circles, have some idea of what the word means, whether the philosophers talk about this or not. Postmodern people tend to be more deeply secular, more experientially oriented as opposed to rationally oriented, more relativistic. Being able to say the gospel is neither religion or irreligion. It's neither immorality or just morality. It's very important to contrast, I think, what the text is teaching with both of those things. It's very important to show the Christian gospel is a third way between those two, if you possibly can. Just to give you a kind of definition. Now, obviously, I'm using the term religion in a fairly negative way. I put it this way. Religion is outside in. If I work hard according to biblical principles, God will accept and bless me. I work hard, God will come in and bless me. The gospel is inside out. Because God has accepted and blessed me, I work hard to live according to biblical principles, which, by the way, shows right there that I do believe in Calvin's third use of the law. I'm not anti-law in any way. religion explicitly in other faiths and implicitly in your more legalistic Christianity, religion makes moral religious observance a means of salvation. And even people who believe in the Christian God and who on paper give you the right answer to the question, how are you saved and what is the gospel? As Richard Lovelace put so famously, at least this phrase has had a big impact on my understanding of things. It says the average Christian functionally bases his sanctification on his justification rather than the other way around. Now if you've never seen that phrase before, have you? If you've never seen that phrase before, this would bear some reflection.

Richard Lovelace says the average Christian, he believes, intellectually knows that my sanctification is based on my justification. We know that's how it's supposed to be. I live a holy life because I'm saved by grace. But functionally, he says, Christians base, it's the other way around. The way we actually live is we base our justification on our sanctification. I know, in other words, God accepts me and loves me because of my moral performance, I'm coming to church, I'm having a quiet time, I'm saying no to temptation. Functionally, we're religious in that wrong sense of the term. And what that means is there's a huge need in your preaching to distinguish between general religion and gospel Christianity well as irreligion and moral relativism. Now there's three practical reasons why. One is, and don't overlook this, especially those of you who minister in the Bible Belt, there's a whole lot of professing Christians that are not believers at all. They're just not believers at all. They are pure elder brothers. Again, we don't want to give away the story, but in the parable of the prodigal son, you've got one son who's geographically right with and yet spiritually is very far away. Geographically, he's there obeying the Father, but spiritually he's alienated from the Father's heart, doesn't understand the Father's heart, and so forth. Now, there are plenty of people in churches who simply are non-Christians. They're Christians, professing Christians. They're not converted. I think it's the most incredibly dangerous thing you possibly can do for you to decide who they are. I think it's not just in politic. Uncharitable, and I think it's spiritually dangerous for you I mean, it's very easy to sit down and look at your elder board and figure out which ones they are

Oh And you know you do that you do, you know, you do that but I think it's very dangerous However, if you preach the gospel, okay They'll tell you there will be people over the years if I think if you're doing what I'm saying to do here And there will be pillow the years we'll say, you know I even though I was the treasurer the church, you know, I was, you know came the church for years

when you came here to begin your ministry, I was not really a converted believer. If nobody ever says that to you, I don't think you're doing this right. You see, you may in your mind know the difference between religion and Christianity. But if you're constantly saying, you know, immorality bad, Christianity good, people think, the average person is going to think Christianity means trying hard, being good, keeping your nose clean, being a nice person. That's what they already believe. So unless you particularly disabuse them of that, they're going to hear the things that you say that are theologically correct, but they're going to hear you wrong. It's really important to realize that. So one reason, practical reason, why you have to do this is because a whole lot of professing Christians actually aren't believers, and they do need to be converted, and they're only going to be converted if you do this. And you can't tell them who they are. They have to tell you. Secondly, there are many, many real Christians who are elder brother-ish. That means they're real Christians, is the very mark of renewal, and the big part of what you're trying to do when you're preaching is to renew people. Love says the average person needs to have their practice brought into line with their theology, their theology is my sanctification is based on my justification, my practice is my justification is based on my sanctification, and if you really, and I'm gonna show you why, if you are elder-brother-ish, if you are legalistic in your Christianity, you're a real Christian, but it's filled with sort of legalism and pride and Phariseeism and all that, to be renewed, you need to be pulled out of that. That's the second reason you've got to make this distinction. And the last reason, and do not underestimate this, what I have found in New York, this is so unbelievably important. The average person in, not the average, 99.9% of the people in this country who think they've rejected Christianity have rejected religion, moralism. And unless you show them that what they rejected wasn't the real thing, They're going to sit there like this. See, modern and postmodern people have rejected religion, in many cases, for excellent reasons. And they will only listen to you if they can see that what you're offering is different. Now, you say, how do I do it? Here's something that I... Let me just actually kind of run through this, take about two or three minutes. Tertullian someplace said, just as Christ was crucified between two thieves... Is this allegorizing? I guess it is. Christ was crucified between two thieves, so this doctrine of justification is ever crucified between two opposite eras. Yes, I would consider that allegorizing. But we all know who was on the left and who was on the right. The antinomian was on the left. The moralist is on the right. Very simple. Gore, Bush. Okay. I think it would not do you any harm to contrast Christianity with both Bush country and Gore country. I would not do you any harm. Tertullian means that there's two basic false ways of thinking, each of which steals the power that you get from the Gospel in your life, pulling us off in a sense the Gospel line to one side or the other. Now, in a minute I'm going to try to say I don't want you to think that I believe the Gospel is sort of a midway between the to or a compromise. However, it's fair. I'm using a metaphor, am I not? I'm using a metaphor. These two errors are powerful, and the thieves could be called moralism, which is on the right, and relativism on the left, or religion and irreligion. Now, by the way, if you're thinking in terms of redemptive historical approach, just for a second, don't forget that legalism is under-realized eschatology. You are underestimating the presence of God's future acceptance and vindication present now. But relativism, or antinomianism, tends to be an over-realized eschatology in a sense. The law and the striving isn't necessary. God just loves us. One is too not yet, and one's too already. But it's simulius et peccator. And the gospel is neither moralism or relativism. You can just see it. Simulius et peccator brings you into the center. Now, another way to put it is this. at the last paragraph on page 29. One page. Yeah, at this rate, we're really going to do well. Oh, well. You know, we've got the rest of the week, don't we? And then the next week if you want to stay. Another way to put it is the Gospel opposes both religion and irreligion. On the one hand, religion and moralism stresses truth over grace, really. It says that we have to obey the truth in order to get grace. On the other hand, relativists stress grace over truth for they say that we're all accepted by God,

And grace without truth is not really grace. But Jesus Christ came to us full of grace and truth. And any religion or philosophy of life that de-emphasizes or loses one or the other of these truths falls onto one side or the other, and the gospel releases stolen. When I say it's stolen, I mean simply this. Look over here. And another way to put this is propitiation. If you want to say, and I think you can say the heart of the gospel is propitiation. Pharisees, that's my right hand, don't believe the God of wrath has been propitiated.

The Sadducees, that's over here, don't believe there is a God of wrath that needs to be propitiated. Now, what does that mean? On the one hand, if you ask a Pharisee, are you a Christian, a Pharisaical Christian? You say, are you a Christian? They'll say, well, of course. I'm working very, very hard. There's no wonder, there's no joy, there's no like, oh my gosh, yes, I'm going to be a Christian. No, no, there's no joy or anything. It is, yes, of course, I'm working very hard, I work extremely hard. How dare you? What's wrong? What, do you think there's something wrong with me? If you ask the Sadducee, are you a Christian? the Sadducee-ish Christian, you know, the more relativistic, liberal person, says, well, of course. God loves everyone. And you say, well, let me ask you a quick question. What did it cost your God to love you? What do you mean, what did it cost my God? God just loves everybody. No wonder there's not going to be any electrification over there. There's no electrification if you don't believe in propitiation from the liberal side. In other words, we don't have a God who needs to be propitiated. There was no cost. There was no, you know, he didn't have to do anything to love us. It didn't cost him a thing. That's not going to change your life. You're not going to be electrified by that. But over here, you're really saving yourself. There's no wonder, love, and praise in your life. There's no sense of that. You see what I mean by saying the thieves, each thief takes, just sucks out the joy and the power of the gospel out of a person's life. What's intriguing, in fact, one of the reasons I'm going to continue just for a second on this metaphor, even though I know the danger of every metaphor is that you come all the way in and you make the metaphor an identity. And if you stay too long with this, you start to think that the gospel is a kind of compromise. It means not being really a conservative or a liberal. It means, I guess, being a New Democrat or a Bush Republican. No, it's not that. You understand the gospel is not something in the middle. However, for a second, let me stick with it. In Galatians 2.14, this is the second full paragraph on page 30. Turn over to page 30. Jesus does this. When Jesus looks at the Pharisees and he says, the pimps and the prostitutes get into the kingdom of God before you, what is he saying? The prostitutes and the tax collectors get into the kingdom of heaven before you? That's Matthew 21-31. First of all, he's not saying the prostitutes and the tax collectors are in the kingdom of heaven. Automatically, he says, they need to also repent to get in, but actually, they're closer than you are. What is that? In other words, they're more likely to get me. They're more likely to get the gospel. I think it's pretty interesting in the very beginning of those three stories in Luke 15, in Luke 15, the prologue to the three stories about the lost sheep and so on, it says that the tax collectors and the marginal people were gathering around Jesus. And the Greek there indicates that was a habitual, ongoing thing. And no one of the Pharisees were so grumpy about Jesus, they looked at him and they said, these people never come to our services. but they seem to habitually like you what's going on and the point is if you're preaching of the gospel doesn't turn off moralistic people and intrigued moral and spiritual outsiders and people who hate religion then you're not preaching the gospel like Jesus preached it see them Jesus without a doubt Jesus critiqued both when he says that he didn't say the print the prostitutes and tax collectors are in the kingdom of heaven. He just says, they're actually closer than you are. Look at Galatians 2.14 to stay with this. In Galatians 2.14, Paul lays down a very powerful principle. He deals with Peter's racial pride and cowardice. You know, that's the place where he's pulling back from the Gentiles. He deals with Peter's racial pride and cowardice by declaring this. He says, you're not living in line with the truth of the gospel. Now, some translations do it differently, but he said, you're not walking or you're not living in line with the truth of the gospel. Now, I've often thought this is interesting, very interesting. Notice Paul did not say, you're breaking the no-racism rule. I think it's fair to say that there's places in the Bible where you could actually say it's an ethical, racism is wrong. Are there not places where it says racism is wrong? Of course it does. Are there not places where it says you're not supposed to be a respecter of persons? course it is. But Paul didn't actually say, though he could have, he said, now Peter, you know that the tenor of the whole Bible is that we shouldn't be racist, and you're showing racial prejudice here. You have Gentiles and Jews, they're both in Christ, and yet you're showing preference to the Jewish Christian. He doesn't say you're breaking the No Racism Law. What he says is, Paul doesn't really ask what is the moral way to act, though he could have. I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that, that's the question. But instead he says, what is the way to live that's in line with the Gospel? What are the implications of the Gospel? You see, one of the implications of the Gospel is, if I'm saved by grace alone, I should not have any superiority toward other people. I'm just a sinner. I should be going to hell. That actually is a better way to deal with your racism than saying, here's the no-racism rule. Because I'll tell you something, if you take a person to the no-racism rule and say, now you better not be a racist or else you won't go to Heaven, bless you and answer your prayers. Well, if you obey the no racism rule after that, you'll feel superior to people who are racist, which is what New York is filled with, which liberal bigots. Unbelievable disdain, you know, incredibly, people in New York City are so pharisaical about Pharisees, it's hard to believe. You know, they're so self-righteous against self-righteousness. And that's what's going to happen. If you take them to the no racism rule, they're going look I'm better than all you stupid bigoted people out there who voted for that other guy. Or if they don't live up to it, they'll feel crushed like, yes I know I'm not supposed to. But if you take them to the gospel, the gospel actually changes the thing in their heart that actually is the cause of the racism. The need to feel superior to other people in order to make a name for myself.

And therefore, what Paul actually is doing is not... It's not... I do believe in the third use of the law, and I think Paul did too. That we are supposed to say, now that Christ has changed my life, how should I please Him? And we look to the law to find out. But it's not as simple quite as that in the way in which we actually preach here. We ought to do what Paul did to Peter. And he says, you're not living in line with the gospel. Because over here is moralism, and over here is relativism. Over here is, you know, Here is the other thief. And that's the reason why you can see Luther said, this is a great quote, the truth of the gospel is the principal article of all Christian doctrine. Most necessary is it that we know this article well, teach it to others, and beat it into their heads continually. You ought to put that up wherever you prepare sermons. You ought to write that and put it in front of you so it is most necessary we know this article well, teach it to others, and beat it into their heads. Now, to give you an idea about how you can think this out, whatever the theme is, whether the theme of your text is giving, or suffering, or sexual immorality, or your attitude toward family, always, always, always, always be sensitive to how the text is showing us, not simply that we ought to be living in a certain way, but why. And so you have to make sure that you're threading the needle, and that you're critiquing both religion and irreligion, even as you enjoin people to live as they ought to live. Now what I'm going to do is, let me give you, I made a bunch of application examples here, and I'm just going to do every other one. I'm just going to kind of, just to give you an idea. Gospel-oriented approach to these, okay? First of all, approach to discouragement. Here's what I mean by that. When a person's depressed or down, the moralistic approach says, you're breaking the rules, repent. You know, if you're discouraged, you're depressed, it's probably because you're not trusting in the Lord enough. And I've got to be very careful about this because that sure sounds like sanctification by faith, doesn't it? You know, you're not trusting in the Lord enough. Rejoice in the Lord, I say, and again I say rejoice. Now, we'll get to that actually next time. But when you just tell people, you're a Christian, you should have faith, you shouldn't be worrying. And the person says, oh, you're right.

You really haven't asked them... What you haven't said is the reason you were... I mean, I worry... I'll say this, I often say this. When the church is doing poorly, I kind of go nuts, and my wife comes and says, there, there, honey, we need to trust the Lord. What's the matter with you? Why are you losing your victory here? When something's going wrong with the children, my wife starts to go nuts, and I have to come up to her, and I have to pat her on the hand and say, well, there, there, honey, have to trust the Lord here. There's no reason to, you know, just lose it all. Now, and over the years I think Kathy used to say, well, you know, I guess he doesn't love the kids as much as I do. And I often used to think she doesn't really love the church as much as I do. But the real issue is my ministry is too important to me spiritually. It's a functional salvation of sorts. It's a kind of trust of mine. I know I'm all right because look, my church is big, and there's nothing wrong with it. It's not just that I want my church to do well because I want to use my gifts and because I want people to grow in Christ. No, no, no, no. I've identified with it. My wife just loves it. But for me, it's really become something, to some degree, that my ministry is crowding Jesus out. But with my wife, you see, I love my children, but she has much more sense of this. If my children don't turn out to be all right, then who am I? What use am I? What good am I? I don't do that. And so what's actually going on is if I just say, if you just say to people, don't worry, don't be discouraged, just trust God and just do the right thing, you're not getting down underneath and showing them that you need to repent of unbelief. You need to repent of looking to something else that only Jesus should be giving you. You're really not believing in the gospel. You're not really believing that Jesus is what he says he is to you. And that's the reason why you've got to be careful. The moralistic approach is just do the right thing, smile and trust Jesus and don't question. On the other hand, the relativist says to the discouraged, downcast person, you just need to love and accept yourself more. It's almost like when a person gets discouraged, the moralist says, tighten up. And the relativist says, just enjoy yourself, loosen up, loosen your tie, where we don't anymore. Enjoy yourself. Be good to yourself. Pat yourself on the back. Indulge yourself. And of course, well, what I'm saying is the gospel leads us to examine ourselves and say, if I'm downcast, something in my life has become more important than Jesus Christ, a pseudo-savior, a form of works righteousness. So the gospel leads me to repentance, not just a setting of my will against superficialities. It's without the gospel that superficialities will be addressed instead of the heart, you see. The moralists will work on behavior and the emotions? Do you see that? The moralist tends to look at the behavior the relatives tends to look at the emotions but the gospel actually goes to the heart which is the very Edward thing because Edward believes the heart is the seat for everything but it gets down to the heart instead of just going after the emotions to make you feel better it you know it falls the press people I think as long as it's not physiologically based here. The gospel calls depressed people to repent, but it also calls moralistic people to do some thinking before you repent. Jump over to page 31. So you see the difference? You have to critique the religious approach to

discouragement and the relativistic. Here's an approach to suffering. Think of this with me. The whole idea behind moralism and religiosity is you feel that God owes them. I'll never get over the fact I was sharing the gospel with a woman and she hadn't become a Christian yet. She is now. I was talking with her. We're coming to church and she looks at me and she says, what I don't understand is I've gone to other churches and I've never heard what you teach there at your church. And that is this idea that you can really know God completely accepts you, that you're saved by what Jesus did. You're saved by grace. And it's a complete free gift. I've never heard that. And she says, why don't most churches teach that? And I said, I don't know. Why do you think? I'm amazed that I had that sort of reserve. I mean, most of the time when somebody asks a minister a question, you go on for 20 minutes. But for some reason, I said, why do you think? And I was so glad I did. She put her fork down because we were eating together. And she says, well, you know, she says it's a threatening thing. I have earned my salvation, there's a limit to what God can ask of me. There's a limit to what God can ask of me because I have my rights, I'm like a taxpayer, I've paid my taxes, I have my rights, you can ask certain things of me, but there's a limit because I have paid my dues, I have lived right, and you can't just ask anything of me and you can't let my life really, really go bad. God says, if you're saved by grace alone, there is nothing he cannot ask of you. And, you know, there's one of those few places, this, you know, I'm concerned about the sufficiency of scripture, my brother over here you're saying, but there's that one place where Hollywood dealt with Abraham and Isaac. You know, at the end of the movie, The Bible, where you have George C. Scott is, I was thinking of Patton, George C. Scott is playing Abraham and he's about to sacrifice his son. And they stick pretty close to the biblical text, but at one point Isaac, when Isaac realizes what he's doing, Isaac, he's all tied up and his father's getting out the knife and Isaac looks at Abraham and says, is there nothing he cannot ask of thee? And Abraham just whispers, nothing. And yeah, that's not in the text, but it's hard for me not to repeat that when I'm telling the story, because I think that was the point. And this woman realizes, this woman realizes that if I don't believe, if I believe in any kind of salvation by works at all, then I'm not going to be able to handle suffering. Because I'm going to say, God, you owe me a pretty good life. a fairly good life. There are things you cannot ask of me. You cannot ask me to be a widow at the age of 30. You cannot ask of me to handle a death of one of my children. There's a limit. And therefore, the whole point of moralism is you put God in your debt, so when a moralistic person suffers, you've only got two possibilities, and they're both death. The one is, you must either say, I hate thee, I hate thee. if you haven't been as good as you should have been, and the whole reason why these bad things are happening is because you haven't lived up, and then you have to look inward and say, I hate me. It's either, I hate the, or I hate me, or, as most people do, they just go back and forth between I hate the, and I hate me, depending on the day, and when they go through suffering, they are stuck on the horns of the I hate the, or I hate me, and there is nowhere else they can possibly go, because that is their worldview, and there is no way out. On the other hand, relativism and pragmatism, It's, oh, I hate thee. Because they just feel like, you know, evil and suffering is absolutely wrong because we're good people and I'm a good person and everybody's a good person and God really owes us all a pretty nice life. But the cross shows us that we have a suffering God. You know, the cross shows we have a suffering God. And on the one hand, we see him suffering. Now, look what the gospel does for suffering. On the one hand, we see him suffering without complaint for us and suffering the only kinds of real crushing burdens So we know that we deserve to be eternally lost, but by mercy we'll never get what we deserve. Now that eliminates what? On the one hand, it eliminates self-pity, right? Because it takes a certain amount of pride to say, I hate thee. But on the other hand, we know that God would not be punishing us for our sins. If I trust in him, I might be getting chastened here in this life. But I'm not actually getting retribution. I'm not getting real retribution. There's no tit for tat here. Whenever somebody says to me as a pastor and says, that God is punishing me like this. I said, well, I said, you know what, if God really started punishing for your sins last night around midnight, you wouldn't even be here at 12.01. I mean, if God started to really punish you for your sins, you'd be gone. So I think there's something more nuanced and subtle and actually more complex. I said, you're really being too simple about this. If you're a Christian, it means the I hate thee is taken away because you deserve to go to hell like Jesus did. on the one hand, humbles you away from I hate thee, but it also values out of I hate me. I mean, if he hated you, why would his son have died for you? And so what it does is, whatever suffering you're receiving, therefore it's not retribution with instruction. So if you face suffering with a clear grasp of justification by grace alone, your joy in that grace will deepen. If you face justification with a mindset of justification by works, the suffering will break you. He suffered, not that we might not suffer, but that in our suffering we would become like him. So that both, since the moralist and the pragmatist nor the cross in different ways, they will both be confused and devastated by suffering. You have to always show the difference between the moralistic approach to suffering and the relativistic approach. Let me give you a second one. Jump down to E. I'm doing every other one. Approach to one's family. Moralism can make you a slave to parental expectations. In fact, tomorrow I'll preach you a sermon against family values. All right? You all ready? Going to come ready for that? Good. Okay. I'm going to preach you a sermon against family values because in the more moralistic religious mindset, the family is everything. Husbands and wives, mothers and fathers, basic whether they know it or not. Under the rubric of, well, we're Christians and the Bible says the family is important and you have to have this godly family and you have to raise your children for Christ. And it is extremely easy inside a moral religious mindset to really be putting your hopes in your family. to really be... And what that can mean is moralism can make you a slave to parental expectations. I've got to live up to what my parents say. Or my children have to live up to what I want for them so that they don't make me look stupid and terrible. Because the fact that I have raised children who believe in Jesus and who are walking paragons of virtue and grandchildren is very, very important. I mean, right now, none of my children are in any kind of spiritual rebellion. But one of the things that my wife and I have recognized There's a certain depth to our discouragement when one of our kids is not acting like a Christian and at least 50% of it is selfish and proud and self-righteous on our part. We don't want to think that we have failed and it is just a very difficult pill to swallow. And we're not as upset for God or as for our kid. If our need to be a good father and mother goes over into real self-righteous and idolatry, Well, moralism can make you a slave to parental expectations, whereas the liberal relativism sees really no need for family loyalty or the keeping of promise and covenants at all if they don't meet my needs. The gospel, though, frees you from making parental approval or individual autonomy the thing I've got to have. Why? Because if God's my ultimate father, that frees me from being either too dependent or hostile to my parents. From what I can see, there is a certain kind of really good little boy and girl that is too dependent on the family emotionally, too dependent on fitting in, and too dependant on what parents think, and so on. And there is another kind of person, because they have all moved to New York City, so I'm surrounded by them, who, I'm not kidding you, you have four kids in your family, one of them is angry at the parents, one of them feels let down by the parents, one of them feels the need to be completely, to completely break from the parents,

They didn't move to New York. Oh, they moved to big cities. The gospel takes you out of both of that. The gospel takes you away. The gospel frees you from being either too dependent or too hostile to your parents, in which both cases you're in slavery. The liberal person looks very freed, but they're not. Jump down to, let's see, let me give you another one. Jump over to page 30. I don't have time for all these. Guilt. Okay, now. I got this one from Dr. Lloyd-Jones in an old sermon. years ago. He says, when someone says, I got a guilt problem, I can't forgive myself. All right. Now, what do you do? One of the things that's interesting about this is, of course, we all know what the relativistic, irreligious approach to guilt is. They say, look, only you have to decide what's right or wrong for you. So what they actually say that you should do, of course, is just loosen your standards. Loosen your standards until you don't feel guilty anymore. Almost 98% of all the therapists in New York are telling people that all the time. If you've got a problem with guilt, you just loosen the standards so you don't feel guilty anymore. On the other hand, I find that if you're not understanding the gospel very well, we have trouble dealing with guilt. When I was a younger pastor, and I would sit down with somebody who was feeling wracked with guilt, I would say, have you confessed your sin? Yes. Have you asked God for forgiveness? Yes. Well, you know, it says, if we confess our sin, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanses us of all unrighteousness. And you just need to claim your... Even if you don't feel accepted, you are accepted, so you shouldn't feel guilty. Okay, and so three weeks later, how are you doing? I still feel guilty. And after about three or four months of this, you haven't had this? After a while, you're starting to say, Well, now, are you trying to be more holy than God? And at a certain point, you start to actually call them to repent for feeling guilty. Have you ever done that? I have. And I say, well, you've just got to stop. You've got to get past this. He's forgiven you. Why do you have higher standards than he does? What's the matter with you? I came to realize, and I got this from the Lloyd-Jones sermon. It says, when somebody says, I know God forgives me, and I know my parents have forgiven me, I know my people have forgiven me, but I can't forgive myself. He says, that's just not really true. that's kind of a shame. He says it might be a self-deception. But he says their real God hasn't forgiven them. See, for example, if you say, I failed in this particular way, if a person has failed some major moral principle, and the person just cannot, you say, I know God's forgiven me, I prayed for forgiveness, but I really can't forgive myself. What you really mean is, my real God, which in this case would be my moral performance or my image of myself as being a real straight arrow. See, idols will not forgive you. If the real God of your life is being a successful businessman, if the real idol of your life, a real master or king of your life, is to be a mother whose children all love her, if you fail that God, that God will never, ever, ever forgive you. And if you go to the Christian God, ask for forgiveness, and never feel forgiven, it means that the Christian God really isn't your God, or it's not God, do you see what he means? And therefore, you have to go underneath and say, there is something besides God, God is your salvation, God is God, God is God, The gods are wood and hay and stubble and idol. I mean, they're dumb. They're not alive. They can't do anything for you. I mean, I remember talking to a woman who was in a mental institution. It was largely because her parents all of her life said, you're going to be a great concert violinist, and she never could make it. And she just didn't do a very good job. And she was in the hospital, and to a great degree, she always felt like a failure. And to a great degree, it was really because her real god, which you know was her you could say you know we're not being precise about this you say it's her parental expectations or it's her you know or the violin the music itself had become a guy the fact is that she was a professing Christian and evangelical knew it back and forth inner varsity Bible study you know J.I. Packer John Stott knew everything and she was in mental institution from what I could tell it wasn't physiological from what I can tell is she said I know God is forgiven I can't forgive myself for the way in which I've let down my real God wasn't forgiving her. And that's why we put down here, look, it says, when someone says, I can't forgive myself, it means there's some standard or condition or person that's more essential to your identity than the grace of God. God is the only God who forgives. No other God will. So if you can't forgive yourself, it's because you've failed your real God. Your real righteousness is holding you captive. The moralist false God is usually a God of their imagination, which is holy and demanding, but not gracious. You know, the Pharisee's God, a God of wrath who won't be propitiated. The pragmatist false God is usually some achievement or relationship that they're using as a substitute for God to get some kind of sense of self-worth. Do you see the difference? It is really important, if you have this overlay to your brain as you're preaching, whatever subject you hit on, you have to just make sure you don't say, here's the right way and the wrong way. In fact, somebody out here is real good friends with the Anglican Australian Evangelical Movement. Who did I talk to here that's friends with Phil? Philip Jensen. Do you know that group? Well, they have a gospel presentation called Two Ways to Live. And it's good to have gospel presentations. It's good to write up a way of kind of in a nutshell saying here's what it means to be a Christian and here's sin and grace and Jesus and so forth. And it's extremely, I guess, very effective in many ways. And it talks about living in rebellion, living in submission. But you know what? I'm not sure, at least where I come from, That would be a very good idea. If I was going to write up gospel presentation, I would write up three ways to live. And I think it's very important if you have those in your mind, then as you apply and as you preach, they'll just surface. Sometimes, if any of you have ever heard my tapes, sometimes it's very explicit. The whole sermon is built around it. But sometimes it's easy, incredibly easy. Because sometimes you'll have a Pharisee and a tax collector. Sometimes you'll have Mary and Martha. In fact, it's pretty remarkable how often Jesus is dealing with two people. And one is sort of a religious insider and one is a kind of outsider. And Jesus always calls everybody to repent. And yet usually the religious outsider, I mean, pardon me, the religious insider, the moral person, the leader, tends to be more obtuse to the Gospel. So there's an awful lot of places, especially in the Gospels themselves, where it's fairly easy to show this. But I would say if you have it in your mind, you can get it all over the place. Well, I think I'm just going to have to keep on going tomorrow because I don't want to...
