In your bulletin, you'll see printed a very brief passage that we're going to look at tonight as we move through the epistle, first epistle of Peter. The main thing we do on a night like this is receive the Lord's Supper, so that's what we're moving toward. But you know, the Lord's Supper is a way to make the Word of God concrete, and that's the reason why first we have to talk about what it means, what the Word of God is saying to us tonight. Then when we go to the Lord's Supper, we're taking it in a concrete way and applying it. Now, the passage we're looking at tonight, we have been going through 1 Peter, and we're in chapter 2. Take a look at just these two little verses, because we won't spend as much time tonight as we ordinarily do looking at things. These two verses are brief, but they get us into a section. In a sense, they introduce a new section of the epistle. And in this new section, we're being told how Christians are to live in a world that's hostile, how people who believe one thing are to live in a culture which has a very different view of things. And though we're just going to be introducing some of the principles tonight, it's extremely important, especially as I'm going to, as you've already heard, next Sunday night, we're going to have that is going to be very, very geared and very focused on seeking to help people who don't believe to believe. Now, you know, we, as a general rule, as a church, in all of our services and all of our ministries, we are much more focused on that anyway. But this is going to be an evening in which we say, bring friends who would like to have a basic introduction to the Christian faith and the Christian message. We call it Friendship Sunday. But in light of that, we talk about how to help people believe, come and let them hear the great message from the great evangelistic speaker. In light of that, it's important to take a look at this passage. Very, very important. Let's just read it and let's at least begin to introduce ourselves to the principles of it. 1 Peter 2, 11 and 12 printed. Dear friends, I urge you as aliens and strangers in the world to abstain from sinful desires which war against your soul. Live such good lives amongst the pagans that although they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. This is God's word. Now, if you remember from last week, and this is the problem with printing such a little section as this, we've been talking about what it means to be the people of God. God. Peter's been talking about the fact that those who believe in Jesus Christ are the people of God. And there is a wonderful promise earlier in the chapter that says, see, I lay a stone in Zion. This is verse 6. I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. You know, the old King James version of the Bible says, says, I'm laying a cornerstone, and the one who trusts in him will never be confounded. This word, put to shame, this word confounded is just a great word. It can't be very well translated because it really has several aspects. To say never be confounded, to be confounded means A, to be embarrassed, B, to be confused, and C, to be disappointed, all together. other. And this amazing statement is verse 6. Amazing statement. I am laying a cornerstone in Zion, and you who trust in him will never be confounded. That means it's possible to be in a condition in this world that regardless of the ups and downs, regardless of what happens to you, you could be in a situation in which you're never caught off guard, never disappointed, disappointed, never confused, never embarrassed. I'm not saying that once you're a Christian, that's automatically true. It's a possibility if you are one of the people of God. So, with this tremendous promise out there, of course, the question that is posed to us, how do we know we are? How do you know you are one of the people of God? And I would like to just show you that in these two verses, we have a wonderful set of tests that show how you can tell, what are some of the signs that you really are one of God's people? What are they? It's very helpful to have self-examination inventory before you go to the Lord's Supper anyway, which we're going to do in a moment. But you have three tests here that tell us how you know you're a member of the people of God, things that are true of the people of God. And in this, in the process, you also have beginning to this next passage that goes on for a number of verses that tell us something about how we're supposed to live in a hostile environment. But look, number one, the first test is, I guess I'm going to call it the public test. Verse 12, that they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us, that they may see. Now, earlier in 1 Peter, we're told that one of the ways that you know that you are a member of the people of God is that you're born We're not going to go back on that, but in chapter 1, verse 23, it says the people of God are people who have been born again by imperishable seed. And that's one of the tests, but it's not one of the tests in this verse. In other words, you are not a Christian unless you recognize that there has been some inner revolution, inner transformation. We talked about it that night. Have you been born again? We're not going into it now. All I'm going to tell you is that's an inadequate test all by itself. Because you see, you may have this internal private experience and you say, that must be the new birth. Good. You do need to be born again. But it's possible to fool yourself. Plenty of people have. How do you know whether the internal test is, or the internal experience of the new birth is a valid one. Well, we're told here, people will see. In other words, you say, I've been changed. I've had this wonderful internal revolutionary experience. But it says here that if you remember the people of God, it says in verse 12, they will see your good deeds. Your change will be visible. You know, there's a place where Paul says to the, in one of his epistles, he says, you became a model to everyone in Macedonia and Achaia. Your faith in God became known everywhere. Therefore, we don't need to tell anyone anything, for everyone reports how you turned from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his son from heaven. See, we don't need to tell anyone anything. People can see the difference. There was an old preacher three centuries ago, I read this old Puritan preacher that said, one of the ways in which you know you're born again, you say, I've had this great experience on the inside. Fine. And he said, and I quote, One of the first people, one of the first persons to see that you've really been born again. He says, your horse will know the difference. He says, you may say you're born again. But if you're born again, your horse will know the difference. Now, this guy was writing in 1690s. You know, so. But you know what he's talking about? He says. People. Even the horses. Will see that you become a more compassionate person. You become a more understanding. person. You become a less irritable person. You're not as impatient to your horse. You're not as cruel to it. It shows up. You can be seen. There's a change. Now, let's move on because the other tests are kind of derivative of that. In other words, it's obvious that you've been changed. There's a public test. They can see your good deeds, and some people will see your good deeds, and as a result, on the day God visits us, that's judgment day. on the day God visits us, there will be people glorifying God because they were influenced by what they saw in your life. There's got to be a public, there's got to be a visible effect if you've been born again. But let's move on. Then the second test, though, is I'm going to call it the conflict test. Because having said this, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day he visits us. We also have to realize that this passage teaches, and we see everywhere, that though the change in a real Christian is always visible, the effects of the change are always conflicted. The effects on other people are always conflicted. In other words, you have people who are very attracted and very repelled. And that is one of the signs. This text tells us, and the Bible continually says, it's one of the signs that you're really a member of attracted to you. Some are attracted and some are repulsed by you. And in other words, you tend not to get tepid responses. The more you're like Jesus, the more you tend to have people responding to you in the extreme. See, for example, in verse 12, it says, live such good lives amongst the pagans that though they accuse you of wrongdoing, if you look carefully, you'll see that's not if they accuse you. Does it say if? Uh-uh. Oh, no. It says though, which means they will. They will try to find fault with you. They'll come after you. There'll be a bias against you. And then on the other hand, it says, however, there will be other people who will glorify God on judgment day because your good deeds were so luminous, they were so radiant, they were so attractive that they drew them in. So the second test, you see this is a kind of a building. The first test of whether you're a member of the people of God is somebody sees. Your horse sees. Your bus driver, let's say, that's a good one. Your bus driver sees the difference. Maybe that's the 1993 edition. People see that there's been a change in you. Ah, but the effects, the results, the impact of that change is always conflicted. Some people will definitely accuse you. Some people will definitely unfairly come after you. Some people will definitely attack you if you're a Christian, and other people will be drawn and attracted. Now, this is just like Jesus. You know, you take a place. Look in John chapter 7. You'll see we're told his brothers didn't believe in him. In John 7, his brothers come and say, you ought to leave and go to the Feast of Tabernacles. These miracles you do, why do you do them in secret? Let the world know. This is no way to become a public figure. And then it says, quote, brothers did not believe in him. That's amazing. They were living with somebody who obviously was a remarkable person, and yet they were grumpy, they were angry, they didn't believe in him. Yet there were other people who, in spite of tremendous prejudices, were attracted to him. That's the way it is. Jesus was an enigma. And if you really are a member of the people of God, or I should say it this way, to the degree that you're like Jesus, you will be an enigma too. In the book of Ephesians, there's this curious verse that says, the spiritual man judges all things, the spiritual man judges all things, but himself is judged of no one. I never understood that for a number of years until I came to realize what it was teaching is, that becoming a Christian, the gospel enables you to understand things around you. You understand it, the doctrine of sin, the doctrine of grace, all kinds of things that were inexplicable to you, behavior, events, relationships. The great thing about being a Christian is you are able to judge all things. That means they fit. You know, you're not shocked by suffering. We talked about that this morning. You know, anybody who's saying, life shouldn't be like this. This isn't fair. I shouldn't be, this shouldn't be happening to me. Life shouldn't be like this. I don't deserve this. If you are destroyed, shattered by suffering. You have a worldview that is specious because it can't account for life as it is. And you see, when you become a Christian though, you have a worldview that helps you understand. Through it, you judge all things. But you yourself are judges of no one. What does that mean? It means people can't figure you out. They won't be able to figure you out. They won't be able to understand why you are the way you are. You are an enigma just the way Jesus You know, put it this way. Are you an enigma? Is there anybody out there scratching their head about you saying, what in the world is this person? What drives this person? On the one hand, there's all this great stuff. On the other hand, she says this. What is going on? Do people say, you know, you're different but you're the same. You're great but you're weird. Something, you know. In other words, are they scratching their head over you? They may be unhappy. They may be very attracted. but there's something if you're a Christian. You see? It's normal. It's one of the signs. Just to break that down for another second before we get on to the third and last test, we said there's going to be a bias and there's also going to be attraction. On the bias side, I know it's a little hard to know, but I would say that the heart of the bias is this. People on the outside, people who are not Christians, look at Christians. Christians are Christians because they found that the way to connect with God is to admit you're weak, to repent, to see that it's not your record but the record of Jesus Christ imputed to you, enables you to stand before God, justified by faith, justified in his blood. That's what makes you a Christian. All of your life, you thought that if you did connect to God, it would be through some tremendous moral effort. The only people you thought for years who would ever connect with God would be the people who were very holy, very godly, very moral, very self-controlled. That's what you thought. When you became a Christian, you crossed a line and you realized, no, it's the other way around. It's the people who will admit their weakness and the people who admit they can't save themselves and the people they are weak and sinful and who rest on Jesus Christ. They're the Christians. Well, here's the problem. People on the outside do not know that. They still believe what you used to believe. And therefore, if they see anybody saying, I know God, they will assume that you must feel superior to everybody else. They have to believe that because if they understood the reality, then and they'd believe. You see what I mean? And as a result, there's almost no way for you to be able to speak up either verbally or non-verbally in a sense and show that you believe that you have a personal relationship with the Father through the Son, that you know Him, that you're sure that you're loved and accepted, you see. Anybody outside of the faith has to see that as unbelievably arrogant. If they don't see it as arrogant, that they're on their way into

Therefore, we must never be surprised, never be surprised what it says here. It's not a matter of the pagans. If they accuse you of wrongdoing, they will. They will feel like there's a scam here. There's something wrong. These people are arrogant. They have to feel that way, a lot of them. They have to. And you know the reason I'm saying this? Here's a little practical hint. I have come to find out that born-again Christians are starting to realize that other minority groups, and we are a minority group in a sense. Other minority groups, when they experience biased stories in the media, when they experience mistrust, whenever negative images of them are shown up, whenever there's distorted accounts given of what they believe, other minorities have learned to scream bloody murder. Bloody murder. bias. They yell and they scream, you see. This is unfair. This is bias. And sometimes I think, well, I know this is already happening. Christians are starting to do the same thing. Saw an article in Newsweek magazine, you know, written by a born-again Christian that says, we're always being vilified. They never depict us on, you know, religious people on TV sitcoms are always depicted as nuts or bigots and so on and so forth. Here's the difference between Christians, though, and every other kind of minority. I'm not saying that we shouldn't ever that we should let people walk on us. You know, Christians care about justice. When Jesus Christ was slapped illegally in a court, in a court of law, he protested. When Paul was slapped into prison without a trial, which was illegal for a Roman citizen, he protested. I'm not saying we never speak up, but here's what I'm saying. Minorities have a right, other minorities have a right for the majority culture to not have distorted views of them. Put it this way. Homosexuals have a right to demand that the majority culture not be so hostile as that they get beat up on the streets. Blacks have a right to demand that the majority culture put them on an equal footing when it comes to competing for jobs and so on. In other words, other minority cultures, I think, have a right to scream bloody murder. But Christians must expect to be misunderstood. You have to be. Because, you see, people will see you as arrogant. They will not understand unless they're believing. And they don't believe. I'm not saying you don't protest when there's a real clear injustice. But Christians must not, must not assume the same posture as other minorities. Because we will always expect to be misunderstood. We will always expect to be accused of wrongdoing. We will expect it. We won't be shocked. We won't be surprised. We won't scream bloody murder. How can we scream bloody murder? Think about this. Christians believe that God has come to us and lives in us, that he speaks to us, that the world is filled with supernatural forces fighting over the individual souls, that Jesus Christ will soon come to judge the living and the dead. Well, listen, by secular standards, that's crazy. We are crazy. Every time a Christian gets to that place on the Minnesota Multipersonality, Minnesota Multiphasic Personality inventory, you know, the MMPI, and it's a true-false question. Remember what it is? I am a secret agent from God. And you know, you know, they talk about objective science. There is no such thing as objective science. What does it mean if a Christian says, of course, I'm a secret agent from God. Of course, I'm an ambassador for Christ. Of course, I've been sent by God into the world, you know, with a message that nobody else believes, but, I mean, other people don't believe. Of course, when you check that, what does that mean to the person who is trying to process? The fact is, as C.S. Lewis says, Jesus Christ, claiming to be God, if he isn't, he's on the same level as a man who thinks he's a poached egg and is looking for some toast to lie on. And there's no in between. He is either God or he's crazy. Okay? It's the same with you and me. Anybody who doesn't believe Christianity, looking at you and me, what we believe, either we're right and they're absolutely wrong, or else we're crazy. How in the world can we scream bloody murder and expect to be understood by the majority culture? We can't. All right? But on the other hand, on the other hand, we're told that there will be people who will see our good deeds and glorify God in the day of visitation. Let me put it to you this way. You can talk all you want about how, saying, oh, yes, I'm so glad that I can give my friend this great book by this great author who explains how we know there's a God and how we know Jesus is true. I love bringing people, you know, to Redeemer where they hear an intelligent presentation of the gospel and they hear great music and they see, you know, people who have credibility, who believe and so on. That's really helpful. It's nothing compared to your good deeds. In the end, very few people will ever really be drawn to God through preaching. It was so, you know, on the cover story at Time Magazine a few weeks ago, talked about how more and more people are realizing that we do have to teach abstinence to high school students. Did you see that? You know, the condoms isn't enough. We have to teach abstinence. It's the only way we're going to stem the tide. but three or four times the sentence came up. So many sex educators are teaching abstinence but they're very careful not to preach. Three times. They teach abstinence, they don't preach abstinence. What's the difference? They teach what? You mean you don't use a microphone? They don't wave their arms? I don't know what they mean. But I know, you see, the point is, oh, the worst thing in the whole world would be to preach to somebody. buddy. People don't want to be preached to. Very few people will subject themselves to it. If tonight, and I know this is what's so wonderful, there's some of you here who don't believe, you don't know what you believe, and you're here subjecting yourself to preaching. I have tremendous respect for you. I don't even know why the heck you're doing it. Jesus Christ says in chapter 17, verse 17 of John, he says about his disciples, disciples, sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. And then in verse 18, he immediately says, as thou sent me into the world, so I send them. You know what he's doing? He is not sending them out into the world to share their faith and saying, I pray, O Lord, that you make them articulate. I pray that they'll be eloquent. What does he say? I pray that they'll be sanctified. I pray that they'll be holy. And I'll tell you why. People won't come and listen to a preacher. They're not They're interested in knowing what works. You say you're a Christian. Great. Does it make you kinder? Does it make you treat people of other races better? Does it help you face trouble? Does it help you face death? Do you see? Has it changed you? People are not interested in preaching as a whole. They're interested in life. They're interested in what works. And they're going to look at you. If you're a Christian. and almost all the people that glorify God on the day of visitation are going to be people who saw some other individual's good deeds. I'll put it this way to you. People who think Christianity is ridiculous are people who have not been around holy people, a holy person. Oh, I'm not saying that if you're really holy, if you're like Jesus, if you're a person of balance and a person of poise and a person of convictions but a person and of love and compassion, if you're like Jesus, I'm not saying that people who get to know you automatically would believe, no, but they will not think Christianity is ridiculous. There's an incredibility that comes to Christianity if you are consistent in your behavior. Is it true of you? Are you an enigma to people? Is there anything remarkable about your life? I'm not saying don't bring anybody to hear me preach next week. I'm just trying to say, say, you know, are you much of an invitation? You know, forget the little cards. You're the invitation, engraved. What's your life saying? Hey, lastly, there's a fight test, and I've really got to stop here. But look, I said, if you're really a member of the people of God, number one, people will see a change. Number two, their impact will be a conflicted impact. But number three, it says, as aliens and strangers in the world abstain from sinful desires which war against soul. And, nah, I really don't have time to get into this. I'm going to have to leave it, but I'll lay it to you this way. There is a fight about the real Christian's life. The word sinful desires is the word epithumia, which means an over-desire. They translated it sinful desire, even though the word sinful does not appear in the Greek text. Oh, no. It's an over-desire. Now, we've spent time on it before, and I'll get back and spend some time on it later, but I'll tell you what he's trying the things that war against your soul are not just sinful desires in the sense that you're thinking about them, right? When you say the word sinful desires, what are you thinking of? Huh? You're thinking of breaking rules. Yes. Drinking too much. Sexual immorality, you know, where you break the rules of Christian ethic, right? You know, embezzling funds. That's not what he's talking about. Those things actually don't war against your soul quite in the same way. Because they're obvious. They're easy. An over-desire is looking at something which is good and it's too important to you. That's what wars against your soul. In other words, a Christian is somebody who realizes that if I want this so much that I'll cheat to get it, it's not worth my soul. If I want this girl, if I want this guy so much, that I'll break a rule to get it, it's not worth my soul. See, it's not the breaking of the rule that Peter's talking about. It's deeper. You know what an overdesire is? Something that grabs you. It's something that drives you. It's much more subtle. A Christian is somebody who says, nothing will get in the way of my relationship to Jesus Christ. Nothing. Is there anything like that going on right now? Do you have any overdesires that are warring against your soul? Here's how you know you're a Christian. Tonight, as you take the bread and you take the cup, you're going to say, there's these things that I'm doing. They're too important to me. But they're not worth my soul. That's the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian. A Christian understands that there is such a thing as a soul. You come to understand. There's a spiritual health that you've got. There's an entity. Do you understand? I think you do. Christians who are out there understand just what I mean. Look at your lives tonight and say, I consistent enough in my behavior so that I really am an enigma to people? Am I the invitation, the walking invitation to the gospel so that someday people will glorify God on Judgment Day because of my goodness? Maybe the reason it's not happening is because of the over-desires that are warring against your soul. Nothing is worth your soul. Settle these accounts as we go and meet him over the table. Let's pray. Give us, Father, a real meeting of our mind with your mind and our heart with your heart, because you've promised that the sacraments are just not like any other thing we do. You have promised to be present in a special way whenever we break the bread and drink the cup in your name. So we ask that these things, these very important things that are warring against, the things that are warring against our souls, the way in which we live in a pagan and hostile society, that we would be, get clarity on these things, and we would get empowered by you to live as we should, because we've spent this, these next few minutes together at your table. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.