I'd like to read to you from John chapter 20. These are the resurrection appearances of Jesus to a number of his disciples.

I'm going to read to you up to about verse 16, and then I'm going to skip to the end to talk a little bit, or to look for just a moment at the famous story of Jesus' appearance to Thomas. So I'm going to read verses 1 to 16 and 24 to 29 for your information. Early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene went to the tomb and saw that the stone had been removed from the entrance. So she came running to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one Jesus loved, and said, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they've put him. So Peter and the other disciple started for the tomb. Both were running, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. He bent over and looked in at the strips, the strips of linen lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter, who was behind him, arrived and went into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen lying there, as well as the burial cloth that had been around Jesus' head. The cloth was folded up by itself, separate from the linen. Finally, the other disciple, who reached the tomb first, also went inside. He saw and believed. They did not understand from Scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead. Then the disciples went back to their homes. But Mary stood outside the tomb crying, and as she wept, she bent over to look into the tomb and saw two angels in white seated where Jesus' body had been, one at the head and the other at the foot. They asked her, Woman, why are you crying? They have taken my Lord away, she said, and I don't know where they have put him. At this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not realize it was Jesus. Woman, he said, why are you crying? Who is it you are looking for? She said, I don't know. He was the gardener. She said, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him and I will get him. Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. Verse 24. Now Thomas, called Didymus, one of the twelve, was not with the disciples when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see the nail marks in his hands, and put my finger where the nails were, and put my hand into his side, I will not believe it. A week later, his disciples were in the house again, and Thomas was with them. And though the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, Put your finger here. See my hands. Reach out your hand and put it into my side. Stop doubting and believe. And Thomas said to him, My Lord and my God. Then Jesus told him, Listen to me. You have believed. Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed.

This is God's word.

Look. Every time Jesus shows up. Every time. He shows up. After he's risen from the dead. He's dealing with faith. You see, all of these incidents. Here's John. We're told in verse 8, He believed. Here's Thomas. Jesus says, Stop doubting and believe. And this is why.

The disciples, Mary, Thomas, they'd all seen Jesus die. They'd heard his teaching and they'd seen his miracles and they weren't changed. They had to meet the risen Lord and believe. And that's when they were transformed. And the Bible says the same thing for all of us. It's not enough to believe in his teaching. It's not enough to believe in his teaching. It's not enough to believe in his miracles or his deity and so forth. You have to meet the risen Lord by faith or the power of God does not come into your life. If you say, Well, I believe in his teaching, but you don't believe he was raised from the dead. You don't believe that he's really the Lord and God physically raised at a historic moment in time. If you can't believe that, the Bible says, then you're not a Christian. Any more than these people were Christians until they met the risen Lord. There was no power. There was no revolution until they actually met him by faith. There wasn't anything unusual about his life, their lives until they met him. And that's the reason why as soon as he meets them, he says, You've got to believe that this isn't a hallucination. You've got to believe that I really am raised from the dead. That's the reason why in Peter, in first Peter one, Peter says, In his great mercy, he has given us a new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Christ. No new birth, no living hope, no revolution in the life without the resurrection. And you meeting the resurrected Lord by faith. That's why Paul can say in Romans 10, if you confess with your mouth and you believe in your heart that Jesus was raised from the dead, you're saved. You can't divorce these things. Faith, meeting the resurrected Lord. Now, every time Jesus meets somebody, he helps them believe. And if we look at the passage, we look at how he helps John and Peter believe and how he helps Mary believe.

What amazes me is that you have so many principles in the passage of what Christian faith is. There's a sense in which this is a summary of everything we've been looking at. And we've been going through the book of John for a long time, a year and a half or so, maybe more. I haven't added it up. The point is we have a summary of everything that the Bible and the book of John teaches about faith right here. I'm going to name four principles. And you know, since I have four points means they all have to be short. So I'm going to be concise. But what's beautiful about the passage is it gives us a comprehensive understanding of Christian faith. Without faith in the risen Christ, no power of God in your life. So it's important to see what the faith is. The four principles are, we learn here, faith is impossible. It's personal. It's foundational. And it's unconditional. Let me just name them and let me just run through them. First of all, faith is impossible. We're taught that here. And we're taught that here. Mary and Thomas and everybody, remember, they had seen Jesus do miracles. They'd seen him raise people from the dead. They'd seen him walk on the water, calm the storm. And he had so often claimed to rise from the dead on the third day. He had made that claim so often that even his enemies had heard about it and they posted a guard.

And therefore, on that Sunday morning, when Mary, on the first day of the week, comes and sees the stone rolled away, considering everything that she had seen, and all the incredible things that she had seen him do, and how not one of his promises had ever failed, and the fact that he promised again and again to rise from the dead on the third day, isn't the only rational response when you see that the stone rolled away? At the very least, she should have said, Could it be he's actually done it? I mean, that's the only rational response. If you've seen somebody who's done it, and you're like, Somebody who's had gotten tremendous power, who's never failed in his promise, who's claimed to rise on the third day, why in the world didn't she immediately say, Maybe he's really done it? That's the only rational response. But instead, what does she say? They stole the body.

Thomas is the same way. All the things that he'd seen, and listen, he'd been with these people. And they said, We've seen him. And what does he say? If unless I see him, put my finger in his wounds, I will not believe him. What's wrong with these people? The answer is, the Bible says that faith is impossible. It's not something you're capable of. Faith in the risen Christ has got to come from outside of you. You cannot bring it from inside. That's the first principle. There it is. Jesus says, No one can come to me unless the Father draws him. And you know why? Just the tiniest digression. The reason that faith is impossible is because unbelief is not a vacuum. Unbelief is not the absence of faith. It's the presence of something else. Unbelief is a positive substance in the Bible.

There's a place in the Bible, in Matthew 11, where Jesus says, To what shall I liken this generation that has rejected him? To what shall I liken this generation? They're like children playing in the marketplace. To whom we say, We pipe for you, but you would not dance. We mourn for you, but you would not lament. By the way, for a long time I always wanted to know what in the world Jesus meant. And recently I've been studying it and realized what he was saying. He's talking about the peevishness of children. If a child does not get its way, no matter what you do, no matter whether you give the child the thing that your child most wants, you cannot please him, you cannot please her. See, in other words, if the child is unhappy, because you have not let him do this or that, you go to the child and say, Well, let's see, you like going to the circus. You want to go to the circus? No, I hate the circus. Now you know the child loves the circus, but the child is convinced he hates the circus, and he's convincing you he hates the circus. All right, you don't want to go to the circus? Well, let's just stay home. No, I hate staying home. No matter what you say, the child will deny what deep down inside he really knows. Why? He's trying to get control back.

That's a way of thinking. He's trying to get control back. The human heart is this way. It will deny and resist even what it most wants if it discovers that in order to get it, it has to lose control of someone else. There's a primordial desire that the heart has to stay in charge. It wants control. And it's easy to see in children, and it's only humorous because they're weak. My wife pointed out a passage in Augustine's Confessions she's reading for the book club, and she pointed out this interesting passage where Augustine says, the only reason that children are cute is because they're too weak to do what they want. And you know, listen, look, you can see in the most unvarnished way that primordial desire to be in total control. And Augustine's right. Take a one year, one year, the one year olds. If they had the power to do what they really wanted to do, when you take that toy away from them that they want, they would decapitate you without a blink.

Jesus says, to what shall I liken this generation? Peevish children. Now it's funny in kids, but it's not funny in us. The fact is, we will and we do infallibly deny to ourselves and resist the love of Christ which we want. We really, really want. But we will not admit that we want it, because if it means to get it we have to lose control, we will deny it. We will spite ourselves. We will be unhappy. No circus. As long as we can keep control. And Jesus says that's the way every human heart is, and therefore faith is impossible.

And therefore Jesus himself is the only one that can give it to us. And look how he does it. Jesus is the perfect physician. It's his job to give us faith. You know, a great physician not only prescribes medicine for the disease, but also for the patient. A good doctor not only prescribes medicine for the disease, but the patient. A good doctor has to check out what is my weight, and what is my allergies, and what is my condition. Medicine has to fit the patient. And look at what Jesus does. Look at how Jesus gives faith to people. Here is John and Peter, the thinkers, and they get evidence. Here is Mary, the lover, and she gets called by name. Here is Thomas, the doubter, and he gets the touch. Peter, the proud, who later on we will see in chapter 21 gets humbled. Whatever we need in order to have faith, Jesus will give it to us. The only way we can get faith is as a gift from him. Which leads to the next point. By the way, just as a summary, I will give you a small tangent. Just keep this in mind. If it is really true that faith is impossible, and therefore it is a gift, and it has to come from outside, and you are not capable of it, then this means if you want to believe, you have to admit you cannot. You cannot believe in Christ if you think you can believe in Christ. A person who has got an eye problem has got to admit they have an eye problem if they are ever going to get help. And therefore, that is the reason why, you know when a man comes to Jesus and says, I want you to heal my son. And Jesus says, well I can if you believe. And he says, I don't believe, help me. And Jesus heals the son. Why? Because as soon as you say I don't believe, you have begun to believe. Until you admit that you can't believe, you actually haven't believed. But as soon as you admit you don't have faith, you have got faith. A person who complains, I can't wake up, I can't wake up, you are waking up, or you wouldn't complain that you are waking up. And a person says, I can't believe, that is the beginning of faith. When you come to Jesus, and you say, I don't even have faith. I can't even have faith unless you give it to me. That is the beginning of it. I don't have faith. That is the beginning of faith. And he will recognize that, he honors that. You can't believe if you think you can believe. If you know you can't believe, you have begun to believe. Faith is impossible. It has got to be a gift. Secondly, faith is personal. Now here is what I mean. Faith is in a person, not an abstract principle. Christianity does not give you a general message of love and peace and justice and equality. These people, Peter, John, Mary, Thomas, they had Jesus teaching, but they didn't know him personally, that he was raised from the dead. And therefore their lives were not revolutionized. What really turned their lives from a defeat into a triumph, was meeting Christ. Now the reason I am pointing this out is, most Protestant churches in this city will say this,

we can't really know whether we can believe in the physical resurrection anymore. We don't know if all these legends are really true. We are modern people and it is difficult for us to believe. But we believe in the teaching of Christianity, the spirit of Christianity, love and equality and love your neighbor and the golden rule and justice for all. That is what we need. That is what you are going to hear in churches. Well, we don't know if we can believe that Jesus was physically raised, but what we do know is the importance of these wonderful Christian principles that will really change the world. Friends, John, Peter, Mary and Thomas had those principles. They knew them. They had been taught them. And they were in defeat. Because you see, the Christian message is not a general theory or a bunch of abstract moral principles. It is about Jesus. It is about there was a person, who is God, who came to earth, really lived a life, really died a death for us, really was raised from the grave. And until you see that, your life will not be changed. Let me put it this way. If you could personify the New Testament, if the New Testament could be personified for a minute, when you read the New Testament, the New Testament refuses to talk to you about how to live life successfully. Refuses to talk to you about what is good and bad and how to make the world a better place. Instead it says, I cannot tell you anything until you believe in Him. Nothing I tell you will make sense unless you believe in Him. In a sense, the Bible refuses to even deal with you. It says, look, before I can tell you about all these other things, Christianity is not a philosophy, says the Bible. Christianity is not a moral set. It's faith in a person. And unless he is in the center of things, unless he is in the center of the scheme of your thinking, nothing else I can tell you will make sense. So there is a sense in which the Bible refuses to talk to you about anything before you decide what you believe about Jesus. Now, by the way, that's lying. That's illogical. There's a lot of people who say, well, I don't know whether I can believe that Jesus was raised from the dead. I can't believe in all that kind of stuff. That He was born of a virgin. We're modern people. We can't believe in that. But I want the teaching. I want the teaching. I want to see how I should live. I want to see how to live successfully. How to make the world a better place. The Bible says that's nonsense.

You see, the teaching, the morality, the moral values, apart from the framework, makes no sense. Let me put it to you this way. Here's two groups of students, and they're both sitting down ready to take a three-hour test. You go to one group and you say, now when you're done with the test, you know what we're going to do with it? When you're done with the three-hour test, we're going to tear it up and we're going to throw it in the waste can. That's the last, and then we'll burn it up. And you go over to the other group and you say, now you know what we're going to do when the tests are done? We're going to grade it, and this test will be the basis for whether you get to college or not. Do you think that would make any difference in how they would do it? Those two groups deal with things. In one case, they say, you're going to work real hard, but it's all going to come to nothing. I mean, nobody's ever going to see it. It's going to mean nothing permanent. It's going to go right in the can. And the other group, same rules of how to take the test, but they're told that this is going to make all the difference in the world. Do you think it makes any difference in how they do things? Of course. And the Bible says, is there a God who has come to earth, who you can know personally, and who someday will judge all the earth, and with whom you will rule and reign, and forever? Is there a God like that? Or is there no God like that, so when you die, you rot? Do you think it's going to make a difference how you live your life? Whether you believe one or the other, it will make all the difference. How ridiculous to say that the important thing are the principles, the values of the Bible, and not whether or not Jesus Christ really was God, really born of a virgin, really rose from the dead. The Bible says, I'm sorry. Faith, Christian faith, is not in a general message. Christian faith is in a person. And that means, if you want to believe, you cannot analyze the Bible like a textbook. Instead, you've got to read the Bible to get a sense of who Jesus is. You've got to go to the Bible to see who Jesus is. You've got to seek him out personally. Some of you are confused and can't believe, and don't know what you think religiously. I'll tell you why. Because you go around in circles arguing with yourself, and thinking about Christianity in pieces. What you must do is go to the Gospels, go to John, go to Luke, go to Mark, and read it as a whole. Have you ever done that? Is there anybody here who has a lot of doubts about the Christian faith, but you cannot tell me that you have ever sat down and read the four Gospels, say, over a period of a week? Rapid reading. Not to analyze the pieces, but to stand back and get a picture of who Jesus is. His wisdom, and his love, and his strength. His goodness, and his severity. Have you ever actually done rapid reading, not to look at the Bible in pieces, but as a whole, to get a picture of who Jesus is as a person? If you've never done that, you're lost. Because Jesus is not a theorem, he's a person. You've got to find out who he is. You've got to look at him. And you've got to talk to him. Now, if that's beneath you, then you're beneath God, and you're lost. If you can't read the Bible, look at Jesus as a person, and actually speak to him. Pray and say, Lord, are you the one?

Now, if you can't do that, then you have never considered Christianity, you've never come to it fairly. Christianity is not a pile of principles, it's a person.

There's that wonderful place in Matthew 11, where John the Baptist is in doubt about Jesus. And what does he do? He sends a messenger and he says, Are you the one who is to come, or should we look for another? Every mature person, every person who knows him or herself knows, that when you have dated, when you've gotten a job, when you have married, if you've married, you've been looking for somebody, somebody who's going to satisfy you, and you haven't found that person. Even those of you who are, especially those of you who are happily married know, you still haven't found the person. And every mature person who understands his or her own heart realizes that you're after something or somebody that you've never found. You have to read the Bible, you have to read the Gospels, and you have to say personally, Are you the one that I've been looking for? And if you ask that, I tell you he's going to come and he's going to reveal himself to you. He's not going to reveal himself to you if instead you think of it more like a theorem, a pile of abstract principles that you pick and pick apart logically. Unless you've approached him as a person, you cannot know him. You will not know him. You will never know him. Because faith is in a person.

Thirdly, faith is foundational. Now what I mean by that is, there's a wonderful little anatomy of faith given to us here. First of all, Jesus always gives you evidence. Faith starts with a convinced mind. It starts with a convinced mind. In the first few verses, where Peter and John are looking at the grave clothes, the word used for see, they look, they saw the grave clothes, is the word theoreo, from which we get our word theory. And the word used, as Peter and John are looking, the Greek word used, is a word that means to reason and think things out. Now you know why they were doing that. If you look carefully at the text, it tells us that when they went into the grave, they saw his grave clothes. They saw the napkin over his face was neatly still rolled up right at the place where the head was. And the rest of the grave clothes were still rolled up right where the body should have been. And so there's Peter sitting down and saying, and John, they're sitting down and saying, if friends took the body, why in the world would they have taken it naked? They wouldn't have done that. They wouldn't have desecrated the body. But if enemies would have taken it, why would they have left things like this so neatly? And not only that, how in the world did the body get out of those grave clothes still wound around as if the body was supposed to be inside? What are they doing? They're therai-o-ing. Their minds are grappling with the evidence. And that's the way anybody will start with faith. What do you do? Faith always starts with a convinced mind. You talk to people. You see people who've had their lives changed. You study the evidence. You read the Scripture. You look at the historic evidence for the resurrection. And it always starts with a convinced mind. But the word believed used in this passage, dear friends, the word believed, is pistis, which is a word that always is used with a preposition, ace meaning into. That means the word believe that is used by Paul is a word that always means to believe into something. It's never translated that way, unfortunately. But all through here, we're talking about belief that means believing into something, which means you don't just have your mind convinced, but you actually have to believe into it. You have to put a new foundation to your life and you rest on it. My grandfather, who's passed away a long time ago, was in World War I. He told me everybody would be in this, would stand in this trench. For weeks and weeks and weeks, he was in a trench. And you had to do everything like this because anybody who stood up and had their head above the top of the trench was instantly shot at and usually killed. And so for weeks, they'd go around like this. And one day over the radio, from which they got most of their orders, it said, the war is over. There's been a ceasefire. And the enemy on the other side is already evacuating. The war is over. Now, they'd never gotten a wrong message on that radio channel. They'd never been, you know, there was no reason in the world not to believe it. So they were convinced. Now, my grandfather said, now the real question was, who was the first person to stand up?

See, it's one thing to have a convinced mind. It's another thing to believe into that message.

When the Philippian jailer

discovered that there had been an earthquake and he ran downstairs and he saw all the cell gates were open, he was ready to commit suicide, we're told. You know why? Because you see, everybody has faith in something. Everybody has a foundation. Everybody has believed into something. Or you couldn't even live. Most of us have believed into our career. Many of us have believed into relationships or into our looks or into status or into money or something. You believe into something. Why was the Philippian jailer about to kill himself? Why? Because, you see, the only thing he had to base his life on was he was a jailer and he had failed and he was ready to kill himself. The foundations of his life had been laid bare by this disaster. He had nothing else to rely on, nothing else to live for. He was ready to kill himself. And Paul, suddenly a voice comes from outside the room. He's looking at the cell and Paul says, don't harm yourself, we're all still here. Now what did the jailer do? He immediately locked all the gates up and said, what a close call, you guys were so stupid not to have left. Instead what he did was, he ran in and he got down on his knees before Paul and he says, what must I do to be saved? Now you see, the danger is over, so what's he still upset about? Here's what, he realized that he was in peril, that his life was built on insecure faith, insecure foundations. He realized that his life, the thing that he had believed into, meant he had built his life on a bubble that could burst any moment and he said, this is no way to live. I need to have a whole new position, a whole new basis for my life. And what does Paul say? Transfer your trust from being a great jailer to Jesus.

Real faith is foundational. Real faith means believing into him. Real faith means building your life on him. Real faith does not mean just a convinced mind. You know, Paul says, I know whom I have believed and I am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed to him. You see, an intellectual detachment? No. What is Paul saying? I am persuaded, I'm committed, I have put myself into the bank of Jesus Christ. I have deposited myself. That's what it means to believe. Lastly, just lastly, we said faith is impossible. Right? It's personal. It's foundational. And lastly, it's unconditional. Thomas had said, I'll believe if.

Jesus shows up and says, you wanted to touch me? Go ahead, touch me. Look carefully. Thomas doesn't do it. Jesus says, you want to touch me? Touch me. And all Thomas says is, my Lord and my God. What happens is, Thomas, by looking at Jesus, by looking at the wounds Jesus wounds, begins to realize the audacity of putting conditions on his faith.

Thomas does not touch him. Why? Because he suddenly realized, if you ever say, I'll believe you if, I'll obey you if, you're still trying to keep control. Thomas realized that. He realized how silly it is, the audacity of it. It's like a flea trying to take an elephant for a pet. I'll obey you if. If you'll explain this. If you'll tell me why this happened. If you can promise me that if I give myself to you, then this and this and this won't happen. Isn't that what some of your problems is? That you want to believe conditionally. And what does Thomas do? When he sees the wounds, he drops his conditions. And you will never, ever find him unless you drop your conditions. When he sees the wounds, Thomas suddenly says, how can I come to grips with someone who's given himself utterly for me without me giving myself utterly for him? I have to give myself to him completely. Christian friends, some of you are confused today, like Mary, because you put conditions on your obedience. You're saying, it's God, why aren't you letting things happen to me this way? Why are you letting things happen to me this way? Why aren't you really doing what I need? Mary was so sure of what should happen that when she met Jesus, she missed him. She thought he was an enemy. She says, sir, have you, have you, have you taken him away? Some of you, Christians, because God is not doing things in your life the way you want, you're missing him and you're treating him as an enemy. Just like she did. Drop your conditions and he'll call you by name. Drop your conditions and say, my Lord and my God.

Well, let's go to the table. If there's anybody here saying, you know what, you sound kind of slick, but you're just a fundamentalist. You believe all this stuff. Hey, you're talking to a modern person, you say. I'm a thorough-going skeptic. I'm a thorough-going cynic. I'm not going to believe. You're not thorough-going. If you were a thorough-going cynic, you would be cynical about your cynicism, but you're not. If you're a thorough-going skeptic, you'd be skeptical about your skepticism, but you're not. Is it fair to be skeptical and suspicious of everything but your skepticism and your suspicion? You're not thorough-going. If you were, you would go to him and you would say, are you the one or should I look for another? Christian friends, drop your conditions. Put yourself in his hands. Look, he could take a stammerer Moses and make him a prophet. He could take a coward like Peter and make him a rock. He could take a doubter like Thomas and make him a witness. And he's got something for you on his... He's got a blueprint of greatness for you. It's on his drawing board. And until you drop your conditions and you give yourself to him, nobody's going to know what it is. So, let's pray.