George Herbert's poetry is really remarkable because it is not just simply self-expression.

He says this is a record of the way in which his soul was cured. Now before we get into what he says was the way in which his soul was cured, we need to spend a moment talking about what in the world is soul. Now, what is the soul? What does it mean? What does it mean when he says this is a record of the conflict I had between God and my soul until I was able to subject it and find perfect freedom in the service of Jesus? I'm just old enough, I am just old enough to have eyewitnessed the revolution in our society over the whole subject of spirituality and soul. We're told right now that if you get the word soul in a book title, it will sell 15% higher in price. It will sell 15% higher in price than if it doesn't have the word soul in it. It's got the word soul in it, we have a spot for it, there's a whole wall of books that have soul in the title, they're selling like hotcakes. That's astounding. That is a huge change, a huge difference. Like I said, I'm just old enough to remember this. I remember that when the Beatles got into transcendental meditation, everybody laughed. Here's the reason everybody laughed. Everybody from the beginning, from the beginning of the 20th century to about 1965, virtually all expert opinion about religion was controlled by the theories of Ludwig Feuerbach back in the 19th century and Freud in the 20th century and a host of other people. And this was the theory. These people said, where does the religious impulse come from? Where does the spiritual thirst come from that people talk about? And they decided where it came from was

human beings, are scared of this big dark universe that we've been living in for centuries. Human beings feel the need to control the mysterious. And so we turn to religion to control it. We offer sacrifice to the gods and we say, if I offer the sacrifice, if I obey the rules, then my crops will be watered. And so religion was a way of trying to control the world. And what the experts said is, as technology and science advances, and as people, more and more come to the place where they see that they can control the world, that they're not afraid of the world, that the world has all sorts of explanations, that through science I can control disease. I don't have to be doing sacrifices in order to save the life of my sick daughter. There's antibiotics. I don't have to do these things anymore. So basically what the experts said is, the more technologically advanced the society gets, the more things are explained, the more things are explained in terms of their naturalization, the more things are explained in terms of their natural causes, the more things are brought down to the place where we can say, well, I can explain it in terms of chemistry, in terms of biology, in terms of physics. The more we're able to do that, the less people will be religious, and the more technologically advanced the society, the less religious the society will be. And I can still remember, I still am old enough to know, that an awful lot of the churches in this country said we've got to get with it. The one thing, if we're going to have any religion, we've got to make sure it's not mystical religion anymore. And so, the leading churches, and the leading churchmen, I guess you could call them, and the leaders of the churches back in the 50s and 60s, what they said was, look, we are modern people. We still have church, we still have religion, but we've gotten rid of the superstitious elements. We don't raise our hands. We don't even close our eyes. We don't ask people to repent. We don't ask people to be born again. We don't have mystical, mysterious religion. And I don't want to, well, I might as well. I'll go a little further here on this. In general, this kind of religion that says we've got to get demystical, because human beings, as they get more scientifically advanced, will want to have a religion that's more a matter of cognition and ethics. It has more to do with discussion, and living a good life, and working for a better world. But we want to get rid of the whole idea of mystical experience. And so, to be honest, an awful lot of these churches that particularly were on the forefront of stripping away all of the supernatural, the mystical, and said, spiritual thirst and all that, that impulse is dying amongst people. We have to be with it. They had a tendency to be mainline Protestants, by and large. And of course, since I'm a Presbyterian, it's not like I'm throwing stones at somebody else here. And so, generally, what mainline Protestants would say is, for example, they would say, well, now, over in the Catholic Church, yeah, they still believe in all of that. They still believe in mystery and miracles and all that sort of thing. But, you know, that's not where we are. And over in the Baptists and the Pentecostals, you know, they still raise their hands. They still talk about being born again. They still talk about the miracles and all. That's not where we are. We're with it.

Now, that was the theory. When the Beatles came along and said, we're getting into transcendental meditation. We're going into Eastern meditation. What is transcendence? The word transcendence, until the Beatles came along, was something for the philosophy classes. But the word transcendence means intimacy with the infinite. And from the time of the Beatles, transcendence and transcendental came into our vocation. And it was a very popular vocabulary. And around the same time, a guy named Theodore Rozak began writing books. I'm not sure I like a lot of what he said, but he wrote things like The Making of the Counterculture, for example. But he also wrote a book called The Waste Land. You know The Waste Land? In 1972. And he said this. He said, and he was right. He said, don't you dare think that technology is going to destroy the religious impulse. Technology and science, trying to boil everything down into constituent parts, trying to boil everything down into physics and chemistry and biology, it is not going to get rid of the religious impulse. People are going to get rabidly religious. People are going to get crazily religious, insanely religious. Because we know that reality, he said, this is a quote, we know that reality is awesomely greater than the natural. We know there's something out there. He says, don't you tell me that love is nothing but brain chemistry.. Don't tell me that joy is nothing but brain chemistry. Don't tell me that beautiful music is no different than noise. It's just the way in which my nervous system works. Don't tell me these things. I don't believe those things. I can't live that way. Nobody believes them fundamentally. You may say that intellectually, but you can't live that way. You don't believe that. And he says, the more we commodify, the more we turn into a consumer society, the more we put everything down and analyze it and break it down and turn it into something we can manipulate, the more we turn everything, including religion, into commodity, and love and family and everything and relationships into commodity, the more people are going to desperately need religion. He says, you can't stop the religious impulse. If you push it down, it's going to burst out somewhere else. You stop up old faithful, you're going to get 13 little baby faithful somewhere else. It's got to come. Now, that was, you know, that was a voice crying in the wilderness at the time. But he said, that's just not going to be true. That's just not going to happen. He was absolutely right. America, which is the most technologically advanced country in the world, is insanely religious. This might seem very funny, and maybe it's not even fair, but it was just, it made me laugh and I had to talk about it. I need to share it with you. Peter Berger was a sociologist, and he has been recently reading through a very, very good piece of scholarship called The Fundamentalist Project. The Fundamentalist Project was sponsored by a major foundation, MacArthur Foundation. It's a multi-million dollar research project. All sorts of scholars are working on it. And even though it's called The Fundamentalist Project, what it's really doing is it's studying the fact, it's really not studying fundamentalist religion, it's studying passionate, orthodox, fast-growing religion anywhere in the world. Did you know, for example, that in 1900, 3% of Africa was Christian? All the rest of Africa was just all sorts of kind of diverse tribal religions, and animistic spiritualities and all that. And by the year 2000, over 50 to 60% of Africa will be Christian. Islam, as surely you know, is just sweeping through parts of the Middle East. Millions of people are being converted to Islam. And in this country, and here's the great irony, in this country, the churches that never got rid of the mystical, they're the ones that are booming. The churches that did get rid of the mystical, all the so-called superstition, all the... you know, all the mystery. The churches that said, we're the most modern, we're the most with it, are having the most problem. And what Peter Berger pointed out is the reason that scholars are studying this, the reason they put all this money into studying what they called fundamentalism, Berger was reading through and said, you know, what they're really saying is, how in the world are so many people religious? And he made a joke. He said, now, why have they spent millions of dollars... you don't spend millions of dollars to study something unless you think it's weird. You don't spend millions of dollars to say, oh my goodness, people are out there breathing, eating and drinking. We better figure it out. Well, everybody knows. Everybody's always been breathing, eating and drinking. Berger says, the religious impulse is so strong, the need for the infinite is so strong, materialism, just science, just this, you might call it materialistic secularism, has been proven now to be... doesn't mean that there aren't individuals, there are individuals that say, I'm not religious, I don't need prayer, I don't need spiritual experience, I don't need things. Of course, there's plenty of people like that. But what we're seeing now is the human race as a whole can't live that way. That whatever the religious impulse is, it's not because we're just afraid of the universe and we need a way of controlling it. The religious impulse will never die. The religious impulse and the spiritual impulse, the need for transcended experience of the infinite is a human need that will never be able to go out. And Peter Berger says, we've always had passionate religion. Most people have been passionate religious. Most people can't live without it. And he says, what you really ought to spend millions of dollars of studying is American university professors.

95% of whom say, I don't feel very religious. They're the weird ones, he said. Why is it that nobody is putting up money to study them? They're the anomaly. He's, in fact, what he goes so far as to say, if I can... I don't know if I can find it. It's probably here. What he says is, they're studying Iranian mullahs. They're studying the Ayatollah Khomeini. There's nothing weird about the Ayatollah Khomeini. He says, what really is weird are people, are university professors and so on, who say, I don't have any spiritual experience. I don't need any spiritual experience. That is very, very anomalous. So, what we have is a whole new realm. Because not only do you have orthodox religions growing like crazy, but when you go into Barnes & Noble, something you couldn't imagine, imagine seeing 20 years ago. When you go into any mainstream bookstore, there are just walls and walls of mysticism. Books about the soul, books about... Generally, most of them are very often just called New Age. But you know, the word New Age means anything, just about anything that's not sort of orthodox. And one of the things that I just bring out to you right here is, is that because you live in Manhattan, you're much more like, much, much more like university professors than the rest of the human race.

You're much more likely, therefore, to be shocked by religiosity, amazed by it. And when you find, as you get older, that there's something wrong with you too,

that you can't believe that love is nothing but chemicals, that you can't believe that beauty is nothing but chemicals, that you can't believe that all morality, all right and wrong is just socially constructed, that therefore rape is impractical maybe, but there's nothing really wrong with it. And as soon as you say, no, rape is absolutely wrong, you believe in the transcendent. You don't believe, for example, that my feeling that rape is wrong is just the product of evolutionary biology. And you don't believe that the feeling that rape is wrong is just a social contract that, you know, if we rape people, society will fall apart. No, you believe it's wrong. And you see what happens as you get older is you begin to say, materialistic secularism isn't enough.

And here's the other problem that goes along with it. One of the reasons that modern people, especially people who live in Manhattan, urbane people, professional, the professional elites of America, people who bought the idea that if you're really smart and you're really sophisticated and you're really educated, you're not going to be too religious, religion will be okay in its place. You bought into that and now you're suddenly surprised that there's this incredible sweep, all this revival seeming to go on, maybe one of the reasons why you're here is you're thinking about that yourself. Well, one of the things you'll have to realize is the reason that modern, elite, American, educated society is in the pickle that it's in is for the reasons I just said. In order to be free, in order to be able to do what I wanted to do, in order to be able to live as I want to live, sleep with who I want to sleep with, do with my money what I want to do with my money, do what I want, I needed to say there is no God or else if there is a God, there's not a God I can know. There's not a God who's so personal that I can know his will. See, I wanted freedom. So I said, well, who knows if there's a God? But you see, there is no such thing as absolute freedom without a creeping feeling of meaninglessness. Because if you really say I am free because there is no right and wrong, I have to make that up for myself, you come to start to speak about the meaninglessness of the world. And you start to begin to see that sense of meaninglessness. You start to begin to feel that. Now, you know, here's some of the more famous ones. Here's Voltaire. Voltaire said, I am absolutely free because there is no God, because everything can be explained in terms of the natural. He says, I am part, I'm the puny part of a great whole. Yes. But all sentient things suffer like me, and like me, they also die. The universe belies me. My heart refutes a hundred times my mind's conceit. I am the product of this vast universe, silence. The book of fate is closed to us. Man is a stranger to his own research. He knows not whence he comes nor whither he goes. Now, get this, this is great. Voltaire says, we are tormented atoms in a bed of mud, devoured by death, a mockery of fate. Now, you say, well, he was a Frenchman.

He was a philosopher. He was a smart person. You know, philosophers, smart people, he was probably an artist too. He was tormented. That's tormented. No, listen, he's being, you know what? Here's the good thing about artists. You can talk about them all you want, those of you who are, you know, working your way up in the financial world and so on, you know, artists. Artists, maybe in a sense, have time to think logically. You say, oh, artists are passionate. They're thinking. They're thinking. If I am so free that there really is no God that I have to obey, that's good, isn't it? I'm free. I don't have to obey. In that case, who made me? Where did I come from? What am I made for? Well, I can decide whatever I want to decide to be, and that sounds really good. Voltaire says, in other words, you are a bunch of atoms and you evolve to the place where you're conscious of yourself, and you evolve to the place where you actually know that it bothers you to know that there's really no difference between you and a tree and a rock. And, of course, you can make up your mind to say, I'm going to enjoy this. This is my meaning in life. But that's just to say there is no meaning in life. I'm a tormented atom in a bed of mud, devoured by death, a mockery of fate. Now, what happens is, when you live with that, I want freedom, and if I'm going to have freedom, I don't need religion, people have found they can't live with it. They have found they can't live with it. History is beginning to show that. Another 10 years, another 20 years, I think we're going to have to, after all the foundations deal with the fundamentalist project, they're going to have to say there's something about human beings that cannot live without God. They can't. And they can't even just live with an intellectual idea of God. They have to know him. They have to mystically experience him. In other words, human beings have a soul. Well, now, what's a soul? A soul is that part of me that knows that I'm more than matter. A soul is that part of me that needs to relate to something more than matter. A soul is that which proves that human beings are spiritually amphibious. See, what is an amphibian? An amphibian can't live all the time in the water. Sometimes it's got to come on land. And an amphibian can't live all the time on land. It sometimes has got to go to the water. Either way, it dies. Human beings are like that. If you put them completely into, in a sense, the land of materialism and say you're nothing but matter, that's all that love is, that's all that meaning is, that's all, they can't. We've got to get back in the water. Why? Why? Because we've got soul. Because we have a soul. Now, what's going on in Barnes & Noble? I went over there and I pulled a bunch of books out. Fortunately, some of you gave me gift certificates for Christmas at Barnes & Noble. And it's a little bit different. It made me feel a little better, though, when it comes out to the same thing. It's basically money out of my pocket. But I spent $100 on books off the Barnes & Noble soul shelf.

And I bought Thomas Moore's Care of the Soul, which is really probably the book on this subject, and his mentor, James Hillman, The Soul's Code, and so on. And though, of course, in five minutes, and I have less than that, really, to try to give you an ascertain, you know, to ascertain what they're all about, here's what they're all about. I could give you quotes, and if somebody wants me to do it, I can do it afterwards with a question-and-answer time. That's why we have it. The one thing you can see in all of these spiritualities is that they avoid talking about God, and they especially avoid talking about obedience. Why? Well, I do have a couple of quotes. And, for example, James Hillman and Thomas Moore both say this about the sacred. They say, for example, yeah, here's James Hillman. To be spiritual doesn't mean you should be religious or belong to any religion. But you always think there's another here. There's invisible things. Now, ordinary people in most cultures pay attention to this. It's why they light a candle, why they pick up little pebbles on the beach and take them home and put them someplace special, or why they keep a picture of a loved one. There's this sense that there's something else involved in life all that time. It's not nature. It's not nurture. It's something else. Something we need to get back to. Something we need to connect with again. Without naming it, without defining it, without scientizing it, we need to experience it. And that's James Hillman, The Soul's Code. And Thomas Moore, Care of the Soul, says, what I'm proposing is not specifically Christian. It's not tied to any particular religious tradition. It does imply a religious sensibility and a recognition of our absolute need for the spiritual as opposed to just the physical. Now, you know what these guys are doing? It's very simple. They say, let's not get religious, and let's not talk about God. We don't need to. We just need to know that there's more to life than the physical. We're not just atoms. There's spiritual energy. There's supernatural. There's something more. We're not just atoms. There really is love. There really is joy. There really is wisdom. And what we need to do is we need to come to be aware of that. There's been a great deal of time talking, and every book has a different approach. Some books talk a great deal about meditation techniques. You have a... You have a person like Deepak Chopra that really has some very, very interesting and unusual meditation techniques that are pretty wild in many ways. He talks about leaving your body and, in a sense, some sort of astral projection. You have Thomas More who is very mild. He's a Jungian psychologist, and he would never talk about that. But here's what they all have in common. They're trying to get out from under the problem of, if I have freedom because there is no God, then there's no meaning in life because everything is nothing but atoms and molecules. But no, they say, what's really important is not that we know who God is, and who knows whether God's out there. The important thing is to see that there is a spiritual, that there is a sacred. We need to get into contact with that. Now, you know what they're doing, and this is maybe a controversial proposal. They're desperately trying to get away from the older spirituality. And I'm not just talking about Christian spirituality. If you go to Buddhism, if you go to Christianity, if you go to all of them, all the ancient spiritualities, they had certain things in common. And one of them was obedience. Every single one of the old spiritualities said that my soul doesn't need to be cared for, it needs to be cured. I don't just need care for the soul, I need cure. Something's wrong with my soul. There's a selfishness, there's a pride. The Buddhists will tell you this. They'll say your ego is grasping, and you're trying to fill up the emptiness by acquiring things, and you need to submit. And the Christians will say the same thing. You need to submit. And so on the one hand, the old spirituality said you have to obey. And of course, the modern secularism said you don't have to obey because there is no spirit. These folks are basically saying we've got to get back meaning in life through spirituality, but we still want to be able to do any darn thing we want. There cannot be a code, a true code. James Hillman writes a book, The Soul's Code, but what he really says is, The Soul's Code is you've got to find out what your gifts are, and you have to be true to them. In other words, look inside and be true to who you are. Don't look outside and say, in spite of what you feel in here, obey. The old spirituality always said your soul needs to be cured. The new spirituality only says my soul needs to be cared for. I'll give you another difference. The old spirituality said there's a difference between good and bad spiritual reality. Kathy tells this interesting story. My wife tells a story about how once we were in college, in college, seances were kind of a big thing, and she remembers a friend of hers who really didn't believe in the spiritual. She was a materialist. She said, everything that exists is just what I can touch, taste, hear, see, and smell. That's all there is to it. She went to a seance, and she came back and said, Oh my gosh, there is a spirit world, and we made contact. Isn't that exciting? Now, if you read, listen, if you read any of those books, any of the books in the Barnes & Noble, they will all say the important thing is, we're not confined to the physical. There is a spiritual, and we need to make connection with it. Well, let me just ask you, what if, you know, a lot of you have been living in New York for a long time. You know, what if a newcomer, you know, you meet somebody at church, and this person is brand new to New York, and they're excited about living in New York, and they're very excited about the press of humanity, and you know, the place is so filled with people. You get on the subway, and you're just overwhelmed with people. And what if your friend came back, you met him or her last week, and they come back the next week and say, guess what, somebody came to my door and said to me, boy, I can help you make a lot of money. Would you go into business with me? I've got this great deal. And I'm so excited. I finally made contact. You know, there's great people out there in New York, and I've just been hoping that somebody would come and say, enter into partnership with me, and I'm very excited. What would you say? You'd say, there are a lot of great people out there in New York, but there's a lot of other kinds of people out there in New York. And not all human contact is good, because not all human beings are good. Not all human reality is good. And yet when somebody, take a look at all these books, all they say is you have to reach out and touch the spiritual. All the old spirituality, all the ancient mentors will all say, not all contact is good. I mean, you know, you'd look at your friend and you'd say, don't be naive. And yet you read books off the Barnes & Noble shelf, and what they say is the spiritual is good. All the spiritual is good? Are you crazy? What makes you think, if all human reality is good, all human reality is not good, all spiritual reality is good? What makes you think there's no such thing as the demonic? So the second problem is, not only, the first problem is the old spirituality said, there's obedience. New spirituality says, no, no, we've got to find a way to have freedom, and at the same time have our spirit, and still meaning in life through spirituality. Secondly, the old approach said, there's a difference. You have to use discernment. There's evil spirituality, and there's good spirituality. There's evil spiritual realities and beings, and there's good spiritual realities and beings. And the new, you know, the new spirituality says, no, it's just the important thing is to reach out, okay? And last of all, last of all, the new, all the old spiritualities, the George Herbert types, all of those kinds of things, what they always say is,

ultimately, what you need is not just peace, but love. Listen. You can have peace without perfect love, but you can't have perfect love without peace. You see, is the ultimate spirituality personal? If you want to avoid obedience, then you also avoid love. When you start to fall in love with somebody, one of the first things you're going to find out is, you've lost your independence. Because that person has got things that please him or her. That person's got things that delight him or her. That person's got things that horrify him or her. And there's no way for you to get closer and closer without giving up your independence. In a sense, without obeying, without obeying the contours of that person's heart. And in order to be free enough so that I can do anything I want, I've got to decide that the spirituality is basically impersonal. Oh, but it's not. That's not what all the, that's, listen, that's not what George Herbert would say. George Herbert would say, look at your heart. What you really want is not just a sort of peace from this wonderful energy field out there. What you want is love. You want to know that somebody loves you, somebody values you, somebody has given himself for you. And you want to do it back. And therefore, what George Herbert is saying, and what all, what you're going to find in the older mentors is saying, what you really need is love. But if in order to be independent, you say, basically, you can come and read these books and you can get into the spirituality and you don't have to change your life at all. You know what the irony is? That is the very consumer mentality that turned us into the spiritual desert we are now. That is basically saying, you know, you read all these books, you know what they're going to say? They're going to say, hey, hey, Christianity, Buddhism, secularism, astral projection, reincarnation, astrology, hey, whatever works for you, what is that? That is the consumerism. That is the commodity. That is the thing that turned us into a spiritual wasteland. That is the thing that says, you control the spirit. You control the spirit.

Everybody who's ever been in love knows that you give up control in order to have a love relationship. And the other person gives up control, too. George Herbert, soul was cured, on this last poem. You know what I know? Take a look at it with me, and then we're done.

Do you know what this story is about? Love is Jesus.

Now, here's something else. else you need to know, okay? Passion, I like that, by the way, okay? George Herbert likens the relationship between his soul and Jesus to the relationship between an innkeeper and a wayfarer. You see, back in those days, when you were traveling along, you'd be filled with dust and filled with weariness, and you'd walk into the inn and you'd sit down. Now, the innkeeper would always run over, and what the innkeeper said back then, it's different today, you know, sales clerks come up and say, may I help you? Waiters or waitresses may come up and say, what can I get you? But what the innkeepers would say in Britain at that time is they would walk up and they would be wiping their hands off, you know, and they would say, what do you lack? What do you lack? What can I get you? George Herbert basically says that this is how he related to Jesus. He says, love bade me welcome, yet my soul drew back, guilty of dust and sin. See, he comes in and he's guilty. His soul needs to be cured, not just be cared for. But quick-eyed love, you see, Jesus the innkeeper, observing me grow slack from my first entrance in, drew nearer to me, sweetly questioning if I lacked anything. He comes in and says, what do you lack? And get this, Herbert says to Jesus, a guest, a real guest, I answered, worthy to be here. I shouldn't even be in this inn. I shouldn't even be here before you, see? What do you lack? A guest, I answered, worthy to be here. Love said, you shall be he. I, the unkind, the ungrateful, ah, my dear, I cannot look on thee. Love took my hand and smiling did reply, who made the eyes but I? Truth, Lord, but I have marred them. Let my shame go where it doth deserve. And know you not, says love, who bore the blame? My dear, then I will serve. You must sit down. Says love, and taste my meat. So I did sit and eat. You see, he admitted that he needed to be cured. He admitted that he needed to submit. He admitted that he needed love. He also admitted he needed forgiveness. And Jesus came and said, I bore the blame. Sit down. You will be the worthy guest. And in the very, the other thing to show you is in the very, very first song, Easter, turn to that.

You know how he gets the strength to sit down? You see how his soul was cured? On Easter day, he says, rise, heart, thy Lord is risen. Sing his praise without delays. Who takes thee by the hand that thou mayst likewise with him rise. But look, that as his death can calcine thee to dust, his life may make thee gold and much more just. Now, no offense to anybody who printed this up, but I had to say something about this. There should be a comma after more.

Extremely important. Why? He says, as his death calcined thee to dust. The word calcine means burned. And this is evoking the ancient idea of alchemy. The alchemists tried to take base lead and burn it with certain chemicals so it became pure gold. They never got to it. However, George Herbert says, if you come to Jesus, his death burns you down and turns thee into pure gold and much more than pure gold, absolutely righteous in his sight. Jesus Christ died. And the reason he died was to pay for your sins so that when God looks at you, he sees you to be absolutely just. That's the reason why it's so important to read this way, that as his death recalcined thee to dust, his life may make thee gold and much more just.

That's how he was able to begin to understand that he could sit down and have a love relationship with Jesus Christ. He repented. He believed. He received the righteousness of Christ and his soul was cured. That's how he went. It's utterly different, utterly different than the new spirituality. And I would like to recommend it to you. I'm going to close in prayer. What's going to happen as soon as I come back? I'm going to close in prayer. I'm going to close in prayer. I'm going to close in prayer is that these folks are free to leave finally, and you are free to leave too or go to classes. However, I'm hoping many of you will stay around and in about seven or eight minutes, I will start the Q&A right here. Would you pray with me? Let's pray. I thank you, Lord, that we tonight were able to sing your son's praise without delays, but we also agree with what George Herbert said, and that is the blessed spirit must bear apart and make up our defects with his sweet art. We have got a desire to have our souls cured, but we need the Holy Spirit's help. And I pray, Lord, that some people here tonight might see what the elements of that cure are by the inspiration of your spirit and might find it. Lord, help us to all sit down and taste thy meat. Help us to all sit and eat. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.