The scripture reading this morning is from the book of Acts, chapter 27, verses 13 through 32.

When a gentle south wind began to blow, they saw their opportunity. So they weighed anchor and sailed along the shore of Crete. Before very long, a wind of hurricane force, called the Northeaster, swept down from the island. The ship was caught by the storm and could not head into the wind. way to it and were driven along. As we passed the lee of a small island called Kada, we were hardly able to make the lifeboat secure, so the men hoisted it aboard. Then they passed the ropes under the ship itself to hold it together. Because they were afraid they would run aground on the sandbars of Sirtis, they lowered the sea anchor and let the ship be driven along. We took such There was such a violent battering from the storm that the next day they began to throw the cargo overboard. On the third day, they threw the ship's tackle overboard with their own hands. When neither sun nor stars appeared for many days and the storm continued raging, we finally gave up all hope of being saved. After they had gone a long time without food, Paul stood up before them and said,

He said, stand trial before Caesar, and God has graciously given you the lives of all who sail with you. So keep up your courage, men, for I have faith in God that it will happen just as he told me. Nevertheless, we must run aground on some island. On the fourteenth day, we were still being driven across the Adriatic Sea, when about midnight the sailors sensed that they were approaching land. and found that the water was 120 feet deep. A short time later, they took soundings again and found that it was 90 feet deep. Fearing that they would be dashed against the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern and prayed for daylight. In an attempt to escape from the ship, the sailors let the lifeboat down into the sea, pretending they were going to lower some anchors from the bow. Then Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, Unless these men stay with the ship, you cannot be saved. So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat and let it drift away. This is the word of the Lord.

The passage, we're near the end of the book of Acts. And the last chapters of the book of Acts could all be called the sufferings of Paul. Because it's just one bad thing happening to Paul after another. And here he is caught in a storm. He's on his way to Rome. If you've been with us, you know that he's appealed to Rome because he didn't think he could get a fair trial anywhere around Judea. So he's in a boat with sailors and soldiers. The soldiers have him in custody, and the sailors, of course, are running the boat. But now he's in a storm. He got caught in a nor'easter, which is basically a hurricane. And everyone is afraid for their lives. As you can see, it says they had gone for days in this situation, this condition. And down in verse 20, it says, neither sun or stars appeared for many days. The storm continued raging. We finally gave up all hope of being saved. But see, the storm, which was another part of Paul's suffering, represents all suffering. All the suffering that we get in life could be called a storm. They're all like storms. And watching Paul deal with his storm teaches us something about how we can deal with all storms, all suffering,

Let me note, I would like you to notice the paradoxes, the purpose, and the presence in storms. The paradoxes of storms, the purposes of storms, and the presence Paul finds in storms. Paradox, purposes, presence. If we see how he deals with his storm, it can help us figure out how we can deal with ours. So first of all, paradox. Why do I use the word paradox? Well, let me show you a paradox. Verse 22, Paul says, I urge you to keep up your courage because not one of you will be lost. So everybody's scared. But Paul says, last night, an angel of God visited me, and he told me that everybody should be encouraged because not one of you will be lost. Now, we're going to lose the ship. That was the prophecy from God. You're going to lose the a ship. It's going to run aground, but nobody will be lost and not one of you will die. So be courageous. And yet, let me show you something else. Down in verse 30 and 31, we're told that at one point the sailors were still scared and they, it says, attempted to escape from the ship, letting down a lifeboat. They probably were at one end of the boat and they were kind of covertly letting down a lifeboat because they were ready to leave. leave. And Paul discovered it, comes to the centurion, the captain of the soldiers, and says, unless these men stay with the ship, you cannot be saved. So the soldiers cut the ropes that held the lifeboat and let it drift away. What Paul is trying to say is, I'm sorry, without the sailors, you know, we can't handle the ship without the sailors. You're just soldiers. You're not trained to be sailors. And so he says, unless those sailors stay, we cannot be saved. Wait. Wait a minute. Did you notice something? First of all, Paul said, it is absolutely certain God has spoken. God has planned nobody's going to die. And you know, by the way, in the book of Deuteronomy, it says that if a prophet makes a prophecy in the name of God and it doesn't come true, kill him, put him to death. So Paul would not have mentioned this unless he was absolutely sure this was what God was saying. he had no doubt that God had planned it and it was absolutely determined nobody would die. And yet when he sees the sailors leaving, he says, unless these guys stay in the boat, we cannot be saved. Huh? You don't see the problem? Now, see, the reason we see a problem is we are either or people. See, in our minds, if God is totally in charge and there's no way that anybody's going to die and it is absolutely determined that everybody's going to live, who cares what they do? You know, why didn't Paul say, hey, hey, you're all going to live, so I don't care if you go. Sure, go snorkeling if you want. That's all right. You know, you can't die because it's fixed. In our mind, if God is totally in charge, then what we do doesn't matter. Our choices don't matter. Or we believe if what we do matters and our choices have consequences and it really matters, then God is limiting himself or he's holding back or he's not in control. See, we're either or people. But Paul, and by the way, every other place in the Bible, is both and. It's both and. In other words, Paul is assuming that on the one hand, every single thing that happens, small things and bad things included, are determined by God, and yet our choices matter. They have consequences. We are free and responsible in what we do. In other words, he holds them together. It's not either or. It's It's both and. He holds them together into a coherent whole. So you and I are 100, you know, but we're zero sum people. In other words, we say, look, it's either 100% God's in charge and 0% I matter, what I'm doing matters, or it's 100% I'm free and 0% God's in charge. Maybe it's 50-50, or maybe it's 80-20, or maybe it's 20-80. But Paul says, no, it's 100-100. God is 100% in charge, and you are 100% responsible for what you do.

Jacob, back in the book of Genesis, lies to his father, gets his brother angry, has to flee for his life, really upset, of course. He never sees his mother again, who he loved. loved, really screws up his life in many ways. And yet, it's only because what he did wrong made him leave, and there he found, you know, there he meets people, and he gets married, and he has children, and out of one of his descendants is Jesus Christ, the Messiah.

Okay, so what Jacob did was wrong. It had consequences, and yet it was part of God's plan to bring about the Messiah, right? Messiah is not plan B. That's plan A. So, okay, if that was God's plan, then obviously what Jacob did was okay. No, it wasn't okay. It was wrong. He screwed up his life. He shouldn't have done it, and yet God used it. And it was absolutely what God wanted. In Acts chapter 2, we actually didn't even talk about this, so we were going through the book of Acts. In Acts chapter 2, the very first sermon, Peter looks at the people of Jerusalem and says, Jesus Christ was offered up according to the foreordination of God, and you slew him with wicked hands. Hear that? He says, was Jesus Christ's death on the cross determined by God? Was it planned by God? Was it absolutely certain? Yes, foreordination. It was foreordained by God. And yet everybody who actually slew him, everybody who helped that happen was wicked. You say, oh, but they were used by God. God, you know, they had to do it. Yes, they did. That was part of God's plan. And yet, it was still their choice. God ordains exactly what's supposed to come to pass through our free choices, which belong to us and which we're responsible for. And so, they go together. It's not 50-50 or 80-20 or it's 100-100. Now, some people, here's an objection, and here's a statement about this. It's absolutely crucial when problems happen and troubles happen and difficulties happen to you to know this paradox that what I do matters and what I have done has consequences. And at the same time to know that there's a plan. It's not out of control, that God knows what he's doing. together. Now, I've had people say to me, I just don't like this talk. I want to feel like I am determining the life I have. It's up to me to decide the kind of life I want. I don't want to know that everything has been planned by God. I want to be in charge. I want my choices to determine my life. If you say that, you're a very young person. I'm sorry, I'm going to start really sounding crotchety, but let me just point out. Only about 90 seconds, I'll be crotchety. When I was 22 years old, I agonized because I was losing a relationship with a girl that I thought I should marry. Looking back on it, I would have been the worst person to marry. If my future had been determined by my choices at that point, it wouldn't have been a very good future. In fact, here's where I sound crotchety, everybody. Ready? Okay. Okay? Looking back on my 22-year-old self, about two-thirds to three-quarters of all the things I wanted for myself would have been bad if I'd gotten them. Really bad. And the older you get, the more you see that. And you know what that means? To say, I want to be in charge. I want to know my choices are totally determinative. I want to know that my choices and only my choices are totally determinative of the course of my life, if I really believed that, I wouldn't have gotten up out of bed this morning. I wouldn't have come and talked to you because I'm trying to say the things you need to know, but how do I know if I'm probably not saying all the things you need to hear? You know, if I didn't think, see, this is the practical point. People say either it's destined, and so what I do doesn't matter, or I'm totally free and God is not really that totally controlling of everything. But you know, the most practical thing in the world is to believe it's both. You can see it in Paul. Paul is not passive. He's a leader. He goes to the centurion and says, do this, do this, do this. Don't let this happen. He's not passive, but he's calm. You see, if it was all destined only, then he'd be passive, cynical, indifferent. different. Who cares? It's all rigged, you know? It doesn't matter. But if it was all up to him, he'd be pressured. He'd be frightened. He'd be freaked. He'd be panicked, which he should be. In fact, those of you who don't think God is completely in control of my life, if you're not utterly panicked, it's because you're not thinking.

But Paul's neither passive or panicked. He is a leader. He is totally in charge. charge. Do you see this? He knows what's going on. He's not afraid. He's saying, give up, you know, get up your courage. He's making good decisions. There is nothing more practical than to believe that God is 100% in charge and everything that happens is according to his will. And yet I'm absolutely also responsible and free and what I do has consequences. And I need to make sure that I summons up all of my wisdom and all of my strength to live the best that I can. I need to know both those things because it's the most practical thing. It's the and most consoling. It's bracing because I can't be passive. It's consoling because I can't screw up my life in the end. I can't mess up God's plan for me. See? And see, when I know both those things together, frankly, I couldn't live without believing in the paradox of storms, that God's in charge and yet what I do matters. Point two, that's the paradox of storms. What is the purpose of storms. Now, what do I mean by purpose? Well, why does God even send them? You know, why does God allow them? This is the big question. Why does God allow suffering and evil? Why the bad things have happened to me? Why have they happened to me?

Well, one thing that's interesting about the metaphor of storms, I think, is that if, you know, let's take the metaphor. If a storm comes upon you and you're in a boat, and if you're able to keep hold of the rudder. In other words, if you're able to keep hold of the rudder, do you realize that when the storm is over, you'll probably be closer to your destination than you ever would have been. You would have been driven toward your destination faster than you would have been if you'd had a clear sky.

If you can survive the storm, you're actually better off. See that? If you can survive the storm, you're better off. And that begins to get us into what the Bible says about storms and about suffering. God's got both a general…there's a general and a specific purpose for every storm that comes to you. And the general purpose is good, and the specific purpose is godliness. Let me explain. First of all, the general purpose is good. What I mean by that only comes about if you look…I want to talk to you about two verses, one in the Old Testament, one in the New Testament, but first there's a story behind one of the verses. Jacob has 12 sons, but his favorite son is Joseph. He spoils Joseph. And so as the children all grow up, the family's a mess because favoritism does that. And Joseph is growing up spoiled and cruel and shallow. And the other brothers are growing up bitter and hard and competitive and angry. And finally, the story goes that the brothers find Joseph in a very remote place where nobody can see what they do, and they sell him into slavery to Egypt. And he goes into slavery in Egypt, and there he works hard, but it doesn't matter. Somebody falsely accuses him, and he's thrown into a dungeon in prison. And so by the middle part of the story, the middle part of the story of Joseph, Joseph has had one bad thing after another bad thing after another bad thing calling out of the cistern where they had imprisoned him. He's calling out, and God just doesn't seem to hear at all. Bad thing after bad thing after bad thing. It's like a storm, and it just keeps on going, keeps on going, day in and day out. And everything goes wrong in his life. But if you know the story, I hope you do. If you don't, I'll just tell you basically what happens is it's only because he's sold into slavery and only because he is even put in that dungeon, that he meets the people he meets, and he does the things he needs to do in order to ascend and become powerful in Egypt and to put together a hunger relief program. And in the end, it's only because all those bad things happen that thousands of people are saved from starvation, that Jacob's family is saved from starvation, and that Jacob himself becomes a person of greatness and escapes the terrible future that he had as a spoiled brat. And he also heals everybody else and heals the relationships. In other words, if all the bad things hadn't happened, the good things wouldn't have happened. And at the very end of the story, Jacob looks at his brothers, and in Genesis 50, verse 20, he says this, You meant it for evil, and God meant it for good. You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. Now, that is exactly, almost exactly the same thing that Paul says in Romans 8, 28 when he says, all things work together for good to those that love God and are called according to his purpose. All things work together for good. Now, see, look carefully at that. It does not say everything is good. It doesn't say every cloud has a silver lining. It doesn't say, Paul's not saying, And, you know, even these terrible things, every terrible thing, if you look at it in a certain perspective, you see it's really good. He doesn't say that. He's saying all things work together. Even the most terrible things, from the vantage point of heaven, from the vantage point of eternity, which only God has right now, from the vantage point of the end of history and eternity, we will be able to see that God has very carefully worked out everything in history, even the things of evil intent, to only accomplish the opposite of what the evil intended to accomplish. He is working all things together so even the worst things that ever happen will in the end up accomplishing something very, very good, something incredibly good. You meant it for evil, but God is using that evil to bring about the very opposite of what it originally intended. And that is God's purpose in all storms. though we may not be able to see it. We may not even get to the end of our lives. I mean, Joseph got to the end of his life and saw why God let all the bad things happen to him. But we may not. Let me give you two examples of this. Job and Jesus. Job. The book of Job is... It just starts off... I mean, if you're reading the book of Job... Here's the reason why most people don't even get through the book of Job. The book of Job is very long. But the very beginning is very disappointing. You read the beginning, and you see here's God, and Satan says, you see that guy down there, Job? You think he's a good servant of yours? I want to attack him and I'll show you that he's not all that great a guy. And so God says, okay, go ahead. And we're going, oh my goodness, God just... And the next day, Satan comes back and says, yeah, I attacked him and he did pretty well, but let me attack him one more time. I'm going to show you that he's really a phony. And God says, okay, go attack him again. And we're This is the God I believe in. He's just letting Satan attack. If for some reason you actually get to the end of the book, which takes a long time,

you may notice something, that in the end, what Satan accomplished was one of the great books in the history of the world that has helped hundreds of millions of people be faithful to God in suffering. In other words, in the end, God just let Satan have enough rope to hang himself.

He let Satan, evil, intend something but accomplish the opposite. The other person we can look at is Jesus himself. Think about how great Jesus was. I mean, if you were a follower of Jesus, you're saying, oh my word, look at he's healing the sick, He's raising the dead. He's healing the lepers. He's giving sight to the blind. He's feeding the hungry. I mean, you know what? Jesus did so many good deeds. Somebody said that probably the year or two before Jesus died, sickness was virtually banished in Palestine. And yet now he's dying on the cross, and all the people are standing around, and they're looking up, and they're saying, I don't see how God could bring any good out of this.

but of course all the horrible things that were happening to Jesus the anger of the world and the religious authorities and the fury of Satan all the evil that was done to Jesus on that day did what? it accomplished the exact opposite of what it wanted it accomplished the salvation of the world atonement, resurrection

and this is And let me, why is it, let me ask you this. Why is it that almost nobody says, I don't believe in God because God let Jesus die? Almost nobody says that. You know why? We know why God let Jesus die. We know that they intended it for evil, but God intended it for good. Resurrection, atonement. We know all the reasons God let Jesus die. There's a whole book that explains it. It's a long book. There's a lot in it. But if you read the whole book,

Why God allowed that storm. Why God allowed that torture and death. But I don't know why God's allowing my storm, you say. Ah, but there's a book. It's just not here. It's in the heavenly library or it might be digital by now.

You meant it for evil. God meant it for good. All things work together for good to those that love God and are called according to his purpose. that is the principle. And, you know, in that principle, there's a whole story. The story is this. God invented the world without evil, suffering, and death. That was not his intention. We know that. The Bible says so. But because we turn from him, there is evil, suffering, and death. But God did not abandon us. Here's what he's doing. He is exercising his power over history in such a way that in the long run, our free choices and all the evil and suffering that is here in this world, all the evil that is intended, he is going to overrule it so that in the end, it all ends up backfiring. So that in the end, the evil only accomplishes the opposite of what it intended. You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. Now, most of us do not get like Joseph to be able to see all the reasons why God let the bad things happen. And none of us have this whole book written about our lives. But here's the reason why you're in the storm. You're in the storm. When you're in the storm, the reason you're in the storm is good. We may not see what it is. We may not see all of it. But I can tell you one other thing. I think I mentioned there's a general and specific. It's always at least this. When suffering happens to you, At least it's an opportunity for you to grow in godliness. I made a bit of a mistake when we printed the text in the bulletin. I stopped at verse 32. Actually, in verse 33 and 34, Paul continues to talk to them. He says this. He says, just before dawn, Paul urged them all to eat. For the last 14 days, he said, you have been in constant suspense and have gone without food. You haven't eaten anything. thing, but I urge you now to take some food. You need it to survive. Not one of you will lose a single hair from his head. See, here's Paul still in encouragement mode. Not one of you will lose

a single hair from his head. And what Luke is doing at that point is he's actually reminding, see, Luke is writing this. And by the way, Luke was in the boat. Do you notice all the we? We, it says we did this, we were afraid. Luke, the author's in the boat. He saw this happen. Interesting, is it not? But when he heard Paul say, not a hair of his head from your head is going to perish, he couldn't, Luke must have been thinking about the place in Luke 21 where Jesus says, some of you will be put to death, but not a hair of your head will perish. And yet in patient endurance you will possess your souls. It's one of my favorite verses for this reason. When Jesus says, not a hair of your head will perish, but some of you will die, the first thing we think of is, what? Wait a minute. Not a hair of your head will perish, but some of you will die. And then he says, but in patient endurance you will possess your souls. I'm sorry. There should be a whole sermon on this passage, but let me just try to unlock that for a minute. What Jesus is saying is, in the end, unless you suffer, you don't really possess your soul.

If you live for your job, your job owns you. Because if anything goes wrong at your job, you're toast. You know, your heart's, you're vulnerable. vulnerable, if you live for a sex or romance, you know, maybe your latest love owns you, because that's the person that you say, if I, in other words, if you live for anything but God, you don't possess your own soul. If you base your life and all of your happiness and your meaning on looking good or having money or having a good job or having this or that, if anything in life is more important to you than God, you don't possess your own soul. Other things own you. Other things have you. They have the title to your heart. And they will put, if anything goes wrong to the thing that you base your life on, when I say you're toast, that means your heart will go up and you'll be devastated. But if you love God, there's a line, it's sort of a summary of St. Augustine. Only love of the immutable will bring tranquility. only love of the immutable God, only if you love God and God's love is the most important thing in your life, will you possess your soul? Will you be able to handle storms? Now, here's what storms do. You can see Paul. He possesses his soul. He is absolutely in charge. He's got poise. And you know why? This is his third shipwreck, by the way. This is his third storm he's been through. See, when a storm happens to you, it's usually like I was building my life on my job, and now I've had a reversal, and I don't think, I think my career is over. What are you going to do? You can spend the rest of your life, because of that storm, you can spend the rest of your life in self-pity and bitterness and feeling like a failure, or you can reinvest your heart in Jesus. You can say, well, it's Jesus that I'm going to live for. It's Jesus and His love. In other words, take your soul out of the job. Storms rattle you because you actually don't belong. You don't have your own soul. You put yourself in other places. Storms rattle you, but if you actually take your heart and you base it on Jesus, then when the next storm hits, you'll find you're okay.

You'll find that you're okay. In faithful endurance, in suffering, you'll possess your soul. People who haven't suffered, they don't know themselves. They don't know their strengths and weaknesses. They can't empathize or sympathize with other people. They're shallow. Patient endurance gives you a soul, gives you possession of your soul. So these are some of the purposes of storms, but we have to end with this. this. Suffering doesn't automatically make you a better person. Suffering doesn't automatically give you possession of your soul. No, no, no, no, not at all. Some people know that you can go through suffering and come out self-pitying and bitter, and you're never the same. Other people come out stronger. There's a saying, the same sun that melts wax hardens clay, which is just a way of saying that the same experience can make somebody and break somebody else. Well, why is it that Paul is able to come through a storm and suffering better off instead of worse off? I think the last thing to show you is he is practicing God's presence in the storm. When the storm comes, most of us, when bad things happen, you've had a financial reversal, right now, you might be in a situation that's really very hard, and you might say, I think God's abandoned me. If you think God has abandoned you, if you're sure, oh, maybe I'm being punished, or maybe He's just a bad God. Maybe He just doesn't care. You see, if you think He's not there, it's either because I'm being punished for my sin, that makes you feel awful, or God just doesn't care, and that makes you feel awful. But that's not what Paul says. When he's actually giving the prophecy, he says in verse 22, 23, last night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve stood beside me. That's very moving. The God to whom I belong. That's covenant language. You may not know. See, possessives are covenant language. When God enters into a covenant with his people, He says, now you will be my people. I will be your God. You don't say my Sally or my Joey or my Kathy unless that's a person of intimacy. It's a person you're either married to or your son or your daughter or something like that. You don't use the term my unless it's intimate. And here's Paul saying, in the midst of this storm, I know I'm his. I belong to him. He's mine. I'm his.

me. So, see, Paul doesn't make the mistake that we often make in suffering. When bad things happen, we say either God's punishing me, I guess that's it, so that gives us despair, or God doesn't care, that gives us despair. But Paul is saying, no, he's with me. And because he practices God's presence and knows his love in the midst of the storm, the storm makes him better, the suffering makes him better. Well, how can he know that? How can you know that? How can you be sure if bad things happen, it's not abandonment, but that God's with you. How can you know that? Here's how you can know that. Matthew chapter 12, Jesus calls himself the true Jonah. Do you know that place? Jesus says, as Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days, so the Son of Man will be in the belly of the earth for three days. But a greater than Jonah is here. Jesus is calling himself the ultimate Jonah. And do you remember what happened to Jonah? Jonah was sinning. Jonah had been told by God, go preach to Nineveh. But because of his racist attitudes, Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh. So he runs away from God, gets in a boat with a bunch of sailors, runs away. God sends a storm, but it's a storm of God's wrath. God sends a storm, and the storm is coming after Jonah. And when Jonah sees the storm, and he knows that he deserves it, it's his punishment, but he sees it's endangering and imperiling all the other sailors, he says to the sailors, throw me into the storm. Let the storm consume me, and then you will be saved. And they do, and he is. You see? He's consumed and they're saved. But when Jesus Christ says, I'm the ultimate Jonah, do you know what he means? What he means is this. He says, is a storm that you do deserve. All human beings, we've sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. We do not love God with all our heart, soul, strength, and minds. We do not love our neighbors ourselves. We deserve the storm of God's wrath. But Jesus says, if you believe in me, then you can know that I took that storm for you. It fell into my heart. I was the true Jonah. I was consumed by it so that you could be saved. I was abandoned on the cross. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? I was abandoned in my suffering because I got the suffering you deserve. So now when you suffer, you can know that it's not punishment. That's all happened to Jesus. It's part of the brokenness of the world, and God is with you in it, and he can bring you out on the other side. when I was a brand new pastor in Virginia a young guy right out of seminary and it was this older pastor guy named Kennedy Smart in town and he came alongside of me and he knew how we young ministers were he says you know when you go to see a person who's suffering you go to the nursing home you go to the hospital room the funeral home if you're with somebody who's suffering I just want you to know or theological arguments. They just need to have somebody with them. They just need to have somebody who's there, who's with them, who cares. That's what they need. Don't give them a lot of arguments. See, he knew that as a new minister, I thought I had all the answers. So if somebody, you know, was suffering, he knew that I'd be tempted to say, well, do you realize that this is God's will? You know, the paradox and providence and all this stuff, you know. He says, just let them know you're with them. He's right. And But guess what? God does that, and this is what I mean. If you say, God, why exactly are you letting this bad thing happen to me? You're probably not going to get an answer. You may not get an answer your whole life. But don't forget, suffering is not just a…it's not primarily a philosophical question. It's a personal problem. How are you going to get through it? You need somebody with you, and only Christianity of all the religions in the world says that God has been with us in Only Christianity even claims that God has suffered. Have you lost a child? So has God on the cross. Have you been betrayed? Have you had people stab you in the back? Are you experiencing pain in your body? Are you facing poverty? Are you facing death? So has God. He has faced all those things. He's really with us in our suffering. And he is there. And if you believe in him, the storm is not punishment. is part of the brokenness of this world that God is controlling to eventually bring good. And meanwhile, it can turn you into a Christ-like person. It can make you like Paul. It can make you a poised person. And that will happen if you know he's with you. His love in time past forbids me to think he'd leave me at last in troubles to sink. By prayer, let me wrestle.

storm. With Christ in the vessel, I smile at the storm. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the assurance of this text and of your promises that though, oh, world, the flesh, and the devil means it for evil, you will turn it for good. We pray that you'd help us, you would help us to live lives of peace and assurance and boldness that comes from knowing how you are in control of all things, what your purposes are in storms, and how you're going to turn even the greatest evil in the end to good. Now make us people who have that same kind of peace because we know these things. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
