Just before we get into our text, you heard Scott pray about something that I want to make sure that you do understand and pray for. Ian Duguid and his wife Barbara were here in the spring. Ian is a British citizen and a PhD from Cambridge University there, who our church and one other church in Florida are funding to begin a new church in Oxford, England. It's not the Oxford, though, that most of you think of, because Oxford is both an academic community and an industrial town. And Ian and Barbara, today at four, which means it's happening right now over there, which I think it's five hours difference, that they have begun a service. They're calling their church Redeemer Presbyterian Church by some strange coincidence. And they've started their service and their ministry in the middle of a council. And they've decided to open Redeemer Presbyterian Church today at four o'clock to their first service. And they're trying to reach out into that vast area of council estates, which are apartments, government subsidized apartments. And they've begun today. So they called us and they wanted to make sure that everybody here at Redeemer who cared, and that's I hope most of you, would pray today and especially now. And at the end of the sermon, too, spend some time praying. And I'm going to read verses 31 to 34. The very famous prophecy. The very famous prophecy, which is reiterated in the New Testament in the book of Hebrews. But I'm reading out of Jeremiah 31. Verse 31 to 34. The time is coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. It is not like the covenant I made with their forefathers when I took them by the hand to lead them out of Egypt. Because they broke my covenant, though I was a husband to them, declares the Lord. This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after that time, declares the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. I will be their God and they will be my people. No longer will a man teach his neighbor or a man his brother saying, know the Lord, because they will all know me from the least of them. I will send them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their wickedness and will remember their sins no more. This is God's word. This fall and all the morning services all the way up to Christmas, we're going to do a series on what's traditionally been called the attributes of God. The characteristics, the qualities, the nature of God. You see, up until recently, or I should put it this way, a hundred years ago, if you lived in any Western civilization country, any country in Western civilization, even if you weren't a Christian, you understood the Judeo-Christian concept of God. You understood something about his righteousness and holiness and power and grace and so forth. You understood that. That's not true today. There's generally a very vague and a vague sense, at best, of what the real nature is of the God that the Bible puts forth. And because of that, the Christian message, the Christian life, the Christian ethic, makes no sense. You see, without the foundational knowledge of who God is, nothing else about Christianity makes sense at all. The Ten Commandments make no sense. They make no sense. That's the reason why they are discarded and ignored in a place like New York City. It's not simply because they're not Christian. It's not simply because people are immoral. It's because people, in a foundational way, don't understand who God is. Christmas makes no sense unless you understand who God is. Every year, most people sing the hymns. They sing, Hark the Herald Angels Sing. Why is it that most people can sing, Mild he lays his glory by? God and sinners reconciled. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see. Hail the incarnate deity. Why is it that it's possible for most people to sing that and only feel a kind of vague sense of nostalgia for Christmas past? But every so often you see somebody as they sing. You see them with tears. You see them astonished and amazed at such assertions. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see. You can see that they're revitalized. They can hardly believe them as they sing them, but they rejoice in them. They draw power and sweetness out of them. What makes a difference between a person who, singing Hark the Herald Angels Sing, is completely revitalized, and a person who just sings and says, well, sure, we always sing it. What's the difference? The knowledge of God. People don't understand who he is. So it's absolutely critical to everything else to lay that groundwork, and that's what we'll do this fall. Every week, we're going to talk about another one of his attributes, his faithfulness, or his holiness, or his righteousness, or his grace, or his wisdom, and so forth. Now today, as an introduction, we have to look at the attribute of God without which you wouldn't know any other attributes. And that is that this God, our God, is knowable. He's not hidden. He hasn't hidden himself. He reveals his attributes so that we'll know him. The text that I just read is maybe the classic text on the whole idea of knowing God, the whole concept. I'd just like to open it and show you first the importance of knowing God, and then the meaning, the nature of it. And I just want you to know that even though at least once a year I try to find some excuse to preach on the subject of knowing God because it's so critical, on the other hand, I would say this particular sermon, as I've been reading it and as I've been studying it, the insights from this passage have had a lot of impact on my life in the last week. This text is maybe the locust classic. It's the classic text on knowing God, why it's important, and what it really consists of. So first, why is it important? You know, it's... This text talks about a new covenant. Now, a covenant is a relationship based on a living covenant. A legal commitment. A relationship based on a legal commitment. That's the reason why God here can say I was husband to my people. I brought them out of Egypt and I became their husband. And that's because marriage is maybe the most common human analogy for a covenant. The most common human example of a covenant. A relationship based on a legal commitment. Now, every covenant has terms. And the terms of the old covenant that God gave us, that God made with his people when he brought them out of Egypt, were these. He appeared to them. But he always appeared to them in theophanies, in miraculous manifestations, either in the burning bush, or the pillar of fire, or the cloudy pillar by day, and so forth. So he appeared to them in awesome manifestations. He spoke to them through Moses. He gave them the law through Moses. And he dwelt among them in the tabernacle, and later on in the temple, in the midst of the people, and said, if you want to approach me, you have to approach me by coming to the temple. Now, he says, that covenant broke down. My people turned from me. Not because of any imperfection in that covenant, but because of the imperfection of us, the people. And now, he says, a time is coming in which I'm going to produce a new covenant. Now, in the book of Hebrews, in chapter 8 and 9, this text is brought out, and the New Testament church understood what this text was talking about. We now, as Christians, have got a deeper, newer, richer, bolder relationship with God possible than anyone had in the old covenant, because now, how does God, how does God appear in this new covenant? What are the terms of the new covenant? Now, he appears, not through Steven Spielberg's special effects, but as Jesus Christ. Now, he doesn't give us the law through Moses, but he gives us the truth and the teaching through Jesus Christ. You confessed that this morning. And now, where does he dwell? Not in a temple or a tabernacle. It says in John chapter 1, the word became flesh and tabernacled among us. And we beheld his glory. And if you want to approach God, you don't go to the temple or the tabernacle. You don't come here. You approach God through Jesus Christ. And as a result, God says, in the new covenant, there will be a newer, richer, deeper, bolder, revolutionized relationship that you can have with me. And the way he puts it, essentially, is, now, every one of my people, from the least to the greatest, will know me. Now, I want you to see how radical that is. The teaching, the point is this. A Christian is someone who knows God. All Christians know God. Anyone who knows God is a Christian. How many ways can I put this? The essence of being a Christian is to know God. The watershed that sets off Christians from all other people, from nominal Christians. A real Christian is set off from a nominal Christian, a Christian in name only. A real Christian is set off from others, other good and decent and moral and religious people who are all good in their own way. But what makes a Christian unique, a Christian knows God. You see, all of my people will know God. The ones who know God will be my people. There it is. Now, let me just show you, let me say this in the strongest terms possible. Knowing God is the watershed issue that sets off Christians from everyone else. Not only that, not only can only a Christian, only a person who's born again, only a person who's had the Holy Spirit come and soften and illuminate the heart, not only can only a Christian know God, but only a Christian can conceive of knowing God. So I'm going to put this in the strongest possible way. Knowing God is that much of a watershed. Knowing God doesn't just tell you're a Christian, even your attitude toward knowing God tells you whether you're a Christian. Unless the Holy Spirit's worked in your heart, when you even hear about a personal relationship with God, God speaking and teaching you, speaking to you, speaking to him, having a personal interaction with him, sensing his love, being guided by him, and so forth. Only a Christian can even conceive of that. Unless the Holy Spirit's working, unless the Holy Spirit's already working on your heart, you will think that very concept is either impossibly arrogant or impossibly frightening. Unless the Holy Spirit's already working on your heart, the idea of knowing God will either seem to you terribly arrogant or impossibly frightening. You see, some people, when they hear Christians talk about God did this for me, and he's teaching me this, and he's leading me in these ways, and some people hear Christians talk like, and they say, how arrogant. You seem to think you have a pipeline to God. How arrogant. They talk as if they've got God in their pocket and they can know him. Do you feel that way when you hear Christians talk? It shows you don't know God. If you think the idea of knowing God, which is the jewel, the central jewel of Christianity, the very heart of it, if you think it's arrogant, you don't understand Christianity at all and you don't know him. You see what I'm saying? Even, even to conceive of knowing God takes the Holy Spirit. Or on the other hand, there's another way that people hate the idea of knowing God. Some people think it's impossibly arrogant, but other people think it's just frightening. They say, I could never know God. I'm too far from him. I've done too many bad things. I'd be afraid. I could never know God. You see, if you think it's arrogant or you think it's frightening, it proves you don't understand the basic message at all. If you think it's arrogant, that shows you don't understand the gospel, the basic Christian message, which is that it's not the most moral people, but the most humble people who know him. God says, I am the high and holy one and I dwell in the high and holy place, but also with him who is of a humble and contrite heart. If you don't understand that, you don't understand the basics of the gospel and you can't be a Christian. If you think the idea of knowing God, God is arrogant. Or on the other hand, if you think the idea of knowing God is scary, if you say, oh, I'm too bad and I could never know him like that, I could never have that kind of relationship, you don't understand the gospel either, which is that Jesus Christ came and was your substitute, your representative, and your mediator. And he took upon himself all of the penalty for your sin and he fulfilled all the requirements that you should perform, in order to be acceptable to God and through Jesus Christ, through his grace, you can know God. If you think the idea of the knowledge of God is arrogant or else crazy, you don't understand the gospel. Knowing God is what Christianity is about. Knowing God is the essence. Even your attitude toward it tells you whether you're a Christian. Dear friends, you know, the artists, the artists, a lot of them are very, very strange people. Some of you are artists and you know that. But you know what makes artists so strange? Is you are unusually sensitive radio receivers and you pick up, you pick up things that nobody else can pick up. You pick up channels. And the artists, artists are, I think, a certain kind of soul. Artists know that there's a wasting disease of the soul. You know, Camus called it absurdism and Sartre called it nausea. And even Marie Antoinette, sometimes the rich and famous understand this just like I do. She's like the artist. She said, nothing tastes. And that means the wisest people know that our soul was built for something much, much bigger than it seems to be able to get a hold of. It's like having an appliance that will only run on a zillion gigawatts and you can't find any outlet in which you can plug it in that will even turn it over. We were built for something. Our soul is so great, that there's nothing that we can seem to plug into that even begins to get our soul to turn over. But this is it. This is it. Knowing God. You may not believe in it. You may not believe that there's a God, but you certainly will not sniff at this. There's nothing higher than this. They shall all know me from the least to the greatest. It's the critical watershed issue. All right, now, secondly, what is the nature of it? What does it consist of? And what I want to give you, and I want to show you, is in a sense, there's two double characteristics of knowing God. Put it this way. Knowing God means to have a personal relationship with Him, right? And that means the mutual sharing of truth and love. Think of any personal relationship you have. First of all, it's got to be mutual. If it's not mutual, it's not a personal relationship. It's not intimate. It's not friendship. So it's got to be mutual. But secondly, I'd say there's two parts to it. There's got to be an interchange, a mutual sharing of truth and love. By truth, I mean, you want to be able to listen and be listened to. Interchange of truth. If you don't feel that you're being listened to, there's no friendship there. If, on the other hand, you never get anything to listen, in other words, if a person never speaks to you, unless there's a listening and a being listened to, personal relationship. Truth. Mutual sharing of truth. Then secondly, secondly, you have to, you want to love and be loved. You want to listen and be listened to. And unless that mutual sharing of truth and love is there, if any one of those four things, listening and being listened to, loving and being loved, if any one of those is missing, if any one of those stops happening, your relationship falls apart. It doesn't, it's no longer, an intimate, vital, living, personal relationship. Some of you can think about some friendships recently that have gone bad. And you'll all, if you listen, if you can do an analysis, you'll see it's always because one or more of those components is now missing. Hmm? Either there's no chance for you to listen to that person, or that person stopped listening to you, or that person no longer expresses affection or commitment in any way, or you have stopped in some way. That person maybe never gives you an opportunity to. In other words, those three, those two things are another way to count it, those four things, a mutual sharing of truth and love has to happen. You see it right here. On the one hand, the people of the new covenant, the people that know God, God says this, on the one hand, I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts. See, that's truth. Information, communication, there's no relationship without communication. But secondly,

I will be their God, and they will be my people. Who do you talk to? If your name is John, who has the right to call you my John? If your name is Susan, who has the right to call you my Susan? Maybe right now there's nobody. You don't let your parents do that because you're trying to be an adult, right? You kind of, and make, who does it? Don't you see, if you're in a relationship where somebody has the right to say, you're mine, I'm yours, it's a relationship of the deepest intimacy. There's both truth and love, mutual sharing. Let me just go through these four things, listen and listen to, love and be loved, and show you how, unless those things are happening in your relationship with God, you don't know him. Let me just, let me just tick them off. First of all, in a personal relationship, in a relationship with God, you listen to him. To know an object is different than to know a subject. An object is a car, a subject is a person. To know an object like a car is mainly up to me. I just have to take the time to study it. But to know a person is mainly up to the person. Unless that person opens to you, you don't know that person. And the most, the more rich and powerful and famous the person is, the more you are unable to know that person unless he or she opens to you. He or she has to reveal. See? That means that there's no way you could possibly listen to God unless he reveals himself. This is to say, that I'm not talking about the doctrine of scripture today, let me put, let me put it this way. Unless you believe, as Christianity has classically taught, that the scripture is God's word, or, unless you believe that the Bible is a reliable source of information from God, you will never be able to know him personally. Now you certainly have the right to this opinion, I'm not saying, I cannot force a belief in the scripture on you, I just want you to know the implications. If you believe that this is not a reliable source of information from God, you may have a mystical kind of oneness with, you know, God as creator, you might have some kind of mystical and general experience of God, but you can't know him. Because to really know someone means you've got to listen to him, there's got to be information exchange, there's got to be personal communication. And what you've done is you've taken this, you might say you've gutted Christianity, when you decide that you can't trust this. Now you have every right to not believe the Bible, but I want you to realize what you've done to the faith at that point. It means, because Christianity has never simply been a set of ethical teachings that you adhere to, nor has it been simply a mystical sense of oneness with the great force of God. Christianity is a personal relationship which is based on communication. And so what you've actually done by saying, I can't trust the Bible, parts of it I can, parts of it I can't, listen, the difference between people who know God and know about God is people who know God listen to God in the Bible. They don't read the Bible the way they read a self-help book, the way they read a good novel, or the way they read a good play. They come to hear God, to listen to his summonses, his challenges, his hugs and his kisses, his rebukes. Not too many years ago, somebody taught me that when I was done reading a passage, to ask a question. After I'd done reading the passage, the question was this, why is God telling me this now? Why have I read this today? What is there about this that I need to know, me personally as opposed to somebody else, and me today as opposed to yesterday or tomorrow? Why me now? And I realized when I began to ask that question, that up until that time, I had always been reading the Bible abstractly. I hadn't been actually listening to God. Never occurred to me that God was actually speaking to me in it. That's the difference between people who know God and people who just sort of know about him. They hear. They listen. They take in the truth. They listen to his summonses, his challenges, his hugs, his kisses, and his rebukes. Knowing God means listening. Do you do that? Okay, secondly, knowing God means to be listened to. Now, to be listened to means you don't just read the Bible and hear him. To be listened to means you pray in the knowledge that he's really hearing you. The difference between people who know God and people who only know about God is that people who know God know that he's listening. If you are in a relationship with somebody who's just not hearing anything you're saying, your relationship breaks apart. Now, the problem is, sometimes when you think somebody is not listening to you, it's because they really aren't. But sometimes you think they're not listening to you, but they really are. When I was in college, I used to, I had a way of telling people about my problems that always made them feel kind of overwhelmed. See, I essentially would say, these are my problems and they're so deep and complicated and overwhelming, aren't they? And most people were kind of overwhelmed by the description and all they did is give me what I wanted and that was lots of sympathy. And then, I met a guy and I told him my problems and he was completely underwhelmed. And his response was, well, you know, you know what you should be doing, you're just not doing it. That's the problem. Well, I thought this guy doesn't understand me. This guy hasn't really listened to me. This guy hasn't really heard me. I want sympathies, as I know, but you don't need anymore. And because he heard me better than I heard myself, I was sure he hadn't heard me. And because of that, there was many places in which I wanted to cut out, but for whatever reason, I could never completely cut him off. And over a period of time, because I stayed with him and stuck with him and continued to talk to him and continued to work with him, I came to realize that he actually had been giving me not what I wanted, but what I needed. And therefore, he had heard me better than I heard myself. Children are like that too. Children insist that if their parents don't give them what they want, when they want it, their parents don't really understand. Their parents aren't really listening to them. The difference between people who know God and people who only know about God is right here. Another one. People who know about God are sure God doesn't hear them because they've asked for a number of things, you know, and God hasn't done it. But people who know God have begun to mistrust themselves. They say, how illogical to imagine that I would be, that we would be wiser than God. If there is a God at all, he's got to be wiser. And therefore, they're patient. And therefore, they mistrust God. They mistrust themselves. And therefore, they find over the period of time, over the years, that God has heard them and does give them what they need. And you see, people who know God pray as if they know God is really going to give them, if not exactly what they want, certainly what they need. People who know God realize that. People who know God realize that there was a time when they were childish. But as time goes on, they realize God's always teaching them things. You can ask a person who knows God this question. What's God been teaching you lately in the circumstances of your life? And a person who knows God will always have quite a bit to tell you. What has God been teaching you lately? How has he been upholding and guiding you? What has he been trying to get across to you

through the circumstances of your life lately, through the troubles and through the rewards and so on? A person who knows God will immediately say things, tell you things. But a person who doesn't know God, a person who only knows about God, will look at you with a very blank stare on your face. All that person knows is they have a little grocery list of things that they've asked God for and he hasn't come through. If you know God, you not only listen to him in the Word, but you talk to him, you specifically pray, you put your burdens on him, and you leave him there because you know that here's a God who does hear me. And God will prove to you that he hears you if you stick with him. A lot of people tell me they identify with Job. A lot of people say, I'm just like Job. I know how Job felt. God took away Job's wealth. God took away Job's house. God took away Job's children and his status. And Job lost all his self-esteem and he lost his faith. And he cursed the day he was born. And people say, I know how Job felt. I stand in his shoes. Oh, do you? Job never stopped praying. Job felt God didn't understand him, just like I felt my friend didn't understand me. But I stuck with him. I don't know why. And Job stayed with God. But I do know why. Because Job was at least humble enough to know, surely I can't be smarter than God, even though I think I am. Surely I can't be smarter than God, even though I feel that I am. And he stayed with God until at the end he says, God, I heard of you with my ears. Now I see you with my eyes. And I repent in dust and ashes. And that means, he says, God, I used to think I knew you, but now I really know you. A real Christian understands that no matter how messed up your life seems to be, the basic purpose of every event is to get you to know God. The basic meaning behind everything is to get you to know God. If you're somebody who knows God, right now, even though everything around you seems to be very, very difficult to understand, you're sitting there saying, I don't understand at all, but I know one thing. This is to get me to know God. I'm going to have to go through storms and sun, through darkness and light, through valleys and mountains, in order to know God. But when I see that's the main business of life, everything else falls into place. Thirdly, if you know God, you also have to receive his love. To receive his love. We said you have to listen to him, and you have to be listened to. Then we said you have to receive his love and then love him. Now notice I reversed the order a little bit. Listen and be listened to. Now this time, instead of saying love and be loved, no. If you look carefully, you'll see it says, they will know me because I've forgiven their sins. In Christianity, the order is this. I give you my love, and then you can give me your love. Other religions say, love me, God says, and I'll love you. Be good, and you'll be saved. Christianity reverses the order. And it says, I give you my son. I give you my grace. You can love me because I love you. And therefore, knowing God means, receiving his love. If you are not knowing God the way you'd like to today, it's probably because you have to receive his love. Not just know he loves you in some kind of intellectual way, but receive it. Have you ever been in a relationship in which you were trying to give somebody expressions of love and they always found ways of knocking them down? Have you ever had, have you ever been, in a situation where people tried to compliment you and tell you what was good about you, and all you ever did was throw those compliments on the ground? That's silly. Don't say that. And after a while they want to strangle you? Because you won't receive their love? Knowing God means receiving his love. The great preacher John Owen says this, the greatest sorrow and burden you can lay on the Father, and the greatest unkindness you can do to the Father, is to not believe that he loves you. Wow, how can you receive his love, somebody says? You contemplate it. You think about his love. You reflect on his love and you say, you spend the time in prayer, saying, Lord, this is where this overlaps with listening to the word, until you say, Lord, make your love for me real. You contemplate it. But more than that, the way that most, the main means that I have found helpful to me in receiving his love is finding the practical ways in which I deny his love and repenting for it on the spot. When you can't take criticism and you kind of get all fritzed out because somebody's criticized you, when you're just so anxious and worried about a disaster that you're afraid is looming, if I try to repent for being worried, it just makes me feel worse. If I say, what kind of Christian am I? I shouldn't worry. It just makes me feel worse. If I repent when I get all upset when someone criticizes me and I say, what kind of Christian am I? Because I really, you know, paid that person back and said some mean things. I must be a real bad Christian. That makes me feel worse. But when I see that the reason I'm so worried and the reason I take criticism so poorly is because I am in a practical way denying the idea that God loves me, I'm rejecting his love on the spot. When I begin to repent for that, can't you see how this would work? That begins to melt my heart. Instead of feeling worse, I feel better. Instead of getting harder, I get softer. To receive his love means to identify the practical ways in which you deny it every day through your worry, through your bitterness, through your fear, through your defensiveness. If God really loves you, what would you be acting like? Look at your whole life. Find the ways in which you practically deny it and repent. Lord, forgive me. The greatest burden I can lay on you, the greatest unkindness I can inflict on you is to refuse to believe you love me, to refuse to act as if you love me. And I tell you, my dear friends, if you do that,

you'll start to receive his love. And not until you do that will you really find that your knowledge of him is building and becoming deeper and bolder and richer and wiser. Then lastly, you know God by expressing love. How do you express love? In worship, by praising him, by telling him directly. You know, in most of your significant relationships, you need to have people tell you what's good about you. If the person doesn't say, here's how I love you, here's what I love about you, you don't have a deep relationship with that person. You have got to give yourself at least a half an hour every day to tell God what he means to you, I would say. No, I can't find a place in the Bible. This is common sense. Look at how much, in a good marriage, look at how much time you've got to put in, to tell the other person how great they are. And look how much you need that from that person. Is it selfish? Is it egocentric? No, it's just the way we're built. It's the way love works. You've not only got to spend time praising him, but secondly, knowing God means that you obey out of gratitude and out of love. Imagine a man who works in a department, and the head of the department is a woman. And there's 30 people in the department, 30 people that work under that woman, and she's always putting out her policy statements, and she's always telling everybody in the department how they have to act and what her rules are. But what happens if that man and that woman fall in love with each other? The man falls in love with the supervisor. Suddenly, his attitude toward the bulletin board changes. Not only doesn't he resent the things she puts up there, but he looks at the policies in a new way. Not only that, he's not content with the things that she's written down. He wants to find anything and everything that pleases her. Anything that pleases her becomes a command to him, but he doesn't think of it as a command. It's life itself to find ways to please her. Why? He looks at her differently than everybody else, because he sees with his eyes what she's really worth. And as a result, his attitude toward her law is totally changed. And that's what it means when it says, the people who know God have the law written on their hearts. The law of God, the Ten Commandments, everything that God says, this would please me if you behaved like this, your attitude changes before you feared the law or you ignored the law, and now it's written on your heart. And you find all sorts of ways of expressing that through obedience. See, a Christian who knows God does not look at his life and say, oh my, I can't tell that lie, I can't hold that grudge, and I can't sleep with that woman because I'm a Christian. What a drag. But that's the price you're going to pay if I'm going to get to heaven, you know? I mean, well, that's not the way a Christian looks at the law of God. The law is written on the heart. Do you listen? When you read, do you say, why now? Why me? Are you listened to? Have you finally grown up and gotten over the childishness of feeling like unless God gives you exactly what you want? Do you realize that He hears you better than you hear yourself? Have you received His love? Are you practically receiving His love? Or do you just have this intellectual idea that I know God loves me in some general way? Today have you received His love? Tomorrow will you receive His love? Will you go through the practical contemplating and repenting process? Do you know what it takes to receive His love and to enjoy His love and to drink it in? And then do you praise Him for His love? Do you show your love back? You know, Samuel Rutherford one night was reading the scripture and he wrote down in his journal, tonight as I was communing with God, God put my head on His shoulder and bid me worry no more. Do you know what that means? If you're a Christian and that is a very wonderful thing, a rare experience, then you are living in poverty when you've got enormous wealth in your own bank account. It's there for you to start drawing on. Huh? These are the disciplines, these are the tests. Listen, don't just read the Bible. Okay? Pray and give Him your needs knowing that He hears you. Receive His love and show Him love. Don't you see why I say to you today, I'm not asking you about your religious views. I'm not asking you about what church you go to. I'm asking, do you know Him? Is He yours? Are you His? Is the law being written on your heart? Let us pray. Our Father, we thank You that You're knowable. We thank You that You give Yourself to us. Therefore, we can know You. Now, Father, there's really just, there's two kinds of people in this room. There's the people who don't know You and there's the people who don't know You well enough. And so we all stand before You and we say, give Yourself to us afresh and anew. Open Your heart to us and help us to open our hearts to You. And I pray that people who do that, who don't know You here today, might know what it means to come to You through Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord. And I pray, Father, that those of us who don't know You like we should and whose lives are not radiating with Your love and joy and power because we're not practicing these disciplines we've talked about today, I pray that You would move us and enable us to practice them so that we might know You and press on to know You better. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.