The scripture reading this morning is from the book of Matthew, chapter 1, verses 18 through 25. This is how the birth of Jesus the Messiah came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, to divorce her quietly. But after he had considered this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to what the Lord had said through the prophet. The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him and took Mary home as his wife. But he did not consummate their marriage until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Here ends the reading. Now, the weeks of Advent, the weeks leading up to Christmas, where we take a look at the meaning of Christmas, of course, and the meaning of the Christian teaching that the eternal Son of God became a human being and was born in a manger. Now, Matthew and Luke are the two main sources of our accounts of the birth of Jesus. And Luke, of course, largely does it through the perspective of Mary, the mother of Jesus. But Matthew, as you can see here, is telling us the story more through the perspective of the earthly father of Jesus, Joseph, and the heavenly father too. So we're hearing the father's perspective. And what little we learn about Joseph here does tell us he's a pretty admirable guy. Because on the one hand, look at the balance. Because Joseph, her husband, was faithful to the law and yet did not want to expose her to public disgrace, he had in mind to divorce her quietly. See, that's a great balance. On the one hand, Joseph was faithful to the law and he finds that the woman he's engaged to marry is pregnant. I always wonder what a painful first conversation

because, I mean, I have no idea how they would have actually talked about it. I wouldn't even want to begin to think about it. But in Joseph's mind, he's got to be thinking, you know, Mary, you look so sincere, but you must have had sex with somebody,

which means you broke the moral law. You broke the law, the law of God. And so on the one hand, he's faithful to the law of God. He doesn't just sort of, you know, wink at it and push it aside. On the other hand, he's not self-righteous. He's not punitive. He doesn't want to expose her. It's a remarkable balance. You know, moral without being real moralistic. And he's remarkable because he wants to do this, you know, quietly. But he gets a revelation in a dream from the angel of the Lord. and then he responds to it. And we're not going to look at his response because it's all part of what we'll be looking at more next week, which is how when Christ comes into your life, it can create problems for you. But this week, I'd just like to look at the actual revelation, a thing that Joseph is told by God through the angel about who Jesus is. And we learn three things there. We learn, first of all, the importance of Jesus, of the person of Jesus. Secondly, the importance whatever that means, I'll tell you. And thirdly, the importance of the authority, the authority of Jesus, the person, the importance of the person of Jesus, the doctrine of Jesus, and the authority of Jesus. So first of all, the person of Jesus, the main point comes across three ways here. Look, first of all, the angel says, Joseph, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife, what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. So first of all, the angel says, the human life that is growing in Mary has not come from any human father, but the heavenly father from the Spirit, from God himself. Secondly, he says, the angel says, she will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus because he will save not God's people from their sins, which is what you would expect, but his people from their sins. You see, throughout the Old Testament, throughout the prophets, there were constant prophecies that said God himself will come and save his own people. They're always called God's people, God's people. God will come and save his people. Isaiah 40 says that. And now here, Jesus' name is inserted where God's name ought to be. Jesus will come and save his people from their sins. And of course, just to make it absolutely clear, Matthew himself adds a little note to say, now, if anybody reading my text wonders what the angel's getting at, let me just tell you. And then he quotes Isaiah 7, and this is what the Lord said through the prophet Isaiah. The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Now, I want you to keep this in mind. Matthew says Jesus is God. Mark, Luke, John, I could take you there, I won't. Peter, Paul, all say in their various ways that Jesus Christ is God. God. And that may not immediately, you may not be thunderstruck right away because a lot of us have kind of murky understandings of God. But you have to realize these are Jewish writers. So, you know, the Greeks and Romans, their understanding of the gods where there were multiple deities, personal deities, none of whom were infinite. You know, you can always, you can fool Zeus. You can hide from Apollos. You can, Hermes might make a mistake. In other they were personal but finite. Eastern religion's understanding of God was God was an impersonal force and divine power that permeates everything. And so if someone from an Eastern religion would say this human being is God, that's not all that weird. It's really a way of saying he has a particularly acute amount of God aura, let's say. Or if one of the Greeks or Romans said this man that would be like Zeus or Hermes coming down and taking on the guise of a human being for a while. But when the Jews who understood God as infinitely transcendent above the whole universe,

the God of the Bible looks down to see the stars and the galaxies, and they're just like dust in the scales. He's infinitely transcendent over all. He's absolutely holy, so holy that you can't go into his presence without dying. the Jews understood the standing of God was so high, so lofty, that, as you know, they still, Orthodox Jews, don't spell God's name. And the idea that a human being could be God was one of the most astonishing claims, particularly in the mouths of these men. Jesus Christ claims to be God, according to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, and Paul and Peter. They claim that he was God, and that's the main message. Who is this child being born, God with us? Now, before moving away from this first point, I would like to give you a takeaway. This claim, which is what Christmas is about, one of the many things, means that you can now understand why Christianity has that all-or-nothing character. In New York City, over the years, I've had a lot of people who have told me that all-or-nothing character is something they find very irritating about Christianity. So many people have said something like this to me. They said, you know, why can't you Christians just say our religion is a good religion? Why do you have to say it's the true religion? Why can't you just say it's a good religion? Here's this wonderful buffet. And nobody eats everything on the buffet. And some people take this. So why not say we're a good religion? Here we are, along with other good religions. helpful to you, but not everybody will find our religion helpful to you. Why can't you just be a good religion? And why do you always have to say you're the good religion? You know, the true religion. Why is it all or nothing? I'll tell you the answer. Christmas. This claim. All other religious founders say, I'm here to show you the way to God. Only Jesus of all the founders of all the major religions of the world comes and says, no, I'm not going to show you the way to find God. I'm God. Come to find you. Now, if that claim is true, Christianity has to be the superior way to find God. Huh? And if it's not true, which means he's deluded or it's a lie, then I don't think Christianity is one more good religion. It's rather defective. It's either the superior religion or it's an inferior religion, but it's not a good religion. It will on the buffet just because of this. And therefore, is he Emmanuel? Do you realize how radical a claim that is? That's the all or nothingness of it. And what's amazing to me is people don't know what they're hearing. You can go into Macy's right now, and if you listen long enough, because, you know, the carols, at some point you're going to hear Emmanuel. And I don't know why everybody bit is and just drop their presents. They don't. You know why? They are not listening, but I'm hoping that you do right now. First of all, do you see the importance of this, of the person of Jesus that he's God? Secondly, briefly, I'd also like to show you the importance of the doctrine of Christmas. See, what I mean by that is many people say, why in the world are you talking about doctrine and dogma? Christmas is a wonderful idea. It's a wonderful story. It helps inspire us to live as we ought to live. But as soon as you bring in the virgin birth and the pre-existence of Jesus and all this stuff, I don't believe that. I don't think you have to believe that to enjoy Christmas. See, let's get the doctrine out of Christmas. Let's not worry about doctrine and dogma and Christian doctrine. Let's just all enjoy the story. Because what matters is not doctrine and dogma, it's how you live. I'll get back to that in a minute. But first of all, let me show you that not only does the angel tell us who he is, God with us, but what he's come to do, it says he will save us from our sins. He will save us from our sins. It doesn't say he will instruct us. Again, every other religious leader basically says, I've come to show you the way to live. See, all the other religions kind of go with this idea that doctrine What really matters is how you live. I mean almost all of the religions are kind of there, I think. Because the founder of every single other religion says, This is how you should live. This is the way to live. I've come to show you the way to live. Jesus Christ does not say, I've come to show you the way to live. He says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. Because he's not a teacher come to show you how to achieve your salvation, But he's the God and Savior who comes to achieve salvation for you. He did not come to instruct you, but to save you. He didn't come to instruct you how to save yourself. He came to save you, which means you're saved by grace. If you are trying to save yourself by following some way of life, say, oh, doctrine doesn't matter. No, what really matters is how you live. Try to live a good life. Be a good person. to connect to God, get God's blessing, maybe go to heaven, then you're going to be up and down. You are a bipolar person morally and spiritually. Because frankly, when you are up, that means to say, I feel like I'm living up to what I should be living. You'll be self-righteous. You'll be bigoted. You'll look down to other people. And when you're not living up, then you'll hate yourself and you'll flatulate yourself up and down, up and down. And Jesus says, but you know what? If I've come to save you, not to show you how to save yourself, but to save you by sheer grace, then you'll always know the joy of acceptance. You'll always be fueled with grateful joy for what I've already done for you. You won't always be worrying about, am I really living a good enough life? And you won't be able to look down on anybody because it's just a gift. gift you can know all that if you understand that you're saved by grace i came not to instruct you how to save yourself but to save you now let's get back to the objection when someone says oh doctrine it doesn't matter what doesn't make doctrine and dogma doesn't matter it matters how you live here's the irony when you say doctrine and dogma doesn't matter it's how you live that is a doctrine it is laden it's dripping with doctrinal assumptions for example to say what is not virgin birth and, you know, preexist. It's just a wonderful story that helps us live. Here's the doctrinal assumption. One is you're assuming that you're not a sinner. You're not lost. You're not so cut off from God that someone has to take your punishment. You're assuming all those things. Okay, maybe you're right. Maybe you're wrong. I think you're wrong. However, it's a belief. It's a doctrine. Don't tell me you don't believe in doctrine. To say I don't That is a doctrine. In fact, you know what it is? It's a doctrine of justification by works. To say what matters is not doctrine, but just living a good life, that is the doctrine of salvation by works. And if Christmas is a legend that just inspires you to live as you should, you're on your own, because all it can do is help you live as you should, and guess what? You won't. But if Christmas happened, you can be saved by grace. So doctrine means everything, whether you admit it or not. Number three, the third thing we learned you could easily miss. And the third thing is got to do with Jesus' authority. And it slips in here. I'm sure Joseph realized this was a challenge to him. And yet, as we see from verse 24 and 25, he accepted that challenge, even though he realized this was going to change his life forever. Because it says in verse 21, she will give birth to a son and you are to give him the name Jesus. Now, maybe that does, you know, we've heard that so often. It's read every year and all. You may not realize how radical it is. What the angel is saying is, Joseph, you do not have the right to name your child. Now, look, when you start your own company, you have the right to name it. Why? You're the CEO. You're everything else, too. you're the janitor, you're everything. But I mean, you started it, you began it, you're allowed to name it. And it's always been the case, is that if you have a child, you can name the child. Why? Because you're an authority over that child. In fact, if you don't take authority over that child, you're a negligent parent. You need to set the course of this child's life. You need to tell this child how to live. You've got to do that. And therefore, naming the child is a sign that you have authority over the child. And the angel is trying to say to Joseph, you do not have authority over this child. Now, there's a couple of ways of understanding this. At one level, it means at least this. This is the only child that's ever lived and ever will be born who is actually older than his parents. infinitely older than his parents. And there's a certain sense of which it's not at all appropriate for him to be named by you. But more than that, what it's really saying is, if he comes into your life, you do not name Jesus, Jesus names you. Because the namer is the one in authority. And you cannot tell Jesus who he is. He has the right to tell you who you should be. You don't say, Jesus, this is the kind of person I want you to be. Oh, no, no. If he comes into your life, he says, this is the person I want you to be. You do not manage him. He manages you. And if he comes into your life, he can only come into your life as your ultimate authority. If he comes into your life, he can only come into your life so that you lose the right to live your life the way you feel like. You lose the right to self-determination. Now, and this, according, know, this is the Christmas message, that Jesus is born into your life, and when that happens, you lose all control, and that is good news of glad tidings and great joy. Now, do you see the paradox at the heart of Christmas? Christmas is a child is born to you, for unto us a child is given. This child comes into our lives, and this child totally takes over. and that's good tidings and glad tidings. I believe, and I've been thinking about this since the first time I've actually seen it over the years, I speak a lot on Christmas and preach on Christmas. I don't think I've ever seen it quite as clearly as I do right now. Christmas really challenges the lie that is the main working assumption, operating principle of your hearts and my heart. it says you lose all control of your life and you come under jesus authority and that's good news and that is exactly the opposite of what anybody believes anybody ever has especially us today how so let me explain what i mean by that sinclair ferguson a friend of mine from scotland scottish minister many years ago actually came to redeemer on a sunday or saturday and sunday and did a seminar. This was in the very earliest days of Redeemer. And he told a story to get across what was happening in Genesis 3 when the serpent spoke to Adam and Eve. And he was trying to get across this, and he told a story. Never forget it. The story goes like this. He says, imagine it's Christmas time. It might have been Christmas season. Imagine a man taking his little son to F.A.O. Swartz at Christmas. You know, what a wonderland that place is at Christmas. he takes the child all around. And they spend 30 minutes, 45 minutes, an hour there. And he says, Look at this. Do you see that? Oh yes, Daddy, I see that. Wouldn't you like one of those? Oh yes. What about those? Oh, those are great. Oh, I would love those. Wow, those are the greatest things. What about over here? Oh yes. So it's all done. We've toured the store. And he sits down with his son. He says, Okay, have you seen all these great things? Wouldn't you like to have all of them? Here's what I want to tell you. none of them. I will not allow you to have even one of these things ever in your entire life. Now let's go home. And Sinclair said, you know, I know it sounds a little bit crazy, but I mean, just imagine this happening. Wouldn't that warp the child forever? Wouldn't that wound the child in their heart of hearts? Wouldn't that make the child say, I cannot trust this father. In fact, don't know that I could trust anyone. Wouldn't that completely warp and wound you? Okay. He says, here's what Genesis 3 is saying. God says to Adam and Eve, you may eat any tree of the garden. In other words, you can do anything you want. I want you to enjoy your life. But you see this tree over here? Don't eat anything from that tree. Why? Just because I say so. I'm giving it to you as a way to learn to trust me just because you love me. This way our love relationship will grow and our trust will grow. You can do anything you want in life, but you can't eat that tree. And I'm asking you not to do it just so you will grow in love and trust for me. And then the serpent comes. And the serpent says, is it true that God says you can't eat any of the trees of the garden? and Adam and Eve said, well, no, no, it's just that one tree. Oh, says the serpent. Do you realize that if you eat that tree, your eyes will be opened? Do you realize that's the best tree? Do you realize that's the one tree that will change you and make you all that you should be? You can't trust God. He's trying to keep you down. He does not want your best. And Sinclair said, however you want to understand how this happened exactly, the simple fact of the matter is the human race, that lie, I think he said this, entered into the bloodstream of the human race. And it buried itself down at the very core of our being so that every human being who has ever lived, every human being now has as its main working assumption, at your soul's core assumption, that if I ever give myself completely to God, I will be miserable. That's the working assumption. If I give myself to God completely, I'll be miserable because I can't trust him to make me happy. If I give him complete freedom, I will be unhappy. I believe Sinclair was right. I believe that is the right way to read the text and read the Bible. and I believe that you'll never understand yourself unless, in some cases, if you've never heard this idea before, it may take a few years to see it, but I would like you to think out your entire life in light of that assumption that is what's operating at the bottom of your heart. We've been warped. We have been wounded at the core of our being and we are sure that if there is a God and we give ourselves to him completely, we will be miserable. that actually animates everything that everybody does. You say, how could that be? For example, here's two people. Imagine them. Utterly different. Here's one person who grew up in a kind of restrictive religious home and says, no, I took philosophy 101 at my college, and now I know that everything is relative. It's up to me to decide what is right or wrong, and I'm going to live the way I want to live. I'm going to write my own scripts. I'm going to live according to what I think is right or wrong, and so I throw off all moral restrictions, and I just become myself. You could say that's a relativist. Over here is another person. They're working very hard to go to church. They believe all the doctrine. They come to church, and they take notes. They're obeying the Ten Commandments. They're just saying no to all kinds of pleasures. They're trying to live a very good life. They're guilty all the time because they never feel like they are living up. They're anxious. They criticize people. They get criticized. Now these two people, a very moralistic person, a very relativistic person, you would think of them as opposites. They probably don't like each other. They probably vote on opposite sides of many elections. They seem different in every way and yet they are what they are because they believe the same lie Because they've been warped in the same way. Here's one person who says, I'm not going to give up any of my freedom to God. If there is a God, I'm not going to give up any of that because I could never be happy if I give myself to God. But the moralist is saying, well, I'm going to give up some freedom because it's the only way to get anything out of God. Because if I'm going to pry blessings out of his begrudging fingers, I'm going to have to live a very good life. And I've got to also make sure that I'm really good, I've got to have leverage with God. I've got to be able to say to him, you owe me because of the kind of life I've lived. I can't just give myself. I've got to do all these things and make God bless me and have that kind of leverage and say to God, you owe me. Both groups, both types of person, both individuals, both groups of people are miserable actually in the long run

because they're so afraid of giving themselves to God. Now, if it's true that we're wounded like that, what in the world, what would heal a child? I don't know, but what would heal you and me? This is what would heal you and me. C.S. Lewis in his, oh, geez, so often Lewis says what I'm about to tell you. At the end of Mere Christianity, his lectures on BBC radio, his talks, in the middle of the book Problem of Pain, which I'm going to quote to you in a second. He says, we ought to know better because there's all sorts of clues in the world that self-giving is paradoxically the way to freedom and joy. You can see it in so many levels. The seed, now Jesus also used this idea, a seed. Unless a seed goes into the ground, in a sense dies to being a seed. It never becomes what it really should be, which is a flower or maybe a tree or maybe a whole forest. The seed must die in order to live. The seed must stop being itself in order to really become itself. Then there's marriage, which is an awful lot like that. Because in marriage, you give up the right to just make any decision any way you want. You give up all kinds of independence. And yet, if both of you are giving to each other, both of you are surrendering all your independence to the other, what's astonishing is, in a sense, you're giving up yourself to become yourself. You're giving up so much in order to get so much. You know that's how it works. But then, why would this all be? Why would there all be these clues that self-giving is the way to self-realization? actually self-abdication is the way to self-fulfillment? Why would that be? Because we're made in the image of God, and God, according to the Bible, according to the Christian understanding, is three persons in one God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And inside the Godhead, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit from all eternity have been glorifying each other. What that means is they love each other. They defer to each other. They praise each other. They're essentially giving themselves to each other. And that's the reason why when Jesus Christ came to earth and gave up his glory to come to earth and then went to the cross and gave up his very life to die for our sins, here's what C.S. Lewis says about that in Problem of Pain. He says,

When he was crucified, he did in the wild weather of his outlying provinces that which he had done at home in glory and gladness. From the highest to the lowest, self exists to be abdicated. And by that abdication becomes more truly self. Thereupon, the more abdicated, and so on forever. We've been wounded, we've been warped by something at the root of our heart that says, don't give yourself to anyone, certainly not God, or you will be miserable. What will heal us? You know, we're just, we're moralists. I mean, we've just been worked by that. We cannot believe if we absolutely give ourselves to God, he will love us. We've got to see God giving himself to us. We've got to see God giving himself away for you. That's the only thing that will heal the wound and make it possible for you to trust him. Dorothy Sayers was one of the first women who ever graduated from Oxford. She wrote detective novels, and she wasn't a particularly beautiful woman. She wrote a series of detective novels featuring Lord Peter Whimsey as the aristocratic detective. She wrote a series of short stories and novels. Very well known, you may have heard of it. About halfway through the series, suddenly a woman character appears in the series named Harriet Vane. She's one of the first women who ever graduated from Oxford. She writes detective novels. And she's not a particularly beautiful woman. And she and Peter, through several novels, get to know each other, fall in love, and are happily married and live happily ever after. And a lot of people say, that's interesting. That woman looks an awful lot like Dorothy Sayers herself. And here's what some people think. She looked into the world that she had created and she saw one of the characters that she created and she pitied him and then she loved him. He was lonely. And she fell in love with him and she wrote herself into the world that she had created and made him happy. And they lived happily ever after. And you go, ah. What a sweet romantic thing to do. But you see, the Bible goes one better. The Bible actually says, in reality, in cosmic reality, God looked into the world that he had created, that he had made, and he saw us sinking. He saw us flailing. He saw us miserable because we don't believe the truth about ourselves or him. And we're looking for love in all the wrong places and looking for freedom in all the wrong ways, and he wrote himself in. That's what Christmas means. He came to earth, he became one of us, and he gave himself away so that you, seeing him do that in love, can have the wound of your heart healed so you can give yourself to him and know, come to know, the joy that only comes through glad surrender to the one that we were built to surrender to. Let us pray. pray. Thank you, Father, for providing for us a beginning look at the glories of what Christmas teaches us about who we are and who you are and who your Son, Jesus Christ, is. And we pray that you would make us into people who live with the joy of knowing what you did for us at Christmas. change us this Advent season as we think more and more about what you have done through Jesus and that those things become real to our hearts so that it really shapes the way in which we live the way in which we feel the way in which we relate to you and ourselves and all around us we pray these things in Jesus' name Amen
