I'm only going to read from verses 7 to 14. We've been looking at Philippians chapter 3. This summer we've, in the morning service, has been going through this letter of Paul to the Philippians. And let me just read to you from verses 7 to 14 of this chapter. But whatever was to my profit I now consider lost for the sake of Christ. What is more? everything a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings, like him in his death, and so somehow to attain to the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained all this or have already been made perfect, but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me. Brothers, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it, but one thing I do, forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead, I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. This is God's word. We know the power of intense focus. A simple magnifying glass can focus the rays of the sun in such a way so that it ignites a fire. but the super intensely focused laser beam has an amazing power. It can burn a hole in a diamond. It can carry zillions of TV signals at once. The more intensely focused light is, the more power, and that's what laser is. Now, by the way, laser light differs from regular light in two ways. on this because I own an encyclopedia. And my encyclopedia says that laser differs. You can be an expert in laser too if you own it. Lasers differ from regular light in two ways. First of all, regular light goes in every direction at once. You turn on a light bulb and it goes all over the place. laser light is in a sense gathered up and put out in one direction secondly regular light operates on a number of frequencies but laser light is pushed and pressed forcefully to operate on one or practically one frequency and what that means is the power of intense focus is when a broad spectrum of something is gathered up, number one, and then number two, forcefully pushed toward a single point, power, see. Now, Paul is talking about what it means to be a Christian and live a Christian life here. And in verses 12 and 14, you'll see he uses the word press. I press, see. I press on, he says. Now, one thing that's interesting, the very same Greek word that he and 14 that's translated press is used in chapter 3, verse 6. We didn't quite, we didn't print it in the bulletin, but in verse 6, he uses the same Greek word, but there it's translated persecute. Paul says, I persecuted the church, but then he uses the same Greek word down in verse 12 and 14, and it's translated press. The question is right away, well, what kind of word could serve both contexts? How could a single word be translated persecute over here and then press over here, press on, and here's the answer. The word means to pound. I pound. I beat. You see, the only difference is that it used to be, before Paul was a Christian, he was gathering up the whole church and pounding it toward death. But after he becomes a Christian, he's gathering up his whole self and pounding it, pushing it, forcefully, intensely focusing it toward a single point. One thing he says in verse 14. I'm after one thing now. Paul always was an intense person. But now, this is intensity of focus. Paul says, in a sense, I gather up my whole life and I push it. Now, this is something the Bible teaches a number of places. Matthew chapter 11, verse 12. Well, Jesus says something that many of you probably have never heard because it is so weird and so paradoxical, people stay away from it. In the old King James, Jesus Christ says, the kingdom of God suffers violence and the violent bear it away. And literally what he's saying is, the kingdom of God requires violence. And only the violent receive it. Well, what is he talking about? He's talking about the very same thing that Paul is talking about here, which I'm going to show you here in a second. What Paul's saying, what Jesus is saying, what the Bible says, what Christianity says, is this. The Christian life is caused by and results in a spiritual ferocity. A spiritual laser beam, an intensity of focus, causes a Christian to be a Christian and then makes a Christian into the same thing. There's a laser beam that causes your Christianity and then a laser beam is what you become. come. There's a spiritual, there's a holy violence, there's a spiritual aggressiveness, there's a vehement, sweet, humble ferocity that is brought to bear on you that makes you a Christian and then that elicits the same response in you. A laser beam causes you and it makes you into its own likeness. That's what Paul's talking about. He says, I grasp, I press because I've been grasped, I've been pressed. This is very relevant. A lot of people say, well, you know what, I'm a Christian, but I was raised in it, so I've always believed it. It's not a big deal for me. You're not a Christian unless you have felt some kind of spiritual aggressiveness come upon you and then illicit the same thing in you. The kingdom of God suffers violence. And the violent bear it away. The violent receive it. Somebody else says, well, you know, I believe that Christianity is a private thing. You know, one of the things I hate about the born-again types is they're always talking about it. Christianity is a private thing. I don't like to talk about it. I don't like to make a fuss about it. It is for my own private life. That's where I think and talk about Christianity and religion and my faith and so on. And you know what they mean by that? That statement assumes that Christianity is a piece of your life. But Paul says, no, to be a Christian means your entire life is gathered up and it's intensely focused and pushed on, pounded out toward a single thing. Your whole life is about one thing. Your whole life is pushed into one thing. And as a result, you become a person of enormous energy and power. Colossians 1.29, Paul says, I struggle by the energy that he so mightily inspires within me. Do you know anything of that? Or are you a passive person spiritually? Are you a casual person religiously? We love to talk around Redeemer about how radical Christianity is. We like to talk about the all or nothingness of Christianity. Well, here is the very best place where that is explained, how and why Christianity is so radical, so either-or, so

intense. Paul tells us, I've already mentioned two things. It's right there in verse 12. He says, not that I've already obtained all this, I press on to take hold of that for which Jesus Christ took hold of me. We are, first of all, taken hold of. We're caused. A Christian is caused by a laser beam. And then secondly, we result in a laser beam. Do you see how that works? We're caused. We're taken hold of. And therefore, we take hold. We're grabbed. And therefore, we grab. Now let's take a look at the first. First, the cause of the Christian life is a spiritual ferocity. It's a spiritual laser beam. It's an intensity of focus. You see, there's two take-holds in verse 12. I take hold. That's a strong word. I take hold. I grasp. I press. Remember, I pound. I take hold, but I take hold of that for which Christ took hold of me. What's that teaching? That is teaching. The dynamic that we're going to rest on here for a moment. my pressing on is caused by Christ's pressing on. I take hold because Christ took hold of me. Christ does not take hold of me because I took hold of Him. I take hold of Him because He took hold of me. This is what's being taught here. Christianity is not something you take up. It's something that takes you up. Christianity is not something that starts with you. It starts upon you. The reason this is so important to say New Yorkers have in front of you an incredible range, an unparalleled range of enrichment and self-improvement options. Some of them are minor. Some of them are major. By minor, I mean, you know, you take a class that enriches you and you get into a new area. Some are major. Get into therapy. That's major. That's a major way of improvement and enrichment. There's a lot of other ways to get into various sort of spiritual disciplines. You can get into Scientology. You can get into Dianetics. You can get into a traditional faith like Buddhism or something. That's a major, but I'll tell you what they all have in common. All the options, all the self-improvement and enrichment seminars and all of them, they all say this. It starts with you. They all say, do you want enrichment? Do you want peace? Do you want whatever? You must take hold. It starts with you. If you take hold by subscribing to these beliefs or taking in this practice or beginning this kind of behavior, if you take hold, then these things will happen. Christianity says the utter opposite. Christianity says you can't be a Christian by making yourself one. You might be able to make yourself a Scientologist. Scientology will say that. You have to make yourself a Scientologist, but Christianity says you can't make yourself a Christian. Nobody can. Jesus Christ says, no one can come to me unless the Father draw him. Paul here is saying, I only grasp, I've only become intense because intensity has come down upon me. Now, right away, a lot of people start to say, there's three questions that are raised by this. I got to deal with them before we move on. Three questions come. As soon as you see what Paul's about. I grasp because I've been grasped. First question that comes up, does this mean, you say, that every Christian has to have a dramatic conversion experience? Is that what you're saying? And the answer is absolutely not. I'm not saying that at all. The Bible, church history, and personal experience tells you that people come into Christianity with a variety of histories. Some people come in through dramatic crises. Other people come in gradually. There's also a variety of temperaments upon people who become Christians. Some people come in emotionally. Because they're emotional people thrashing everywhere. Other people come in very deliberately. Thinking things out. Well what do they all have in common? They all have in common this. A Christian is somebody. Who is aware. That a power from outside. Has come upon you. Christian is never somebody who says, well, I've picked it up. I've done this. I've taken hold. Never. A Christian is somebody who is aware that you've been taken hold of, that there's someone after you. Now, the consciousness of this comes at different times. Some people, from the very beginning of their spiritual searching, sense that God is after them, that there's a divine power coming to bear upon them. There's a laser beam penetrating them. They're something from the outside invading them. Other people are much more deliberate, and they say, well, I'm on a search of my own. I'm doing it. And yet you find when you try to break it off, something's got you. And you find that lines of thought, lines of reasoning, arguments, you say, well, you know, I don't want to be a Christian. This is going to be too hard. And you can't pull out. Why not? Because your mind, you suddenly say, it makes too much sense. Like, just can't get rid of it. I wish I hadn't even seen some of this. I wish I hadn't read that book. You can't pull out. Why? Something's after you. You're not taking it up. Something's taking you up. If you're a Christian, you sense that. Some people don't even realize until after they become Christians and they thought all along, well, it was my decision. I took it up. And it's maybe very, it's after you become a Christian. You look back and you trace out the history and you realize it never would have become a Christian unless somebody was after me. But that's what Paul says. says. You are not a Christian unless you've been invaded from outside, unless you sense that someone's after you, something's dealing with your center, something's going on in there. Well, somebody says, if it's not a dramatic conversion, how do I know if that's happening to me now? If it's not always dramatic, how do I know if God's dealing with me? How do I know if God's coming in? How do I know if I am the object of his laser beam? And the answer is, look at Paul. Paul, in a wonderful verse, in verse 12, you know what he's essentially saying? This is the Christian life in a nutshell. I, he says, am trying to grasp that which grasped me. Now, what that means is, the way you know that you are the object of God's spiritual intensity is that you become intense yourself. Now listen, what do I mean by intense? A laser beam, everything going toward one. You start to realize before, before you're the object of God's activity, you might be religious, but it's always casual. It's always a peripheral thing, maybe. You say, well, I know, you know, it's good to be moral. It's good to pray sometimes. But when you are being grasped. Being taken hold of. You know what happens? You start to think either or. You say. Wait a minute. Either there is a God. And if there is a God. He's the only thing that matters. My relationship with Him. Is far and away. The only thing that matters. Or. There is no God. And if there's no God. Everything's going to burn up. And nothing matters at all. Either or. You say. Well. That's an awfully intense. Kind of statement. That's an extreme. Kind of statement. That's the kind of thing. That starts to happen to you. And you start to say. If God is. He's all that matters. What's going on. Your life is being gathered up. And it's being focused. And it's being pressed. Toward one point. That's how you know. The spiritual intensity. Comes. And your casualness. Your indifference. You're saying. Oh. Well. I think. Religion. Is a private. Thing. That's all. Gone. It. Has. To. Be. Gone. The. Way. You. Know. That. You. Are. The. Object. Of. God. Spiritual. Intensity. Is. That. You. Develop. Your. own. The casualness is over. The indifference is over. Spiritual seeking is a hobby. Coming to church when you feel like it, it's gone. You might be religious, but you're not a Christian until you sense this coming upon you. Somebody's after me. Oh, somebody says, here's the third question. I said, this raises three questions. And you know what the third question is? Third question is, wait a minute. Wait a minute. If a Christian is a person who is the object of spiritual activity, why isn't God going after everybody? Why isn't he going and working in everybody's life? And I'll tell you what the answer to that is. Relax. John 21, 21, one of the most funny verses and yet serious verses in the Bible. Jesus Christ comes to Peter and says, Peter, do you know that you're going to die a martyr's death? Do you know you're not going to die a

and he tells Peter his future, tells Peter his story. And Peter looks at Jesus and he notices John the Apostle walking by and he says, what about him? I want to know all the stories, Jesus. It's not good enough. Why do I have to be the one to die? Why isn't he going to die? Is he going to die? If he's not going to die, why not? You see, what is that? And what does Jesus say? What is that to you? you. In the Narnia Chronicles, Aslan comes, you know, he's the Jesus figure, the great lion, and at one point he says, child, I only tell you your story. And here's what Jesus is saying, and here's what I'm trying to say to you. Do not be so upset and concerned about finding out everybody else's story that you missed the sweetness of this truth for you. And you say, where's the sweetness? I'll tell you what the sweetness is. Paul says, if you grasp, It's because you're being grasped. Any grasping after God, any yearning at all, even your dissatisfaction. If you find in your heart right now any dissatisfaction with your spiritual condition, if you say, I'd love to know God. I'd love to know this. I'd love to come after that. Do you realize that's impossible unless God's already at work inside you? That's sweet. God's love is always prior to your grasping. Always. 15, this great story of the prodigal son. The son has been a fool, but he decides to come back and repent, but he's scared to death. What will the father do, right? Does the father sit tapping his foot on the porch? The father runs toward the son and jumps on him and kisses him before he repents. Now, do you know what that means? The father's love brings the repentance. The repentance does not bring the father's love. Do you want to repent? Do you have any interest in these things? Do you even have a yearning for the things that we're talking about here? Don't you see? You don't have to say, well, will he accept me? Will he accept me? Don't you see? You only could care if he already cares. You couldn't care about him unless he already cared for you. For you to worry, oh my goodness, I'd like to maybe meet God, but would he accept me? Do you realize that your very worry is an insult to him and taking too much credit. You're taking too much credit. pride that's making you worried. You think you're capable of caring? Unless he wasn't already caring. Paul says, I grasp because I've been grasped. I take hold only because I've been taken hold of. You see the sweetness of that. Of course, go without fear and see the adventure of this. All the best stories, in all the best stories, the protagonists, you know, the heroes, are never after adventure. The adventure finds them. All the best stories. You know, look at this. Here's a nice Edwardian family, the Darling family, Wendy, Michael, and John, and they're asleep and they're just a typical family. They're not looking for adventure, but the nursery doors open and a figure from another world, Peter Pan, comes in and he captures their hearts and he whisks them away to an adventure. That's the best kind of adventure. You're not looking for it. It a Christian is. Every single Christian, something from another world has come through the nursery door. You weren't looking for it. You weren't asking for it. It finds you. It captures your heart. It whisks you away. Every Christian is an incredible ride. Every Christian is an unbelievable adventure. Do you sense that at all? Or do you say, well, what are you talking about? out. I go to church. I believe the Apostles' Creed. I've done this for years. What are you talking about? I'm talking about something that you are unacquainted with, I guess. Real Christianity. What is it? It's your maker making you again. It's the Spirit of God moving across the face of the deep and saying, let there be light. You will know it if you're a Christian. You've been taken hold of. But there's another take hold. You notice, even though the causal take hold is the second one. I take hold for which Jesus Christ took hold of me. So Jesus Christ taking hold is the causal hold. But then there's another take hold. Your take hold. There are churches. There are philosophies. philosophies, there are Christian teachers who teach that being a Christian is a passive thing, that it's sort of a, you know, closing your eyes and getting into some kind of condition of spiritual surrender, and then God does everything through you. That's not what Paul's talking about, is it? There's unbelievable energy. There's unbelievable exertion here. So there's a second take hold. The way you know that Christ has taken hold of you is that you become a spiritual laser beam yourself. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean that a Christian becomes characterized by intense focus? And there's two parts to it, because we said just in the same way, the way you get something unwieldy and throw it, if I have to pick up a rag to throw it, first I have to roll it up, gather it up, and then throw it in the direction. The laser beam first is gathered up to face one direction, then is pushed toward the one point. Paul tells us what a Christian is. A Christian is someone whose entire life has been reoriented. The direction of the whole life has been reoriented toward a single point and then is pushed out toward it. Now that means there's two parts to being a Christian. Your entire life is gathered up. Your entire life is reoriented. And then it's pushed toward a single spot and point. Now let me show you the two things First of all, your entire life is reoriented Paul says, everything, whatever he says Whatever I thought of as profit, I now see as loss Now we touched on this in particular last week But now I want to just for a moment look at it in general A Christian is not somebody To become a Christian is not to simply add a little bit of knowledge Some people think, well to be a Christian you go and you study the doctrine they take you through a class. And we will take you through classes if you come here. But they say, well, you know, in other words, you add some knowledge we didn't have. I didn't know much about Christianity. Now I know about it and I commit myself to it. So some people see it as adding knowledge. Other people say, well, I know what Christianity is all about. One of these days I'll be a Christian. I know it's good to love God. I know it's good to love my neighbor. I know it's good to be honest. So one of these days I'm going to apply what I know. That's not what Paul says. Paul says it's not an additional of knowledge. It's not an application of knowledge. Paul says, when you're in Christ, all things have become new. Paul says, you're not a Christian unless your entire life is revolutionized in that you see everything different, everything about you and everything about the world. Everything has changed. You're not a Christian unless you've experienced this is gathering up, that the entire life has been gathered up, and facing in a different direction. Look, for example, Paul was a Pharisee, a very moral person. Before he became a Christian, he knew lying was wrong, and he usually didn't, but occasionally he did. Let's not say, well, once he became a Christian, he stopped lying. He was a Pharisee. He wasn't lying a lot. There was probably no change. Well, you say, well, where's the big change? Paul says, completely different. I look at honesty now in a completely different way. My motive, my view, my drive, everything. Paul says, I don't have a righteousness of my own now. In a nutshell. show. Paul says, the reason I'm honest now is utterly different. When I was a Pharisee, he said, I knew it was wrong to lie, and I tried not to. But you know why I was honest? I was honest in order to be my own savior, in order to earn my favor with God. I was honest in order to put God in my debt so that I could keep control of my life, so that I could feel superior to other people, and so that I could make demands on God and talk about my rights. But now I've seen, he says, no one can love God enough. No one can love God as we ought. The only way we can be saved is through grace. I can only be saved because Jesus Christ lived the life I should have lived, died the death I should have died. Now, I've received Christ. I'm accepted through sheer grace. Now, you know what that does? Paul says, I'm honest for a completely different reason. I even look at honesty differently. You know why he's honest? You know why he grasps after honesty? Because he's been grasped. You know why he's honest? Because he's already been saved by grace. Do you see what's different? As a Pharisee, he says, God takes hold of me because I take hold of Him. And as a Christian, he says, I take hold of Him because He took hold of me. Which means everything's different. Everything. The way I look at honesty. The reason I am honest. It's all different. Everything. And because he sees everything about himself differently. because his motive for everything is different. It's now not a way of getting saved. It's grateful joy for being saved. Because he looks at himself differently in every regard. In the same way, everything else about life is different. Look, how does a Christian, not a Pharisee, not a moral, decent person, but a Christian, how does a Christian look at other people? Well, you know, when Paul was a Pharisee, I can tell you just how he looked at people, because I know. The people who were a lot better than he were, he was intimidated by, and the people who were really beneath him, didn't have the right practices and views, he despised. If you're not a Christian, you despise people. Conservatives despise the liberals. The liberals despise the conservatives. They don't just think they're wrong. They feel superior. But when you become a Christian, and you come to somebody who's different than you, you know what happens? First of all, the ones who are inferior to you, well, you realize you're saved by grace. And you can't despise them. Because you know you're a sinner saved by grace. But the ones that are better than you, you know that in Christ you're completely accepted. And so you're not intimidated by them either. Suddenly there's a whole different attitude toward people. You can't despise anybody or be afraid of anybody. You say, well, you know, I'm a Christian and I still am. That's only because you haven't gathered up your life. You haven't applied the gospel to everything. The gospel gathers up every part of your life. Your attitude toward other races. Your attitude toward your parents. Your attitude toward business. Your understanding of sex. Your view of your material things. Of money. It's not important anymore. Everything has changed. Everything. Well, you say, I know a lot of Christians that it hasn't been changed. Right. They haven't responded yet. They haven't gathered it all up. Somebody says, you know, well, I think this is a little bit fanatical sounding. this intense stuff. Do you want us all to become fanatics? Do you know any fanatics? Well, yes, you say. I certainly do. I know some fanatics. They're really obnoxious. You know what their problem is? They may be Christians. They may not be. They usually aren't. But I'll tell you what they are. They're people, they've gotten fanatical. They've applied the gospel maybe to truth and maybe to witnessing and evangelism, but they're not fanatically humble, are they? They're not fanatically peaceful. You see, they're not fanatically courteous. My dear friends, the problem with the so-called fanatics is not that they're too intense. They're not intense enough. They haven't gathered all of their life up. They haven't taken their entire life and redirected it through the gospel. The gospel completely reorients everything. Their problem is they're not intense enough. They're just unbalanced in their intensity. They haven't done it. Somebody says, well, you know, if you want this to be this intense, it means it sounds like you're always worried. I mean, you're always uptight. You're never relaxed. Absolutely not. Dear friends, do you know what happens when you realize it's just one thing important? To praise the one who saved you? Do you realize? You know, you look at, when you say there's only one thing, Paul says there's only one thing important anymore. Then you look at everything else that used to bedevil you and upset you important, but you know what? They're not all important. You start to relax. If a little child, if one of my kids, when they were little, just was disconsolate, why, I say, honey, why are you crying? I had a dime and I lost it. Okay. And you, you, you know, you, you comfort them. But then after a while, they continue to cry and you say, what's going on here? What's going on here? If you were an orphan, if this was your life savings, that would be one thing. I'm here. I'm your father. You're not out anything. Now, my dear friends, are you weeping on disconsolate about something? Don't you realize if you're a Christian, everything you can lose is just dimes? What is that when you got him? Well, you know, I don't think of it that way. You say, you haven't gathered your life up. You haven't moved the whole thing into one direction. Everything I thought of is profit. He says, now I count as loss. You know, we sing about it. wondrous cross. When I survey, I'm thinking, you know, I'm gathering up. On which the prince of glory died, my richest gain I count but loss. These things aren't important now. They're fairly important, but they're not all important. I've got peace finally. I got peace. I got balance. I'm not a fanatic anymore. And yet I've got intensity. I'm not a dishrag anymore. That's what the gospel does. But lastly, you say, well, what is that one point? And we have to end here. Well, everything up by the gospel. Everything is being brought together. A Christian is not somebody who just adds some knowledge or applies some knowledge. A Christian is somebody to whom all things have become new. Everything you see is new. But then everything is pushed toward that one thing. Well, what is that one thing? You know, I've alluded to it, and I haven't really come right out and said it. In verse 14, Paul says, only one thing I'm after. He calls it the prize. But what is that prize. It's in verse 10. To know Him. Let me end here. But let me show you what he's saying. To know Him. Let me be concrete. Christian friends, you know what we're talking about. Those of you who are not as aware, let me tell you, this is not just believing in something. This is not having a certain amount of beliefs. This is not a certain kind of practice. Christian friends, have you been reading the Bible? Or you've been praying? Or maybe you're actually in a crisis time, and all of a sudden this happens, does it not? Sometimes

you sense you're not alone. It's him. And you just know he's present and he's speaking to you, not an audible voice. Not an audible voice. But you know what happens? The truth shines out at you and your fears fall off or your guilt falls off, or in some cases your smugness falls off. You know, the presence of God. Knowing Him. Not just knowing about Him. But actually sensing His presence. And having Him speak to you. So that the truth just shines out. It's not always a nice experience. Sometimes you're moving along kind of nice in the world and suddenly it disturbs you. Other times you're very upset and it strengthens you. Other times but it will. What is it? It's knowing Him. Now how do you know you've actually had an experience of his presence? How do you know you've moved beyond the intellectual and mechanical, just being a good person, to knowing him? You know how you know? What does Paul say? He says, I haven't attained this yet. Paul, this is Paul. This is the apostle Paul. He is radically dissatisfied with his level of knowledge of God. He says, I haven't gotten this. I want more of it. The way you know that you know God is that you have a consuming passion to know him more. The stomach eventually gets tired of food. It fills up. But the heart never gets enough of the beloved. The heart in love never gets enough of the beloved. And this is how you know that you've come to know him. You want more of that more than anything else. Now, I want to ask you, Christian friends, What is getting in the way? If you're a Christian, you've known something of that. What's getting in the way? Is it just lethargy? Is it the fact that maybe you're mad at God about something? Is it just, are you too worried? Or has your heart gotten sucked into some other group? Are you afraid of what people think? Don't you realize it doesn't matter what it is? Nothing is worth losing this. Paul says this is the ultimate. This is the ultimate. And Jesus Christ actually says in John 17, this is eternal life, that you might know God and Jesus Christ whom he sent. Do you realize what he's saying? Knowing God is not just the goal of life. It is life. And Jesus was sent so you'd have it. Jesus is a laser beam. Do you realize that everything he did, you see what that's saying? Everything he did, his birth and his death, death, his torture, his suffering, his alienation from God. You know what his goal for that was? He's a laser beam. There's only one thing he's been after. There's only one thing he's done all that for. Only one thing. That you and I would know God. Not just believe in him. Know God. How dare you and I settle for anything less when Jesus Christ is living for one thing that you and I know him. That's what he did it all for. Do you know the possibilities? I read about a little Puritan pastor, this is in the 1660s, that had studied the Bible for 50 years. One day he sat down by a well and he opened the bread and he began to drink. It was his lunchtime and as he began to pray, he said, Jesus Christ came to me and I sensed his presence and for over He poured into my heart love and truth, and I learned more at that lunchtime blessing about Jesus and who I am than I had in all the 50 years of Bible study. What was that? That's what's available. You can know him. Paul says, I am the result of a laser beam, and now I am one. Do you know anything of it? Have you gathered up your life? Are you pushing on toward the prize? Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us such a vision of what it means to be a Christian. Help us, on the one hand, to be humbled by it. We're frightened by it. It seems so high. It seems so lofty. It seems so incredible. It's almost too much. And yet, the reason that it's possible is because your love is after us. Your love is always prior. You will, of course, you'll accept us. The only reason we're even crushed and dissatisfied with our situation is because you love us. We wouldn't care unless you cared. And Father, so many of us are just searching for happiness, but the secret of happiness is to want to know you more than to be happy. Help us not to think of anything but the high prize, to know him and the power of his resurrection. this in Jesus' name. Amen.