The last part of Jesus' teaching about the work of the Holy Spirit, there's actually two parts to it. I'm going to look at the second part first. The first part is in chapter 16, say verses 1 to 11, in which it talks about, Jesus talks about what the work of the Holy Spirit is in convincing people who do not believe.

Then, in verses 12 to 15, it talks more about how he is speaking truth to his own disciples. I'd like today to read from chapter 16, verses 12 to 15, and look at these words to prepare us to come before him and partake of his table. So, John chapter 16, verses 12 to 15.

I have much more to say to you, more than you can now bear. But when he, the spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth. He will not only speak on his own, he will also speak what he hears. And he will tell you what is yet to come. He will bring glory to me by taking from what is mine and making it known to you. All that belongs to the Father is mine. That is why I said, the spirit will take from what is mine and make it known to you. This is God's Word.

If you've been around from the beginning, you know that in the early days of Redeemer, I used to talk about this. I've always been fascinated by what Leonard Bernstein said Beethoven's Fifth did to him. You can still read his very famous quote on the back of dust jackets and so on. he says when he hears Beethoven's Fifth, he feels, quote, that there's something right in the world, something that follows its own laws consistently, something that checks throughout, something that will never let us down. Now, when Leonard Bernstein talks about that, what he's describing is what the great minds through history have talked about, and that is he's describing truth. truth. He's not describing a person, any kind of person that we know, and he's not really describing any body of information that we know. He's talking about pure and absolute truth, something that is absolutely right. And if you'd gone to him and asked him this question after he said that, if he'd said, do you believe that there is a body of truth? Do you believe there's a God who has given us a body of truth in words that is absolutely right, that is perfectly and totally consistent with itself, that checks throughout and that will never let us down. Of course, we know he would have said no. And yet, when he hears the music, he's drawn to it. Now, the Bible explains that. Why does he feel that way? to put the Bible's argument in the words of the old philosopher Anselm, not in the words but in the framework of his old argument I'll put it this way the question is why does a baby yearn to eat? It's because there's such a thing as food

why does the duckling want to swim? Because there's such a thing as water and why when you hear great music even though you've been raised in a culture no such thing as absolute truth, do you yearn for a God of truth? And the answer is, the most plausible, at least more plausible than all the implausible alternatives, that there's a God who actually speaks to us. The teaching of this passage and the teaching of the Bible throughout is that the Christian God is personal. And therefore, since he's personal, he has to be able to talk and to think. we're made in his image and therefore our God is not just a God who's a vague force and that you merge with but our God is a God who you have a personal relationship with based on communication based on personal dealing based on the fact that he has thoughts and his understanding and therefore you can impart that understanding there's no way to have a personal relationship with a dog. Yes, it feels very close to being a personal relationship, very close, but there's no actual interchange of propositions. There's feelings, there's sensations. We're talking about an interchange between two persons. And therefore, the question that will arise all the way through here, which we have to continually ask ourselves, do you believe in God in general, or do you know the God who speaks and talks to us in terms of truth. On the mountain of transfiguration, when the disciples saw Jesus all glorified, God says, this is my beloved son, hear ye him. Do you know what he's saying? He's saying, if you want to know me, you can't just love my son, though that's important. You can't just admire my son, though that's important. You can't just emulate my son. You've got to listen to him. And my question to you and throughout here today is do you just believe in him or do you listen to him? He says, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and you don't do the things that I say? There's no way to know Christ personally. There's no way to be a Christian unless you can identify the words that are from God and listen to them. That's what it says. Jesus is someone who brings truth. Jesus is a teacher. Now, I'd like to take a look at this teaching here and break it into three propositions that I do think are taught in these four verses. One is that God gives truth. Secondly, that God gives us the truth. We have to look closely and see where he says that. And then thirdly, that God gives us the truth about his Son. God gives us truth, he gives us the truth, and he gives us the truth about his Son. Let's go through that. First, God gives us truth. Here's Jesus saying to the disciples, truth to teach you. I've got some things to tell you, but you can't bear them. When I die, when I leave, I'll send the Spirit, and he will lead you into all truth. He'll teach you. Now, this is saying Christianity has always taught that God is a God of revelation. Now, let me dwell on that for a minute. God's a God of revelation. Some years ago, my children were watching on Saturday mornings, an NBC network production, Bible stories in cartoon form. So one day I sat down to see, you know, what they were saying. And the first line, in the first line, when the program opens, the narrator says, the Bible is the story of, this is, I'm waiting, what is the Bible? You know, it's kind of hard, I think, to summarize the Bible in one sentence, but they're going to do it. The Bible is the story of humanity's ancient search for God. Now, not only is that an insufficient summary, but that is diametrically and completely and totally and utterly opposed to everything the Bible teaches. In one sentence, that's very, very efficient. patient. If you read the scripture, you will see that the Bible is account after account after account of men and women trying to get away from God as far as they can. Searching, searching, searching for every possible way to get out of his presence and get away from him and to get out from under his clammy hands so they can swing. And you see, what you have in the Bible account after account after account of God going after people who are not looking for him. The Bible says, I have kept my hands out all day to a disobedient people. I have spoken to those who did not seek me. I've answered those who did not ask anything of me. That's what he says. And again and again and again, account after account, he goes after people and he says, can you see the truth? Will you wake up to the truth? I want to use you. I want to make you great, come to me. God is the God of revelation. In other words, this passage teaches here, Jesus is saying, I've got some truth for you, and you can't bear it, and it's my job to keep finding ways to get it into you. God is the God of revelation. Christianity is not the result of a process. You don't become a Christian as a result of a process of searching and reflecting and thinking it out. Rather, Christianity is a process of God searching you out. And that's the reason why there's a great test here. There's a test that you can use to discern whether or not your religious experience is an experience of Christ, or whether it's a general religious experience of morality. You see, if a person says, I sought after God, I got interested in finding out what the truth was, and I searched out the truth, and now I've taken up religion, and now I seek to follow God the best I can. That is not the confession of a Christian. Christians don't think that way. They don't feel that way. That is a religion of self-salvation. Instead, if you read not only the Scripture, but the journals through the years, the biographies of Christians, go read them and see. They always have a profound sense of having been found. They always sense that I have been discovered Not that I discovered They may start out saying See, a Christian very often will say This is how it was I thought I was searching for God I thought I was searching for truth But actually I was trying to get away from him I was searching for truth And I resented Christians will say I resented the idea That there was a truth deposited somewhere That I had to submit to

And I did everything I could to get away from him But finally he opened my eyes me. He came to me. He showed me who he was. He taught me. He knew I couldn't bear the truth, but he brought his Holy Spirit into my life and opened my eyes. That is the way men and women through the ages have described essentially what it means to become a Christian. I once was lost, but now I'm found. You know, the old poem from the 19th century, The Hound of Heaven, where Francis Thompson, the writer, says, I fled him down the days and nights. I fled him when I was through my tears. I fled him through my laughter. And then he says, but he realized in the end, when he finally came to Christ, he realized that all along there had been the pounding of divine feet always following him. He says, with unhurrying chase and unperturbed pace, ace. Deliberate speed, majestic instancy, they beat. He's talking about defeat. You know, one of the most famous conversion stories in Surprised by Joy, C.S. Lewis says, on the night I knelt down to pray, I finally said, God, you're God, and I knelt down and prayed the most dejected and depressed convert in all of England. And then he says, but, But, in his famous phrase, he says, but the hardness of God is softer than the kindness of men. And his compulsion is our liberation. That is the way Christians sense. The first principle of Christianity is God is a God of revelation. God's salvation and his truth comes to you. It's done for you. It dawns on you. That's the first principle.

You get everything else wrong. And before moving on, let me just summarize this with this word of application. I especially would talk to those of you who are really the thing that gives me most of my joy. I like the fact that in Redeemer, there's always a steady stream of people coming through who are thinking about Christianity afresh. You know who you are. You come on through and you say, I've never really thought about Christianity like I have since coming to Redeemer. to be in the church, but now I hadn't been thinking about it for years, and now I'm really grappling with it. And even though you're not sure you'll ever buy it, you're amazed at how much more attractive and coherent an option it is than you ever thought. You know who you are. I'm glad you're here. You're the reason I'm here. Here's what's very important for you to realize. As you reflect, and as you think, and as you look at Christianity, I want you to realize this is not simply an intellectual exercise, you are being searched out or you wouldn't be searching. You've got to realize what the real situation is. You are not dragging the river for God. You're on a raft being whisked down the river and you need to be looking for God to lift you out. And if you don't see that, your Christianity isn't going to make sense. And if you don't recognize that there's going to be a part of your heart that hates the idea of a God of Revelation, that thinks it's undemocratic, that truth would be revealed and you have to submit to it rather than something you work out on your own. Unless you see the Bible continually says that's the way the natural heart is. You always feel like, who do you think you are to tell me what the truth is? I want to discover. I want to work it out. I want to pound out the truth myself. If you don't see that's the natural inclination of your heart and that you need the Holy Spirit to help you receive the truth that you cannot bear without his help, you're never going to find him. That's a big distinction to make. In Matthew 11, Jesus exalts and he looks up to heaven and he says, I praise you, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have revealed these things to the babes and hidden them from the wise and prudent. See, Jesus is reveling in the fact that his father is a revelation God, that you have revealed these things to babes, You've hidden them from the wise and prudent. Well, what does it mean to be a... What's a spiritual baby? Only spiritual babies get the truth. The wise and the prudent don't get it. Well, what does it mean to be a spiritual baby? It doesn't mean to be naive. It doesn't mean to be an intelligent... Oh, no. The history shows us that Christians of all levels of intelligence, all level of education, all ranks and classes can get converted. And that's not it. Here's what it is.

Not too long ago, I went in to see my eight-year-old doing his math homework, and I looked down and I noticed that he was getting every single math problem wrong. Every one. And I looked at him and I said, you know, you're getting them all wrong because you're not carrying over the leftover from this column into this column properly. And he looked up at me and said, Dad, I studied the chapter. I know what I'm doing.

So I responded. I said, Son.

You have studied the chapter. I'm sure you studied it very diligently, but somehow you've missed the point of it. You missed the key. And even though maybe you've got everything but the key, the fact is that because you've missed the key, you're getting every one of your problems wrong. You're going wrong all the way through. You need revelation.

You need somebody to come and show you where you're wrong. And at that point, he had a choice to make. Was he going to decide that he was wise and prudent Or was he going to decide he was a baby? A babe, you see. Was he going to say, I can find it out myself. Who do you think you are coming and just laying this on me? Or was he going to come and say, I need you to teach me. Show me. And you see, until you recognize the fact that God is very, in a sense, very democratic. He reveals himself to who? People of intellectual humility. humility. Almost the hardest thing to come up with. You know, the one thing that's most interesting about our modern culture is we're willing, I think, now, especially in a place like New York, to admit all kinds of things about ourselves that our ancestors or other parts of the world and country would never admit. We're so weak here. We're so weak there. We're basically all, we're just willing to admit that we're flawed everywhere except here, in the area of intellectual humility. Because you see, everybody, we think, should have the right to find their truth out on their own. And God says, I don't operate that way. And until you stop thinking that you're wise and prudent, until you become a babe, it will be hidden from you. God is a God of revelation. God is a God who gives truth. There's no way around it. Doesn't he have the right to do that? I mean, before anybody out here says, boy, I hate that whole idea. I mean, think about yourself. You're a person. you want to have the right to have people believe about you, what's actually true on the basis of your revealing of who you are? Is it really fair for you, you know, would it be fair for someone to come up and say, I believe I should be able to think about you any way I wish? How would you respond to that? He would say, oh really? I don't think that's fair. As a matter of fact, I feel like you're violating my personhood. You're treating me as an object. And if you say, I should be able to find my own truth, search out God, and kind of decide what I want to believe about him, what you're really saying is, I don't believe God's a person. I believe there's a God in general, but I don't believe he's the person that you can enter into a relationship with because I wouldn't treat any other person like that. God is a God who gives truth. God is a God who says, you can't bear the truth, but I will get it in there somehow. Secondly, God doesn't just give us truth in general. Look carefully, you'll see. He says here, he gives us the truth. See, in verse 13, but when he, the spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all what? It just says truth in most translations. But in the Greek, the construction is, there's an article there. And literally what Jesus says is, when the Holy Spirit comes, he will guide you into all the truth. He says all the truth. He's really talking about a set, definite body of teaching. He is talking about a body of teaching with boundaries to it. And historically, the church understands what he's saying. It's a remarkable thing. He's saying to his apostles, friends, there's some things I could teach you now, but when I go away, the Holy Spirit will come and he will lead you into a body of truth, a set of doctrines, basically. All the truth, not part of it. Some people read this passage, and if you leave out the article, and it says the Holy Spirit will lead you into all truth, some people have actually said, well, this means that for the rest of history, the Holy Spirit will be constantly drawing Jesus' followers into more and more truth, so truth is always evolving. Actually, this text teaches the exact opposite, it. Because he's actually saying, my Holy Spirit will come and give you all the truth. A set bounded, a set body of doctrine with boundaries to it. And he's talking to his apostles. And if you look and see how the church understood the teaching of the apostles, and if you look and see how the apostles understood your own teaching, you will realize they recognize that Jesus was saying that not only my teaching, but your teachings will have objective authority as the divine word of God. What this means is, when you get out, if you have a Bible that has a red letter edition with Jesus' words in the red, that it actually goes completely against what this text is teaching. Because what Jesus is saying is, when you read the Gospel of John, and it says, Jesus said, and it has his words in red, and then when John starts to speak,

Jesus Christ is saying here, my teaching is the word of God and your teaching will be the word of God as well. If you take a look and see how Paul treated himself. Now, you know, Paul wasn't standing there at the time. Jesus made a special trip to earth to say the very same thing to Paul and to give him the same commission. Paul looked at himself that way. He says, there's places where Paul says, by God's revelation, I have now got these mysteries that no one else knows. He says, in 1 Corinthians, he says, we teach the words that are not words from humankind, but rather they are the words that the Spirit speaks. He says in 1 Corinthians, he also says, if anyone is spiritual, you will know that the words I teach you are the commandments of God. And when the apostles died, the church decided immediately to put together the New Testament. How did they do it? Now, look, there were a lot of words. lot of teachings and letters and things around that were very inspiring. But what was the test by which they put together the New Testament? It was a test of apostolicity. They only put into the New Testament the works of the apostles or the associates of the apostles who were expressing the teaching of the apostles. In other words, it's the apostolic teaching. They recognized that the apostolic teaching was part of the truth that was coming to us through Jesus Christ. and it was a body, it was a set thing. All the truth. From this passage comes the Protestant understanding that there has been a body of teaching given to us that we receive as authoritative and that we don't add to it or subtract from it. It's the doctrine of the sufficiency and the uniqueness of the scripture. And let me just show you two ways in which you can deny it. At the end of the book of Revelation, at the end of the Bible, it says, says, if anyone adds to these words, God will add to him the plagues in this book. And if anyone subtracts from these words, God will subtract his place in the book of life. The whole idea behind what Jesus is saying here is all the truthness of the scripture. Let me give you a couple ways in which you can deny it. You must not add from the scripture, you must not subtract from it. Here's how you can add from it. Actually, just to let you know ahead of time here, To add from the scripture is a conservative sin. To subtract from the scripture is a liberal sin. And the Bible will have none of it either. How do you add to the scripture? Well, the way you add to the scripture is fairly simple. There have been literally scores and hundreds of churches and denominations and sects and religions who have come along and said, The Bible, yes, the Bible is wonderful. However, our leader has received new revelation from God without which you can't understand the rest of the Bible. there are tons of churches and sects and groups that teach that. And you see how nonsensical that is in light of this. Jesus says to his disciples, I will give you all the truth except for a very important piece that I'm going to give a thousand years from now, without which none of the rest of the stuff that I'm giving you will be understandable. That's ridiculous. And yet, Yet, the Protestant understanding of the uniqueness of the Scripture, you see, guards you and me against the power hunger of people who claim new revelations. The people who come along after the apostles and say, I have new revelation from God, are actually trying to get power over you. See, here's Jim Jones who says, the Bible, ah yes, the Bible's great. God also has told me you've got to go with me to Guyana. To believe in the uniqueness of the scripture and in the sufficiency of the scripture, to believe in all the truthness of the scripture, guards you and me from demagogues. In fact, the Protestant understanding of truth has always been subversive to the elite. It's been very interesting for me recently to read about the spread of Protestant Christianity, evangelical Christianity, in Latin America amongst the poor. it's spreading very rapidly, and the sociologists are trying to figure out why. And rightly so, they say one of the reasons is because the Protestant understanding of the Bible as the only word of God, the Bible as having all the basic truth with which you can judge everything, is radically empowering to the poor. You see, the poor, all their lives are being told by the experts, you don't understand. You haven't been to school. You don't understand. We have knowledge A poor person comes to Christ and realizes what he says here. And that is that Jesus Christ has given all the truth. And through the apostles, it's come into my hands. Suddenly, that empowers them. Because they look at, you can be a majority of one with this word. You can look at the rest of the world and say, I don't care what you say. I've got the truth. And I've got all the truth that you do. I have as much access to it as you do. about who I am, who God is, what is right and wrong, what is the meaning of life, all those basic questions. And I know that you're wrong. See, you can be a majority of one if you've got the Word of God. It's radically empowering. You can't have people come along and say, well, listen, I've got some insights about God that you don't have. You've got to listen to me. That's why the poor person says, forget that. That's the reason why the Protestant understanding of Christianity has always been so empowering to oppressed groups of people. I've got the truth here. All the truth. I've got as much truth as the bigwigs do.

If you add to the scripture by saying, I've got new revelation, what that does is it disenfranchises people. It's a way of you getting power. But also, there's other ways to add. Another way to add to the scripture is for you to simply become a traditionalist. In most churches around the country, people have very strong convictions about the fact that Christians don't like this kind of music. Christians don't dress like this. Christians don't do these things. Christians don't vote for this kind of party. Unless something is in the scripture, if you elevate any kind of custom, any kind of tradition, any kind of belief or conviction that's not in the scripture to the place where it is unquestioned, unassailable, a given, what you've done is you've compromised all the truthness of the scripture because anything that's not in the scripture to be something that you're always questioning. A person who believes in the uniqueness and... Are you getting this? A person who believes in the uniqueness and the sufficiency of the scripture is not somebody who stops questioning, but somebody who, for the first time, can question everything.

I don't have to listen to what my ethnic group has always told me is right and wrong if I got the scripture. Without the scripture, I guess I pretty much have to do what my people tell me. I don't have to listen to what the political party says. I don't have to listen if I'm an academia scholarly school says, well, all scholars today believe this. Don't you see how absolutely critical it is for you not to add to the scripture, but to radically question everything? On the other hand, it's just as severe to subtract from the scripture. Now, how do you subtract? We do it all the time, and many of you do too. And that is, you say, you know, there's a lot of good things in here, a lot of good things, but there's a lot of stuff that today we just can't believe

Now, let me suggest to you that 100 years ago, 1891 and 1892, your great-grandparents also looked at the Scripture, and many of them said the same thing. They said, you know, we can't believe everything because today, in modern times, 1892, we are wiser than we used to be. Now, friends, there's a lot of things that your great-grandparents believed that you were appalled at, that you think is barbaric. You know, back then, as an example, a lot of people were extrapolating out of Darwin's theory of evolution that some races were further along down the evolutionary scale than others. It was typical and normal to believe that certain races were more advanced than others. And so we all knew that now. It's 1892. And we know that. So we read the scripture and we can say some of these things are right, but some of these things we know are wrong. And today we look back at that consensus through which some people read the scripture and discarded part of it. And we laugh at them. but now today it's 1992. It's different. Finally, we know enough on the basis of modern scholarship, on the basis of cultural consensus, now we know enough to go through the scripture, don't we? And say, well, these things are good but these things are appalling. Who could believe that anymore? Don't you realize that 100 years from now your grandchildren and great-grandchildren are going to be laughing at the things that you believe? If they can get a hold of the diskettes if they haven't fallen apart by then. they are going to be appalled by the things you believe through which you read this book. Now you have to decide whether you think it's ludicrous or not for you to decide that this moment of history, 1992 above every other one in the past or the future is the place at which we finally arrived at enough wisdom to judge the word of God and to subtract or add words. How can you do that? How dare you do that? And not only that what gives you the right to do that? Jesus comes and says The only way for you to discard pieces of the Bible is if you, with tremendous faith, blind faith, assume some other standard over top of it. Nobody says, well, I'm too reasonable to believe in the Bible. Uh-uh. If you are starting to discard things from the Bible, it's because you have committed yourself, through faith, to some other standard by which you now hold to be infallible and through which you're reading this scripture. scripture. You may not subtract from the scripture, according to what Jesus says, because I've given it all the truth. You may not add to the scripture because I've given it all the truth. Don't you see that someone who believes this Protestant principle of the uniqueness and the sufficiency of the scripture is not a person who stops questioning, but a person who wants to question everything. Hates the conservative problem of adding to the scripture with all your traditions and all that. Hates the liberal problem of subtracting from the scripture with all of its license. Not legalism or license. Not superstition, which means to believe God's revelation is more extensive than it is. Not substitution, which is to believe that God's revelation is less extensive than the scripture. But instead, to believe in all the truthness of the scripture. Turns you into someone who can question everything. Turns you into someone who thinks mighty hard and mighty well. Somebody who says, Father, I thank you that you revealed this to me, though a babe. Because I became a babe, I now have a wisdom and a prudence above everybody else. There's a place in Psalm 119 where it says, I am now wiser than my teachers because I have sought your precepts. Now, look, the last thing. Jesus gives us, God gives us truth. He's a revelation God. God gives us all that truth. to say to you there is the apostolic revelation come to you in the scripture is unique and sufficient. But now lastly, the last thing we have to say before we come to the table is that this passage teaches us that God doesn't just give us all the truth in the world, but all the truth about his son. When Jesus says, I've given you all the truth, what could he mean? He can't mean all the truth in the world. There's nothing in the Bible about microbes. There's nothing in the nuclear fusion. So what does he mean when he says all the truth? He means all the truth you need.

Because there's a lot of people that have learned about nuclear fusion and fission. The most brilliant people in the history of the world, I can't prove this, is a guess. The most brilliant people in the history of the world, the people who have made breakthroughs in so many fields, in many cases are the most tormented of people. Knowledge for knowledge's sake, truth for

What Jesus says is, I'm going to give to you, the apostles, all the truth you need because it's all the truth about me. He says, the Spirit will glorify me. The Spirit will take of mine and show it to you. The Spirit will give you what you really need. And that is, will show you all that you need to know about who I am, what I've done, and what you can be in me. Now, some people out there might say, well, you know, I used to believe the Bible. all these Christian doctrines, but frankly, it didn't satisfy me. It really didn't work in my life. Wait, listen, look carefully. What does Jesus Christ say the purpose of the Bible is? The Holy Spirit is coming to give the apostles revelation so that he may be glorified.

This is the bottom line, so wake up, and if you get this, you pretty much have gotten it, and you've made a good use of your time. Listen. The purpose of the scripture is to get you to fall in love.

What is the purpose of the scripture? Not just to get information across. He says he will give you the truth, all the truth, that you might see my glory. You know what it means to fall in love? It means to see somebody's glory. When I fell in love with my wife, I saw her glory. That doesn't just mean her beauty. The word glory in the Bible, as we know, means weight. It means importance. It means significance. And when you fall in love with somebody, that person becomes the most important thing in your life. Now, here's what I'm asking you. Have you really... You said, I accepted the Bible. I became a babe. I received the revelation of the Bible. Did you ever fall in love with him?

Has he ever become the most important thing in your life? So, for example, his opinion of you becomes more important than anybody else's opinion. that's what it means to have him glorified. Why can't you take criticism? Why is it that some of you have lost sleep this week? Because you feel like you've been snubbed. It's because somebody else's opinion is more glorious than his.

Is his love the most glorious and important thing in your life? Is his opinion more important and glorious than anybody else's opinion? Is pleasing him more important and glorious than pleasing anybody else? Until you're in love with him, until that happens, have actually missed the point of the chapter, son, and you're getting all your problems wrong. Do you see? John Donne puts it this way, the great poet. He says, take me to you, imprison me, for I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me. Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me. John Donne says, until I'm ravished with your glory, I'm going to let other things ravish me. You hear that? What he's saying is, what you need today, more than anything else, is to see the glory of God. The reason you're addicted. The reason you're depressed. The reason you're so worried is because there's other things ravishing you as more glorious than Jesus. And if you could just be ravished by his glory, all these other things would no longer run your life. There'd be a holy moderation about your life. That's what John Donne is saying. and that's the purpose of the scripture, not just to give you information, but to get you to the place where you say, did you do this for me, Lord? Did you live this life for me? Did you die this death for me? Did you do this for me? Then you are glorious and I'm in love with you. I give myself to you. Until that's happened, you have not received the revelation. You have not become a babe. It hasn't come into your life. In conclusion, for some of you, I urge you to consider this. If you say, isn't it quaint that there's still a Protestant minister in Manhattan that thinks the Bible is completely true? I'm really glad. You know, we've got museums and it's just, it's good to have somebody around like that. You certainly have a right to believe that. Meanwhile, I want you to know that you've kissed goodbye a personal relationship with God. If you get rid of the authority of the scripture, hey, listen, if I get a bunch of letters from John Doe. I've never met John Doe, but I'm having this relationship through the letters. And I've had 20 letters, and I think I'm getting to know him. Somebody comes along and says, well, you know, about half of those letters are probably not from John Doe. Probably half of them really aren't, you know, from him. They're probably from somebody else. That's the end of my relationship, because I don't know who he is. I don't know which parts to believe and which not. I have no idea. If you want to discard the authority of the scripture, you certainly can, but you must realize you've also discarded your real ability to have a personal relationship with somebody. The other thing is, isn't true, Christianity is so no-nonsense, it's so wonderful. How do you get strength in your life? You're given truth. Is it true? Is Jesus God? Did he die for your sins? Did he rise triumphant over the grave? Is he seated at the right hand of the Father? And has he put his Holy Spirit in us with all of his magnificent supernatural character us from one degree of splendor into the next of his greatness? Will he come at the end of all time to judge the living and the dead and to put all things right? If so, there's all the comfort and hope in the world. And if not, if that's not true, then Shakespeare is right. And history is a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. And when you listen to Beethoven's Fifth, it's just a narcotic, because there's nothing there. air. Go to the Spirit of God right now and say, Lord, if you're real and if you are a God of truth, show me the glory of your Son. That's what I need today. I don't need for you to arrange my circumstances differently. As I come to the table, I want to meet you. I want to see the glory of your Son. I want to be ravished. Take me to you. Imprison me, for I, except you enthrall me never shall be free nor ever chaste except you ravish me. Let's pray. Father, as we come to the table, as Scott leads us to receive the bread and the cup, we pray.
