Now when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do?

Peter replied, Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. With many other words, he warned them and he pleaded with them, Save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their number that day. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and prayer. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. All the believers were together and had everything in common. Selling their possessions and goods, they gave. They gave to anyone as he had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. This is God's word.

Now, I think you'll see that the...

You'll see here that... We try... I try to give you a bit of a summary of what we're talking about in this series during the late July and August. I'm doing it almost in a kind of schoolish, classroomish mode. I hope that this will be inspiring and will lead you to the Lord. But on the other hand, there's a lot of didactic material. So I'm going to be going through this. When I'm done, I'll just say we'll pick up there next week. And you must please think. You don't have to take notes necessarily. But think. Think in such a way that you can collect the questions that you might have and we will take the time to answer those questions and to deal with some of those issues in a discussion format, even though we're such a large group. Up to now, the last two weeks, it worked and so I'm going to keep it up. Okay? Now, what we're after, what we're talking about... I've been using the word revival.

Revival means the doctrine that we're talking about that I believe the Bible teaches, is that the Holy Spirit can be poured out on the church in such a way that the church is empowered and beautified and returned to New Testament normalcy. Now, when the Spirit is poured out,

that means the job of the Spirit is always to speak of Christ. Read the book of John and you will see the job of the Spirit. What is the job of the Spirit? People say the job of the Spirit is to give power.

No. Power is a result of what the Spirit does. Some people say the purpose... The Spirit is to give us joy. No. It's the result of what the Spirit does. Some people say, well, the primary thing the Spirit does is it gives life. Even that is almost just a result of what the Spirit really primarily does. What does it do? Jesus says, He will speak of me. He will illumine me. He makes Jesus real. Not just an abstraction. To the degree that Jesus Christ is real to you, so real that His words affect you, that His love you feel envelops you is more important than anybody else's love. His protection is more important than anybody else's protection. His truth is more persuasive than any other truth anybody's told you.

That's what the Spirit is there to do. He makes Him real to you. Now, look, some of you right now tonight say, I know Jesus loves me. But I feel worthless. Now, what that means is you need a pouring out of the Spirit. Because what you're saying is, I know what Jesus says. He loves me. He died for me. But I also know what other people have told me. And that is anybody who does the things you do is a terrible person. And so whose truth is more real? Whose love is more real? The Spirit of God has a fairly simple ministry. It's not all that mysterious, though it's marvelous. Its job, His job, is to make... make you see Jesus as He really is. And when the Spirit of God does that on a whole group of people, so that the love and the power of God is very real to them, that changes everything. Their worship becomes anointed. People walk in and they say, Who? Who is there? Someone is there. There's a presence there. The truth begins to shine. And so the people of God study this, the Word. There's great fellowship. There's aggressive evangelism. There's changes in society around. That's what we said revival is. Now, the question that immediately comes up is, all right, how do you promote it? I think the first night somebody said, asked me, I don't know, I think Sally asked me, well, do you have an agenda for us? I can't... I think that was the question. Do you have an agenda? Are you going to tell us how we can get that way? And I've tried to show you that historically that you have to... you can't come up with an agenda. You have to discover. You start with prayer. Kingdom center. They're prevailing corporate prayer. But apart from that, the method is something that God sends you. So you try everything. You try all kinds of things. You say, let's try that. And it could be that God uses that to bring about greater fullness of His Spirit and so on. So you can't just come up with an agenda. And yet, there is something we can do. Now, I put at the top, the best way to prepare for revival, or another way to put it, is the way to get the revival or the renewal dynamic going in the church is to think of the church as an altar. In the Old Testament, when you wanted God's presence to fall, you just didn't fall. When you said, Oh Lord, send down your fire from heaven, it didn't just fall. You had to build an altar and you had to put a sacrifice on there. And so, you see, you had something to do. You prepared the altar, but only God could send the fire. They had to prepare the tabernacle, then God sent the glory. They built the temple according to specifications, obeying Him in every way, and down came the glory. They built the tabernacle, down came the glory. They built the altar, down comes the glory. Same thing with the church. And we talked a little bit about it last week. Building an altar first means something negative and it means something positive. Negatively, it means you have to clear the ground. If you're going to build anything, in New York City, if you want to build something, you've got to tear something down. That's just the way it is. You just don't have anything laying around. You just don't have lots open and saying, oh, look, here's a vacant lot. Maybe we should build something. Not in Manhattan, hardly. I'm sure there's a couple of... Some of you smart alecks will come up and tell me you know of one. But, you know, in general, there's always somebody. But, you know, in general, in Manhattan, if you're going to build something up, you have to tear something down. Same thing. We said one of the first things that a church can do to prepare for the renewal dynamic is to remove things that are obstacles to God's Spirit. And we talked about them last week. I can't go into them at all this week. We talked about heterodoxy, which means that false doctrine, departing from the cardinal doctrines of the faith, the faith once delivered to the saints, those central doctrines that have been held by all Christians, you know, throughout the centuries, that to depart from them, we said, is actually a way of being sure that God will not send us fire. So, heterodoxy, we talked about dead orthodoxy, we talked about various sorts of things, of imbalances and so on. And these are things that you have to avoid. So you clear the ground. Having said that, what do you build? And here is a very delicate balance, and some of you probably will ask me some questions about that. I hope. If you're listening to this, you will ask me a couple questions about that. The delicate balance is always to somehow,

to somehow balance the way in which we do ministry at any church between the spontaneous leading of the Spirit in our hearts and careful planning and thinking ahead and management. You see, there are five things that we're going to look at tonight, five vitamins, five marks of a renewed, vital, revived, dynamic church that are always present. They're present in the paragraph that we just read. We're going to look at them. They are vibrant worship, depth teaching, theological depth, intimate fellowship, aggressive evangelism, compassionate social concern. Those five things. I can make a case tonight that when you have all those five things combined, you've got a revived church. And we'll talk about that. Well, we'll get to that in a second. But the point is, those five things are the result of God's operation of the Spirit in our hearts. And yet, at the same time, those are things that we're commanded to do. And it's a mistake to think that you can bring these things about completely through your planning and programming. And it's also a mistake to think that we just sit and wait passively for God to do it to us and we make no provision for those five things. And I put down here that this balance is a balance that is grounded in our biblical doctrine of the church. That's what I call ecclesiology, your biblical doctrine of the church, your biblical doctrine of the church, your biblical ecclesiology. Namely, that the church is both an organism and an organization. The Bible teaches that on the one hand, the church is a living thing. It's not something that you create. God creates it. You know, you can't build a body. If you try to create a body, you've got Frankenstein. Bodies grow. You can't put parts together. One grows out of the other. It's an organic thing. It's a living thing. And the church is like that. And because it's a living, organic thing, and we get the life from God, it's not something that you can program and create. But on the other hand, the Bible says that the church is also an organization. Everything does not happen spontaneously. For example, the Bible says you should elect elders. The Bible says you should elect deacons. The Bible says you should have church discipline. So, you see, there's organization and there's organism.

The balance between those two things is very tough to maintain. In other words, the Bible says the church is an amphibian. It lives both in the world of sociology and in heaven. It does, in some sense, because it's a human organization, it does, to a certain degree, it is programmable. You will find, for example, that a microphone with a group of larger than 50 really helps the spirit move. It does. If you can't hear me, if you can't hear me, I don't care how godly you are. You're not going to be able to say, boy, that was a real help, that sermon. It doesn't matter. I got to get the PA system out. Why? Because you're so big. You see, there's an organization. But on the other hand, it's not just an organization. It's amphibian. When I was in college, I came to Christ, like a lot of people did, somewhere around 1970 when I was in college. And I was part of a campus fellowship that the first two years, when I first met it, it was in its early phase, before I was a student. Before the revival. And in that phase, I'll tell you what it was like. It was an institution. It was an organization. They elected their officers. They did everything by the little bylaw book. We sat in chairs. We had little hymns that we were allowed to sing because this is what our fellowship sang and we sang them. Now, for some strange reason, a couple of folks in that particular fellowship had an amazing experience of the spirit of God. And by the way, well, no. If you want to ask questions about it, you can. A great experience of the spirit of God came back to us one spring and said, you know something, why do we have to do everything in a programmatic way? First of all, they said, let's get rid of the chairs. We said, what do you mean? We're Christians. No, let's get rid of the chairs. Let's sit on the ground. This is 1969. You've got to remember that. Let's not play the piano. Let's play guitar. What? You're kidding. Play guitar? We're Christians. Who ever saw a guitar in church? Not only that, let's take the music and let's let it be contemporary. Not only that, let's just ask God to begin to show us who in the fellowship really have leadership gifts. Not only that, let's just really start to ask God to give us a vision for really reaching the campus. There was 15 people that came to this fellowship meeting in the beginning of 1970. And by the end of 1970, there were 150. And half of those people came to Christ. And they didn't come to Christ through any organized approach. What happened was we began doing what these two young guys asked us to do. And the Spirit of God was very present in our services, in our times of worship and fellowship. And people got attracted. And they came in and they listened to us talking about the gospel and people got converted. And it happened in a completely organic way. We didn't elect officers. We didn't have committees. Everything was spontaneous. We had discovered something that had been repressed. We discovered the organic side of the church. Something that the Bible had always talked about but we hadn't realized it. It's a body. And so you can guess what happened. There was tremendous impact on everybody's lives. I became a Christian in there somewhere. And a lot of other people did too. And you know what happened. By the time we were entrenched in this way, we were sure that God would never, ever, ever bless any other approach. If somebody showed up and said, I got an idea. Let's do some evangelism on campus. Let's get people together because a lot of us don't know how to share our faith. Let's read a book and let's do some evangelism. Let's have somebody train us in how to share our faith. Then we'll get together and we'll do this and we'll have this meeting and we'll ask people to come and then we'll... And the rest of us who had the revival, we looked and said, that sounds like organization. God never blesses organization. God never blesses planning. We don't elect people. We don't plan things. Everything's spontaneous. Now, you have to realize on the one hand, this is 1969. This is a baby boomer, sort of hippie-ish, counter-cultury, kind of private university. And so everybody was so down on institutions at the time that without knowing it, we had taken the gospel and we had contextualized it. That means we had taken the gospel and just like Jesus Christ didn't stay in heaven but became one of us, became a real human being, we had taken the gospel and put it in terms that the people there could really relate to and it took off. But we were not biblical in our understanding of the church because it's both organism and organization. And we so absolutely were against any kind of real planning and any kind of institutionalizing of the fellowship that three years later, it was gone. Because you see, there was nobody around. We couldn't pass leadership on to people. We couldn't train people in what we had learned. We couldn't even train people in what we had learned. All kinds of strange heresies crept into the group because we never sat down and said, what do we believe and what don't we believe? What are we going to do if somebody teaches something that is not in accordance to what we think the biblical faith is? And because we were not and because we didn't like any of that organization and because therefore we set nothing up, the poor organism had no backbone. It was almost sort of like we created an amoeba and we created an invertebrate. And what it needed was the backbone of some organization. Well, I even know people that became Christians in that setting who, when they left, could not get involved in any church. It was too organized. It was too structured. And they always stayed in these little informal houses. House groups where everybody got around and spontaneously shared and we got out the guitar and strummed the music that we remembered from 1969 and so forth. And those folks either never grew or eventually made shipwreck of their faith. Now, I'm trying to say that if, on the other hand, you go back to the way that fellowship was when we first got there, it was an organization only, there was no way in which the spirit could even move, could ever change our mind. We weren't relying on people's gifts. We weren't relying on the spirit's power. But on the other hand, we turned around and sometimes, let's face it, sometimes in the name of body life, in the name of the spirit's power, we, you know, we enshrine laziness and an undisciplined lifestyle. So what happened at that point was I slowly began to realize that the church is both an organism and an organization. And that means that when we talk about these five vitamins that every vital church has got to have,

we have to provide for them. We have to be constantly saying, we have to get together and we have to say, are we doing it? Are we making provisions for it? How are we encouraging it? Are we planning and organizing for it? That's building the altar. But on the other hand, we have to realize that we can't create it. It's a lot like being a gardener. Do you think a gardener can create the life in the garden? The life of the garden, the tomato, will come up if you have tomato seeds. And only tomatoes can make tomato seeds. You know, gardeners can't put the life in the tomato seed. But the gardeners can provide in a very organized way that the life in that tomato seed has every chance to explode. Because you see, if you get down there and you really start gardening in the right way, if you prune, if you weed, if you fertilize, if you hoe, if you water, you're not creating the life in a sense, just like you're not actually putting the fire on the altar, but you're building the altar, you're building the garden, you're creating an environment where there's scriptural freedom for the Spirit of God to do His work. Now, let's go to the five things. Now that you see what I mean, there's a balance here. Don't tell me that we can organize to create these five things, but don't tell me that we just wait passively for them to happen either.

Five things. Worship. Now, every time I'm going to tell them to you, I'll tell them to you in a different order. Vibrant worship. Intimate, exciting, loving fellowship and community. Aggressive evangelism. Depth teaching and theological depth. And compassionate social concern. I'll say something general about them, then I'll try to go through and give you a little bit of a specific idea about each one of them. And in the last four or five weeks of summer, we're going to look at every one of these five issues in depth. Because we've got to be a church that's deeply, profoundly strong in every one of these areas. You see, without the Spirit of God, it's possible to manufacture one or two of these things. I may have mentioned this last week. For example, some churches are terrific on worship, apparently, and yet, shallow training,

virtually no fellowship,

maybe some aggressive evangelism, but very, very little concern for their community. Well, how do you explain that? It could be that it's just an immature church, but it could be this. It could be without the Spirit of God at all, if you just are an emotional bunch of people, you can really get into some worship. If you like emotional catharsis, if you like highs, you can get into a church and develop a church where you really whomp up a storm in worship. It's easy to orchestrate if you can get it all together, and it's possible to be a worship church without the other four or five, without the Spirit of God. A church that's known for its worship. Here's this. There's some churches that are tremendously strong at teaching right doctrine. There's classes everywhere. Everybody's deeply indoctrinated. People are very impressed with how much these people seem to know their doctrine and their truth. And yet, it's possible to create a church like that, and you see a lot of churches like that, that are really strong on all that. And yet, their worship is boring, and there's very, very little fellowship. People are very harsh to one another. There's very little compassion and social concern, a real concern for the people around them. How can that be? Well, see, without the Spirit of God, you can be a strong doctrinal teaching church just because you can get a bunch of people together who just have tidy little minds. If you have a tidy little mind, that means you like to have a right answer for everything. Everything. You don't like any gray areas. And some people are like that temperamentally. And you get enough of them together, they can create, without really any kind of real power of the Spirit, a very doctrinally oriented church. But the way you can tell the Spirit of God is not working there is the other vitamins aren't really present. Or, I can go down the list. Now, I don't want to take too long, but you can have a touchy-feely church, which is really, really big on relationships, and everybody's getting counsel, and everybody is just so warm, and everybody's relating to one another as persons. You know what I mean? As persons. And yet, look, there's no doctrine, nobody ever says, this is what's the truth. There's no such thing as evangelism because, hey, we really don't want to push our religion down anybody's throats. Because, after all, we're all so confused and just holding on to each other, how could we really be of any help to anybody else? Now, it's possible to be a church that's very well known as being a church where if I come there, I get accepted, I'm being counseled, there's so much warmth there, and yet the other vitamins are gone. Because you don't need the Spirit of God to create a church like that. There are some churches that are unbelievably aggressive in their evangelism, and some of you have run into them, too. Now, by the way, yeah, you and I could both sit down and say, hmm, I think I know churches around here that fit some of these descriptions, but I'm not thinking about them. I'm fairly new to New York. I just know that wherever you go, this church is like all these descriptions. Now, there are some churches that are unbelievably aggressive in evangelism, and they will never let you go. I mean, if you show any interest, the person will invite you and tell you that you're wrong and you're sinful. I'm so sad that you're going to hell, and won't you please come? And you are going to hell if you don't come to my church, usually, virtually. And you can be a church full of very aggressive evangelistic people without the Spirit of God because if you get enough people together who like to be right, and they feel superior to everybody else, and they like knowing that we alone have wisdom. Wisdom perishes with us. And there's plenty of people that have got that temperament. You look around and you'll see that it is not a church that people would characterize as tremendously loving or caring and understanding. It might be pretty tight-knit, but you step over the line in the wrong way and they'll take your toes off. And it could be that those are churches without any real compassion for their community. They're not really that involved in their society and so forth. Why? Because you see, the fact that they're evangelistic and they might be into doctrinal teaching too, but the other vitamins aren't there shows that's not happening out of the power of the Spirit. And I can go on. Of course, you all know about social action churches. Churches that are really big on compassionate social concern and nothing else. Their worship is dead. Their doctrinal teaching is confused. Their evangelism doesn't happen at all. And their fellowship is almost non-existent. Why? Because you can get people together who just are altruistic. People who just have this personal connection. They're not burdened to really help in society. That's great. But you see, without the Spirit of God it's possible to have a church like that too. Where do you find churches that have them all? They are revived churches. They are churches with the renewal dynamic moving along. Now, I will descend this far to say it's not unusual to see that some of these one-note samba churches I'm talking about only evangelism, only worship only, doctrine only. Very often they tend to run in traditional denominations. For example, lots of Presbyterian churches are doctrinally sound but dead. They got one vitamin only. There's lots of churches that are only into evangelism and nothing else. I'm not going to mention who they are. I'll only talk about ourselves. Some are only into worship and nothing else. Everything else is very shallow. Some are only into social concern and they tend to run and you know which ones I'm talking about, but I'm not going to mention them. I'll only point to the fact that Presbyterian churches have a particular kind of deadness that moves them toward being the doctrinal teaching only churches. In times of great revival, if you see a whole city transformed, you'll find something very odd. And that is even though it's true that the Presbyterian churches tend to excel in the teaching and maybe some other churches tend to excel in worship and others tend to excel in other things, they are very much alike. They have far more in common than they do in the church. They tend to look almost identical when you get all those different denominational churches together and they've got all those five vitamins going. And when you've got those vitamins going, when you see them all there, that is a sign that either at a low level or an intermediate level or maybe at an incredibly high level, the Spirit of God is working in a renewal and revival dynamic. In fact, when somebody, you know, over the years, people have often come to me and they've said, well, in New York this is going to happen all the time. You come to the church, you're happy here, but you're moving. It happens constantly. I'm moving to such and such a town, such and such a town, such and such a town. And they say, do you have other churches, do you know of a church in that town in your fellowship? Do you know another Presbyterian church that's in your fellowship that I could go to? And I'll always be happy to give them the name and say, sure, try it out. I know that guy, I know that church, they're good folks, try it out. But what I really want to say is, take the five vitamins and go to the church in town

where they're all happening. And if there's only one church in town and it's not a Presbyterian church, then as far as I'm concerned, go to it. And a lot of folks say, wait a minute, wait a minute. I'll say, if you've got several great churches, try the Presbyterian church first. But outside of that, you know, outside of that, no. See, this is the way you have to go about the thing. Now, just a word or two about the five as a kind of way of introduction of the next set. You see them all right here. Just a quick word about them. It always happens. Acts 2. First of all, look at worship.

They devoted themselves to the fellowship, the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts, and they broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts. What I love about this is this. A lot of people insist that the way in which real good worship goes is dignified awesome services. Flying buttresses.

Cathedrals. Big pipe organs. Lots of silence. They say, I really feel the presence of God there. And other people say, nah. Nah, that's not the way it goes. Give me those hand clapping, foot stomping, contemporary songs and everybody having a good time. That's the way God works. I'm sorry. You can see right here that God works both ways. Not only do the people meet in the temple and awe is on everyone, but they get in the homes and they break bread together and they're worshiping with glad and generous hearts. Awe and intimacy are both, they are both ways in which God visits people with his presence. I told you, if you want to say, hey, God always sends revival one way. I told you, didn't I last week, that in Africa the revival is spreading through Anglican churches and in Latin America spreading through Pentecostal churches. So there. God does not play favorites. And, therefore, you say, well then how do you know whether the presence of God is there? The answer is, everybody knows it. Now we'll talk about this next week. The best way you can tell that the presence of God is present is that you're being surprised. That can happen, listen, a foot stomping service can be just as routine and unsurprising as a liturgical service. When you're meeting God, the real God, he's never what you expect. And William Cooper wrote a hymn that goes like this, Sometimes a light surprises the Christian as he sings. It is the sun who rises with healing in his wings. And what he's saying is, if you know that you're really meeting God as you're singing, you suddenly are surprised. A light surprise. Oh my word, he is like that. I've always known it, but now I really know it. That's the presence of God breaking through. It's a surprise. You see it. And both Christians and non-Christians will all admit something's going on there. People know. How do you tell whether the presence of God is there in anointed worship? It's very simple. Everybody will tell you it's true. Everybody agrees. Some people say the presence of God is really there, and a lot of other people say, what? What are you talking about? No. You always have some people that are completely immune to being, and totally blind to what God is doing. But in general, the presence of God is something that cannot be masked, and there's a consensus between Christians and non-Christians. We'll look at that next. Vital worship. Awe and intimacy. Secondly, look, they devoted themselves to the fellowship. To fellowship. Koinonia. One thing that is never, never missing in Times of Revival is visible love inside the church that is remark-able. I said remark-able because unless people are remarking about it, unless people on the outside say, there is a love about those people that I cannot account for, it is inexplicable to me. Unless people are saying that about us, we're not in revival. Now that's mighty hard in New York City. I'll tell you quickly why, and we'll get to this in a couple of weeks. I want to spend some time on it. Some people would say about our church, that is a warm church. I was welcome there. A lot of other people will come and say, I was totally ignored there. You know what the reality is? That we're normal, which is very bad. See, we're a normal New York church. Very mobile. People come in, and out. A certain amount of reserve. Kind of mistrust people in New York, which is not a bad idea, to mistrust the person you meet. You know, people, right? It's true. You develop a reserve from living here. People move in and out. People are not here every single week. And every single person I ever talk to who have visited around in churches say, New York churches are like that. Well, that's a problem. And we participate in that problem. But we have got to say to ourselves, we cannot acquiesce in it. If we are normal, if we are average, then there is no way in which the revival dynamics going on in us. Because what we see here is they were devoted to fellowship. Look how deep the fellowship was. All the believers were together and had everything in common. Oh my gosh. And in such an individualistic society, are we going to be able to break through that? Yeah. The Spirit of God always breaks through it. What's neat about it is it is not as obvious when a church is revived out in the sticks, where everybody is related to everybody anyway. But in here,

when all the believers are always together and have everything in common, then everybody is going to raise their eyebrows. It has to happen. It always does when the renewal dynamics going. Thirdly, aggressive evangelism. When people begin to actually practice the glory of God, we become evangelistic. See, I live on Roosevelt Island, and what would happen if I woke up one day and I noticed that there was a 300 foot balloon, 300 by 300 foot sitting right on top of the East River, you know, up against the Queensboro Bridge, and you know, no matter where you are on the island, you'd see it, you'd look at it. Now, if it's that real to you, you can't help but mention it to other people. You know, you'd walk down the street and say, have you seen the big 300 foot balloon on the East River? And they'd say, no, I haven't. Well, what do you do? You say, well, I'm sorry, I don't want to impose my, you know, what I see on you, and I'm sorry I even brought it up, and I'm sure you're going to be offended. You say, well, come here. Come here. You haven't seen it yet? Good. No, it's unbelievable. You walk them to the water and say, look, I mean, anything that you really see there, you end up having to talk to people about. And the fact that we never talk to anybody about the Lord means that He's not that real to us. When all these other things are happening, we begin to actually practice the existence of the glory of God. And when that happens, we will actually see people coming. We, uh,

what happens is there's two kinds of evangelism that always happen in revived churches. Some people talk about mass evangelism. In the Great Awakening, there was street preaching. And in other awakenings, there were different kinds of evangelism, but there's two that always work, and that's Andrew evangelism and Philip evangelism. Andrew evangelism, named after Andrew, who just brought, you know, his brother to Jesus, was too dumb about what was going on to tell Peter anything, but said, I don't really know what's going on, but here, I'll take you to somebody who can. Andrew evangelism means you don't really know what's going on. You know something important's going on. You can't articulate it yourself. You just draw the person. Philip evangelism is named after Philip, who explained the word of God to the Ethiopian eunuch and led him to Christ. New believers can always do Andrew evangelism. They can always bring him to groups and meetings and places and people where the gospel can be articulated. And mature believers can do Philip evangelism. And those things always happen. So in a revived church, you always have a steady stream of brand new believers who are always doing Andrew evangelism. And that is how the dynamic works. And whenever you look around and you say, you know what, there's very few people here who are seeking the faith, and there's very few people who are new in the faith, your renewal dynamic is going out. Lastly, compassionate social concern. We'll spend some time on that. I've tried to say that every great awakening has always eventually, not usually immediately, but eventually, changed the way people work in the world. And great awakenings have always created orphanages and hospitals and repeal of child labor laws. The great awakening that started in England in the 1740s, it took really two generations, almost until a hundred years later, before the evangelicals who were sort of the children of the children of the first converts led the fight against slavery and abolished slavery in the British Empire. We'll talk about that. George Whitefield led John Newton to Christ, and John Newton led William Wilberforce to Christ, and Wilberforce repealed the slave trade, you know, and abolished the slave trade in the British Empire as an activity of his faith. Now, having said all that, and it's really time to let up, next week what we're going to do is try to talk to you about the primary, now here's the last thing I'll tell you. If somebody says I missed depth evangelism, I mean depth teaching, here's what I'll tell you and then we're going to take questions. So, I'm going to ask you a question. The basic teaching that is at the heart of everything else is the gospel. The gospel is, how many times am I going to say this? I'm going to keep saying it until some of you can actually quote it back to me. The gospel is that you are more evil than you ever dared believe, but you're more loved and accepted than you ever dared to hope at the same time through Jesus Christ. And that means the gospel always is making two truths, that God is holy and His law is just and that you fall short of it, and God is loving and in Jesus Christ all of your sin has been dealt with and you are completely and totally accepted. And when you put those two things together, it's almost like it creates a heat. It's like pulling these two elements together, it creates a heat and everything else bursts out of them. Because if you know you're a sinner, that humbles you, but if you know you're forgiven that encourages you and creates courage in you, makes you bold, makes you free, at the same time makes you humble, makes you kind. And when that happens, everything else springs out of it. The worship comes because we know through Jesus we have access. We're not afraid to approach Him and look Him in the face. It's through the gospel that we get rid of our barriers and we're not afraid to let each other know who we are. And that's where the fellowship comes from. It's through the gospel that we're empowered to evangelize and it's through the gospel that we receive the ability and the inspiration and the self-forgetfulness to serve people in our society and make changes so that our society becomes a more loving and just one. They all spring out of that. If you have a church that is a church that's always talking about acceptance and love and grace, and never tells you about hell, and never tells you about God's wrath, and never tells you about the law, you have a church in which the renewal dynamic cannot work. And if you have a church that's constantly telling you what's wrong with you and constantly making you feel guilty and constantly knocking you down and telling you to repent, but not every bit as loudly talking about the fact that in Christ you are accepted, in Christ you have authority, in Christ you are sanctified, then that church too will just simply burden you and there won't be any renewal dynamic. If you come into a church, and this is the thing that I keep working for because I can tell myself that no matter how hard I try, it's very easy to spend a few weeks just veering off in one direction, and then you say, gosh, I've got to get back over here and make sure I do over here. If you find that half of the people coming to listen to you preach, I used to tell the guys in seminary, think you're too tight? And half of them think you're too loose? You're just right. Because half the people came from, if they came from churches at all, cheap grace churches, and half of them came from legalistic law churches, and so of course they're going to say, you know, I like you, but you're a little bit too loose. I like you, but you're a little bit too hellfire and brimstone-ish.

And it's only in a situation where people feel like that, that you've got a theological depth based on the gospel that will enable you to see the other vitamins begin to develop. Okay, we'll go into detail, and we're going to take one a week from here on in, but for now, is there anybody here who's got a question? Is there anybody who would like me to clarify something? And I'll do my best, if I feel that you're asking me something that's a little bit too delicate to deal with in the whole group, if I think it'll embarrass me or you or somebody else in the room or some church, I'll probably just say I'll talk to you afterwards. Because in a group this big, I want to be discreet. But, let's see, last time we fielded three or four really good questions. I saw a hand right there.