I'd like to call your attention to the 20th chapter of Exodus, and I'm going to read from verses 1 through 6. It's the beginning of the Decalogue, the Ten Words, the Ten Commandments. I'm going to read verses 1 through 6. God spoke all these words, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself an idol in the form of anything in heaven, above or on the earth, beneath or in the waters below. You shall not bow down to them or worship them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, punishing the children of the sin of the fathers to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me, but showing love to a thousand generations of those who love me and keep my commandments. This is God's word. I am the Lord your God, who led you out of slavery. Do not make an idol, for I am jealous. You know, 20 years ago or so, the big headline was Patty Hearst, 19-year-old heiress kidnapped by the Symbionese Liberation Army. Next thing you know, she's joined them. Remember? The Black Beret, machine gun. She gave herself a revolutionary name, Tanya. And the most amazing thing of all was the time in which the cameras in the banquet that the Symbionese Liberation Army robbed, showed that she had joined them. She had her own gun. She wasn't a prisoner. She took part. She became a co-conspirator in her own kidnapping. And psychologists explain it this way. They say it's very normal. It's the way the human heart works. Abused people identify with their abusers. Because there's a capacity in the human heart to lock on to the greatest power centers in your life and to identify with them and to seek to become like them, thinking thereby you'll get power for yourself. But it leads to slavery. The irony was that once she decided, in a sense, to get power over her captives by joining them, it was very hard to rescue her from the crazy, loony, violent people that she was with a co-conspirator. So in order to get power, thinking she would get power, she lost her power. Now we're talking today about another one of the attributes of God. We're in a series this fall on the attributes of God, and we're talking about the supremacy of God. That means that God, if you approach God, must be approached as the supreme authority in your life. He cannot be one more God among many. He demands a preeminence and the supremacy, the ascendancy in your life. And by looking at what God says, you shall have no other gods before me, we also will learn the most important thing maybe we can know about the way the human heart works. That we all have what was revealed in the Patty Hearst story, a capacity of the heart to locate the most powerful centers in our life and to latch on to them and to live for them and to make them supreme and to identify with them so as, we think, to get their power. And yet God says here, and the Scripture says, that if you latch on and make anything else but the true God supreme in your life, you'll actually fall into slavery. slavery. The thesis of the Bible and the purpose of the Bible in the Christian faith is to lift up and hold up the true God before all eyes so that you can recognize the fact that you have made idols in your heart, so that you can recognize their power over you. The loss of freedom that has come because of them, so that you can reject them and turn to the true God. That's really what the Bible is all about. And I'd like to show you, as we talk about this capacity of the human heart to worship and to latch on and identify with power centers. As we look at it, I want you to know that I personally believe that this is one of the themes of the Bible that will tell you the most about yourself. And will be one of the keys that will unlock the riddles of why you are the way you are and why you act the way you act and why you have the problems that you do. Let's just take a look and see what the scripture here About why we need to make idols. And what the forms are. Of the idols that we make. And how we can destroy. The idols. And get freedom. Okay. The need for idols. The form of the idols. And. The destruction. Of idols. First. The secret. Of understanding. Why we tend. To have idols. And why people. Have tended. To make idols. And why. This has always. Been the case. Is in verse 2. It says. I am the Lord. God who brought you out of slavery. Now that, when he says, I am the Lord your God, if you analyze that, it's astounding what he's saying. He doesn't just say, I'm God. The word God is the Hebrew word El, Yon, or El, or Elohim, which means the mighty one. And you see, by using the word God here, he's reminding us that he's our creator. And because he's our creator, because he formed you, he owns you. And he could relate to us simply as objects, not as subjects. He could simply say, I own you and treat us as objects. But he doesn't. He says, I want to be the Lord, your God. I am the Lord, your God. And what does that mean? First, look at the word Lord and Lord, your. The word Lord means he says, I want you. I want to be your Lord. Not just your God, your Lord. I want you. And therefore, to give me your allegiance. I want you to live for me preeminently. I want you to serve me uniquely. I want to be the master of your life. I want, therefore, to have control. And if you do, I will be your God. You see, if you make me Lord, I will be yours. If you give yourself to me, I'll give myself to you. I'll belong to you. I will love you. give you freedom. Now, what God is saying is he built us to worship him covenantally. Now, I don't make any, I'm not ashamed, I make no excuses for using such an unfamiliar word. The word covenant means a love relationship based on a contract, a contractual love relationship, a binding commitment. And the reason, I'm going to tell you the reason why it's not used very much, we don't need it. You know, I'm going to talk in a couple weeks a little bit more about this, but I have been very careful to ignore what the national media said about the breakup of Woody and Mia, but I have been clipping out almost everything that the local media has said. Because the national media just looks at it as another thing to sell papers and news magazines. But the local media are different. They were heroes to progressive Manhattanites, and here's why. I clipped one little editorial out of one of these free papers you pick up all the time on the street, you know, and there was a little editorial, and in it the woman said that for many of us, for our generation, Woody and Mia were a paradigm. They were the ideal. They had emotional intimacy and love without sacrificing, she said, any independence. Now what that means is. There was no covenant at all in the relationship. They not only weren't married, they didn't cohabit either. They were completely free from each other, yet they had all that emotional intimacy. But you see the disillusionment of that. What she meant is love without a covenant, love without what? Surrendering any control. And you know, when Woody Allen says in Time Magazine, well, you know, the heart wants what it wants. I don't have any obligations at all. This is what's satisfying me. This is putting my life together. And, you know, this lady in the editorial said she was just shattered in disillusion. I'll tell you why. She realizes the flaws in the whole model. God never loves except he loves covenantally. He says, I want you to bind yourself to me and I'll bind myself to you. He says, I want our love relationship to be a matter of commitment. You worship me and I will love you and fill your life with love and freedom. And therefore, we see here that because we were made in the image of God, we were built for covenants and therefore, we were built to be dependent. I know you don't want to hear it. I know a lot of people don't want to hear it. What the scripture says is you were built not to live on your own. You were built to be dependent. You were built to love covenantly. You were built to live for somebody. You were built to serve somebody. The Bible says you were built to worship somebody. Bob Dylan says you were built to worship somebody. It's got to be true. You've got to serve somebody. All right. Now. But in verse 3, the Bible says it's the nature of sin. To take that capacity. The capacity to lock on a power center and to say, I will identify, I will depend on, and I will give myself to that so I can be free. Sin is the capacity of the human heart turned toward other gods besides God. In other words, to worship other things. Or put it this way, the Bible teaches us that sin is so much more profound than breaking rules. Now look, the Bible says don't lie. If you lie, that's a sin. I certainly mean that breaking God's rules is a sin, but it's so much deeper in definition. The Bible says everybody in this room,

more deeply than anything else, needs to worship, needs to depend on something, needs to live for something, needs to covenantally love and live for something and worship something. That's the need beneath every one of your needs. needs. The reason you're so bitter is because somebody's gotten in the way of something that you think you've got to have to live. So underneath the bitterness is you're worshiping something. Underneath the anxiety. Underneath the loneliness. Underneath everything. The need beneath the need is to worship something. And secondly, the Bible teaches all of us worship things except God. All of us, every one of us uses that capacity to worship on things besides God. And then thirdly, the Bible says all of our misery and brokenness in life comes from that. Because we think worshiping other things will get us power, it always loses power. We all become co-conspirators in our own kidnapping. Now, if you want to understand the dynamics of that, It's not all spelled out in this passage, but I always say to people, read Romans 1 if you want to understand your own heart. The Bible here tells us that though we were built to be in a covenantal worship relationship with God, we turn that capacity and we worship other things. That's the reason that this is the first commandment, the very first thing God says. And he's not just talking, obviously, about primitive people who set up physical images. He wouldn't lay down in his Ten Commandments for all people at all times and places if that's all he was thinking about. No. Let me show you the dynamics of idolatry. They're actually in Romans 1, but let me just quickly summarize. Here, let me break down the dynamics of what it means to make an idol. We all do it. It's the source of all of our problems, but what is it? First of all, the motive of idolatry always is, we think, by worshiping something besides God, It will help us keep control. The original sin in the garden was to listen to the serpent who said, if you give God the supremacy, you'll miss out. You see, all of us down deep in the roots of our being believe that. The lie of the serpent that you can read in Genesis 3 is all sunk down into the hearts of every one of us. We all are affected by it. that if we live for anything else, we have more control than if we live totally for God. If you live completely for God, he can tell you to do things you don't want to do. He can tell you who to marry and who not to marry. He can tell what you can and what you can't do. You feel like you're out of control. If you live for anything else, just about. In fact, almost any other thing, you're more in control. That's the motive for idol making. It says in Romans 1, though they knew God was their creator, they wouldn't give him glory or thanks. They wouldn't acknowledge how much they owed him. They wanted to control. Then secondly, in spite of the motive, there's still a necessity for worship. Look, nature will be served. Forbid your physical nature food, and it will gobble poison. It's got to eat. Don't give it the right thing. wrong thing. Okay. Your spiritual nature is the same way. You must worship. You do not live a life in which you're independent. You've got to depend on something. If you live for power to get meaning in life with power, then power is your Lord. You're controlled by power. If you live for approval, you're controlled by approval. If you live for whatever you live for, it controls you, you do not control yourself. You're controlled by the Lord of your life. Whatever you live for is what you're worshiping. You have to worship something. So the motive for idolatry is to avoid control, but the necessity of idolatry is we've got to worship something if we avoid God. Thirdly, the Bible tells us there's the delusion. There's a delusional nature to all idolatry. In Romans 1, it says that they exchanged the truth of God for a lie, became darkened in their thinking, and worshiped the creature rather than the creator. Hear this. You know what an idol is? It's a good thing that you create an emotional and cognitive field around, and you deify it, you idealize it, you blow it up out of proportion. It's a good passion, a good person, a good pursuit that you have allowed the ascendancy in your life. You blow it up, you deify it, and therefore there's always a delusional quality to it. Oh, it's so sad. You can see it in people who have idealized a certain career or a certain field of endeavor or marriage itself. a certain person. There's nothing wrong with marriage. There's nothing wrong with friendship. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be a good artist. There's nothing wrong with wanting to do well in business. There's nothing wrong with wanting to use your gifts properly. But what idolatry is, it's blowing up a...idealizing it. And in a sense, it's creating something that's not real. An idol is always something that you have made. You know, in a Men of to each his dulcinea. She's made of flame and air. What's that mean? Everybody takes a life dream, creates something that's not really there, something to live for. And so there's a delusional nature to everything that you decide, I'm going to live for that. Then fourthly, now I'm saying there's the motive for idolatry, which is to keep your control. There's the necessity of idolatry. You've got to worship something. the delusional nature of idolatry. You exchange the truth of God for a lie, and you have to believe a lie. Then, fourthly, and this is the most important thing, there's the salvation nature of idolatry. An idol is something that you believe will save you. It says in Isaiah 44, they take the idols, they make them with their hands, and then they bow to it and they say, save me. me. See, now I've already gone along for a few minutes and some of you are saying, I don't get it. I have always gone to church and I've always worshiped God. And you're telling me I've got idols in my life. I don't. That's not true. I've always worshiped God. Some of you are saying, I don't get it because I'm not religious at all. I've come here today. I'm not totally sure why. Somebody dragged me. But I know that one thing is that I'm not a religious person at all. Well, you're thinking about walking into an organized religious institution and bowing down before an altar. You're going to have to get more open-minded here. An idol is anything that you bow before and say, save me. And sometimes the best way to tell an idol is operating as such in your life is not so much by looking at how good you feel when you get it, but by how devastated you are when you don't. Harold Abrams in Chariots of Fire, the day before the great Olympic 100-meter race, he says to his coach, I've got 10 seconds to justify my existence. I've been living for this. I've put all the emotional eggs in the basket of this. if I do not succeed as an athlete, I've got nothing. I read an interview with a model. It was in the paper. And she said, all I've got is my looks. If I would lose that, I've got nothing. Now listen. Please. The Bible is teaching that everybody in this room has something or some things to which they bow down and say, unless I have this, my existence is not justified. I've got this to justify my existence. If I don't achieve this, if I don't get this, if I don't realize this, if I don't live up to this,

there's no need to go on. My life is meaningless if I don't have this. Everybody in this room, the Bible says, has got some things that you stand before and have that kind of salvation power in your life. Do you know what they are? If you don't, you don't know yourself. mental to self-understanding than this. An idol is something that you look at and say, if I don't have this, there's no reason to go on. An idol is anything you add to God as a requirement for being happy. The real great irony about how mad people get at God is that when you get mad at God, it's always because one of your idols isn't coming through for you. Something you've built your life on isn't happening. And you get mad and you say, how could God do this to me? And God looks at you and says, you're not miserable because of me. You're miserable because of you. You're miserable because you have built your life on a foundation that is too small for your life. You've built your life on serving a God that can't deliver. liver. And you're mad at me because I haven't made you more successful in your idolatry. Beloved, foolish child, I want to deliver you from it. And that leads to the last thing the Bible teaches under this whole heading of what does it mean to make an idol? We said idolatry always has a delusional aspect, it always has a salvational aspect, and it always has a slavery aspect. God says, unless I'm your Lord, you will never be out of slavery. If you enter into idolatry, you always enter into it covenantally. You make covenants with idols. Why? Because you're a covenantal creature. You make commitments. You enter into contract, and you say to idols, it's a very profound, and it's a very gradual, and it's almost a hidden psychological process. covenants with idols. We say, if I give myself to you, then you will bless me and make me feel like a worthwhile person. And therefore, idols have got power over you. In Romans 1, it says, he gave them up to their desires because they worshiped idols. He gave them up. What's that mean? It means normal and good desires take you over. You know what that means? It means it's all right to want to be married, but when you say, I must be married, or I'm angry enough to die, as Jonah said, you've been given over. You're enslaved by the idol. It's one thing to want to be successful. It's another thing to say, I have to be. It's one thing to want friendship. other thing and say, I have to be liked. I have to have respect. I've got to, or you see, I've got to, or what? An idol is in covenant with you when it has the power to bless or curse you, depending on whether or not you are serving. And you see, when you fail, when you fail to perform and you start to feel you're worthless, that's the idol cursing you, saying you have not lived up. You made a bargain with the idol. If I'm this, if I'm this, if I'm this, then I will feel love. Then I will feel worthy. And since you never can satisfy an idol, the idol always makes you feel worthless. 2 Kings, verse 15 of chapter 7 says, because they worshiped worthless idols, because they worshiped worthless idols, they themselves became worthless. Because an idol is not really God, you will never feel that you're worth anything. If you really fail your idol, it will curse you immediately and make you feel worthless. If you decide, I want to be good at this, if I want to be good at this, I want to be good at this. You see how it works? It's so natural. You know, it's so natural to grow up, you know, for example, watching TV and reading books and saying, someday I'm going to meet the person of my dreams. There's nothing wrong with that. But you can idealize that and create a delusional field around that, and you can sell your soul to it. It's a pact. All that devil and Daniel Webster stuff is true. You make a pact. and if nobody picks you up, or worse yet, if somebody does, and you find that they don't satisfy you as you thought they would, you go crazy. Because when you worship an idol which is worthless, you feel worthless yourself. It's so natural to hold a child in your hands if you're a parent and to create a delusional field and to say, ah, he's going to grow up and he's going to be this and he's going to be that friends and he's going to do all these things, but what you're doing is you're creating a delusional field and you're making a pact with an idol and it will never, ever, ever satisfy you. At the worst, you fail as a parent and then you hate yourself. At best, you succeed as a parent and pretty soon you sing that most despairing of songs, Is This All There Is? I am the Lord your God, the only one that can get you out of slavery. Make, have no other gods before me. Now, what are the forms of the idols? This can be brief before we move on. The forms of idols are millions. There's millions of idols. That's the reason why it says right here, when God makes his warning against idolatry, he says, do not make for yourself an idol in the form of anything in heaven above or on the earth beneath or in the waters below. words, he says there are zillions of things. Any aspect of creation can become an idol. Some of them are easy to see. For example, it's easy to tell what a workaholic is. You can see the idolatry there. The workaholic says, unless I am productive, I'm worthless. I have to be productive to justify my existence. That's easy to see. Codependent relationships are fun, too, to understand now in terms of idolatry. What's a codependent relationship? It's interlocking idolatries with enormously powerful feedback loops between them. Here's a person, see the workaholic says, I will be loved if I make my Lord my productivity and my work. Then I'll be loved. But unless I'm productive, I'm not loved. I'm not lovable. Some people say, I can't be loved unless I'm messed up. Nobody will love me unless I got a problem. And so they have to have problems. Other people say I won't be lovable unless I'm rescuing people from their problems. So, you know, it's a marriage made in hell. Between two people who both have idolatries. They both have idols that are jerking them around. But when they find each other, they feed off of each other. And even the person who is rescuing is actually rescuing him or herself. Because you're really not doing anything. But using each other to save yourselves. the slavery aspects of idolatry are so easy to see, say, in codependent relationship. You've got eating disorders. In an eating disorder, you say, I will only be worth, I will have no worth unless I have total control of my physical image. Fatal attractions are the same way. I've got to have him. I've got to have her. Why? She makes me feel like a man, which means she saves me. If you idealize her and she'll never be able, ever be able To actually deliver what you've given her The power you've given her You've made a covenant with her, you don't even know that And she can't possibly deliver on it She'll kill you or you'll kill her And somebody says, well, you know, I don't have anything in my life like that Alright, you know what your idolatry is? The fact that you are totally so in charge of your life a shape about anything at all. You don't give yourself to anything. And therefore you give yourself to that. And that is not to give yourself to anything. You are a slave too. People complain about how detached you are in relationships. You're a slave to anything that says, I've got to have it. Sometimes you have whole communities of people who get together, and because they have the same idolatry, they mutually support one another, and therefore we can talk about social and cultural idols, not just personal emotional idols. Like down on the southern tip of Manhattan, there's an interesting community. It's called the business community. What's the idolatry of that community? It's the bottom line. Listen, recently somebody told me they were talking to a media executive who said, yeah, yeah, the channel or the program that I'm in charge of. I wouldn't want my kids to see it. But what the blankety blank. Business is business. When you say business is business. What you're really saying is. Business is Lord. See what you're saying. When business becomes your Lord. Business says to you. Listen. I don't mind if you're moral. I don't mind if you have integrity. I don't mind if you're religious. Unless. The claims of your God. Then I must be supreme. If it makes money. Though it doesn't help. The moral character. Of the country. And it doesn't do. Any good. Public good. You're still. Going to do it. I don't mind. You being. Moral. Up to a point. But. I have. To be. Supreme. Business. Is. Business. Means. Business. Is. Lord. Do. You. Know. What. It's. Like. To. In. The. Community. Where. Beauty. Is. Lord. Do. You. Know. What. It's. Like. to be in a community where intellectual inness is Lord. Do you know what it's like to be in... What's communism and fascism? Two kinds of idolatries. Fascism says, the superiority of my blood and my race is Lord. You see, that's why we do ethnic cleansings in this and that village. And so forth. And any place and any people and any philosophy and any political ideology and any culture and any family and any neighborhood and any heart that gives the supremacy, the covenantal worship to anything other than the supreme God will lead to slavery and brokenness and despair. H.G. Wells, remember H.G. Wells, he believed in the perfectibility and internal goodness of the human heart. Back in 1920, you read his outline of history, and he says, you know, the golden age is ahead. Through education and science, we're going to have a golden age. By the middle of the 1930s, he was so upset with politicians, he says, we're going to have to get rid of the politicians. They're so selfish and so violent, and we're going to have to let the scholars take over and educate the masses in justice, compassion, and equity. In other words, by the 1930s, he realized that the politicians were sinners. What are we going to do about them? By 1945, he wrote a book called The Mind at the End of its Tether. And he says, homo sapiens, as he is wont to call himself, is finished. What happened to him? Here's a man who had made the goodness of humanity the supreme, his supreme hope, his God. And if you make anything other than the true God your supreme hope, the mind will come to the end of its tether. Now, what are you going to do about the idols of your life? Well, the answer is you have to destroy them. And here's how. Here's the only way you can do it. The only way you can get the freedom is this way. First of all, you have to settle an issue. You have to realize there's really only two ways to function in the world. Either you're an idolater or you're a believer or a follower. An idolater says, I want to create a God that I like. I want to create a God that pleases me. A follower says, I want God to create in me someone that pleases Him. Him. An idolater says, I want a God in my image. A follower says, I want God to make me in his image. An idolater says, I can't believe in a God who would do this or that. Which means, I can't believe that God has not supported my idolatrous agenda in life. But a follower says, I've got a real God who I'm not molding and shaping, but who I'm allowing to mold and shape and correct me. That's the reason why that one Christian author, Elizabeth Elliot, wrote a book called No Graven Image. It was a novel about a missionary who goes into South America to translate the Bible for South American Indians. And if you ever read the novel, you'll know what happens at the end is a disaster. The missionary lady, trying to actually help a man, injects him improperly with the wrong kind of medicine, and he dies. And he's the only man who knows both English, Spanish, and this particular Indian dialect in the whole world. And all of her years of translation work goes down the drain, and that's how the book ends. And when the novel came out, many Christians wrote her angry and said, I could never believe a God would ever treat a devout Christian missionary like that. Well, the problem is, the novel was a true story. And what Elizabeth Elliott would say, I heard her once speak, she says, see, the real question is, do you have a God of your own making? Do you have a God who is on a leash? Do you have a God who is a graven image? Do you have a God that you have tamed, who jumps through hoops for you? Do you have a God, you see, who's under your control, or do you have a real God under whose control you are? Do you have a God who's wiser, and that's only logical, than you are? Do you have a God who springs Peter out of prison but leaves John the Baptist in there to be beheaded because he's wiser than you, because he's sovereign, because he's real, because he doesn't do just the things that you want him to do? Two, have you settled this issue that God has to be God and you can't be? That I have to let God be God in my life. Until you settle that issue, you'll never be able to destroy idols. But then secondly, after you've decided that it's my job to submit to him rather than to have him continually submit to me, that my heart wants to shape him into my image rather than me letting him shape me into his. After you've settled that basic issue, and I know some of you haven't, how do you actually go about, once you've handled that issue, in actually destroying the idols? Well, I would suggest two steps. One is make sure you look at the idolatries under your problems. Go down deep. I'm not saying you can't talk about addictions and self-esteems and anxiety attacks and codependency. All those things are fine, but don't you see that underneath it all are idolatries? Don't you see the reason you're anxious about certain things, the reason that your life is ready to collapse, the reason you can't handle your anxiety attacks might be because something that you've built your life on is threatened, unbuttoned, and that something is not big enough to have your life based on? Ask yourself, what are those things that I have said to God? God, unless you give me those things, I will not go on. God, unless I have these things, my life is not justified. What are those pseudo

salvations? What are those false gods? First, you have to identify the idols of your heart. One of the ways to ask yourself. To figure out what those things are. Is say. What are the things that I most dread. What are the things that. I worry about the most. What are the things that. Preoccupy. And absorb me. The most. And. Then. What you have. To do. Is. You. Have. To. See. Secondly. Who. Jesus. Really. Is. You. Know. It. Says. I. Am. The. Lord. Thy. God. Who. Brought. The. Out. Of. Egypt. Out. Of. Bondage. Out. out of slavery. See, in the Old Testament, we know that God brought the children out of slavery. In the New Testament, we're told that he brings people out of slavery through redemption. He buys them out. The word redeem means to buy someone out. And the way God actually redeems us is Jesus. And therefore, this is what it means to believe in Jesus. It's more than saying, saying Jesus is my moral guide. It's more than even saying in some general way Jesus forgives my sins. No. This is what it means to believe in Jesus. It means to say, Jesus, you alone are my justifier. And you alone are my Lord. And in order to be a Christian, you have to believe that. But in order to grow as a Christ, you have to see that by continually re-believing in that and reapplying that, you root out the idols of your life and you grow in freedom. You wouldn't think Christian ministry could be an idol. Let me close with this little illustration. It wasn't that long ago that I came home after a meeting, and the meeting, I kissed my wife, and I had some warmth in my life, in my heart, in my face toward her. And I came home after a meeting and kissed her, and I was kind of nice and warm to her, and she says, oh, I guess the meeting went pretty well. I began to think about that. Would it be possible that I had made an idle covenant, and it went like this. If my leaders are united, if my ministries are expanding, if everybody's saying how the church is being helped, then my existence is justified? Then I know I have a worthwhile life? Is it possible that I made a covenant like that? And one night, after what I would consider a poor meeting, and I realized I was coming home and I was going to be in a bad mood and I was going to be unhappy and upset, myself, wait a minute, I'm being jerked around by the idol. I'm being snared. I do not need a perfect performance as a church leader today in order to feel like my existence is justified. When, you know, when Paul says it is God who justifies, who is to condemn? Jesus Christ died. He is risen. He sits at the right hand of God, making intercession for us. Who shall bring a God's elect. It is God who justifies who is condemned. What is he saying? He's saying God is supreme. And I realize that when something, even like the ministry of this church, so absorbs me and so jerks me around emotionally, that I'm not able to come home and enjoy my family and to feel like a justified person. What have I done? I have sacrificed, I have compromised the supremacy of God in my life. And what have I got to do? I got to go back and say, Jesus justifies, not this. Jesus is my master, not this. I will not be jerked around anymore. Now, that is something that takes discipline. That is something that takes redoing the gospel. And I suggest and I press you to say, look at the boredom in your life. Look at the loneliness. Look at the alienation. Look at the anxiety. Look at the bitterness. Don't just see what you've got to do. You've got to identify the idols. You've got to name them and unmask them. You've got to see them for what they are. You've got to go back to the gospel, and you've got to preach it to yourself. Just like Barbara Ono was saying. Give us the words during her prayer. Give us the words to preach to ourselves. Hey, you know what's so great? The best news about this text that I just read to you? That God's jealous. Some of you heard me read that and you said, oh, how awful. God jealous. How could God be jealous? It's because he's in love. When you are really in love with somebody, you don't want to see that person in the arms of anybody else. Why? Because you love them. And when God is jealous, what it means is he's saying, I hate to see you in the arms of these other idols. You think that they can show you a good time. They can't. I want you to be ravished with me. You'll never understand the jealousy of God unless you see his love is covenantal. He is completely committed in all of his being to make us his own, to make us like his son, to make us holy and happy, to live with us in his family forever. And he says, I want you to be ravished only with me. These other idols that you're putting yourself in their arms, they're just going to enslave you. And that's why the great Christian poet John Donne could put it this way. Batter my heart, free-personed God, for you as yet, but knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend, that I may rise and stand or throw me, and bend your force to break, blow, burn, and make me new. I, like an usurped town, do another do,

but oh to no end. You see what he's saying? I struggle to give you the supremacy in my life. Come do anything, anything necessary to get it. And that's why he goes this way. He says, dearly I love you and would be loved fain but I am betrothed to your enemy. Divorce me, untie or break that knot again. Take me to you, Lord. Lord, imprison me, for I, except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, unless you ravish me. Let's pray. Father, as we take up the offering, we would offer ourselves to you. I pray that some people in this room would recognize that while they've been moral and even religious, they've never gone to you, O Lord Jesus Christ, You're my only justifier. You're my only Savior. And You're my only Master. You're my only Lord. Father, I pray that some people here who aren't even sure what they're after would make a covenant with You to make You their Savior and Lord. Maybe they've seen that they've tried to be good and they've tried to obey Your words and they've tried to come to church. But I pray that today they'll see that You are not the Lord their God yet. and that today you would become that because they simply say, Oh Lord, no other justifier but you. No other master but you. And Father, for those of us who already know you as Savior and Lord, help us to see that all of our problems and all of our flaws come from a compromising of your supremacy. We're afraid to serve you with our whole heart. Would you let us? Would you enable us to identify those things? and to turn to you and be ravished by you. We thank you that you're jealous. Oh, we thank you. Now, Father, ravish us and make us pure. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.