John 4, verse 15. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so I won't get thirsty and have to keep coming here to draw water. He told her, Go, call your husband and come back. I have no husband, she replied. Jesus said to her, You are right when you say you have no husband. The fact is you have had five husbands. The man you now have is not your husband. said is quite true. Sir, the woman said, I can see you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. Jesus declared, believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem. You Samaritans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know, for salvation is from the Jews. Yet a time is coming and now has come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they are the kind of worshipers the Father seeks. God is spirit and his worshipers must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said, I know that the Messiah called Christ is coming and when he comes, he will explain everything to us. Then Jesus declared, I who speak to you, am he. Just then his disciples returned and were surprised to find him talking with the woman, but no one asked, what do you want? Or why are you talking with her? And then leaving her water jar, the woman went back to the town and said to the people, come, see a man who told me everything I ever did. Could this be the Christ? And they came out of the town and they made their way toward him. Here ends the reading of God's Holy Word. You know, people analyze and are kind of amazed by the fact that the more high-tech our country gets, the more scientifically advanced, the more emphasis on knowledge and cognition and intellect and information, the more people seem to be passionately running into all sorts of sects and cults and occult cults that promise deep ecstatic experiences. The more everything is able to be boiled down to facts and figures, procedures that can be packaged, that can be moved around, that can be turned into a commodity, the more we get tech, the more we feel empty. now my generation of college students in the late 60s was one of the first ones to complain about this though we weren't really completely sure what we were complaining about we talked about any of you remember we talked about the plastic culture remember that? do you remember that? the plasticity science, image, money, phony we said not human

And I remember very clearly that our college generation turned to drugs not the way the poor turn to it now, out of despair, and not even the way the professionals turn to it now, out of stress. They turn to it, we turn to it, out of an inner spiritual emptiness. And I remember very clearly that when we turned to the churches, the irony was that the churches back in the earliest part many of them, had discarded the idea of a supernatural Christianity. And so we turned to the churches. We found that for several years, for a number of decades, they'd been laughing at the idea of being born again through an encounter with the Holy Spirit. They laughed at the idea of a divine book, God's revealed word, in which you could discover the very mysteries of his heart and mine because it was written by him. They laughed at all these ideas in the name of relevance. That's what's so ironic. And yet when we turned to the churches, we found they were as sterile as our culture. There was as much awe and mystery about their services as there was about a board meeting. And we turned to them, and they weren't there. Why have so many Americans to emotionalism? The answer is because, and we mentioned it last week and now we press it this week, because though many people will tell you're made only of earth, you're actually made of heaven as well. And there is a hunger for intimacy with the infinite. Intimacy with the infinite. You can't live without it. What is that? It's worship. And ten times the word worship is used in this passage. This chapter is about worship above everything else. Ten times the word's used. So we ask ourselves, if this is what we most are hungry for, if this in some sense is haunting, not driving, but haunting our society today, the lack of intimacy with the infinite, well then, what is worship? And we're going to learn at least three things here from this passage. The what of worship, the why of worship, and the how of worship. Let's be real basic, all right? What is it? Why do we have to do it? Why must we do it? And how do we do it? And of course, all the answers aren't here, but some very important ones are. What is worship? Well, the word that keeps getting used again and again, at least the Greek word, if you were reading it in that, you'd see the word proskuneo coming up. And the word for worship originally literally means to recognize someone or something of superior value. And the English word worship is right in line with this Greek word because the word worship today, as you've often heard me mention at the top of the service, is a shortened version of the old English word worth-ship. W-O-R-T-H-S-H-I-P. Worth-ship. Let me tell you about worth-ship. You see, when we think of worship, we just think of going to church, constantly. Your grandmother gives you a set of jewelry and, you know, it looks fine. It's nice, it's old, it's pretty. You throw it into your top drawer. But let's just say one day, for some reason, a friend of yours who's a jeweler is in your home and happens to see it. And he goes crazy. He goes berserk. He says, wait a minute. And he looks it over and he assesses it and he begins to say, listen, what do you think this is? This is unbelievably valuable. Not only are these jewels precious stones that you didn't realize, but not only that, this is obviously the work of a craftsman who lived in the 17th century, whose works are highly prized, whose works are very rare. This thing is worth hundreds of thousands or more. What happens to you? Your entire attitude toward the jewelry changes. your stance, your stance of your whole being changes. First of all, you begin to admire it in a way you never did before. The jeweler, for example, points out beauties, things that you didn't see, but now that the jeweler says, look at this stone, look at how this shines, look at the height, look at this, and you begin to see beauties you never saw before, and you begin to fill your mind with the value of it. And then you don't just admire it, implications of that value for your life. You begin to think how your life will be completely different now. You begin to think of how many things there are so different that you would be able to do that you couldn't have done before. You think of how the value of this thing is impacting. You draw out the implications of it. And then, of course, you also begin to change your behavior toward it. That night, you don't throw it into your top drawer now, do you? You're not casual about it, are you? Oh, no. And you begin to invest. For example, the first thing you do is you buy a strong box or you put it in one. Not only that, the jeweler says, listen, you need to repair it. You need to clean it. It will enhance the value double, fold, you see. And there's only one person in the world that can do it. He lives in Switzerland. It'll cost a couple thousand dollars just to have him do it. Does that bother you now? No. You invest in it, you see. What's a couple thousand dollars? Your whole attitude has completely changed. This is worth-ship. The jeweler has led you in worship. He has shown you the beauty. He says there's a reality here in the midst of your life that you do not recognize. And because you don't recognize the value of it, you are not living properly. You don't have the right attitude toward this thing, and you don't realize the implications of it for your life. And as you fill your mind with it, there's an awe which leads to joy, which leads to a change in behavior, which leads to a major investment of yourself in that object. That's worship. It happens all the time. For example, you inherit a piece of real estate. Some real estate assessor goes out to look at it, and he comes back and he says, I don't know what you thought. This is worth much more than you thought. This piece of real estate is worth at least $400,000. now if you go out and you invest $15,000 in it to fix this and this it'll be worth even more so you must do it and immediately say okay you scrape up what you can you put in $15,000 why? because the real estate broker has shown you the worth of it now if somebody came to you and said your car needs $15,000 of repairs you'd be tempted not to do it why? because you see when you look at the worth of your car it's nothing like the worth of this piece of property Suddenly your proportion, you know, the $15,000 looks small as opposed to large. Or here comes your stockbroker. Imagine if a stock analyst could really, really know that a particular stock was going to increase in value 100-fold over the next three years. What would they say? They would say, do you know what this stuff is worth? You can't afford not to buy it. the stock person would say, you have to get every penny that you possibly can together. You have to get every bit of yourself, every bit of your net worth, and put it into here. You can't afford not to. Every penny, every bit, everything that you can possibly turn into cash, you must turn into cash. So you have to buy it. It's so valuable, it beggars your own worth, and so your investment must be utter. It must be total. What are these people doing? They're saying, surprise, there's a reality in your life that you are not aware of the worth of, of which you're not aware of the worth. Fill your mind with awe. Fill your mind with the value of it, and then let that change the way in which you behave toward it. It'll lead you to the joy of knowing how this changes your life. It'll lead you to a complete change in behavior toward that thing, and it will lead you to invest all sorts of valuable things in it

The jeweler, the real estate broker, the stock analyst, they're doing it all the time. It happens to you. You're standing near somebody and the person, you know, you're standing in a crowd. Somebody's in line with you and, you know, you're a little bit irritated that you have so many people in line. You're irritated. It's costing you something to be standing in line. You have things to do. You have people to see and so forth, right? So you're looking down and suddenly somebody points out that the person in front of you is him

or her. Somebody so famous, unbelievably, and somebody you've known about, seen, read about, watched for years, and suddenly there you are. And you say, hi, I like your work. And they turn around and say, well, thank you so much. And you have this little conversation. The time flies by, doesn't it? Gosh, and just a minute ago, this taking 10 minutes in line was a tremendous expense, an investment much greater than what you really thought it was worth. And all of a sudden, and you see who you're standing by, everything changes. Your sense of proportion is completely different. What's 10 minutes? It's nothing. Give me 15. Give me an hour. Give me two hours. I hope the line doesn't move. I hope this person asks me out to eat lunch. This is worship. Do you see it? What is the worship of God? My friends, it's just doing what you do all the time to almost everybody but God. God, to worship God, means you take this dynamic and you use it again, only instead of assigning him high value, you assign him ultimate value. And instead of investing much more, you invest everything. Because if it's true that there can be diamonds, and if it's really true that there can be stocks that are so much value that it would change your entire life, if there really are objects like this that you really need to invest every bit of what you have in, then surely it must be true that if you come before God himself, he can demand worship. How much more would he demand a response like that? How much more awe? How much more joy? How much more thought about the implications of what it means to have someone of this worth in your life? How much less casually can you throw him into the top drawer? How much different would you live? In God, the dynamic of worship reaches the height. And whenever you see any account of people who really worship, you realize that the result is a tremendous transformation. People are lifted to the heights with it. You look at Isaiah. Isaiah walks into the temple, and he is smitten with a picture of God. his train filled the temple. And for the first time he grasped the greatness of God. What does that mean? For the first time he saw his majesty. What does that mean? He worshipped. He always knew that God was great, but now he finally saw the worth of it. And he falls down. And look how changed he's been. Because as soon as that happens, God says, by the way, I got a job. I need somebody to go do a job. This is in Isaiah 6. He says, I need somebody to go communicate to a group of people, not one of which will ever listen to you. And what does Isaiah do? He jumps up and he says, I volunteer. Why? Because you see, when he's worshiping, he says this. He says, when I see the worth of what you are and the worth of what you've given me, to give you anything less than all that I have and all that I am is a crucifixion of the intelligence, a crucifixion of decency. I will give you everything I have and am like a bandit. I don't need a successful life. Now that I've got you, what more do I want? I'm going to put every bit of me that I can possibly put, everything that's liquid, into you because I know what you're worth. Or look at Stephen. Stephen was one of the early evangelists, great preachers, a deacon in the early church. And we're told in Acts chapter 7 that he was about to be executed by the religious leaders of the day. He was standing up there. They were ready to throw stones, and he began to worship. He says, you know, they're about to execute him. Do you have any final words? And he looks up, and he says, I see the God, the Father seated on his throne, and the Son of Man, Jesus Christ, standing at his right hand. What was he doing? Where did he get the courage? He was worshiping. And at that moment, the only thing that God was requiring of him was his life. And suddenly, you know why he got courageous? Do you know why he's courageous and why you're not and I'm not? It's because at that moment he got his sense of proportion. And he realized that what he was being asked to spend was something very small. Look, if somebody comes up to you and says, hey, would you like a pack of gum? You say, how much? Ten bucks, you say. He says that to you. You say, ten dollars? Suddenly, Suddenly, in light of the worth of the gum, the $10 looks like an enormous sum. You say, you're crazy? What an insult. You want to punch the guy out. How dare you insult. The idea of $10 for a piece of gum. Suddenly, $10 looks so big. Here comes somebody else. Hey, he says, I'll sell you this BMW. How much? You say, $10. You say, oh, gee, $10. Did you say, do you know how many ice cream cones I could buy for $10? Is that what you're thinking? Are you saying $10, man? You know, $10. You say, here. What happened? $10 is $10, right? Oh, no, it's not. It depends. Is it a piece of gum or is it a BMW? $10 is not $10. $10 and what it means to you and how easy it is for you to give it up depends completely on the worth of the object before you. Why is it that Stephen has got this courage? Why is it that Isaiah has got his liberty? It's because at that moment, what God is asking of them, in one case, God says, I just want you, Isaiah, to invest yourself in a career that will be an utter failure. He says to Stephen, I want you to die a bloody death. And these guys look at him and they say, it's a snap. Ten bucks? Sure. Do you see? I have got, if you have trouble relating to this, it's because you've never tasted real worship. I have a seven-year-old child, and that seven-year-old child has a, he has a cabbage He's had a long time. And he's very attached to it, and the name is Alexander. Now, if somebody sat down with him and said, hey, I'll trade you that cabbage patch doll for this brownstone townhouse,

my seven-year-old son, at very best, he would waver. He would go, and he probably wouldn't do it. You know, you laugh and you say, he's a child. He has no sense of proportion. You see, all he knows is the cuddly, wonderful feeling he gets when he cuddles up with Alexander in bed at night, and that is more real to him than the abstract but far greater value of what that brownstone would mean to his life if he owned it. He's a child. He has no sense of proportion. Where do you think we are? What do you think we look like to God? Why are you worried? I'll tell you why you're worried. You're not worshiping. because when you worship, then the reality of God's provision and wisdom and power is far more real than any threat. Why are you depressed? Why are you so down on yourself? It's because the reality when you worship, the reality of God's provision and love and care for you in Jesus Christ is far more real than any criticism. Don't you see? See, all these things that we hold on to that seem so dear, that seem like such big things, we're afraid to let go. They're our little dollies. Because we've got no sense of proportion, we have to grow up. Our selfishness, our self-pity, our self-hatred, our discouragement, the little dollies, we've got to grow up. Worship. Do you see what it is? It's worth-ship. You do it with everybody else. You do it with everything else. Why not do it with God? Why not let it sink in? Look at all the people in history. Look at Thomas Cranmer, you know, when he's about to be burned at the stake because he wouldn't recant. Remember? He put his right hand into the fire first and kept it there until it burned off because one day he had signed the recantation. Where does a guy like that get that kind of thing? What was he? Was he a noble person, some kind of super person, you know, a kind of being that doesn't grow anymore? all the people in the history of the church who are willing to stand up for what was right, lose their reputations, lose their livelihoods, lose their lives, look what they did. You say, yeah, I just can't, I guess they don't grow people like that anymore. Don't be ridiculous. They worshiped. Now, why is it, that's what worship is, why is it that God comes, and we're told in verse 23, we're told the Father seeks such to worship him. here that tells us that God presses us, urges us, demands that we worship him. He seeks worship. A lot of people get bothered by that because what they say is, that's ridiculous. If you ever meet a human being that demands people to praise them, you hate them. A human being that's always saying, admire me, praise me. You say, who wants to be around someone like that? So isn't this unworthy of God to be demanding that we worship him? The Father seeks people to worship him. He seeks you to worship him. He comes after you. He urges you. Is that unworthy? No. Here's why. The nature of praise, friends. Who are the most mean, unpleasant, cramped, dusty soul people that you've ever met? What is the characteristic of people like that? They don't praise anything. thing. They're bored. They're disinterested. One little thing ruins everything. You see, one thing they don't like about the day, and the day's ruined. One thing they don't like about the movie, and the movie's ruined. One thing they don't like about you, and that's ruined. The relationship's ruined. There are people who can find nothing to praise, but look at the people that you most want to be around. Look at the people who seem to enjoy life the most, they praise everything. They overlook the flaws and they find something to praise in everything. They're praising constantly. They're praising the book. They're praising you. They're praising the play. They're praising the weather. They're praising the day. They're praising things. Listen. If you've ever met somebody who obviously has never known real friendship or never known real love or even never read a good book, You know that their lives to some degree are crippled, they have lost some humanity, but listen, that's just shadows of the deepest crippling and the greatest inhumanity that comes when you are not able to behold the fair beauty of the Lord. The praise of God is the praise that unhooks all other kinds of praise. It releases all other kinds of praise. It's when you become someone who praises God that you find yourself being able to praise everything else, or put it this way, the people the most in love with God are the people who find the world a gorgeous place, who find something to praise and sing about in everything, who are completely transformed. You see, a lot of folks said, yeah, when you talk about these holy types, when you talk about the Isaiahs, the Stephens, the Thomas Cranmers, they must have been real terrible people to be around. praying very, very self-righteous, always using religious jargon. I wouldn't have wanted to be around them. That's not the testimony of the people who have written about what they were like. Those are the people you most want to be around because of their ability to give God worth. They treat everyone and everything around them as valuable. If you get around a person like that, you feel so valued. You know what I mean? Valued. and the amazing thing is as ennobling as worship is here on earth the best of us can only ever do about 1% of the kind of worship we should do we can only worship him with 1% of our being one author puts it this way if you want to see what worship is really going to be like when we get before him suppose and imagine yourself in perfect love with God drunk with, drowned in delight, which far from remaining pent up within, flows out from us incessantly again in effortless and perfect expression. Our joy no more separable from the praise in which it liberates and utters itself than the brightness a mirror receives is separable from the brightness it sheds. You see why he seeks for people to worship him? Do you see that? Why he presses and yearns? Not because he needs it, but because you need it. To worship is to wake up into the real world. To worship is to grow up so you're no longer a seven-year-old holding on to a cabbage patch doll. To worship is to get up from your dog dishes and to sit at his table. To worship, to not worship, is to become less than human because the people who can't praise lose their humanity and they lose their greatness and they lose their warmth. And the people who can worship become human. The reason you've got to worship God is it's the only way to be fully human. Do you hear that? Listen, friends, you all worship something. You gaze at something, don't you? We all look at something as our wealth, something that we love to long at, we gaze at, we admire. And look, I admit that there's some things better than others. be your family than to make your wealth be your bank account. But ultimately, can any of those things, even your family, if you worship your family, if that's your wealth, if that's the most worthy thing in your life, even those things, do they liberate, do they turn you into praising people, do they get you completely free from fear and anxiety? Do they make you great hearts? No, you know what they do? They drive you and they make you more worried. What is Jesus saying? The Father seeks you to worship. That means he's saying to you, get up from your dog dishes, stop gnawing your bones, get up to my table, drop your dollies,

come, worship me. Well, you say, how? The Father seeks for us to worship him. You know, some of you think that to become a Christian means you have to curb your appetite, you have to hem yourself in, you have to limit yourself. God does not name us anything but this. He says, you're half-hearted creatures. Your desires are not too strong. They're too weak. Here you are messing around, playing on the ground with money, sex, and power when infinite joy is offered to you. All right, you say, how? And the Bible says this way, through Jesus. When the Samaritan woman, listen, friends, when the Samaritan woman found that Jesus knew all about her sordid past, She says, I don't get this. I didn't think there were any prophets among the Jews. I thought our religion was the right one. But obviously you're a prophet, she said. So let me ask you this. We worship God on our temple here, and you worship God at your temple there. Which temple should you worship at? And if you look carefully, Jesus doesn't say you must worship him at my temple in Jerusalem, even though he admits that God's truth and salvation have come through the Jews. But then he does. Does he turn around and say you can worship him anywhere? Is that what he says? He doesn't say that either. He doesn't say, oh, God is everywhere, so let's just worship him anywhere. He doesn't say that. He says, neither there nor here. Did you see that? For years I read this, and I thought Jesus was saying, oh, no, you don't have to worship him here or there. You can worship him anywhere. But if you look carefully, he says you worship him neither place. And here's what he means. He says you don't worship him in that temple or that temple. You worship him through me. because he says, literally, he says, the hour is coming. I know your translation that I read from says the time is coming. He says the hour has come, and now is where you will not worship him there or here, but you'll worship him in spirit and truth. And what is the hour? In the book of John, what does his hour mean? Always, whenever Jesus talks about his hour, what is it? It's his death. He says, when I die, it will utterly change worship forever. And here's why. Here's why. Everybody, anybody in this room who has ever tried to worship him at all, who's ever tried to assess his worth and fill your mind with his worth, you will find that you immediately begin to feel unworthy and uncomfortable. And you want to pull back. And you begin to feel very, very unworthy. It's painful. Most of us, many of us, what we've done is we've made up excuses. We say, well, the reason I don't like religion is because I don't believe in a personal God or because look at all the hypocrites in the church. But the real reason that we pull back is whenever anybody tries to worship, you'll sense that unworthiness. Because the more worth you see in him, the more dirty you feel. And nobody can take it. It's traumatic to your self-image. Jesus says, that's why my hour has changed worship forever. Those into worship will always feel like this. I better retreat. I'm not worthy to be here. Remember the little poem? Your voice, your own heart says to yourself, you wretch, retreat in shame. You wretch, be gone, retreat in shame. Jesus says, uh-uh, uh-uh, uh-uh. My hour has come. My love, come here. I bore the blame. Remember that poem? You wretch, your heart says, retreat in shame. Jesus says, my love, I bore the blame. Come here, come here. Get up from the ground. Stop lapping out your dog dishes. You must sit down and taste my meat. And I did sit and eat. If you don't come through Jesus, if you don't come saying his hour, punched a hole in the roof of the world so that now I can enter right into the presence of heaven. Unless you worship like that, you don't know how to worship. But I'll tell you the other thing you must do is you simply have to discipline yourself to worship. So there's maybe some people here who are very discouraged right now because you say, man, you talk about worship like, and I haven't tasted much of that at all. It takes discipline. How? It says right here, in spirit and in truth. It goes like this. You take the truth and you let the truth of who God is dawn on you. Take any verse, take anything out of the bulletin, take any of the Psalms, take anything and let it dawn on you until it gets radioactive. Until the truth begins to shine. See what God is worth, fill your mind with what he's worth and you will find a natural instinct because it was created in you. And the natural instinct is to want to give him what he's worth. You give them your grudges. You give them your fears. You give them parts of your life. You give them your sins. You give them your idols. You give them your resources. You give them your time. You give them yourself. It's automatic. Look at it. Not long ago, I was in a Bible study, and a woman came up afterwards, and we were studying Isaiah 40 about the greatness of God. And the woman said, you know, it's an odd thing. Right in the middle of the Bible study, it suddenly occurred to me that God was so great that she said, I couldn't worry about my problems anymore. The bigger God appeared to me, the smaller my problems appeared, and I began to say, God's going to take care of them. He's going to take care of them. And she says, it's amazing. I feel so good. What did she do? She worshiped. She had a worship experience. She went right through it. Worship, Worship, Worship. sink in. Paul talks about it very clearly in the amazing verse in 2 Corinthians when he says, we with unveiled faces all reflect the Lord's glory and are being transformed into his likeness from one degree of splendor to the next. We look at his worth and as we do it, we are transformed. And look at this poor woman, broken person, hard character. What happens when he reveals himself I am he. She goes berserk. She begins to give him what he's worth. She runs, look at the joy of a child. Look at how she runs and tells other people, come, see a man. You've got to praise him with me. You've got to see how great he is. Look at her reaching out to other people. She's changed. Dear friends, there are some of you here who lack greatness in your lives because you underestimate the power of worship to change you. it. You're not putting the discipline to it. Some of you are facing tremendous losses this week. Where are you going to get your sense of proportion? Where are you going to get it? Not by stealing yourself and saying, I won't let it get to me, but by looking at who he is, by worshiping him until you say, yes, I have something that might happen to me this week, but it's like my pocket being picked when all of my real treasure's home in a trunk. dunk. You don't have the greatness because you don't have the worship. And for some of you, there's people here who your next act of worship, real worship, will be your first. Then go to him right now. If you realize that, if you sense that, that you've been trying to approach God, but you've never relied on Jesus' death, his cross, you've never relied on his hour, go to him and say, I see now that I've been worshiping other things. I want to worship you. The psalmist says, In his face is fullness of joy. In his right hand are pleasures forevermore. Let's pray. We now ask, Father, that every one of us in this room might be enabled to worship you. We've only got another five minutes left in this service, but Lord, for some of us, we need, during the offering, to actually reach out and to begin to taste the deliciousness of what you are, to begin to assess the value of what you've given to us. Father, we want to worship. We have to do it now. We want to obey this passage now. Some of us are eaten up with anxiety, with guilt, with depression. with anger and there is no way apart from unhealthy repression for us to deal with it unless we wake up to reality unless we come and grow up and get a sense of proportion unless we can really worship you now we want to do that and for anyone here who needs to do it for the very first time enable that Father and enable them to come to you through Jesus Christ it's in his name that we pray Amen.