Let's read together the passage on which the teaching is based. It's 1 Peter 1, verse 18, to chapter 2, verse 3.

For you know that it was not with perishable things, such as silver or gold, that you were redeemed from the empty way of life, handed down to you from your forefathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect, he was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake. Through him you believe in God, who raised him from the dead and glorified him, and so your faith and hope are in God. Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth, so that you have sincere love for your brothers, love one another deeply, from the heart. For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God. For all men are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers and the flowers fall, but the word of the Lord stands forever.

And this is the word that was preached to you. Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind. Like newborn babies, crave pure spiritual milk, so that by it you will be saved. That you may grow up in your salvation, now that you have tasted that the Lord is good. This is God's word.

We're looking at a series, in a series, we're looking at a theme of the New Testament. What does it mean to be born again? And today we come to look at one of the main results of the new birth. And one of the main results of the new birth is just an extension of the metaphor of birth. You see, if you're born again, verse 22, of imperishable seed, the result is not a full-blown new being, but a baby that needs to grow up. And so what we're going to look at today is just this. The new birth means you should expect, in the lives of people who have been through the new birth, enormous spiritual growth. And the reason I use the word enormous is not just to be hype. It's not just, it's not, it's not, I mean, I thought about it. The reason it's enormous is because the kind of growth that is expected is like the difference between an infant and an adult. The new birth is not a way to patch up holes in your character. It's not a way to get a little bit of help past the rough places in your life. If you're born again, you are going to be taken to a place. It's so, so far beyond where you are. At least as far as your adult self is beyond your infant self, spiritually, I mean, mentally and physically, so it will be spiritually. Do you see that? There's enormous growth that should be happening in the lives of anyone who's been through the new birth. So on the one hand, it's the evidence that you have been born again. And that's one of the reasons why we look at this. But on the other hand, it's a challenge to those who have experienced the new birth. It's not just evidence of it. It's a challenge, too. And what we're going to do is this morning, look at this because we all want this. No matter who you are, you want this. There's a story told about the German poet Rilke who was visiting Athens. And he went to a museum and he spent the whole afternoon contemplating a statue of Apollos, the sun god. And all he did after hours of contemplating Apollos is he came back to his hotel and he got out his journal and he wrote one thing to himself. And what he said was, you must change your life.

And that shouldn't surprise us. The reason that shouldn't surprise us, he said, what's that got to do with Apollos? Anytime you have a chance to think. Anytime you have a chance to reflect. Deep down, we all realize what Mufasa said to Simba in The Lion King. He says, Simba, you are... You are so much more than you've become. We know we are shadows of what we can be. We are shadows of what we should be. We are nowhere near what we ought to be or what we could be. Now, the Bible says that feeling is perfectly valid. And the Bible says there's two ways to deal with it. Number one is the new birth. The reason you feel that way is because you are an unfertilized egg. You're an egg that can't have its potential. It's released until the divine seed comes into it and fertilizes it and brings about the new being that you know that is in there. But then the second thing is, once the new birth is there, you need to grow. You need to grow up in your salvation, see? Not grow up in order to be saved. Notice that. You've already got it. You've already got your salvation. You grow up in it. And what do we learn from this text about what it means to spiritually grow? To have this thing we all hunger for so much. Well, we learn quite a few things. We'll look at them under three headings. We learn here about the manner of spiritual growth, the marks of spiritual growth, and the means to spiritual growth. The manner of it, the marks of it, how you know it's happening, and the means to it, how you can actually affect it. And if you listen carefully under manner and marks and means, you'll notice there's always two subheadings under each heading. First of all, what do we learn here about the manner of spiritual growth? And we learn, as I just said, two things. Spiritual growth is internal and gradual. And it's so important practically to know this. Now, I'll be brief on this, but it's still very important practically. First of all, it's internal. Verse 22. Now that you have purified yourselves. Now, notice the relationship between 21 and 22. I'm going to point this out. Pardon me. Notice the relationship between verse 22 and 23. I will point this out several times. What's happened in verse 22? Verse 22 is what is true of us in verse 22 is true because, verse 23, for, because you've been born again. So what's true of us in 22 is true because of the new birth. And one of the things that is the result of the new birth is you have purified yourselves. Now, the New International Translation is technically right in translating this purifying yourselves. But what it actually literally says in the Greek is you have purified your souls, your psyches, from which we get our word psychology. Now, it's technically all right to say yourselves, but in Greek there are other ways to say yourself than to get out this word which means our souls, our spiritual centers, our spiritual core. And we'll get to the word purified in a second. Not right now. What Peter is saying is the new birth transforms you at your core. It transforms your soul. It transforms you on the inside. Everything else comes out. Even this love for the brethren we're going to get to in a second. It comes out. And therefore, a life, a new life has happened in your center. It's very important to see that's what the Bible is always talking about when it talks about the kind of life it wants you to lead. In other words, it is critical to understand Christianity. It is critical to understand the difference between being mechanically ethical and being organically growing. Critical to see the difference between being mechanically ethical which is a matter of externals versus organically growing from an internal spiritual change. What do I mean? Well, there's two ways that something can increase. You have a pile of bricks. And I start to throw more bricks on the pile. Is the pile growing? Yeah. I mean, we use the English word growing. But it's just a heaping up, right? On the other hand, you plant a bulb, a tulip bulb, into the ground and out over the years. I mean, the years. Out over the weeks comes a tulip. And we call that growing too. But there's two very different kinds of increase, right? Because the one is just a mechanical heaping up. And the other one is an internal organic growth. The tulip is becoming a more and more complex organism. And in the same way, therefore, the Bible is at places like this and all through it. It is inviting us to say, I want you to see the difference. The difference. The difference. That's what biblical writers are always saying. Between the way a brick pile grows and the way a tulip grows. You can be religious. You can be ethical. You can heap up good works. You can heap up perfect attendance pins. You can heap up a spiritual resume. You can heap up intellectual knowledge of the faith and of the Bible and so forth. But that's not the same as actually becoming a new person. Growing because there's been an internal core transformation. Growing into a wiser person. Into a person who is happier and yet more able to grieve. Into a stronger person. Into a person who's more able to be tough and yet sweet at the same time. Don't you see the difference? It's a huge difference. The Bible is constantly saying you've got to recognize the difference between being mechanically ethical and being organically growing. Biblical morality. Morality. The Bible says, I should put it this way. The Bible says morality that does not proceed from a transformed soul. Morality that does not come from an organically internally growing new person is like a snowflake. Beautiful. Intricate. Admirable. Freezing.

Morality that doesn't come from the inside is like a snowflake. It freezes. Freezes the people around. You don't want to be around people like that. It freezes you. And therefore, the Bible says it's just extremely important to understand that. Now, there's a huge difference between being new and being nice. Organically growing and being ethical. Got to move on. However, let me just... A quick word of application. Very quick. There are people here, I know, because we have a lot of people here. There's people kind of redeeming right now. And you never thought you'd be interested in spiritual things. But there's things going wrong. Somebody's invited you. You've heard. You've sensed something. And you're here because usually there's a particular problem. Hmm? There's a particular thing that's gotten you in trouble. There's a particular problem. A particular habit. A particular thing that you need to get by. And you say, I need something to help me through this. Well, I want you to know something. You've got to realize the Bible says there is no such thing as piecemeal change. The Bible... If you come and say, I need help. I need help from God. Some kind of spiritual help to overcome this habit. Or to change myself in a certain way. The Bible says that just becoming moral, just, you know, throwing another brick on the pile is not what Christianity is about. You've got to give your whole self to him. And he will revolutionize you from the root. Otherwise, he offers nothing. It's all or nothing. You can't come to Christianity piecemeal. You can't come to Christ piecemeal. Okay. The second thing we learn about the manner. It's not only internal. It's not only internal. Organic. Okay. But secondly, it's gradual. And I really have to be... I have to be brief here, too, because there are so many implications of this. But the fact is, what this is telling you is no matter who you are, it doesn't matter how IQ, how high your IQ is. It doesn't matter how talented you are. It doesn't matter how fully developed and mature you are in every other area. This is particularly hard for New York City people. There are brilliant people in New York City. There are talented people in New York City. There are... There are... There are... Such highly... Highly developed people in so many areas in New York City. But when you become a Christian, you start out as a baby. You're a brilliant baby. You're a talented baby. It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter how old you are. You start out as a baby. If you... If you gave your life to Christ and, you know, years ago, and then you just sort of put it on the shelf. You came here and... And now you're just waking up spiritually. In other words, your embryo has been in the freezer. You're still a baby.

You see? And it's very tough. There's many implications of this, but let me just give you a couple. I mean, New Yorkers, very often, if they actually get a hold of Christianity... Just forget this. Two quick things. Number one, babies have to live in families. Babies have to live in families. Got it? They need families. They can't survive on their own. Okay? You don't have two... You know, you don't have a two-year-old living in a studio apartment here. You're not supposed to. They have to live in families. Why? Well, they can't survive without families. Why? Because New Yorkers are the most highly individualistic people there are. You piece your life together. You get what you want from this book and from this person and from this church, and you have your own schedule, and you design your life all the time. You have to become committed, completely committed to a particular body of believers. Now, we're going to talk more about that next week. But if you're a baby, you need a family. You desperately need a family. Number one. And number two, if you're a baby, you need to be patient. But babies are not patient. Now, New Yorkers are as bad at this as anybody else. Americans are terribly bad at this. But babies are bad at this, and it's a sign of childishness. Children love the spectaculars. Children want things now. You know, one of the most popular people on TV right now with kids is a guy named Steve Irwin. He's Australian, and he does a sort of nature discovery program. He's called the over-caffeinated Steve Irwin. Have you ever seen any of him on TV? He takes you to show you crocodiles and snakes. But he's perfect. He's perfect for kids. You know why? He doesn't say, oh, here is a crocodile. He says, wow, boys and girls. Did you see that? Look at those fangs. Haven't you ever seen them on TV? And that's... Now, why? Because kids need the spectacular. They go, wow. The kids want the spectacular. They want it now. They want it big. It's a sign of spiritual childishness. But to be a baby means it's going to take a long time before you mature. Sorry. It just doesn't happen fast. It really doesn't matter. I mean, you can help a kid along a little bit, right? Reading to them and all that sort of stuff. But I'm sorry, no matter how much you read to them, you're not going to read Shakespeare at age one or age two or age three. So, in other words, if you're a baby, it's going to take a long time for you to get anywhere near where you need to be spiritually. A long time for you to learn the scriptures. A long time for you to get anywhere, and you're going to have to slow down. You're going to have to be patient. It's not going to happen tomorrow. So, the manner, internal and gradual. Number two, the marks of spiritual growth. Now, there's two marks of spiritual growth, and they're mentioned right here in verse 22. You have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for your brethren. Now, surprisingly, these two marks are mentioned many times in the Bible. What are they? Well, the first one, let me look at the second one first. The second one is, it says, because you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that, you know that word so that? It's actually literally the word into. Into, which means it's immediate. It's just a natural flow. Into, sincere love for your brethren. So, one of the marks is a deep love for other believers. But what's the first one? Now, one of the problems with this, when you look at this, purified yourselves by obeying the truth, purified your souls, there's a couple of curiosities here. First of all, this is a past, past perfect. It literally says, you have obeyed the truth. Now, how in the world can somebody, it's a, it's a completed tense. You see that? It doesn't say, you started obeying the truth. It doesn't say, you've, you've begun to obey the truth, or since you are obeying the truth. It says, you've done it. It's a past perfect. And that doesn't seem to make any sense at all. I mean, look at the truth. Look at the Ten Commandments. Who's, who can be said to have done it? Doesn't, a couple of weeks ago, we looked at 1 John 1.8 and places like that, where John says, anybody who says they're without sin, they're deceiving themselves. Anybody who says I've done it. So what's going on here? And also this word purified is a fascinating word because it's the word for holy. I mean, there are words that he could have used other than this. It's the word that means to be ritually pure, to be ritually clean, to be acceptable in the sight of God. What is this? Well, the answer is, Paul talks about this too. For example, in these two signs of real Christianity, these two signs that you're born again. When he wrote Ephesians, it was a circulation letter and it went to all kinds of people he never had met personally. And yet, in Ephesians 1.15, he says this, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and your love for all the saints, that's all the Christians, I have not stopped thanking God for you. In other words, there were two things that he heard about in their lives that convinced him that they really were born again. Your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and your love for all the saints. And then, but here's where it's really clear. In Colossians, he says the same thing. In Colossians 1, he says, we always thank God for you because we have heard of your faith in Christ and your love for all the saints. Same two things, but now listen. The faith and love that springs from the hope that's kept safe for you in heaven, which you heard about in the word of truth, the gospel, that has come to you. And that explains what Peter's talking about here. What is he talking about? Peter could not, if he meant all the truth in the world, purified yourselves by obeying the truth. If he meant all of God's truth, all the truth there was, he could possibly put it in the past perfect. But what he's probably saying, almost certainly, and Paul clinches it for us, is he's saying, no, you receive the word of truth. If you look through the rest of the passage, which we looked at last week, you see that's the gospel. In other words, the essence of the truth, the theme, the main message. And here's the clincher. When you brought it into your life, when you understood the gospel, when you submitted to the gospel, you suddenly realized deep in your soul that you were acceptable, that you were purified, you were cleansed, you sensed you were completely forgiven, you sensed you were holy before God. Now, why are these two marks so critical? You notice, there's lots of things that Peter doesn't talk about and that I'm not talking about that Christians should be doing. If you're born again, will you love your parents? Yes. Will you honor them? Yes. Will you be faithful, sexually faithful to your spouse? Yes. Will you tell the truth? Yes. You should do all those things. The reason they're not mentioned here and the reason I'm not talking about them is that religiously, mechanically, ethical people will do that too. Pharisees kept all those rules. Pharisees honored their parents, you know, faithful to their spouse, didn't lie, went to church, charitable with their money and so forth. The reason that they're not mentioned here is what we're looking for are marks of spiritual growth, which means things that only the new birth will produce. There's all kinds of stuff that mechanical, ethical, religious morality will produce and Christianity will produce. But there's two things here that only the new birth will produce. Only. And here are tests. These are ways you can look at yourself and say, is this happening to me? And here's what they are. Let's go through them. Number one, did you get the truth? Did you see what the gospel is so that now you know deep inside that you are forgiven? You are absolutely accepted. Now the reason this is important, and we talked about this last week, but I got a quote here that really brings it home. Religiousness says this, I obey all the truth and then, so people will respect me, so I can respect myself, and so God will bless me. That's religion. I obey the truth. I do everything the Bible tells me to do. I do moral standards so that people will respect me, I can respect myself, and that God will bless me. But don't you see, if you're religious, if you're heaping up bricks, deep inside, there's no sense that you're pure. There's no sense that I know I'm absolutely okay and absolutely forgiven. Why are you wrestling so much? Why are you, why are you working so hard? Religious people are working so hard to deal with the fact that deep inside their souls, they don't know that they're okay. They don't know that God blesses them. They're deeply, they're desperately working so that God will bless them. And that's why religiosity, though externally, you're trying to be a good family man, woman, you're trying to, you know, you're not lying, you're going to church, you're being charitable, but deep down inside, you don't have this internal sense of absolute peace and cleanliness and as a result, religiosity produces all this stuff people hate about religion. You have to condemn people. You feel superior to people. You have to put people down. You have to persecute people to bolster that sense that you're okay. This is saying, here's the test. Only the new birth can produce this. You see the difference between religion and the gospel. In religion, I obey the truth in general so that I can respect myself, God, people will respect me, and God, people forgive me, and God will bless me. But Christianity says, because Jesus Christ has lived and died for me,

I'm completely acceptable to God. And when you take that into your core, that changes everything. It changes the way you look at people, because you don't need their approval anymore. You don't need their respect. The way you look at yourself, you're not desperately trying to get a sense of self-worth, and the way you look to God. See? You're clean. Now, this is the test, by the way. And David Martin Lloyd-Jones, an old British preacher, who was temperamentally very strict and very conservative. And so, what I'm about to read you, I'm reading you because when I figured, if this guy says this, this must be in the Bible. Many years ago, I listened to a series of tapes of his expositions of this very passage in 1 Peter. And when he got to this verse, having purified your soul through obedience to the truth, meaning having gotten that sense that you're completely pure, clean, holy in his sight, because you submitted to the gospel. This is what Lloyd-Jones says. Let me put this as a practical test. I do not hesitate to put it to you like this. If you are uncertain about the forgiveness of your sins, that in itself is a sin. I want to be ruthless about this, because there are many people who think that such an assurance of forgiveness of sins is presumption. And they give the impression that they are being very humble and modest and anyone, no one should be sure that they are completely clean and forgiven. They say, I would not like to say my sins are forgiven. Oh no, I do not feel good enough to say that. I am so unworthy. And they give the impression that they have lowliness and humility. The simple reply to that is, if you do not know you've been forgiven, it's because you're still relying upon yourself, because you're not relying upon the finished, complete work of the Son of God for you upon the cross, because you do not understand the gospel. It's because you do not realize the merit and power of his power. It's because you do not of his blessed name. Now, you know, Lloyd-Jones was a pretty doggone strict man. I mean, if you ever listened to him or read anything, he was a strict man. He was a conservative man. An old, you know, he lived in, he's dead now, but he came up in Edwardian England. He says, if you do not have this absolute assurance that your sins are forgiven because of what Jesus Christ has done, that's a sin. It's a sin in that you haven't submitted to the gospel. It's the worst, it's the only sin that can really take you out. It's a sin of being religious. Got it? So that's the first sign. Only the new birth can produce that. But the second sign, which is wonderful, look, it says, you're born again into, I know it says, so that you have sincere love for your brethren, but it's into. It says, the immediate, necessary, tight connection to the new birth, which produces this complete new core, this sense of being clean and accepted and assured with the new birth. Before God. Immediately, that means you suddenly find yourself having deep love, sincere love for the brethren. Now, you might say, well, aren't Christians supposed to love all people? Isn't that a little narrow? It's talking about the brethren, you know, the other Christians, other believers. Yeah, of course. The Bible talks a lot about that, too. Not here. Why not? We're looking at something that is extremely telling mark of spiritual new birth. And here's why. You remember how Paul, when I read you Paul's version of these two marks of spiritual growth in Ephesians and Colossians, said, your love for all the saints. We've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and your love for all the saints. That word all is important. Here's why. And even this word sincere is important. Before you're a Christian, if you live in New York, you get along with other kinds of people, don't you? You know how to be courteous. If you're black, you're courteous to white people, but you think they're kind of silly. If you're educated, you're courteous to blue-collar people, but you think they're kind of silly. You're courteous outside, you know, outwardly, and you learn how to get along, and you go home with other people like you and you just laugh at them. You tell jokes about them. And something happens. I'm not picking on black people or educated people, by the way. It works. Blue-collar people act that way toward educated people. Got it? What's going on? It's because, as we say, blood is thicker than water. It means that basically when it comes right down to it, you know, our classes, our races, our cultures divide us, and we learn how to get along. We put on a good face. This word sincere, though, means not put on. One of the first things that happens when the new birth happens is that you find yourself coming into the church and seeing other people near you who also believe, and people in the past you didn't give your time of day to, didn't give your time of day to, people who you didn't like, people you used to disdain, people you had to work at being courteous to, suddenly, you find yourself being drawn to, really drawn to them. And that's a sign that your spiritual insides have been revolutionized. That's a sign.

Remember how Ananias in Acts 9, Ananias in Acts 9, God comes to him and says, Ananias, there's a new convert in town, Saul of Tarsus. Go to him. He's at Judas' house on Straight Street. And Ananias says, Lord, Lord, I'm not sure you've heard of this guy.

He says, isn't this the one who's killing us? I'm not sure you've done your background check. A, this is not the kind of person who becomes a Christian. And B, even if he has become a Christian, he's not the kind of person I want in my church. At least, I wouldn't trust him ever again. And what does God say? He says, Ananias, do what you're told.

Because you see, the first, and Ananias got there and he says, brother Saul. Yeah, you killed my mother-in-law and my sister-in-law and brother Saul. So, that is something the new birth produces. Now, why? Let's get to this third point. So, you see, the marks of the new birth, which is a grasp of the gospel of grace and a sense of this incredible love within the family of God. Now, lastly, how do we get there? How do we get all this new birth? How do we get all this spiritual growth? And there's two answers here too. Remember the story by tasting the word. Remember the story by tasting the word. Listen. First of all, remember the story. We have to jump up here to verse 18. For you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your forefathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb, a lamb without blemish or defect. Now, first of all, look at this term. We don't have much time to look at it. The way of life passed down to you from your forefathers. Now, that's quite an interesting point. Sociologists and psychologists tell us what we don't want to believe. We want to believe we've chosen to be the way we are. The fact of the matter is we are enormously influenced and we really can't buck what our family has done to us and what our culture has done to us. Because we are so controlled by what our family and our culture has done. Even if you say, that's not true for me. My father was like this and as a result I'm not like that at all. Which means, what? So you see, even by rebelling against your family, rebelling against your culture or accepting your family, accepting your culture, you're being controlled. Now, this really came, how are we ever going to get out? How are we ever going to escape the patterns of our life? How are we really going to change?

This came, this came home to me some years ago. Mike Wallace on 60 Minutes was, maybe it wasn't on 60 Minutes, but Mike Wallace, I saw him on TV, was interviewing a man named Yahiel Denour. And Yahiel Denour was a concentration camp survivor who testified against Adolf Eichmann at his trial in 1961. And Wallace showed Denour a film clip from the 61 trial and Denour, in that film clip, Denour walked into the court, and faced Eichmann for the first time in 18 years. And almost immediately collapsed, fainted, you know, cried, fainted, fell down. The judge had to, and everybody jumped up. When he did that, the judge had to start pounding the gavel, order. And later on he testified. But when he first saw Eichmann, he collapsed. So Mike Wallace asked this question. He says, why were you so overwhelmed? What was it? Was it hatred? Was it you were overwhelmed with a terrible fear? Did it all come back? Was it fear? Was it post-traumatic stress? Denour shook his head and just astonished Wallace. And this is what he said. When I walked in and saw him, I suddenly realized he was no demon or Superman. He was an absolutely ordinary human being. Exactly like me. And I suddenly became terrified about myself. I suddenly saw that I was completely capable of all the same things. And what he's saying is, you think Adolf Eichmann one day said, I think I'll become evil? This way of life was handed to him. This way of life was handed to him. It came down to him. He's just a regular person. And you know, Denour saw that. And he basically cried out exactly what St. Paul cried out. In Romans 7, when he thought about his own heart, he says, who will deliver me from this body of death? And we're told there is something that can break you out of all those patterns. There is something that powerful. And the answer is what? It says, for you know, for you know, that it was not with perishable things, perishable things like silver or gold, something infinitely beyond that, you were redeemed from the empty way of life by the precious blood of Christ. Now, this word redeemed, unfortunately, it's all right. Every place the NIV uses, puts in the word redeemed, it's translating a word, apalutron, which literally means ransomed. In fact, you don't have to be a great entomologist to understand this.

Apalutron means the price, but apo means out, the out price, the release price. Every place you see the word redeemed, this word is saying that what Jesus Christ did was he ransomed us. We were captives and Jesus paid the price. But what was the price? The blood. And what that means is this. We were captive to sin. To death. To law. To hell. And the only price that would free us was for Jesus himself to be the price. You see, his blood is the ransom. The trouble with the word redeemed is when you think of redeemed, you just think of redeeming bonds. When you hear the word ransom, you think of a story. And it's an unbelievable story. It's a story of rescue. It's a story of someone who says, take me instead. And all the powers that Jesus Christ has given us, that had us bound up, get him. And as a result, we're freed. Now, we're told here that only that story, only the knowledge of the preciousness of that story. Do you see the emotional language? The emotional language. He says, what has redeemed us from this way of life handed down to us that would keep us captive? What has really changed us? For we know, we know, we know. We see what he's done. And it's so precious. And what happens is that story is what melts us into a new shape. I know of no better example of this than some years ago. I was on a summer vacation. I went into a fast food restaurant, McDonald's. You know, expectations are fast food.

Expectations. I'm standing in line and it's taking forever and forever and forever. It seems the woman who's behind the counter is taking 10 minutes with every customer and making mistakes and getting everybody mad and I'm waiting and I'm waiting and I'm waiting. And the whole problem is, her English was so terrible. Her English was so terrible. So I'm sitting there grumbling and really, really mad. I'm mad at her that she hasn't learned English. I'm mad at the people who hired her. They didn't screen her. But that morning, fortunately, just that morning, I'd been having my quiet time in the Word of God and in the Bible and I found a place which suddenly came back to me and it's a place in the Old Testament. I actually didn't even look it up. I just remember it so well. A place in the Old Testament where God says this, Be kind to the alien and to the immigrants among you for you were once immigrants in Egypt but I brought you out. Be kind to the alien and immigrants among you for you were once immigrants in Egypt and I brought you out. Now you see, religion, mechanical change, uses the first clause. Be kind to the immigrants. So what I could have done is said, Oh, here I am being angry at this immigrant. This person doesn't know English. Here I'm being impatient with her. But I can't be. The Bible says, God says, Be kind immigrants. All right, that's it. I'm not going to be angry. I'm going to be a good Christian. That's mechanical. Don't you see that? But the second clause took me out because suddenly the second clause came home and I, in a sense, heard God saying, You're an immigrant. You're a foreigner. You're an outsider. I can hardly understand your language even now.

But at the cost of my lamb, see, verse 19, at the cost of my only son, I brought you out of Egypt. I brought you out of sin and death under the blood of the lamb, see, because he died for you. And what happened is at that point I was going back into the story and by the time I got up there finally, I could have kissed her.

Why? What happened right there? That's how I got up there. That's how spiritual growth is supposed to work. It's not just a matter of got to be kind of the alien. God says so. He says, remember the story. Remember that you're part of the story. Remember, first of all, listen, stories get you, don't they? Stories of eyeless dungeons and unscalable walls and hope is gone, but suddenly there's a rescue and joy beyond the walls of the world comes in. But this is the ultimate story. The ransom story. The true king comes back, Jesus Christ, but oh my word, he's dying. Oh my goodness, he's just weak. Oh my word, he's defeated. But no, wait, the defeat is a triumph. Jesus Christ comes into your story when you believe in him and turns your life into a senseless, random, meandering, and it turns it into a drama, a drama of rescue. That's why everybody's got a testimony who's a Christian. But then not only that, he not only comes, he comes into your story and makes it a drama, but then he puts you into his story and he says, I'm creating a people for myself that's a sign of my coming kingdom and someday I'm going to renew the whole world. And it's only when I see myself in the story that my heart's melted and the self-justification, which is the root of my sin, is changed. Now, how does that happen? You remember the story through what? I said, what's the second point?

Through tasting the word. What had happened, on that day, and I wish I could make this happen all the time, but this is the more you study, the more you realize, is what is being talked about in verses 2, in verse 2 and 3. Like newborn babes crave pure spiritual milk so that by it you may grow up into your salvation. Now that you've tasted that the Lord is good. Tasted. See, what we're talking about here is, first of all, like newborn babes crave the pure spiritual milk. You know what that word spiritual is in Greek? It's the word spiritual. It's the word. It's the word logikon. It's in other words, pure. Crave the pure milk of the word. That's literally what it says. And what it's saying, therefore, is, you've had an experience of the graciousness of God. You've tasted that the Lord is good. Now, crave pure word. Go to the scripture. Go to the word of God that tells you the story. Get a sense of it on the heart so that it essentially shrinks the two of you. So, you've had numerous of self-justification with the light of the gospel. Now, how does that happen? Through hard work. You know, over and over, I want you to parse what I'm about to say. Over and over, you hear me say, during this series, you need the gospel. You need to have faith in Christ. You need to see the grace of God. You need to see your standing. Not just try harder, right? Don't just try to be nice to the immigrant lady. Remember that you're an immigrant. Remember the gospel story. Remember salvation. Remember grace. Don't just try harder. That's religion. That's mechanical. That's heaping up bricks. Look at the second clause. You are an immigrant. I can hardly understand your language, but I brought you out at infinite cost to myself, my land, my son. And you get up there, and you're... That's the change. So, I always say, remember Christ. Remember grace. Remember the gospel. Don't just try harder. But look at that word, just. I'm saying, don't just try harder. It doesn't mean I don't say, try harder. If you're about to punch somebody in the nose because they have insulted you in public and made you look like a fool,

the best way to really deal with this desire to punch the person in the nose is to say, wait a minute. Why is people's approval so important to me? Why am I so angry? It's because I'm forgetting that I've been purified by this gospel. That I have his approval. I shouldn't be so upset. But you know what? You're not going to do that. You're ready to punch the person. So, what should you say to yourself? You should say, stop. Just don't do it. I mean, you're not going to think it out. You're not going to do the right. I mean, ultimately, if you want to change, you've got to get the gospel into your life. But at the moment, just stop. Say, I might get arrested. I mean, do anything.

In order to take the word of God into your life, you need, look, notice, for example, look at verse one. Therefore, what? Rid yourselves of all malice and all deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander. Love one another. It's natural. And yet, you still have to work at it. And therefore, what we see here at the end, the means of spiritual growth, the primary means is remember the story

through tasting the word. With the Holy Spirit taking the word of God, making the story real to you again, applying it to every situation. That's what really gets at the things that make you as you are. That's what really reshapes you. That's what really changes you. That's what really spiritual growth. Okay. But you still have to work. Not just work. Also believe. But you still have to work. Sometimes you don't like the person next to you. In the community of the church, it's the story that makes us feel like one. Right? The reason, for example, different ethnic groups in this country sometimes don't get along. They're all minorities, but they don't get along because their stories are different. Right? So, what makes you feel like one people is having the same story. When I meet somebody who, though, is a Christian, who's had the same story happen to them, that trumps all other stories. In other words, I am a Christian first and a Keller second. I'm a Christian first and I'm white second. I'm a Christian first and I'm an educated person second. I'm a Christian first and I'm an American second. Do you see? It's the story that transforms my identity so that these barriers that used to be so far away, are no longer so big. Because we have this common story, and yet, he still says, you still have to rid yourself of malice, deceit, hypocrisy. Use the gospel in your heart. It will eventually turn you into one community, but you're still going to have to work at it. Don't just try harder, but try harder.

If Rilke felt this enormous impetus to change his life just by looking at the sun god, how much, how much more power are we going to have to change our lives by looking at the sun of god? The real beauty. If he felt, he must have been thinking of the stories of Apollos, or he wouldn't have been moved to change his life. But you've got the story that actually became true. And it's become true for you, and true for us all. And as a result, we can be changed, purified. See?

Crave the pure spiritual milk. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you'd help us understand how we can take the new life that's in us and let it grow. And Father, there's plenty of people who are in this room that perhaps recognize that they have at best in the past been moral and religious and have not actually received the new life in them. And I pray, Lord, you would show them what it means to give themselves to you, to give themselves to you in faith in what Jesus has done. So that we can all grow up. So that we can all grow up. We thank you for this promise and for this challenge. In Jesus' name. Amen.