What we're going to do for these few weeks, and we've never done anything like this here at Redeemer, what we're going to do for the next seven weeks is we're going to be exploring the claims and character of Christianity, and especially to see whether it makes sense. You can talk about, makes sense, there it is. Which means that even though I would think probably, I would hope that everything that would be of interest no matter who you are, no matter what your beliefs are. But I must say that I'm actually thinking mainly about people who either aren't convinced that it makes sense, or even those of you who may be convinced that it doesn't make sense. Christina, it doesn't make sense. So you're the ones in view. Even though I think that by and large, I would hope that the things we talk about would be of interest no matter what you believe or what faith you are or what religion you are. I would think it'd be interesting. I hope so. And by the way, if you're I don't want to start off by flattering you, but in our attention deficit disorder culture, where people just skim things, I'm amazed that you're here. And I'm not so stupid as to think that you're coming back if tonight isn't engaging. But I would like you to at least consider this. The seven weeks are cumulative. That is, you might say, the case that I'd like to make hangs together. it fits together. The case is cumulative. And the different talks and discussion are going to build on each other. And one of the reasons they're going to build on each other is I'm going to listen to you enough that I'm not giving you the topics. In a minute, I'll give you tonight's topic. And at the end of this discussion, I'll give you out the next two weeks to know what the topics are. Now, I've in my head got seven topics that I'm partly prepared for. But I want to listen enough to your questions, both formally and informally, so that I may decide, you know, I clearly wasn't very clear or that's such a big, there's so much interest in that, I probably need to break that into two weeks and do part of it this week and part of it that week. And I'm really going to listen so that what we cover in the seven weeks really is sensitive to what you're saying you would like to hear more about and therefore it will fit together. So in technologically advanced and mobile age. It's very unlikely that any New Yorker I know would be around seven Fridays, Thursday nights in a row. But I would hope if you find tonight engaging, that if you don't make a particular week, you watch it. Watch it online. Or if you're away, you know, even watch it live stream. So that you actually have the whole picture, because that's what it's going to be. Now, even though I just said I won't necessarily, early. I really am not totally sure what every one of the topics are. I have a working tentative view of what I want to do. The basic trajectory is in the title. The basic arc that I'm going to try to traverse is that as Blaise Pascal, the great French mathematician philosopher, said, people will not sit still or give sustained attention to an argument for why something is true unless they already have good reason to hope it's true. Unless you have a good reason to think it would be good if Christianity were true, why should you sit and think about, in a sustained way, evidence for it? I think most people in our society, what little they know about Christianity, what they know of Christianity, is really fairly unattractive. And they don't realize even what the claims are. And if you don't know what the are. It's difficult to even see any good reason to care about exploring it. So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to spend the early weeks and maybe all the first weeks until the last week. It depends on you, actually. It depends on what I hear. On why does Christianity make emotional and cultural sense before I get to why it makes rational sense. That is, I'm not going to start off by arguing Christianity is true. I'm instead going to talk about why thoughtful people might like it to be true because of the things that it offers. So in order to get started, what I'd like to do is give you the topic tonight. The topic is Christianity gives you a meaning in life that's basically indestructible. A meaning in life that no suffering, nothing can take away from you. Nothing that happens in this life can take away from you. So an indestructible meaning in life, a meaning in can take from you. And in order to talk to you about this, what I want to do is I want to ask three questions and try to give you answers. The first question is, what is meaning in life? The second question is, is it possible to have meaning in life without God, which is the main thing we're going to talk about, because that's actually a complex question. So first, what is meaning in life? Secondly, can you have meaning in life without God? And thirdly, if Christianity was is true, what would the meaning in life be? Okay, so first of all, what's meaning in life? This is a short, but it's very important we figure this out. If you go to a dictionary and look up the word meaning, or if you even just, you know, consult your own experience with the word meaning in life, and this sounds a little weird, like what is the meaning of meaning? That sounds really deep, but actually we're just, we have to use the word meaning to talk about this. Meaning, Meaning. You have meaning. First of all, if you have purpose. You have a goal. So for example, look at words themselves. We talk about the meaning of words. We know what the meaning of words is. You know what a word means if you know the purpose for which the speaker is saying it. So for example, let's just say you don't know English. You don't suddenly someone comes into your room and says, fire. But you just sit there. I'll tell you why. The word fire in English signifies a chemical reaction that if it comes in contact with you, hurts a lot. And so when the English speaker says the word fire, the purpose of the person saying that and forming that sound in the air is to get the listener to get up and run away

learned. And if you don't get up, it's because you don't know the purpose of that sound. And that's what we mean when we talk about the meaning of words. The meaning of words means I know the meaning of a word if I know the purpose of the speaker or the writer of it. What he or she is trying to convey. So first of all, meaning means purpose or a goal. If I have a purpose, I've got meaning. But secondly, it's got to be a significant goal. goal. I don't think anybody would say that I pick paper up off the ground when it falls to the ground. I don't think anybody can say that meaning in life. Why? It's a goal, isn't it? If it's your job to pick up paper, isn't that meaning in life? You'd say, well, it's not a significant purpose. It doesn't make a difference. To have meaning in life, therefore, means I matter. matter. What I'm doing makes a difference. There's a something significant. I got a purpose and it's a significant purpose. I got a purpose and it makes a difference somehow. I'm not superfluous. You can do something, but if it's superfluous, it makes no difference at all. Well, you don't feel it's meaningful. So what does meaning in life? It means to have a purpose and it means a purpose that really matters where you feel like you're making a difference. Now, point two question. Can we have meaning in life without belief in God? If there's no God, can there be meaning in life? My answer is yes and no, which you say, well, of course, you live in New York City. Of course, you're going to say that. But I'd like to say no. It's not nearly as ambivalent or ambiguous as you say. I'm going to say that at one level, level, without God, yes, you can have meaning in life. But at another level, no, you can't have meaning in life. And that other level is extremely important. And to abandon that level is actually, I think, deadly. So I'm going to say, can we have meaning in life without God? The answer is yes and no, but a bigger no and a smaller yes. Let me explain. First of all, when I say yes, there's a remarkable amount of consensus amongst the most widely read and brilliant and respected public intellectuals in Western culture today who are secular people, who don't believe in God, who believe everything has a natural cause, that we weren't created by some created being, by some creator being. And there's remarkable consensus amongst all those folks that whereas human life in general doesn't have any meaning and the world doesn't have any meaning, that you can have meaning does. What does it do? It does what it does. What does it do? So there's no objective meaning. There's no discovered meaning. There's no meaning outside of yourself that you have to discover and align with. There's no discovered meaning that you have to align with. But there's a created meaning. Self-created meaning. There's no objective meaning. There's subjective meaning. Now just to explain this. First of all, Tom Nagle. Nagle. I think that's right how you pronounce it. He's a professor of philosophy at NYU. Maybe he's a emeritus by now. I'm not sure. But some years ago, he wrote a little book, which you can still get, called What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Intro to Philosophy. By the way, it's a really fascinating book and very helpful. What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Intro to Philosophy. And what he does is he takes the different, each chapter is dealing with an area where philosophy, the philosophy is treated historically. And the last chapter is called The Meaning of Life. And Tom Nagel, from the vantage point of what he thinks is largely the accepted position of most public intellectuals and academics and smart people in the West, and that is that we weren't created by God, but that we're here, the product of blind forces. There is no God who created us. This is what he says. He basically says there is no meaning of life for the human race. He says, even if you produce a great work of literature, which continues to be read thousands of years from now, eventually the solar system will cool or the universe will wind down and collapse and all trace of your effort will vanish. If your life is going to matter, it can only matter from the inside. From the outside, it wouldn't matter if you never existed. And after you have gone out of existence, it won't matter that you did exist. If one's life has any point as part of something larger, it is still possible to ask, what is the point of that? So what's he saying? What he's saying is that in general, objectively, human life has no purpose. Why? Because nobody but he put us here for a purpose. You might say there's no speaker, there's no creator who put us here for a purpose. And most important, I'm going to get back to this. He says, nothing you do makes any difference. He says, even if you write a book that was to be read thousands of years from now, eventually the solar system will cool, the universe will wind down and collapse, all trace of your effort will vanish. And what he means is, is if there is no God, then it means that whether you are a cruel person, maybe even a serial killer or a good person and a kind person, and you work for justice and help the poor, in the end, how you live makes no difference at all. Not only will it not make any final difference, but there won't be anybody around to remember it. And therefore, objectively, he says, there's no meaning in life. The way he puts it is, he says, if your life is going to matter, it can only matter from the inside. From the outside, it doesn't matter. Do you hear that? But see, and there's other people who say the same thing. this. Bertrand Russell, I'll just watch my time here, but these are interesting. And maybe you're going to say I'm piling on, but here's Bertrand Russell, who, a famous British philosopher says, humanity is the product of causes that had no prevision of the end they were achieving. Our origin, hopes, loves, and beliefs are but the outcome of accidental collocations of atoms. Adams, all the labors of the ages, all the devoted inspiration, all the brightness of human genius are destined to extinction in the vast death of the solar system. Only within the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair can the soul's habitation henceforth be safely built. Historian Carl Becker in his very famous lectures in 1941 at Yale, this is 1941, said, from a strictly scientific viewpoint, human beings must be viewed as, quote, little more than a chance deposit on the surface of the world, carelessly thrown up between two ice ages by the same forces that rust, iron, and ripen corn. Scientist Stephen Hawking says, the human race is just a chemical scum on a moderate-sized planet. You know, I can keep on going. Anyway, so the point is that objectively, Objectively, no, there's no meaning in life. But every one of these folks, including Tom Nagel, who I just talked about, says, but that shouldn't be a problem. Since there's no objective meaning in life, there's no objective meaning, a discovered meaning that you have to align with, you can decide what your meaning in life is, which is freedom. And they say it's good news. Let's not get all grim and gloomy about it. It's good news. news. So in a very, very famous Life magazine interview in 1988, asked a bunch of famous thinkers, I remember, I watched it, some of you don't even know what Life magazine is, anyway, it used to be a big deal. And Life magazine asked a bunch of famous thinkers, what is the meaning of life? There's a whole lot of, you can probably find it online, or at least maybe not find Life magazine online, but I think you can actually find this online. What is the meaning of life? Why are humans here? That's the questions. Paleontologist Stephen Jay Gould, now dead, passed away, but was at Harvard for many years, says this, quote, we are here because, you know, why are we here? What's the meaning of life? We are here because one odd group of fishes had a peculiar fin anatomy that could transform into legs for terrestrial creatures, because the earth never froze entirely during an ice age. We're here because a small and tenuous species arising in Africa a quarter of a million years ago has managed so far to survive the hook and crook. And so the pathways that have led to our evolution are quirky, improbable, unrepeatable, and utterly unpredictable. Wind back life's tape to the dawn of time, let it play again, and you will never get humans a second time. We may yearn for a higher answer, but none exists. this. This explanation, though superficially troubling, if not terrifying, is ultimately liberating and exhilarating. You hear that? This explanation, though superficially troubling, if not terrifying, is ultimately liberating and exhilarating. We cannot find the meaning of life passive. We cannot read the meaning of life passively from the facts of nature. We must construct these answers for ourselves. You have to decide what's right for you. Much more recently, Jerry Coyne, who's a biologist at University of Chicago, who argues strongly there's no God and there's no objective meaning for your existence. He says, he makes the same move as Stephen Jay Gould. Here's what he says. He says, the cosmos doesn't give us one iota of evidence for purpose or for God. The universe is mostly cold, bleak, airless, and uninhabitable. So we secularists see a universe without any purpose must forge our own purpose and ethics and not derive them from a God for which there's no evidence. But although the universe is purposeless, our lives aren't. There we go. Same thing Nagle said. And the same thing that Stephen Jay Gould said. Though our lives are purpose. I mean our. Though the universe is purposeless. Our lives aren't. We make our own purposes. And they're real. Right now my purpose is to write this piece. And then I'll work on a book I'm writing. And later I'll have dinner with a friend. Soon I'll go to Poland to visit some more friends. Maybe later I'll read a nice book and learn something. These are real purposes. I've got purpose in life. Now, what do we say about that? The answer is, I think, yeah. If we define meaning in life as having a purpose and having a purpose that you think is significant, feels like makes a difference, matters, matters, then if you say my purpose in life is to be a good father or mother to my child or to be, you know, an instructor in something and help people learn this or that, if that's meaningful to you and that is a purpose, just like Jerry Coyne said, and you feel that makes a difference in life, that you have purpose, yes. Do you believe in God? No. Do you have purpose? Yes, you have purpose. And by the way, as a Christian pastor, I'd say, of course you do because of the way we define purpose. Now, here's where I push back. However, you've got to realize that this is a very new experiment. There's never, ever been a time in the history of the human race where this kind of self-created subjective meaning in life is the only meaning you've got. got. Objective discovered meaning in life isn't there. That's the idea. Subjective self-created meaning in life is the only meaning in life you've got. By the way, one perfect example is, remember at the end of the movie I, Robot with Will Smith, and the little robot guy who ends up being a good guy was Sonny. Remember Sonny? And it turns out that his creator had programmed him basically to head off a robot revolution. And after he does that, and everybody's happy because, you know, he turns to Will Smith and he says, I have no purpose in life anymore. Because he was programmed for that purpose. And he says, now that I have no meaning in life, because I fulfilled my purpose, what am I supposed to live for now? He says, well, now you're like the rest of us. You just have to find your way. You have to sort of make it up as you go, which is exactly what Nagel, Stephen Jay Gould, Jerry Coyne say. There's no objective purpose anymore, Sonny. You just have to make up whatever purpose you want to. Now, there's never been a culture in history that did that. The Greeks believed, I'll get back to this in a minute, the Logos, they believed that there was a rational order behind the universe that you had to conform your life to. Confucius believed that there was, again, a natural order that he called heaven, that you had to conform yourself to, you had to align with. Buddhism has always understood that the real world is actually an illusion. The physical world is an illusion. The real world is a single soul, and the purpose is to get in alignment with that and to see it. You know, Christians, Muslims, Jews have always said the purpose of life was to and know God and serve him and so forth. We are the first culture in history that has said, you have to create your own meaning in life. Stephen Jay Gould said it's liberating and exhilarating, but I'd like to say, here's two ways of doing meaning. One is you create it, one is you discover it. One is you make it up subjectively, the other is you discover it and align yourself with it objectively. And this self-created meaning is far less rational, rational, far less durable, and my third point, which I'm only going to touch on because it's my topic for next week, unable to give a good reason for moral values. If you believe you have to create your own meaning, if you really believe that the universe is meaningless but your life doesn't have to be, you just decide what you want to do, and you create your own meaning, that kind of meaning in life compared to the older version that the human race has always put forward is far less rational far less durable and doesn't give you a base for moral values okay come with me first of all it's far less rational here's what i mean by that tom nagel points out in his book that one of our problems with finding meaning in life is he actually says we probably need to stop thinking about meaning in life. He actually goes so far as to say, let me see if I can find it. He says, he says, people are, yeah, he says, if life is not real and the grave is the only goal and nothing you do makes any difference at all, we shouldn't take ourselves so seriously and we should stop thinking about meaning in life. Now, this is pretty interesting. What he's saying is, is if you think too much about what you really believe about the universe, it's going to really get... He said, well, I got meaning in life. Like Jerry Coyne says, I'm writing a book, then I'm going to go to Poland, I'm going to do all this stuff. I got meaning in life. But Tom Nagel is better, I think, when he says, yeah, but the point is nothing you do is going to make any difference at all. And so we need to stop talking about meaning in life, or at least stop thinking about it. And there's a place where C.S. Lewis wrote an essay about this. Now, C.S. Lewis is a Christian. He's not like the rest of the guys that I've been reading to you. But this is what he says. Listen, it's a little extended, but it'll maybe take a minute to read it, but I think it's helpful. Here he's pushing the way Tom Nagel pushes, and he says, if you believe there's no God and the universe is meaningless, but you're creating your own meaning, the only way you're going to be happy is not think too much about the universe you've really got. He says, you might decide, oh, well, let me start up a little higher. He says, if nature is all that exists, if there's no God and no life of some quite different sort somewhere outside of nature, there's no afterlife, this life is all there is, there's no spirit or supernatural, this material life is all there is. He says, then all of our stories will end in the same way, in a universe from which all life is banished without possibility of return. All of human civilization will have been an accidental flicker, and there will be no one even to remember it. No doubt atomic bombs might cut human civilization short, shorter than it might have been. But the whole of human civilization, even if it lasted for a billion years, years, would be so infinitesimally short in relation to the oceans of dead time which precede and follow it, why should we get upset about it being a little shortened? And then he says, now, if you believe that, here's what you can do. You might decide to simply have as good a time as possible. Okay, let's just not think about the fact that life is meaningless. Let's just go out and have a good time. But he says, it's hard, except in the lowest animal sense, to be in love with a girl if you know and keep on remembering that all the beauties her person and of her character are a momentary and accidental pattern produced by the collision of atoms, and that your own response to them is a sort of psychic phosphorescence arising from the behavior of your genes, which is, you know, what Jerry Coyne and Bertrand Russell says love really is. It's an illusion. He says you can't go on getting very serious pleasure from music if you know and remember that its air of significance is a pure illusion, that you like it only because your nervous system is irrationally conditioned to like it. You may still, in the lowest sense, also have a good time, but just insofar as anything in life becomes very good, just insofar as it ever threatens to push you on from cold sensuality into real warmth and enthusiasm and joy, so far will you be forced to feel the hopeless disharmony between your own emotions and the universe in which you think you really live. Did you hear that? that? See, what he's saying is the way to be happy if you believe the universe is meaningless and that you have to create your own meaning is by not thinking too hard. Just don't think too hard about it. Tolstoy, Leo Tolstoy in his confession in 1879 wrote this. He said, I was baptized and brought up in the Orthodox Christian faith, but when I left the second course of the university at age 18. I no longer believed any of those things. I had been taught. My lapse from faith occurred as is usual among people of our level of education. He's talking about Russia, 19th century. He says, so I lived. But five years ago, something very strange began to happen to me. At first, I experienced moments of perplexity and a rest in life as though I did not know what to do or how to live. Sometimes I felt lost and became dejected. All of this befell me at a time when all around me I had what is considered a completely good fortune. I was not yet 50. I had a wife who loved me, whom I love. I had good children. I had a large estate, which without much effort on my part, improved and increased. I was respected. More than at any previous time, my name was famous, and yet I could give no rational meaning to any single action or to my whole life. Today or tomorrow, sickness and death will come. To those I love or to me, nothing will remain but stench and worms. Sooner or later, my affairs, whatever they may be, will be forgotten and I will not exist. So why go on making any effort? How can we fail to see this? That's what's surprising. One can only live without God while one is intoxicated with life. As soon as one is sober, it's impossible not to see that it's all a mere fraud or stupid fraud. There's nothing either amusing or witty about it. It's simply cruel and stupid. My question, which at the age of 50 brought me to the very verge of suicide, was the simplest of questions, lying in the soul of every man, a question without an answer to which one cannot live. It was this. What will come of what I'm doing today or tomorrow? What will come of my whole life? Why should I live and why wish for anything or do anything? It can be expressed in this way. Is there any meaning in my life awaiting me does not destroy. Let me say that again. Is there any meaning in my life that the inevitable death awaiting for me does not destroy? And what he's really saying is, you hear this? What he's actually saying is that even though he tried not to think about it, because he had his wife, he had his novels, he had his reputation, things were going well. But he says, if it's really true that when I die, I rot, and when the sun goes out, nothing will matter, he couldn't

he couldn't stop thinking about it. So Tom Nagel says, stop taking yourself so seriously, Tolstoy. You know, gosh, these Russian writers, they just take themselves so seriously. Just don't worry about it. Go out and have a good time. Don't ask, is this going to make a difference? Of course it's not going to make a difference, but don't think about it. And Tolstoy said, I can't. It keeps breaking in on me. That's what I mean by saying, if, for example, right now for a minute, I'll just go the Christian way. Christian is discouraged and truly believes the Christian faith. Here's what the Christian faith teaches. It teaches that you're loved right now and forgiven. It teaches that if you die right now, your life will only get better. It teaches that someday God's going to come to earth and he's going to resurrect us. And he's going to make the new heavens a new earth and wipe away every tear and create a material world in which there's no suffering, pain, or death. Now, you may not believe that. But I'm just trying to say, look, if you believe that and you're having a bad day, how do you feel better? By thinking out the implications of what you think about the reality in the universe. How does a Christian feel better? By thinking out the implications. Say, I believe this and this and this. Think until the glory of it breaks on you. How does a person with this particular understanding of not discovered meaning that I align with, but self-created meaning, how do you deal with it? Don't think too much. And I think that's a weakness. Number one. Number two. This is the only other thing I'm going to tell you. I told you number three I'm going to wait till next week but I'll give you a little open. Secondly. Discovered meaning versus self-created meaning. Self-created meaning is less rational than discovered meaning. And secondly. Self-created meaning is far less durable. Because self-created meaning can always be destroyed by suffering. And you're going to suffer. for example, Viktor Frankl was one of, it was a very famous Jewish-German doctor who was, survived the death camps. He was put in the death camps during World War II and came out. And he wrote a book called Man's Search for Meaning, fascinating book. In it, he was trying to understand why it was that some people in the death camps were able to maintain their dignity and their goodness. He said there were three kinds of people. There were some people that turned evil. They did anything to survive. They informed. They became bad. The second group of people lost all hope, and they just curled up literally and died. And the third group of people stayed noble and good. And he tried to figure out what it was, and he decided, that's why, and you can tell from the name of the book, Man's Search for Meaning. He decided that everybody has to live for something. Everybody has to have something that is their purpose and meaning in life. And if the death camp can take it away from you, you will be destroyed because you can't live without meaning. So if your meaning in life was status or money or your beauty or popularity or whatever, the death camp will take it from you, take everything from you. He says the people that lasted were either religious people or even people that had some meaning of life that was a little idiosyncratic, but still believed that this world wasn't the only world there was. For example, he said there was a man who believed his wife was looking down on him from heaven. The reason he kept good, the reason he kept his hope up, the reason he kept his virtue was because he said, I don't want her to be disappointed with me. Now that's not Christianity. I'm not even sure that's Judaism. But the point was, this world was not all there was. Victor Frankl said, if your something inside this world, inside this time and space, inside this world, suffering will take it away from you, and there's all kinds of things that will utterly destroy you. Now, Western people have always been terrible. Western civilization is the worst civilization in history, I think, at helping people deal with suffering. Dr. Paul Brand, who was a pioneering orthopedic surgeon that treated leprosy patients spent the first half of his medical career in India and the last half in America. And this is what he said. He says, in the United States, I encountered a society that seeks to avoid pain at all costs. Patients lived at a greater comfort level than any I had previously treated, but they seemed far less equipped to handle suffering and far more traumatized by it. Many others worked both in the West. Anyway, what he's saying, any further. What he's saying here is that he found it fascinating that people in other parts of the world could handle suffering better than Americans, basically. And here's what he decided, and here's what I'm going to tell you. Any other religion, the meaning of life in Hinduism, karmic religions, is to live a good life so you can escape the cycles of reincarnation and go and to bliss. The meaning of life in Christianity or Judaism, like as you know, go to heaven or depends, there's different versions. Islam, same thing, paradise. The meaning of life in Buddhism is to overcome the illusion of this world and become part of the all soul. The meaning of life in Northern paganism, the Germanic pagans and, you know, was to, you know, live a life of mobility, especially in the face of unending defeat and therefore live along in glory. Every single

every single religion or culture before our own always said, your meaning in life is something outside of this life. And therefore, even though suffering hurts, suffering can actually help you get to your goal. Suffering is terrible, but it can actually make you a better person. But if the meaning of life is here, if it's something a death camp can take away from you, then you're not durable. And in history,

discovered meaning is something that enables you to handle a death camp. But self-created meaning doesn't handle not just a death camp, it doesn't handle life, because bad things happen to everybody. Lastly, I told you the three reasons why discovered meaning is so much more powerful than the self-created meaning. One is discovered is more rational, this is less rational. Much more durable, this is less durable. And lastly, I'll get to this next week, but I might as well at least give you 20 seconds. If there is no God, it's not hard to understand why a person might have a moral feeling, right? You might have a feeling that X is right and Y is wrong. Why do you feel that way? Could be evolution, could be your genes, could be your culture, could be your choice. And you have the right to your moral God, no problem explaining why people have moral feelings. But without God, it's extremely hard to explain moral obligation. Because in moral obligation, I'm saying to somebody else, you must stop what you're doing because it's wrong regardless of how you feel about it. My feelings trump your feelings. How do you do that? Without God, what do you appeal to? To say, your moral feelings are wrong, my moral feelings are right. I don't know. And we'll get to that next week. The last question, which I did say I would tell you about, so I will briefly. Christianity is not quite like all these other religions. All the other religions do give you a meaning in life that's discovered. The Greeks, for example, believed in something called the Logos. The Logos wasn't God. Logos actually means the word or it means logic, and they believed a rational structure behind the universe. And they believed it was your job to align with that rational structure. And if you aligned with that rational structure then life would go well. So it's a little bit like. I have a. I have a space heater in my apartment. And when I get a space heater. I open it up. And there is a direction. Why. Well. The direction say. The space heater was made. For this kind a power outlet. a grav eigenlijk. The space heater was made to be set over here but don't set it over there. What are the directions saying? The directions are saying this is the design and the purpose of the space heater. It wasn't made for this. It was made for this. And so the directions say, please align your use of the space heater with its logos. With its design. With its purpose. Align with its purpose. Why? If you don't at the very best, you won't get your full value out of it. At the very worst, you'll die. the Greeks said, well, wait a minute. What if there's a logos to the whole world? What if there's a kind of natural order to the whole world behind the whole world? Then by aligning with it, we would find our lives going well. If we don't align with it, if we're going against the grain of the universe, we will at the very least not have a very good life. At the very worst, we'll die. So the Greeks said, let's figure out what that logos is and align with it. And actually, almost every culture except American culture or Western culture has believed there was something like that. But here's the problem. The Stoic Greeks believed what it meant to align with the universe was just simply to accept whatever happened. That's one way to align with the universe. Just not care. Toughen yourself. yourself. The Pharisees believed that the meaning of the logos behind the universe was the Ten Commandments, so you obey. The Epicureans believed that basically you should live, the meaning of life is to find out what makes you happy. And if you don't believe there's any logos, then you've got the Tolstoy problem. So relativism, stoicism, moralism, legalism,

see, hedonism are all ways of saying, I have to find out what the meaning of life is and align with it. But what's interesting about that term logos is that when the gospel of John was written, one of the first four gospels is in the New Testament. The very, very first chapter says, in the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God. And it says, the word became flesh and dwelled among us and we beheld his glory. Now the word there is the word logos and it's talking about Jesus and it's calling Jesus the logos. And John deliberately chose a term that was completely weighted with enormous philosophical freight. And you know why? Let me close like this. There's a French philosophy book that talks, it was a history of philosophy and talks about why Christianity came along and really completely usurped the place of Greek and Roman philosophy. This is what it says. It says, the logos for the Greeks was the impersonal, harmonious, divine structure of the cosmos as a whole. But to the horror of the Greeks, the Christians maintained that the logos, in other words, the cosmic principle, the harmonious order of the world, was not an abstract structure but was a single unique individual, namely Christ. This brought, this is still this textbook, not a Christian book, by the way. This brought an unprecedented emphasis on the history of human thought, on love and persons. By resting its case upon a definition of a human person and an unprecedented idea of love, Christianity was to have an incalculable effect on the history of ideas. It's quite clear that without this Christian re-evaluation of the human person, the philosophy subscribed today would never have established itself. I don't know whether you agree with that and I'm not going to try to press that. But here's the point. Christianity comes along and says the meaning of life is Jesus and the way you find meaning in life is to have a love relationship with a person. Not that the meaning of life is to live up to a code. That's moralism. Not that the meaning of life is to accept whatever happens in life. That's stoicism. Not to just say there is no meaning in life. That's relativism. Not to say well the purpose of life is to find want to do and do it. That's selfishness. But what Christianity came along and said, there is a rational structure to the universe. There really are absolute. There is a discovered meaning that you have to align with. There is an objective meaning. But it's a person. And to know it and to find meaning in life is to love that person and to be in a personal relationship with that person. And boy, that was that revolutionized history. Before then, to find the Logos took philosophical contemplation was only for the elites. but now this is for anybody. And it's so personal and it's not moralistic and it's not stoicism and so on. So if Christianity is true, the meaning of life is a personal relationship, the person behind the universe, Jesus Christ, son of God, creator of the world who came into the world. Now, what we're gonna do at this point is I'm gonna have Susan come on up and we're going to have you text in your questions and we're gonna do a number of questions. We're going to be looking at them for 25 minutes or something like that, and then we'll close up, right? Okay. Wonderful. As Tim said, we're going to have Q&A right now, and we'd love for you all to consider what stirred up and any questions that you have. Please do text it in to that number above. That's the best way to do it. Or you can also email in your question, and we look forward to hearing what you guys have to say and chatting with you all for the next 25, 30 minutes or so. One thing to keep in mind is just for time's sake, because we want to get to as many questions as possible related to the talk and theme tonight. So if you can keep them on topic as much as possible. Nothing on auto repair, if possible. Because I've been here so long, I don't even remember what an automobile looks like. Inside. I don't know what it looks like inside. All right. And while we wait for you all to send your questions, I'm going to break that rule real quick and ask you a starter question because it's not related to the theme, but something that's been on the mind of many New Yorkers and people around the country. Are you for the Seahawks or the Broncos? Think deeply. I'm a Steelers fan. Oh, all right. You heard it. Even though I've been here for 25 years, it's hard to totally eliminate the first half of your life, even as much as I love New York. Steelers fan, so there we go. All right. Don't tweet that, please. It's tweeted. So the first question is,

my worldview or belief system is so strongly shaped by my family and my culture. How can I or anyone else have a sense that my beliefs are truly my own? There's a terrific question. There is a great chapter in a book by Peter Berger, who's a very famous sociologist, and I'm pretty sure it's in the book A Rumor of Angels. Anyway, you could probably find this online, I'll bet. You'll probably find it in Google Books or something like that. look for a there's a chapter in there called relativizing the relativizers and it's extraordinarily interesting chapter he comes at this question a little differently than you the questioner did but here's how he put it he said that um in the in the late 20th century we've increasingly come to see that we are profoundly shaped in our beliefs not by reason but by our communities and our social cultural location, which actually is what you're saying. And he said, for example, we tend to find most plausible and rational the views of people that we want to like us. He says, if it's a person that you really want to like you and really want to be part of, then for some reason, everything they say seems so reasonable. And he says, we've just had study after study after study that we are profoundly influenced by our social location, cultural location, family, and that's what you're noticing. But here's what he says. Here's the problem. He says, if you try to say, therefore, there's no way to be objective, there's no way in any way to be reasonable. If you say, for example, we're all locked into our beliefs, and so nobody can be sure of anything. our beliefs by our social location. Everything is culturally conditioned. Therefore, we can't be shaped by anything. He says, here's the only problem is if that's true, then that view is culturally conditioned and you can't trust that either. He's doing it. He doesn't, listen, I can assure you, he does a better job than I'm doing right now. It's actually a very, if what I'm saying right now doesn't sound very compelling, you ought to read the chapter. after. He takes more time. He's saying, if you say nobody can know truth because everybody is culturally conditioned and we're all stuck and all locked, he says, why should I believe that? That is a statement that you expect me to believe. Why would you tell me that? And you're also trying to shut down debate. And you're trying to say, oh, don't even try to figure out what's true because everything is, you know, you're not objective. He says, but then what you're saying shouldn't be trusted. Which means in the end, you should be chastened. You should be humbled. You should know that you are deeply influenced by your family and your background and your culture. And yet we still have to look at the competing claims and still decide which one is right. As soon as you say nobody can know which one is right, that is a claim that you're assuming that everybody should accept as right. Which means you're contradicting yourself. It's self-refuting. So he says relativism is self-refuting. And saying it's all a matter relativism. It doesn't work. So he says, in the end, we should just now be more chastened and more humble about it and take our time and not come down each other's throats. And he wrote that before the internet, by the way. I mean, he's still alive and he actually blogs now. But I mean, it is astounding how what he's really saying is let's be kind to each other. Let's work with each other. Let's not hit each other over the head. But let's still at the same time say it's possible to come to conclude whether some claims are true or not. Thank you. Next great question is, how can we know that religion isn't just a cultural solution to an inherent human discomfort with the meaningless universe with no objective God? Oh, well, you need to keep coming. Well, see, what you're asking me... Oops, it's gone. on. Now, I said emotional, cultural, and intellectual or rational sense. I freely admit that these first couple of times, I'm going to be talking to you about why it would be great if Christianity was true, but I'm not going to be trying to establish that it is yet. In which case, you have absolutely every right to say exactly what you said. To say, hey, that's great. Indestructible meaning, a meaning that the death camp can't take away from you. Wonderful. It'd I know this isn't just an illusion? Well, I have to get to it. And I don't think I'll take too much time right here. Christianity, I actually think, is a wonderful balance. It doesn't strictly appeal to existential experience. It doesn't strictly appeal to rational evidence. Because of the claim that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead, because it's a historical claim, because there are historical documents that we can judge as to whether we trust them or not. There's really more rational fodder for, there's more grist for your reason mill in Christianity than most of the other religions. So there's more claims that can be tested and weighed. So we'll get there. But right now, the first couple times we meet together, I'd like to talk more about what Christianity offers you and claims so you have an idea of what it really is saying before we turn and say, well, let's discuss whether or not it's true or not. Next question is that you described Christianity as giving you indestructible ability to deal with problems in life, but what do you have to say about those and many who have left faith as a result of suffering? Yes. Okay. These are wonderful questions, and this answer is not

probably... I'm a pastor, so when I talk to people who have felt like my faith isn't real, I've gone through suffering and trouble, and I just can't believe anymore, I want you to know that if I ever talk to you, I won't say anything quite as brusque as what I'm about to say right now. But it's one thing to believe in God. It's another thing to have your main hope and meaning be God. In other words, for example, if I say I believe in God, but I'm really living for money, the thing that makes me feel good about myself is I make money. By the way, this isn't true of me because I'm a pastor. But anyway, the point is, it could be. But anyway, put it this way. My temptations are not in this area because I don't get enough. Anyway, the main point is, if I say money, in other words, in my heart, I say what really makes me feel like a man is I make money. What really makes me feel like I'm a significant person is I make money. I believe in God. In fact, All my life I believed in Christianity. The person who gets into this is St. Augustine. St. Augustine talks about the order of our loves, that he says our heart has a hierarchy of loves. There's some things that we really love and things that we really hope in and that really give us our significance and security, and then there are lower loves. loves. And he would say, I think he would say, that even if God is your main hope, and God himself and his love is your main meaning in life, like I said at the end, a love relationship with God through Jesus Christ. If that's your main love, well, then your main meaning in life, then suffering couldn't take that away from you. It certainly can hurt. Oh, my word. Of course it has to hurt. If I love God more than my wife,

and I lose my wife, she dies, that will be devastating. I don't mean like I just breeze through life. I certainly hope I didn't give you that impression. But I'll be able to survive. If I actually love my wife more than God, God is sort of an abstraction. It's my wife's love that gives me all my meaning in life. If I believe in God, I pray, but God's sort of an abstraction to my heart, then maybe when I lose her, I might not make it. so I would say that if you know if your heart was set the degree to which your heart is set in a love relationship with God through Jesus Christ to that degree you're impervious to devastating loss of meaning you are not impervious to grief you are not in fact I could argue that you're more able to feel grief in some ways anyways, that would be another whole talk on the fact that I think Christians, because of their relationship with God, actually probably can be more honest. I think you can feel the sadness of the world a little bit more, the brokenness of the world a little bit more. You don't need to say, these are the good people, these are the bad people. We see everybody is broken. So I don't want to give the impression, I think, that you wouldn't hurt and suffer. But I would say that ultimately, if God is your meaning, that can't be taken away. St. Augustine basically says this. This isn't a quote, but this is a well-known praise of his teaching. Only love of the immutable can bring tranquility. That's the idea behind a meaning in life that's indestructible. Keep going. Sorry. Thanks. These are great. Thank you. a long question, but it's very, very good. So bear with me as I read it. It says, how do you respond to the idea that your argument for the durability and rationality of objective meaning reinforces the concept of an inclination towards religious belief as a human behavior that has only been propagated as a survival mechanism of the human species, allowing it to exist in large societies? Yeah, well, that's not up there. Let me see it again. It's long enough. I'm pretty sure I long enough. Thank you. You are a young person, are you not? Yes, you are a young person. No, wait. Wait, where is it? It's right there. Right there. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Oh. Yeah, well. Bite him some time. No, no. There's a whole area of study right now that talks about, about trying to understand why religion exists. And, of course, anyone who says that everything that happens in our lives happens because of natural selection, that everything about us is true because it helped our ancestors survive and therefore was passed down to us. So religious sensibilities, religious feelings, religious arguments are only here because they helped us adapt. and this is going to and therefore here you are saying that religion gives you meaning in life that's indestructible you guys are doing a great job I was trying to put off this idea that I'm trying to hold off on saying here's why it's not an illusion, here's why it's not just a way of adapting to my environment I can make a case that religion actually doesn't adapt to the environment very well in many ways. But I'm putting it off. I'm sorry to have to say to two of you very good questioners to say, just because it gives you indestructible meaning doesn't mean it's true, which is kind of what you're saying. And I'm saying, yeah, I know that. I know that. I mean, I got the idea for the series when I read two books recently. One book by a guy named Francis Spufford called Unapologetic. He's British, wrote a book, and he started right off by saying, I'm going to show you why thoughtful people who understand what Christianity offers would find it at least an attractive package. At the very least, it would be something that resonates. But I'm not going to anywhere in the book talk about why I think it's true, only why I think it makes emotional sense, why it makes cultural sense. Now, I'm not going to do that to you, because when I read the book, I was frustrated on your behalf, on behalf of people who are skeptical. And I was saying, okay, okay, but how do you know this isn't true? Nevertheless, I'm still going to put it off. I mean, you can get, even if you don't get back here, which I hope you will, you can get all the rest of the material I'm going to produce. And I just ask that you would put what I'm talking about tonight along with the other stuff that I give you later on. But I'm afraid if I just try to give you an off-the-cuff thing, not put Christianity in the best light because it'll be so spotty. So anyway. Shorter question. Why is Jesus a person, a more believable logos than anything else? Well, I don't know that I'd say it's more believable. I know that the book I was reading out of was a history of thought, it was called. And one of the questions that historians ask for, ask about is why Christianity supplanted Greco-Roman view. Again, I'm being pragmatic here. Some of you are going to say, you're just being pragmatic. You're not telling me which is true. But pragmatically, the historians say that the Greco-Roman approach to the Logos was elitist. elitist, you might have heard me just barely allude to it as I was trying to wrap up. It was elitist because it was for very strong people who had to sort of, that's why some of them were called Stoics. They decided, I'm going to align myself with the harmony of nature, and I'm going to live in a certain way, and I'm going to, and most of the historians said that the Hoi Poloi found Greek philosophy elitist and very, very, very difficult. You know, Seneca, wrote, who was a Stoic philosopher, Seneca I think it was, or was it Cicero? And we wrote a series of letters to a woman whose son had died. And you can see that the Stoic approach was saying, look, this is life. People die. You know, they go back, it's almost, sounds a little bit like, you almost want to, you know, sounds like the Lion King music is going to break out any minute when you're reading Cicero and Seneca, because they're saying, it's all part of the great circle of life. You know, we die, and then you know, we become fertilizer and then the plants come up and so on. He was trying to say, this is life and you've got to align with it and you've got to get yourself straight with it. That's the only way you're going to find meaning in life. And so he was basically saying, don't mourn too long. I mean, he's been dead for six months. I'll get over it. And the historians said that it was kind of harsh and cold. And the idea of having no meaning in life was, you know, back then unconscionable. And so along comes Christianity and says the meaning of life is found in a love relationship, not contemplating philosophically the nature of the rational order of the universe. And so they said Christianity was much more egalitarian, much more populist, much easier for the poor and the uneducated to pick up as well as the educated, you know, St. Augustine, people like that. I am answering your question about why it was more popular and why it seemed human, and why it seemed to include everybody instead of just the elites. When I said, is it more believable? It might be more plausible. But on the other hand, an idea that God would become human was actually pretty hard for a lot of people to believe. Almost impossible if you read Acts chapter 17, where Paul actually speaks to Stoic and Epicurean philosophers on Mars Hill in Athens. And when he gets to the idea of a just go nuts and they think it's crazy. So I wouldn't say that Jesus as the Logos is more believable, but I would say in many ways it's more attractive, and that's what I'm trying to talk about tonight. Next question is, can a secular subjective meaning of life, such as commitment to help the poor and the weak, that is comparable to the teachings of Jesus, have rationality and durability? Well, I tried to say, maybe I didn't say it rightly, I said, I feel like that discovered objective meaning is more rational and more durable. When I say it's more rational, I mean the more you think about, you know, if you believe in God or you're Christian, the more you think about the implications of what you believe, the better you feel. And I think both Tolstoy and even Tom Nagel and C.S. Lewis, three very different people, Christian, you know, American atheist philosopher and a Russian novelist, all agreed and said, if you think about this too much, about the fact that you're in a meaningless universe and nothing you do is going to make any difference, it starts to break in on you in a bad way. So I would say, but is it rational? It can be rational. Sure, it can, because you're saying, I just want to see people helped. I can make the world a better place for 10 years or for 20 years. I can make the world a better place for one family. Of course that's rational. I didn't want to say it's not. I don't want you to think that I'm talking out of two sides of my mouth. I really do believe that without God, you can have meaning in life. I'm not saying you can't. And I really do think that if you decide I'm going to work for a better world and I'm going to work for more social justice, that's both rational and it has a lot of durability. I'm of light. Most people, most cultures would say, boy, that's thin. What happens if things go wrong? What happens if there's a war? I mean, what happens if there's a famine? What happens if there's this or that? How do you know that? And I think it really created, self-created subjective meaning requires an awfully safe environment, an awfully prosperous place. most people, most places, most times in the world would say it wouldn't work for them. However, is it rational and durable? Yes. Is it as rational and durable as discovered meaning? No. I don't think. That's my point. If one doesn't believe in God, why can't the purpose in one's life be relationships with others and making the lives better for those around you? This is not selfishness. And even if the world ends, what you do matters for that period of time? Well, that's pretty close to, I think, I'll be, just to make sure we get on to other questions, I think I can just do this in a few seconds. I'm pretty sure that's close to what the last question was about. As a Christian, of course, I do believe, and somebody's already said this, that if you, when William Wilberforce, who was a strong Christian layperson and member of to repeal slavery and was working to abolish slavery in the British Empire, what he would do is he'd come into meetings and he would say, I'm a Christian. And the reason I think slavery is wrong is because of what I read in the Bible is because of my Christian views. My Christian understanding of every human being is made in the image of God. It's wrong to enslave them. He says, however, I don't care why you're against slavery. If you are against slavery and you're ready to work with me, let's go. It might come from Islam. It might come because you're a Quaker, and I'm an Anglican. It could be you're an atheist. I don't care. If you have a vision for a world without slavery, we can work together. And that's humble cooperation with people. And from a Christian point of view, we would think, we think, that if a person says, I'm not a Christian, I don't believe in God, but I see that this is a good thing to work for, We would say that probably God's inspired them anyway. You may not believe that God's inspired you. But we think all good gifts come from God. And you've got wisdom that comes from God. Whether you admit it or not. Or whether you see it or not. So there's really no reason why a Christian can't say. That is a good thing. It's certainly better than living a selfish life. It will make the world a better place. It will make you a better person. So yeah. It's rational. It's meaningful. It's just thinner. Way, way thinner. And if that's the best you feel like you can do. That's fine. Like Wilberforce, I say, let's work together. I'm actually trying to simply get you to think, maybe there is something deeper, thicker, more durable, more powerful than what I've got. That's all I'm trying to get you to do tonight. Several people have asked this, something to the effect of, why is asking what is the meaning of life a worthy question anyway? What is the color of the number seven? Well, that's what, see, Tom Nagel says that in his book. He basically says, isn't this the right question to ask? And why do we have to ask that question? Here's the comeback. I mean, I got the book out when I was preparing for my talk here tonight. It's a book written in the 1980s, so I've had it maybe since the 1980s. And it's interesting to read the markings, the jottings I wrote in the margins 30 years ago. It's kind of interesting to see what you thought. saying is, I kept saying, Tom Nagel, you're right. He keeps saying, why are we even asking the question? It's a nonsense question. It's like, what's the color of seven? Why do we, you know, who needs to have a meeting in life? And I said, I just don't know that's,

I feel like that even though I can't give you a rational answer, oh, questioner, I can't prove, you know, I don't know how to answer that. You know, you say, well, why should we even ask the question. All I know is there's something about human nature that will keep imposing the question on you. You may not be Tolstoy. I mean, Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, those guys, gosh, people who could write like they, I mean, they're weird. I mean, I'm not Russian, so I don't understand all that. But nevertheless, I think something like that happens to most people. I actually think that the question imposes itself on you, even though you can't really give, I can't give you a good

And I think you may be kidding yourself. Let me, you may be kidding yourself if you don't think that you have a operative meaning in life. I'll be fast on this, but you know, in Alistair McIntyre's book, After Virtue, he tells a story about how you can't make sense of anything or even make a move without putting an incident in a story. You've got to have an overarching story that helps you make sense of anything. gives the example. He says, imagine you're at a bus stop and somebody you've never met before, a young man walks up to you and says, by the way, the Latin word for the wild duck is histrionicus, histrionicus, histrionicus. And then he walks away. Now, what just happened there? And McIntyre says, now you can imagine. He says, first of all, it's possible that yesterday when you were in the a library. Yesterday that young man was in a library. And it wasn't very good lighting. And he walked over to a person and asked a question. And you look like that person. And today he saw you at the bus stop. And he took you for that person. And he decided that you must be the person. And so he mistook you. And he continues a conversation that he started with somebody else. That's one explanation. Another explanation is this is a mentally ill young man. He's just is mentally ill, and he does this, and he's nuts, and it's terrible. And the third is that this is a foreign spy, and he's here to do some dastardly deed, and he thinks you're his contact, and he just gave you his code. Now, McIntyre says one story is a kind of sad story. One story is a kind a kind of a routine story. One story is a kind of out there, unlikely, scary story. But he says, you are going to have to figure. The only way you can possibly make sense of what happened is you have to put it in a story. And an awful lot of philosophers, not necessarily Christian ones, are saying a meaning of life means life is about a story. It's about a struggle between this and this. It's about this and this. This is what life's all about. a life without a protagonist, an antagonist. You can't live a life without moral values. You can't live a life without saying some things are good and some things are bad. You can't live a life without saying some things are worth doing. And all of the answers to those questions, what is worth doing, what is good and bad, what is life about, what's wrong with the world, what will make it better, you have answers to those things. Or you can't live life. And those things are a meaning in life. And so I don't know that you can really say it's meaningless, and I think it'll keep pushing itself on you, but I do think that you have to live with, you have to have a meaning in life in order to function. One last question, one last minute. A very good general question for tonight as we start this seven-week series is, you keep saying the word God. Can you please define find that? Well, tonight I was very generic about God. I was willing to say, for example, that Buddhists, karmic religions like Hindus, dualists like Zoroastrianism and who believe that there's, you know, eternal evil and eternal good that are the same level, Christianity, Northern European paganism. I actually at one point went through and said every single one of them believes that there's a supernatural world. There's a world outside of the physical. That the material world is not all there is. And there's some kind of spiritual life. And some kind of supernatural. And there's also some kind of existence that goes on after you're dead. And in that sense, all those views do a better job of giving you meaning in life that can handle suffering. And then the current view, which is this life is all there is. And to create your own meaning. All of them do better at suffering. Everybody can see it. Anybody who knows, they, you know, so. So tonight I was actually, until the very end, just trying to say, God, for our purposes tonight, was anything, any spirit, any personal or impersonal, all soul, or, you know, I just, I wasn't willing to talk about all kinds of God. But the Christian idea is that God is Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, even though he's one being, he's three persons. and the Father, Son, Holy Spirit are all equally God, and they know and love each other. And that generally, if you, is a, well, it's unique, utterly unique. And actually, the Christian view of God means that God has been a love relationship from all eternity. It's not like God created the world and created people and then had love after he created people. And before that, he was sort of just hovering in space for a billion eternities or something. No, from all eternity, he's known and loved. God was a family in which there's been love and communication from the beginning, and therefore love is intrinsic to life and to the universe. That's a radically different view of God, radically personal, radically loving than the Buddhist view. Sometimes I'm going to talk about God in general, and tonight I was trying to say that any belief that there's a God beyond the physical and material world helps you with meaning in life better than not believing in God at all. But then at the very end, I did a move and said, but Christianity brings the personal and the love in, in a way Buddhism can't do, Hinduism can't do, I don't think even Islam can do. And at some point, I'm not here to try to lift Christianity up over other religions so much as to talk about why Christianity in general makes sense more than anything, including secularism. So I, sometimes, here's what I'd like you to see. I will try to define God when I'm talking and say here I'm not talking about the Christian God. I'm just talking about the view of God that any religion would have. But at other times, I'll try to be careful and say here I'm talking about the Christian God, the father of Jesus Christ and so on. That's a helpful thing for you to point out. Okay. All right. Well, thank you so much for all of your questions. We had so many, and many of you have more questions, and some questions came in that we didn't get to ask. But don't worry, that's why there's extra weeks. And also, immediately after this, on the fifth floor, we invite you to enjoy some food and drinks. And also, Tim will be there if you want to ask your question in person. So please do join us before you go out into the cold. And real quick, before we end, Tim, did you want to give us a brief teaser, I guess, of what's to come in the next week? Well, I already told you, next week I'd like to talk about the problem of how do you work for justice? I mean, for example, when people say, well, I don't believe in God, but I'm working for justice in the world, right away my question is, so you're telling some people that they're living on... You're working against injustice, you're working for justice. How do you know... How do you define that? How do you appeal to somebody to say you must stop doing injustice? If they say, no, I'm not doing injustice, how do you mitigate between the two, you know, your feelings and their feelings? So this is, by the way, a very hot issue right now. There have been some, Tom Nagel recently wrote a book in which he said that even though he doesn't believe in God, he thinks it's extremely difficult to account for moral values without belief in something beyond the natural material world. It's gotten an enormous amount of pushback, and I'll try to give you a layman's sort of update. The week after that, I want to talk about an identity that's...Christianity can offer you an identity that not only frees you from the expectations of others, but frees you from your own crushing standards. And talk about psychology, basically. Talk about identity and how identity works inside the Christian faith. two weeks and beyond that kind of depends on how our discussion goes