We're going to read Luke chapter 14, verses 25 to 27. Large crowds were traveling with Jesus, and turning to them, he said, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his father and mother, his wife and children, his brothers and sisters, yes, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. And anyone who does not carry his cross and follow me cannot be my disciple. This is God's word. Now, you know, nearly everybody, almost everybody says Jesus Christ, whatever else he was, whatever else they believe he is, was a great teacher. But when you actually get down to studying Jesus' teaching, he has a lot of sayings that are called, we can call hard sayings. Hard sayings. Now, they're hard partly because they're hard to understand, but just as important, just as much, and maybe even more so, they're hard because they're hard to swallow. They're hard to accept. They're hard to receive. Now, you know, this summer is fun because we have different preachers in the summer. There's no one unified series. Summer preaching is a little bit... In the summer, Redeemer is like a box of chocolate, so you never know quite what you'll get. But during the summer when I'm here, what I'm going to do is I'm choosing a number of the hard sayings of Jesus, difficult sayings to look at them. And in a way, now that I made the Forrest Gump joke about chocolates, actually the hard sayings of Jesus are not at all like chocolate. They're more like hard candy. See, with chocolate, you know, you pop a chocolate in, you eat through it, and you digest it, and there it is. If you try to get one of these sayings of Jesus and you try to bite through it and sort of define it and get to the bottom of it and digest it all at once, it just doesn't work. If you try to do that with hard candy, you'll end up at the dentist's office. What do you have to do with hard candy to get it into your system? You can get to the bottom of hard candy. You can get it into your system. It takes a long time and you have to sort of suck on it. And the hard sayings of Jesus are just like that. The hard sayings of On the surface, they look pretty difficult and maybe even look absurd. But as you go into them, as you reflect upon them, as you meditate on them, over the years, you'll find that you actually never get to the bottom of it. For example, on the surface, look at this. You must hate your father and mother. On the surface, you might say either that's absurd. That's how terrible? Terrible. Or you might say it's unnecessary. You say, I already hate my father and mother. And if you do say that, that's a great problem, you know. And there's a lot of people who that is exactly the case. And it's one of the great wounds of their life. But only as you get down into it over a long period of time, as long as you get down into this saying, you'll actually see that Jesus has a solution for that. Jesus is saying, if you hate your father or mother your way, the only solution for that is to learn how to hate them my way. So there's a lot in this. Well, there's a lot in all these things. Let's take a look at this hard saying tonight. And it's really about what? It's really not essentially about fathers and mothers, even though that's the thing that jumps up at you. It's about discipleship. It's about what it means to follow Jesus, what it means to be a disciple of Jesus. That's really a subject. And we learn here five things. There are five things this text tells us about what it means to be a disciple of Jesus. And the five things are this. Let's go. Number one. First thing we learn here is that, and we learn it from the context mainly, that the discipleship, Jesus' discipleship, is non-optional. Not optional. Look, who does he say this to? It says, large crowds were traveling with Jesus and turning to them, he said. Now, he turned to them from who? He was with his 12. He was with his insiders. He was with his people who had signed up, you know, for full-time service. But Jesus turns around and doesn't just speak to discipleship and about the cross and all that. He says it to everybody. Now, what does that mean? What he says, he says to everybody, and what it means is this. Jesus has no double standards. Almost everybody thinks that you can be a Christian. There's two levels. There's the regular Christian level. There's regular Christians who, you know, they believe and they don't get real excited about it, but they come to church and they believe it and they pray when there's trouble and all. And then there's the devoted types. Then there's the people who are kind of all out and all that. What is Jesus Christ saying when he turns the crowds? What he's saying is this, there are no two standards. There's only one standard. Look, he says, anyone who wants to deal with me has to take up a cross. He says, anyone, if you want to deal with me at all, you've got to put me absolutely first ahead of parents and family and career and everything else. I have to be number one. Full, complete, sacrificial discipleship is the only thing you can do in order to relate to me. There are no two standards. There are no three standards. You see? Full discipleship is an absolute requirement of everyone. It is not optional. To be a disciple is to be a Christian. You can't say, well, I'm a Christian, but I'm not into all that. There's no two standards. One of the things about summer that fries my wife is when we go traveling on vacation, you know, you go up, you call up the motel, or you see in the ad, or you see it in the book, and it tells you how much the room is. And, you know, so it says $59, you know, room. Okay, so you go and you stay in the room. In the morning, it's $79, or it's $81. What's this? Well, the fine print. When they quoted you $59, they weren't talking about taxes. They weren't talking about, you know, 2% for looking in the mirror twice and so forth. You know, they don't tell you about the fine print. They don't tell you about all that other stuff. They don't tell you the real cost. Fine print. See, Jesus Christ does not turn to the crowd and say, I will give you life and more abundantly. And then turn to his disciples and say, but there'll be crosses. You know, once you've signed up. Oh, yeah, yeah. There's cross, that thing. No. No. Jesus says there's one standard and one standard only. I'm upfront about it. I do not hide the costs. I do not hide the difficulties. I do not hide all the things that can happen in being a Christian. To be a Christian is to be a disciple, to put me first, to kiss everything else goodbye. Anyone who wants to come to me at all, see, anyone who wants to come has to be a disciple. Full-throated, see, all out. So first of all, discipleship is not optional. That's a pretty scary thing. Okay, number one. Number two, the second thing, however, we learn here is that discipleship is not just not optional, but discipleship is also unpredictable. Let's look at the range. Father, mother, wife, children, brothers, sisters. Now, what is all that? In a patriarchal family-oriented society, this is basically the course of your life. Your life completely revolves. It's a little different. Don't forget, you've got to be careful when you're in a Western secular individualistic society and you misunderstand some of these statements. What Jesus is saying is he's giving, he's just laying out the way your life is supposed to go. This is what everyone's life consisted of. Your life revolves around your own family and your extended family and basically, I mean, those of you who are from more traditional cultures or whose parents are from more traditional cultures, you know how vastly more important the family was to everything that happened in your life. You never disgraced your family. You never moved away from your family. You never married somebody your family didn't want. I mean, you know that, right? You understand that? But here's what Jesus is saying. Jesus is looking at the agenda, the normal agenda of a person's life. And what he is saying is willing to kiss it all goodbye, or put it another way. He's saying, don't you dare come to me with your agenda for your life, with your outline of what you want your life to be, and then try to fit me in. I will not be used. Don't come to me because, now this is scary, is it not? Look, don't come to me because you want to be a better husband, or a better wife, or a better, or to have a happy family. Don't even come to me because you just want a happier life or a more fulfilled life. I will not be used. You must come to me for me, myself. You have to be willing to kiss any of this stuff goodbye. Put it another way, what better way could Jesus Christ have said than to say, you know, you must hate your father, mother, brother, sister, wife, child. What better way could he say, don't come to me because I'm relevant. Don't come to me because I'm relevant. Don't come to me because I'm exciting. Don't come to me because I'm fulfilling. Don't come to me because I'll make you a better citizen. Don't go to Christianity in order to have a better society. Come to me for me myself. Oh, he's saying, I will be the most relevant thing. I will be the most thrilling thing. I'll be the most fulfilling thing you ever, ever, ever could see, but not if you come to me as such. You've got to come to me just for me. You've got to come to me because I'm true, not because I'm relevant, though I am relevant. You've got to come to me because I'm a burning joy and strength because I am. Because I'm your Lord, your true Lord, your true life, your true way, your true end, period. And therefore, what Jesus is saying, he says, don't come to me with your, you know, this is the way it goes, father, mother, then you move on to wife and child and your extended family. He says, I am not a tame lion. You know, in the Narnia Chronicles, Chronicles, C.S. Lewis's fairy tales for children, there's this one place where the little girl hears about Aslan the lion, and she says, ooh, a lion. Is he safe? And what's the answer? You know the answer, most of you, because I've quoted this so often. Is he safe? And the answer is safe. Who said anything about being safe? Of course he's not safe, but he's good. good. He's the king, I tell you. Now, what Jesus Christ is saying here is, I am not safe, but I'm good. He says, you know, you've got your life outlined ahead of you. Don't fit me into your life. Don't make me the means and your life the end. Your life is the means and I am the end. When you come to me, you're not my disciple unless you come to me and say, say, I'm with you whatever. Okay? So the second thing is unpredictable. You know, excuse me, before I go on to the third point, can I ask you a question? Is your life kind of placid? Do you just pray sometimes and you go to church and you believe, but you're just, you're basically pursuing your life and things are going pretty well and every so often you turn to God for spiritual strength. Is that your life? That's not the life Jesus envisions here. Jesus says you can throw when you meet me. Throw away the scripts gladly, with fear and trembling, but gladly. Okay, so the second thing we learn is discipleship is unpredictable. Now the third thing, let's take a look at this word hate. Discipleship is not optional. There's only one standard. Discipleship is unpredictable. He's not a tame lion. You don't fit him into your goals. He becomes the new goal. Number three, discipleship. Well, I'm going to tell you this point. Let me just go into this word hate for a second. Why would he choose this word hate? I mean, most people look at this word, and you kind of know what he's getting at, right? First of all, I don't think anyone seriously believes that Jesus Christ was saying here that you should hate in the sense of being actively hostile to these people. Jesus says, love your enemies. Jesus on the cross was saying, Father, forgive them. Jesus says you're not allowed to even hate the wicked, right? And so how in the world could he be talking this way about your family? No, he's not using the word hate in the normal sense, the most, you know, the common sense of being actively hostile. Here's the interesting thing. In Semitic usage, in the Bible, the word hate can mean, see, hate actively, but it also can mean hate comparatively. It can mean hate actively but it can also mean hate comparatively. The best example of this is actually in Genesis 29. Some of you know the story. It was about Jacob. And Jacob had two wives, Leah and Rachel. And it says twice in that passage in Genesis 29 that Jacob loved Rachel but he hated Leah, twice. Twice. Now, if you actually go back into your modern translations, it won't use the word. That's what the Hebrew word is, though, hate. Why? Does that mean when it said he hated Leah, does that mean he actively hated her? No. Because in verse 31, it actually says, explains, in verse 30, excuse me, it actually says he loved Rachel more. And what that means is he loved, he hated Leah, not actively, but comparatively, loved Rachel. His love for Rachel was so incredibly great that the way his treatment of Leah looked by, even though it wasn't mean or anything like that, he didn't curse her and he wasn't unkind to her, he was perfectly affectionate. But compared to Rachel, his attitude toward Leah was like hate. Now, you suddenly realize, you realize, I started meditating on this, I started reflecting on this, and I suddenly realize what Jesus is saying here. And this is a very, very, very searching test. Jesus is saying what he wants out of disciples, what a disciple is. What is he saying here? He is saying, I want you to love me. What he's saying is this. Look at these kinds of loves, father and mother. That's what the Greeks called storge love, familial love, familiar affection. Then look at wife, okay? That's erotic love. Then look at child. That's another kind of love. You love your child in a different way than you love your parents. And then there's brothers and sisters. That might not be siblings. That just might be friends. But here's what Jesus is doing. He is taking every kind of love that there is, every kind of human love. He's taking sexual love. He's taking friendship love. He's taking family love. He's taking, you know, all these kinds of love in here, affection love, and he's saying, I want and I offer a kind of love that will make all of those pale by comparison. I don't want sentiment. I don't want just an inspirational feeling at the end of the sermon. I want a love as real as your love for your wife or your husband, as real, as passionate, delightful, and then so much more that it makes every other kind of human love pale by comparison. That's what he's saying. He says, I want to be the Rachel. I want to be the Rachel of your life. Now, what he is demanding is really a searching test. I am not saying, and he is certainly not saying, that discipleship has nothing to do with will, has nothing to do with volition. He is It's certainly not saying that, you know, a disciple isn't someone who does the duty. Of course it's to do the duty. The whole idea of going to the cross is not, it means I'm doing what it takes no matter what. Of course there's volition. Of course there's duty and there's obligation. Of course there's obeying in spite of your feelings. But that's not the heart. That's not the heart of what it means to be a disciple. Jesus is actually saying, you're not a disciple unless you're emotional about me. me. Crazy thing for a Presbyterian minister to say, but I want to back it up. He's saying, love me. That's the reason for this strange word choice. You know, you say, well, what he means is, put me first. Yeah, of course that's what it means. He's saying, I need to be more important than your father, your mother, your wife, your child. Of course, but he doesn't say it that way. He could have said it that way. There's other places where he does. There's plenty of places where he says, I need to be more important. But he's not talking just about importance. He's not just talking about priority. Of course he is, but it's something more. He says, I want love. I want us to interact in love. I want you to have a sense of my embrace. I want a sense of communication. I want delight. This is really remarkable. He's taking every kind of human love and saying, I offer something more. You know, the stars are out all day. You just can't see them because the sun is so bright. And Jesus is saying, I really want that kind of love. Not to put out the other kinds, but I want to flood every other kind of love with the overwhelming sense of grace and love that we can have with each other. Paul says so. You know, listen, in Romans chapter 5, verses 3 to 5, he says, we know that suffering produces perseverance, and perseverance character, and character hope. Okay? But where does it come from? And our hope does not disappoint us because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit that he's given us. When I say it's searching, it searches me. Is it searching you? Do not think that you are where you need to be as a disciple if you're just there every time the church doors are open, studying, doing the right thing. Does your prayer life exist? And not just your prayer life. Do you just say your prayers? Maybe you say your prayers all the time, but are you just saying your prayers? What's the engine of your life? Jesus is not just saying, make me first in your life, though he is. He's not just saying, do your duty, though he is. He's saying, love me. St. Augustine proves that this is the essence of what it means to be a disciple. This isn't just icing on the cake. Nobody must sit here and say, well, wow, man, that's a very lofty ideal. I don't know that I'm that kind of person. I don't have that kind of temperament. My religion is a private thing, and I don't think I can ever be there. You know, don't think of this as an addition. Don't think of this as just the icing on the cake. This is at the heart of it. But St. Augustine, in his book Confession, his Confessions, he says the essence, the key to transform character, the key to a great life, the key to courage, the key to forgiveness, the key to peace, the key to the kind of great heart you want to have is what? He says it's not willpower, it's not working hard, it's not... basically, he says, it's the right ordering of our loves. The right ordering. Think. Now, we already made, we laughed about hating father and mother in the beginning, but there are some of you that you know you've disappointed your parents. And it's like a cloud that follows you everywhere. You may not even admit it, but you just can't overcome the shame of it, the fear of it. My parents are disappointed in me. And you can't get really free from it, that sense of failure. Or maybe it's somebody else. Maybe it's a spouse, or maybe someone you were in love with, or someone, a dear friend, somebody who rejected you. And you can't get rid of the sense of that failure. Or maybe right now you're just kind of scared. You're very scared because you say, if I could just have this job, if I could just get into this graduate school, if I could just get this money, if I could just have this life, and it's teetering You don't know what you're going to do if you lose it. Okay? Now, St. Augustine says, what's the problem in every one of those cases? Why are you eaten up with worry or a sense of failure or inferiority or lack of confidence or cowardice or anger or bitterness? Why? He says it's because somebody, something is too important to your heart. Your parents' opinion is too important to you. It's got you by the throat. Or your friend or the person who rejected you, it's too important to you. It's got you by the throat. Or the money or the career, it's too important to you. It's got you by the throat. What are you going to do to get freedom? Says Augustine. What are you going to do to get peace? There's only two things you can do. You can actively try to hate. You can say, my parents were just such idiots to get a little bit of freedom, a little bit of freedom. Or to say, that person had rejected me. Wow, what did they know? You know, they were flawed people. They were trash themselves. You know, it was a trash. Or you could say, or you could play the sour our grapes thing like the fox in the Aesop's fable. Oh, I never got the career I wanted. Who cares? Look at those people that have those queries. They're so full of themselves. In other words, you can get, one of the ways you can get freedom, one of the ways you can get freedom and poise is to try to not love your parents so much. Not love that person that rejected you so much. Not love your career so much. Not be as passionate. Kill it, Cop it. See, harden your heart. That's one way to get freedom. What a cost. He says the other way to get freedom, he says the only way you're going to overcome the way your parents think of you, the only way you're going to overcome what other people think of you, the only way you're going to overcome even what your own heart and conscience and standards think about you, is you have to love God more. He says the thing you need to go from being a coward to being a courageous person, the thing you need to go from being bitter to being happy and peaceful and forgiving, the thing you need to go from being inferior to being confident. The love of Jesus Christ has to be so real to you that it eclipses these other things. In other words, you don't love anything too much. You love Jesus Christ too little in relationship to them. And therefore, the essence of a transformed character, the essence of what it means to grow into discipleship is to hate all these things comparatively. Is to let him be the Rachel, let him be the fairest among 10,000. You really have to have that kind of love. That's the essence of what it means to be a disciple. So we see, thirdly, discipleship is what? Non-optional. Number two: Unpredictable. But number three: deeply emotional. A disciple is someone who's emotional about Jesus Christ, and you're not a disciple if you're not emotional about it. That's what he's saying. I don't want you to just put me first. I want you to love me. Number four: Well, somebody says, how in the world do you get that? Where does that come from? How do I do that? Jesus seems so abstract to me. The whole thing seems like such a concept. I guess you could say I'm supposed to spend more time praying, but I don't know if that's going to work. Because number four, we're told here you're supposed to take up your cross. Jesus does not say take up my teachings and follow me. He doesn't say take up my example and follow me. That would crush you. If you try to pick up Jesus' teaching, just pick up the Sermon on the Mount and follow him. Go ahead. Get one step and it'll crush you right through the floor. Right down into whatever's down here. If I try to take up the Sermon on the Mount and follow him, you know it says, don't envy anyone, forgive everybody, be completely poor in spirit. No, what does he say? Take up the cross. And what does that mean? Well, a lot of people think, boy, that sounds pretty awful. In fact, Henry Sweet, who was an old commentator, wrote a couple of the best old commentaries on Matthew and Mark back in the early part of the 20th century. He put it this way. He says, to take up the cross can only mean one thing. It means to put yourself in the place of a condemned criminal. Well, you say, that sounds pretty negative. Well, not at all. Because what condemned criminal are we talking about? What condemned criminal are you supposed to be putting yourself in the place of? What condemned criminal are you supposed to be identifying yourself with? And this is what Jesus is saying. The essence of discipleship is to realize that when I died, you died. Identify with me. Paul puts it like this in Colossians 2. Set your mind on things above where Christ is seated on the right hand of God, for you died. And your life is now hidden with Christ in God. You died. You know, the Bible says over and over again, if you become a Christian, or a better way to put it, is the minute you believe in Jesus Christ, you died on the cross with him. You were buried with him, the Bible says. What does that mean? God looks at you right now as if you've paid all the penalty for every cent of your sin. If you are a person who believes in Jesus and you start to beat yourself up because of your sin, because you feel so guilty, don't. Why? Because God sees you. As far as God's concerned, you've already been beaten. You've been flogged. You've been crowned with thorns. You've been speared. You've been nailed. You've paid it all. Your life is hidden with God in Christ. Now when God looks at you, he sees what Jesus has done. And therefore, to put yourself in the place of this condemned criminal means this. Every day you get up, because there's one place where Luke actually says in chapter 9, verse 23, Luke records that Jesus Christ says, take up your cross daily. Every day, you get up and you remind yourself of who you are in Christ. That's what we're talking about. You remind yourself that you have died. You remind yourself there's nothing to prove. You remind yourself that you're accepted. You remind yourself of what he did in order to get this done. Every day, you take up the cross. What does that mean? You live in its shadow. The sun is coming down. You're walking in the shadow of the cross all the time. And what it means is on the one hand, I'm living a life of sacrificial service like Jesus. That's what the cross means. But it also means I'm doing it out of the fullness of knowing what he did for me there. Oh, do you realize what that is? You can live with emotional wealth from knowing your position in Jesus, knowing your standing, knowing what you look like to the Lord. In other words, discipleship is emotional because it's positional. You can live out of emotional wealth because of your position, your identification with Jesus Christ and his death. And that's what it means to take up your cross. It means to live a life like that. In fact, I'll push you a little further. Do you see now when it says you have to hate even your own life? What does that mean? What it means is this. To hate your own life does not mean to be filled with self-loathing. No, no, no. To be filled with self-loathing, to be filled with self-disdain is actually self-centered. You're very absorbed with yourself. You're thinking about your own needs and your own sense of failure and how people look to you. We are being called in this verse to an ego crucifixion on the basis of Jesus' crucifixion. But ego crucifixion looks like this. Self-forgetfulness. Not self-disdain. Not self-loathing. Not self-flagellation. Self-forgetfulness. You are being called to ego crucifixion. But it's the kind of joyous thing that happens when you say, I have nothing to prove. I know who I am in Him. I know what's happened. And therefore, I don't care if I'm snubbed. I don't care if I didn't get that job. It's not the most important thing in the world. I'm living in the shadow of the cross. Discipleship is non-optional. Discipleship is unpredictable. Discipleship is deeply emotional because discipleship is completely positional. Your position in Jesus. And then lastly, we learn here that discipleship is unconditional. Now maybe that's been common sense. Maybe in a sense everything I've said all along has been implying that, but I think we have to end this way. Take up your cross. That's unconditional. That's finality. There's no stronger way of putting it. Do you realize how weird this is to use this symbol of execution as the essential image of what it means to live a Christian life? Imagine a candidate for office saying, come with me, join my party, strap yourself into the electric chair, and let's go. Follow me, put on your blindfold, smoke that last cigarette, and listen for the crack of rifles. But Jesus Christ says, take up your cross and follow me. And here's what this means. Number one, unconditional, no matter what. When you saw a man walking with a cross, one thing you knew is that was the last thing that person was ever going to do. You don't walk with a cross and say, this isn't working for me. I thought this was going to be kind of purifying, but it's really not working for me. Listen, a person under a cross is under arrest. Jesus Christ is saying you're under arrest. When you become a disciple, it means you're no longer your own. You're no longer an independent person. You're under arrest. You know, one of the things that's so weird about this passage is on the one hand, Jesus Christ called to discipleship is subversive of traditional culture. He has the audacity to say, when you say, hate your father, mother, wife, child, brother, sister, he's saying at least this. He's saying, you can do without them as long as you've got me. In traditional culture, single life, a long-term single life, or a single lifestyle for your whole life, was utterly taboo because the family was an idol. Yet Jesus Christ has the audacity to come and actually implicitly legitimize the single life when he says this. He is saying father, mother, wife, child, brother, sister are expendable if you've got me. So on the one hand, this is completely subversive to the traditional society, but it's completely subversive to the Western individualistic secular society. Why? Because you not only have to hate your father, your mother, brother, sister, and your wife and your child, but your own life. In Western society, we say, nobody has the right to tell me what to do with my own life. Jesus says, you're under arrest. You do not have the right to make up your own mind now. You follow me no matter what I say. You follow me no matter what I send. A cross means I'm in for trouble. So many people, when they get started in discipleship, you know what they say. In fact, some of you are thinking about it, but you haven't really done it. It's a big church and there's always people who are thinking about it and just recently have done it. And let me warn you, when almost anyone starts in discipleship, you really feel like, well, this means my life is going to go more smoothly. You know, I'm giving myself to the Lord of the universe. Surely he's going to answer my prayers, start to bless me. Things are going to go a little bit better. When Jesus calls you to the cross, what he's saying is, I call you to a life of glory, a life of greatness, but I'm not guaranteeing you an easy life. I didn't have an easy life. When you saw Jesus Christ going to the cross, what did you know? You know he's on his way to glory, on his way to greatness, but not on his way to a smooth and easy life. Jesus says, obey me unconditionally, no matter what comes. Obey me unconditionally, no matter what I say, no matter what I send. In fact, if you don't obey him unconditionally, you're not obeying him at all. If you don't serve him unconditionally, you're not serving him at all. If you are saying, I'll stick with this Christianity as long as this happens and this happens, I'll obey if. If there are any ifs in your service to him, you're not serving him at all. You prove by saying that you're on the throne of your own life. That you're the one calling the shots. You are the king. He is the servant. You're the one who's deciding whether what he is doing is profiting you, whether your service to him is profiting you or not. And that's not service at all. Don't kid yourself. There's an all-or-nothingness about this. You either say, I will do everything you say. I will obey you no matter what you say. I will obey you no matter what you send to me. Or else you're really not serving him a bit. You know, there's plenty of people who are saying, well, I'm a Christian. I know I shouldn't be doing this probably, and I know I really shouldn't be doing this. And I don't see things just the way a lot of people in the churches do. I'm still a Christian. On what basis are you making your moral decisions now? What is the touchstone? Are you making your decisions on the basis of how it feels, on the basis of what your culture tells you, or on the basis of the lordship of Jesus Christ? It's one or the other, and there's nothing in the middle really. Either you've taken up a cross or you haven't. You're either under arrest, or you haven't. You're either living in the light of what he has done, or you aren't. Nothing in the middle. There's no two standards. Discipleship is not optional. Discipleship is unpredictable. Discipleship is deeply emotional. Because discipleship is gloriously positional, and finally, it's totally unconditional. Let me just ask you this. If there's anybody here who says, I never could do all that. I just couldn't do it. Let me add one more point. I don't want to take 30 seconds. Discipleship's gradual. You know how I know that? The Bible's always talking about take up your cross and follow, right? Take up your cross, put to death your old self, put to death your old way, take up your cross and follow. Notice what's interesting, it doesn't say electrocute your old life. It doesn't say hang your old life. It doesn't say put it before a firing squad, because firing squads, hanging, and electrocution are instantaneous. You're dead. That's it. One minute you're alive, one minute you're dead. Crucifixion is a slow death. It's a gradual death. It's a painful death. But Jesus Christ doesn't say, take up the firing squad and follow me. He doesn't say, pick up your electric chair and follow me. He doesn't say take up your 45 magnum and follow me. He says take up your cross. And what that means is he's ready to be patient. It's gradual. He's ready to be patient. Unless you hate your father and mother, wife and children, brother and sister, even your own life, you cannot be his disciple. Unless you take up your cross and follow him, you cannot be his disciple. Let's pray. Would you give us, Father, this tonight? Every one of us is probably, if we were listening, we've been pricked at some point.

I suppose, Lord, there's people here who feel that the whole thing sounds incredibly unreasonable. And only a religious fanatic would pick up this kind of faith. And I feel like there's others who are just despondent because in spite of the fact that discipleship is based on our identification in Christ, there's people here who don't understand what that means yet. It's just a concept to them. And as a result, the whole thing is just crushing them. And there's others here who really just are not moved at all because they find it difficult to even understand the idea of an emotional relationship with you. I pray that you would move the hard-hearted. I pray that you would enlighten the confused. I pray that you would convict the wayward. I pray that you would help us all to understand the beauty and the challenge and the adventure of this great call to be your disciple. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.