Before you turn to the passage, let me tell you what's happening the rest of the service. Let me give you a guide. As Jeff said this morning and this evening, we're revisiting our vision as Redeemer, and we're doing something God called people to do. He called his people to do many, many times in the Old Testament, and that is often he called Israel to renew their covenant. That means to revisit their original calling, how God made them a people, and to recommit. And we're going to do it this way. I'm going to just preach a sermon right now, big surprise, on how the gospel changes people, which is at the very heart of what Redeemer is here for, how the gospel changes people. Then after that, we're going to listen to a series of testimonies from people whose lives have been changed by the gospel here at Redeemer. Then thirdly, after that, we're going to have something we've been talking about, and that is we're going to have an offering in which we take out the cards, either cards that you've brought or cards that you have there in the bulletin, and we're going to take up a special time of commitment to a capital fund drive. Now, the reason we put this in the middle of the service, in the middle of the worship service, is this. Redeemer, over the last couple of years, has been revisiting its vision. been to be a big church. Our vision was not just to build a great church. Our vision has always been to build a great city. We want to change so many lives through the gospel and then send these healed people out into the cities to the city of New York to renew it in every way, spiritually, emotionally, socially, culturally. And we realize that just as one church, that's not going to happen. And therefore, as we've been talking for weeks and months, and as we sent a lot of material out. We've decided that we're going to try to renew our vision with a new plan, but the same vision. And we're going to go, first of all, over the next few years, we're going to divide ourselves into a series of churches around Central Park, basically, rooted in their neighborhoods, churches that we think will actually do a better job of reaching out to people and changing people with the gospel. And then secondly, besides what we're calling the multi-site plan, we're also We're also going to establish a training center, an urban church development training center, in which we're going to be teaching, training, and funding people to go out and actually start hundreds of churches throughout New York City and other cities of the world as well. Now, in order to do that, we're raising money. And the way in which we're doing that is we're calling for these commitments. And I want to say this now rather than later, as we're still, in a sense, before we get to it. Here's some details. where inviting you do their first three things you have to know about them their estimates they're not contracts if you look at the local corrugated estimates of giving and on contracts are promises %uh its estimate secondly its over three years that means you can give it on summer yet every month but sometime the next three years is what you're saying your you could give it exactly thirty six months from now but sometime the next three years and then thirdly it's an over and above giving. This is giving over and above what you ordinarily would give to us or to other ministries or to other charities, and therefore it takes faith and sacrifice. We're trying to raise $5 million in order to do what we're going to do, and we invited the leaders of Redeemer, people who lead small groups and ministries, last week to be an example and to go first. And 98 leader cards were turned in last week, and I told you, It turned out to be $1.9 million. But we're looking to raise five. And we're going to take those cards tonight. And, of course, if you're not ready to do it tonight, you can think about it, pray about it, bring it the next couple weeks, mail it in, and so on. And that will be what comes later. Okay? So a sermon on changed lives, testimonies of changed lives. Then putting our substance where we can actually change hundreds of times more lives than we are now. and then we'll do the Lord's Supper in which we recommit ourselves to the vision. Now, let's take a look at this passage, and I'm just going to read from Galatians chapter 5. We've been going through the book of Galatians, and we come now to a section that I want to assure you, if you see verses that I haven't touched on tonight, this is an introduction. In some ways, the message can't be as long tonight, and we're going to get into Galatians 5 for a couple of weeks, so don't be afraid. You can come back and I will elaborate on the basic points that I'm making tonight. In Galatians 5, we get to an issue, which all along I've been telling people after services when they come and ask me about this. I said, don't worry, we'll get to it in Galatians 5. Now here we are. Galatians 5. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Mark my words, I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again, I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. But by faith, we eagerly await through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision or uncircumcision has any value. only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. You were running a good race who cut in on you and kept you from obeying the truth. That kind of persuasion does not come from the one who calls you. Now, I think I'm going to stop right there because this is as far as we're going to get tonight. This is God's word. All along, not only all along in this series on Galatians, but all along as long as we've been Redeemer, we have been saying gospel transformation, gospel transformation is different than moral reformation. The gospel transforms you from the inside out. That's different than just plain old-fashioned moral reformation. First time I ever heard that, I think, or at least it was clear in my mind, I was in seminary, and one of my professor, Professor Richard Loveless, gave this illustration, and it stayed with me. And occasionally, maybe some of you heard me use it before. I don't know. He says, you know, if you take a rod of iron that's bent, there's two ways to fix it. The one is, he says, if it was bent this way, you can just take your hand and with an exertion of external power, just bend it back. But, you know, if you take a rod that's been bent and you bend it back, even if it looks straight, it is far weaker than it was before. Because there's been tremendous stress. There's been actually all sorts of little fibers, in a sense, being broken in there. And if you bend it one more time, it'll break off. When a rod is bent and you just bend it back, just exerting physical force on it, it looks like it's straight, but it's weaker than before. But if you put it in the fire, until it glows, you know, fiery from within, And then in that fire, when it's been transformed, in a sense, from the inside, you can shape it and make it true and straight, straighter than ever and stronger than ever, tempered because of the experience of the fire. And then he says, that's the difference. He said, if you've been abused, if you're kind of a mess, if you've got all these bad habits, he says, you can just, through moral reformation, you know, you've been bent one way by somebody, okay, you can bend back. You know, accountability, behavior modification, there's all sorts of ways of doing that.

or through the gospel, you can put your heart in the fire, the fire of the one who made you.

The Spirit of God is the Spirit of the Creator, the one who made you, who's stronger than you are. And what'll happen is when His very power comes in, you'll glow from within. There'll be a fire. There'll be a softness. There'll be a sweetness. And when you are shaped in that experience, experience. You're stronger than ever. Organically, you've been changed. Gospel transformation is very different than moral reformation. C.S. Lewis put it also around the same time I was listening to Richard Loveless. I was reading Mere Christianity, and C.S. Lewis put it this way, and it's powerful, especially if you can remember, if you can overlook the fact he wrote in 1943 and didn't use gender-inclusive language. But once I assure you that he wanted new women as well as new men, it's a powerful passage. It's near the end of Mere Christianity. He's got a chapter called Nice People or New Men. And this is what he says. A world of nice people looking no farther than that would be just as desperately in need of salvation as a miserable world and more difficult to save. For mere improvement is not redemption, though in the end, redemption will improve you to a degree that you can't even imagine. God became man to turn creatures into sons, not simply to produce better kinds of the old creature, but to produce a new kind of person. It is not like teaching a horse to jump better and better, but it's more like turning a horse into a winged creature, a whole new kind of being altogether. See, now there it is. That's very powerful. Gospel transformation is something different than moral reformation. And so what we've always said is when the gospel comes into your life, when you learn the gospel, you. It changes you. It makes you an honest person. It makes you a bold person. It makes you a courageous person. It makes you an unselfish person. And it changes you. It makes you a godly person. But over and over again, as we stress the gospel, and what is the gospel? That now there's no condemnation for you who are in Christ Jesus. Your sins can never separate you from God. Now your acceptance with God is absolutely complete. It's based not on your past, but Christ's past. Not on what you have lived and done, but what He has lived and done. Not on your performance, but on His performance. And as a result, through faith alone and nothing else, by faith in Jesus Christ, you're accepted. Not on the level of your surrender or lack of surrender. The level of your repentance or lack of repentance. The level of your purity or lack of purity doesn't count a bit. It doesn't merit it a bit. It's a free gift. It comes to you now. And you're completely accepted Christ, and nothing can separate you. That's the gospel. And after, almost after every service, somebody has come up to me and said, how does that create a godly life? How does that create a transformed life? How is it possible that when you tell somebody God will love you no matter what you do, how could that possibly turn you into a better person? Wouldn't the gospel, if anything, lead us to feel like, hey, I can live any way I want? See, how does the gospel create any kind of energy for change? How specifically does the gospel really change us? Now, if you really, can I drive this home? If I was being mean to me, in other words, if I was arguing with me about this, and I often do, all the time, I don't lose, but I often do, I would put it this way. I would say, if I heard me preaching like this, I would say, no, wait a minute, wait a minute. I've had an experience recently. I have two sons now. My oldest two sons have applied for college. And one of the things I've noticed is that the last semester of their junior year and the first gut to get the best grades they ever have. And then somehow their applications are in and they're getting accepted to their various colleges. And somehow, you know, the grades come in April, May, and they're way low. They're much lower. I mean, you know, the grades have gone down. A's become B's. B's become C's. It's just, and they look and they say, well, gee, son, why are you slacking off here. I mean, why are the grades going down? And they look at you and they say, Dad, I'm in. I mean, the college doesn't see that. I mean, I can't fail, of course, but I have to pass. But I mean, but see, I'm in now. The college doesn't see that. My grades don't make a bit of difference. I'm accepted. See? I'm accepted. My grades mean nothing now. And I look at them. and you know just so naive idiot i walk right into it and i say they say why should i bust a gut now why should i work so hard now i'm accepted why should i try and i say why

love of learning

the joy of creativity intellectual integrity and they say dad when you're done could you pass the ketchup. Now, here's what I want to know. If it's common sense, it is absolutely the case that when acceptance is so total that it makes your performance invisible. How is that an incentive for excellence? How is that an incentive for living full throttle? How is that an incentive for sacrifice? How is that an incentive for discipline? It retards it. It works against it. it? How is it possible that something that obviously works in this sense with my sons, why would it suddenly work, why would the dynamic suddenly totally reverse itself writ large with God? See, listen, I sit around arguing with myself all the time. I think of the worst things I could possibly say to myself. Now, that comes, and listen, one of the bad things now, one of the, by the way, I'll answer this tonight, even though next week we'll elaborate on it. I won't keep you But there is a common, a very, very common approach that I think is very misguided. And even though some of you may think I'm attacking this or that church, I'm not actually. My mentor, C.S. Lewis himself, was wrong at this point. The way a lot of people answer this is they say, yes, you know what, that's right. That's right. If you talk too much about free acceptance and free grace, you know, that's just going to lead to slack living. It has to lead to slack living. To tell people over and over and over. accepted. Always telling them, you know, God loves you no matter what. It doesn't matter how you live. God loves you anyway. If you do that all the time, of course, it's going to lead to slack living. Of course, it's not going to create any energy. So you have to tell people they have to obey as well. And you need a balance. A balance. See, the relationship between grace and good works is mysterious. We really don't know. The important thing is balance. We need to tell them they can't commit adultery. We have to tell them they can't lie. We have to tell them about the ten commandments. and show them how they have to live. So we just need a balance. Don't talk about faith and grace all the time. Talk about works and, you know, moral living and virtue. You know, we really need to have a balance. That's absolutely wrong. And I'll tell you why. Read the letters of Paul. What is this controversy about? Is it true? Here comes the false teachers. And Paul is saying the false teachers who are telling them that they're justified by their works. He's going to the mat. He's going tooth and nail. Now, is it true when you read the letters of Paul that he talks about grace and faith all the time? He never tells people about sin. He never tells them that they can't commit adultery. He never tells them they can't lie. Is it a matter of emphasis? Is the difference between Paul and the false teachers a matter of emphasis? Is it the false teachers were always talking about good works and never about faith? is it true that Paul was always talking about faith and never about good works? Of course he was telling them how they had to live. It's not a matter of emphasis. Paul says the difference between day and night is not the balance on how much you talk about it, but the relationship. It's not enough to say the relationship between faith and works is mysterious. Paul says the reason for your obedience means everything. Paul is not somebody who came to the Galatians when he started churches, he didn't say, By the way, now you don't have to obey God. Of course not. He told them about obedience left and right.

The false teachers did not come in and never talk about faith in Christ. Of course they said you have to have faith in Christ. The difference between them was not that one stressed faith and one stressed works. They both did the same thing. It's not a matter of imbalance. But they utterly differed on the reason you obey God, the reason you get up tomorrow morning and have your quiet time. It makes all the difference in the world. say here is the two different reasons that are in front of you, the two reasons you could get up in the morning and pray. Why are you getting up in the morning and praying? Why, when you see that you could give into temptation, do you stop and say, no, no, no, I want to obey God? That's good. But why are you doing it? Why? Paul says the why is everything. He says in front of you is the way and these two different reasons for obedience create two different humanities, two different religions, two different personalities, two different sets of relationships, two different worldviews. Everything hinges on this. It's not a matter of balance. It's not a matter of how many sermons out of 52 sermons in which somebody tells you, obey God. It's all a matter of how they're motivating you to obey God and the reasons they give you to obey God. God. Okay? You see, Paul says in Titus 2.13, he says, the gospel of salvation has appeared, and it teaches us to say no to unrighteousness. Now, that's the point. Paul says, what is getting you to say no? Why are you saying no? Just say no? No. It's not enough to just say no. I want to know why I should say no. In fact, one of the things, okay, let's, I guess that I want to introduce you to the basic points and we don't, we can get back and elaborate it later. So what does Paul say? What does Paul tell us about the reason to obey and how the gospel changes us and how the gospel creates an energy and a motivation for obedience to God? First of all, he speaks negatively and he basically says up here in verse one, that the wrong reason for moral obedience is bondage. So he speaks negatively first and says, the wrong reason for moral obedience is bondage. Look what he says. He says, stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Now, three weeks ago, we pointed this out, and I'm so glad he says it again. He said it back in chapter four. I'm so glad he says it again because it's so astounding. I'm so glad we can repeat. Some of you weren't here and didn't hear this. Some of you were here and need to hear it again. And I do too. What is so astounding by the word again?

What is so astonishing is this. The Galatians are being told by the false teachers you've got to be circumcised. You've got to go under all the Mosaic ceremonial law. And what the false teachers have been telling the Galatians is believing in Christ isn't enough. You have to obey the whole law. Believing in Christ isn't enough to make you acceptable. You have to obey the whole law or else you'll lose God or else he'll reject you. that will make you justified. But you see, the Galatians had never done this before. They'd never obeyed the law of God. They'd never obeyed the Bible. How do I know that? They'd never been circumcised before. How do you know they'd never been circumcised before? Think. Are you thinking? You can only be circumcised once. So if they can be circumcised now, it means they never were circumcised before. It means they'd never been in that. They were not. They never obeyed the Bible. They were pagans. and the most astounding thing is this. Paul looks at the Galatians who before they became Christians had been pagans, had been, as we said last time, copulating in the streets. The sexual morals and the ethics of paganism was cruel paganism, was selfish paganism to such a great degree, was sexually licentious and Paul has the audacity to say, if you obey the law of God for the reasons you're about to obey it, going back into slavery. You will be no better off. You see, now, most people think that the job of religion is to call people away from selfish and licentious living into a life of virtue and moral restraint and responsibility. And Paul is saying that's not what Christianity is at all. I mean, some of you may know that one of my hobbies is to read left-wing and right-wing periodicals. I like to see it. I like to read. I like the dissidents. I like to try to think about how people see things. And one of the things I noticed, for example, is that really secular liberals are very, very much just like the old pagans. Their sexual understanding is like the pagans. Their view of religion, their view of life is very much like the pagans. And of course, they say the important thing is individual freedom. And modern conservatives, they say, oh no, no, no. no. What's wrong with society is we need to be virtuous. We need moral restraint. That's what we need. Conservatives think religion's good for us. Liberals do not. And there's a tremendous danger for Christians right now because conservatives will look at Christians and come to our conferences and write for our journals because we think religion's good. We think we need to have restraint. We think we need to have virtue. We think we need to have self-control. We think we need responsibility. We need virtue. you. And see, they invite us to their conferences, and that's good, and liberals don't, and I hope someday they will. But we must not miss something. This must not obscure something. The Galatians used to be liberals, and now they're about to be conservatives, and Paul is saying, you will be no better off. In fact, as C.S. Lewis says, you'll probably be harder to save now that you're becoming nice instead of new. do. See, Paul has the audacity to say, if you decide to obey the law of God for the wrong reasons, out of a desire to earn salvation, you will be a slave and you will be burdened. Now, why? Well, now, we don't have time tonight, but I'll just, in a nutshell. If you were a pagan, what did the pagans do? Well, the pagans, it depended. If you were a fisherman, you worshiped were out for a spouse, you worshipped the beauty God. And if you were out for money, or if you were a soldier, you worshipped the military God. And of course, you know, everybody had their own God, and everybody was living for something else. And that's a life of slavery. Why? Because if you live for anything finite, if your bottom line, if your meaning in life is anything finite, whether it's military success, or whether it's beauty, or whether it's sexual attraction, or whether it's your family, or whether it's your job, or whatever, if you're living for anything finite, you are absolutely burdened and always enslaved. Why? Because circumstances. Circumstances will kill you. If circumstances threaten the thing you're living for, you'll be filled with fear. If circumstances block the thing you're living for, you'll be filled with anger. And if you fail through your own stupidity to achieve the thing that you're living for, you'll want to kill yourself. And so you're always burdened with guilt and with pride and with fear. And Paul is saying of God for the wrong reason, you actually go right back in the same kind of burdened, proud, fear-driven lifestyle that you were before. You will be just as enslaved. You'll be just as in bondage. Why? Because now ministry success makes you feel, now God loves me. Moral achievement makes me feel, now God loves me. And yet, you will be just as much in bondage because when circumstances or when your personal failure get between you and those achievements, You'll be just as touchy. You'll be just as fearful. You'll be just as angry. You'll be just as despondent. You can become just as suicidal. You can become all of these things. You're just as much in bondage.

You haven't been changed. You've been bent back.

Now, what he does is he says here, there's another way. There's another whole engine. And here's what they are. I'll just read them to you and describe them, and we can get back later, but how important they are. First of all, he says in verse 5, but, which of course is the alternative, but by faith we eagerly await through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision or uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith working by love. Now here's what he says. Hope and love become new engines when you know, not when you're afraid,

absolutely certain of God's love for you. Now, first of all, take a look at the word hope. The trouble with the word hope in English is it does not get across the meaning of the Greek word that it translates. In fact, I don't know how you can read the New Testament. You know, the word hope comes up all the time, unless you know what I'm about to tell you. The word hope means certainty. See, in English, it means uncertainty. I only, if somebody says, gee, you think we can raise $5 million? And I always say, I hope, which means I don't know. The word hope, in English means, I don't know. This is one of the worst things about the New Testament. There's really almost no way to remedy this. When you translate the New Testament, the word that's always translated hope means absolute certainty. If you are trying to save yourself, you can never be sure that when you die, you're going to be an absolute splendor. You're going to be an absolute beauty. You're going to be just clothed with perfection. perfection. You see, you don't know that. But the point is, verse 5 says, unless, you see, by faith, we eagerly await through the spirit the righteousness for which we hope. At least the word eagerly is there to show that there's no uncertainty. It says, the first thing that happens is when you know you're saved by grace alone through the finished work of Christ, it fills you with an absolute certainty. And you see your future. And you see the beauty that God sees you to be now legally, and you will see yourself to be actually someday. And what does that mean practically? Here's what it means. It says, for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. Now this is what that means. You want to know how to work this out practically? It's very simple. But very, very practical. It means when you do... What does circumcision and uncircumcision mean? Circumcision means moral achievement. Uncircumcision means paganism and moral debauchery. And Paul is saying it means nothing. What is that? Well, here's what it means. When you do something good on Monday, get hold of yourself and say, this means nothing. God doesn't love me because I did this. I did this because he loves me. So if you're a Christian, that's what you do. You would never say God loves me because look what I've done. I've helped this person. Look what I've done. I did this thing. No, no, no. God doesn't love you because you did that. The only reason you did that is because he loves you, because he's working in you, because he's helping you. Get rid of that. Bring yourself down. Circumcision means nothing. But uncircumcision means nothing. And that means when you fail, when you blow it, when you do something incredibly stupid, when you do something unbelievably selfish, when you give in and you turn to God and there's a part of you that says, and you call yourself a Christian. Why should he listen to your prayers? And you know what you want to say? You want to say, if I had not blown it, if I'd had a great day on Tuesday instead of a crummy day on Tuesday, if I'd said the right thing instead of the wrong thing, if I'd said the unselfish thing instead of the selfish thing, that would not make me one bit more fit for his presence. Uncircumcision means nothing. It's Jesus Christ. Because of what he's done, I'm righteous in God's sight, and I will be clothed actually with what I'm now clothed forensically and legally. And therefore, you know what you say? You say, God doesn't love me less because this crummy thing happened. As a matter of fact, this crummy thing happened only because he loves me. He let me see my sinfulness so I could be humbled. He let this happen to me only because all things work together for good because of God. You see, he never loves me because I did good. I did good because he loves me. He never dislives me because I did bad. I only was a... Even the bad thing I did, God is weaving into a pattern for my life out of his love. every day, you fill your heart with a certainty of who you are in Christ. And what that does is it completely removes your fear. And it's your fear that is what's driving you into both the highs and into the lows. There's an unbelievable poise. There's an unbelievable equilibrium. Then lastly, it says, and the only thing that counts in the end is faith expressing itself through love. love. I'll tell this story and then we'll get back to it next week. Charles Spurgeon tells a story and this has not been on any of these Galatian tapes and it needs to be because people are listening to the tapes. Okay, great. Charles Spurgeon says, until you know that you're completely saved by grace, you have never done a single thing for God. All that obedience, all those things you've been doing, you've never done a single thing for God. If you're filled with fear, if you're If you're constantly up and down, if you feel like God hasn't loved me because I don't know that I'm being good enough, I'm trying so hard, I'm trying so hard, I don't know if he loves me. You've never done a thing for him. What do you mean? You say, I've never done a thing for him. Well, Spurgeon tells a story. He says once there was a gardener and he grew a carrot and it was a huge carrot and he took it to his king and he says, this is the greatest carrot I've ever grown and I want to give it to you because you're the king I love. You're a great king and I want you to have this as a token of my love. And as he walked away, the king said, I see how much you love me. And let me give you another whole acre. So next to your garden. So you can be a much greater gardener than you are now. The gardener went home rejoicing. And there was a nobleman at court who saw what happened. He overheard it. Or he looked and he saw what happened. And he says, my goodness, if you get an acre for a carrot, what would you get for a horse? And so the next day he brought a horse. And he says, you know, I raise horses, oh sovereign. And this is the greatest horse that I've ever raised. esteem, and love. But the king discerned. The king discerned his heart, and he says, uh-huh. And he says, thank you. I'll take the horse, and he walked away with it. And the guy looks at him, and the king turned around and says, wait a minute. Let me just explain. The gardener gave me the carrot, but you were giving yourself the horse. See, in Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, the way he used to use this sermon, this illustration is this. He says, if you have ever done anything in your life for God, you thought, in order to get into Heaven, you never did a single thing for God. If you're doing it out of fear, you're never doing it for God. You're never doing it for the joy of who He is, for the delight in who He is. You're doing it for yourself. You've never done a single thing for God. If you're out there clothing the hungry, clothing the naked and feeding the hungry in order, hoping that you'll get into Heaven, that's yourself your clothing. It's yourself your feeding. You've never done a single thing for God. And you're not doing anything for the poor either. You're using the poor. You're using God. You're not loving them for who they are on themselves. And you're not loving him for who he is in himself. Only when you see that the reason that you can be saved is because God looked at you and was willing to lose his son for you. Not because of anything you could possibly give him. What in the world could we do? He loved you for who you were in yourself. For the greatness of what he made us. He valued you so much for who you are in yourself that his son died for you. And once you recognize that, and only once you recognize that, will you ever be able to do anything good. Until you see you've never done a single thing good to merit God's salvation, you can't even begin to do something good. Do you see the irony of it? You've never done anything out of love until you know you're a sinner saved absolutely by grace. You've never done anything in freedom until you see you're a sinner saved absolutely by grace. enormous energy. That is enormous peace. That is enormous equilibrium. That is enormous strength. With this, you'll move out into the world in strength no matter what else is going, what else is happening out there. Who cares? Do you see that?

How does the gospel change us?

In Christ Jesus, neither circumcision or uncircumcision means anything, anything, but faith working through love. Let's pray. Could those who are given testimonies please come on up here?
