Romans chapter 1, verses 1 through 4. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle and set apart for the gospel of God, the gospel he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures, regarding his son, who, as to his human nature, was descendant of David, and who, through the spirit of holiness, was declared with power to be the son of God, By his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. This is God's word. Of all the Christian holy days or holidays, Christmas is the one that the world really wants to get in on. There's lots of Christian holidays and every one of them celebrates a particular aspect of Christian truth. This is the only one that people who don't share Christian truth and belief, the general secular culture, this is the only holiday that the world so desperately wants to participate in. One case illustration, which is impossible to resist, even though I don't want to say anything derogatory, we have a wonderful host to our evening service, the Unitarian Church at 80th and Lexington. and they're very gracious and great folks. One interesting thing, however, is they're going to be doing a Messiah sing-along during the Christmas season. And the Unitarian Church is historically and at present based on the denial of every word of the Messiah, every word of the teaching of the lyrics of the Messiah and of the words of the Messiah. There's just this great need. Every editorial page as Christmas comes up, every advertisement, every Christmas movie will do their very best, each one of them will do its very best to extract the spirit of Christmas or the principles of Christmas away from the person of Christmas. They'll do their very best without direct reference to Christ or talking about his person and his claims. They'll try to attract the principles of love and of compassion and of unity and of justice. We're here today to look at the doctrine that Christmas celebrates, the doctrine of the Incarnation, and to say that what everyone is trying to do and will try to do all the way through the Christmas season is impossible. You can't take the principles of Christmas away from the person of Christmas without it all collapsing. You see, we have got a founder to our religion who claims to be ultimate reality. So that if you receive him, of course, you've got ultimate reality. But if you reject him, you've utterly lost your ability to know God. And the exclusiveness of that claim is, on the one hand, the thing that has always given Christians this great joy and confidence that the world so desperately wants a slice of. At the same time, it divides. The very doctrine of Christmas that has most rejoiced the hearts of people and changed them over the years is also that which divides. To really understand the meaning of Christmas does not ever unite people. It polarizes. That's why you have this great Christmas passage, which is never preached on, in Luke 2, where Simeon, the great prophet who's known as a prophet, he sees Mary and Joseph bring the little baby Jesus to the temple, and he has a prophecy. Here's the prophecy. This child is destined to cause the rising and falling of many to be a sign spoken against, so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed, and a sword will pierce your heart also. Now, that's perfectly logical. He says, look at this little baby born at Bethlehem. If this is God, if this baby is who he claims he is, then what will happen is some people will fall and some people will rise. Some people will just be rejoiced, they will submit, and other people will say, that's terrible. And, in fact, as we push the doctrine of the incarnation on any group of people, including this group, some of you, the more you hear it, will be moved to greater wonder and greater submission, and you'll be receiving the joy and the confidence that comes when you hear the doctrine of Christmas, and others of you will squirm under the narrowness of it. You will squirm under it. See, either when you hear the doctrine of Christmas, and you realize you can't take the principles away from the person because the principles are based on the person, when you hear the doctrine of Christmas, either you want to gladly surrender to it, or else you come out biting and spitting and hissing at it. Look at your heart, because as we go through the teaching of the incarnation, of the doctrine of Christmas, you will come to see, as Simeon said, what your heart's really made of. It will reveal the thoughts of your heart, it will reveal the base motives of your heart. There's really only two things I think this text teaches us. It's not a Christmas text. It's just the introduction to an epistle of Paul to the Romans. And yet you have the doctrine of Christmas, the doctrine of the incarnation. It so permeates the Bible that you can find it all sorts of places. And that's why I want to look at it. Because here you see it in a very balanced way. Paul tells us that the gospel, the message of Christianity, is about Jesus. Who, though he's the son of David, is also the son of God. God. First thing we learn from Christmas and the doctrine of Christmas is that Jesus Christ is fully God and fully man. He has two natures: according to the human nature, descendant of David; according to the spirit of holiness, the son of God. And we can be real general about it. If you notice, Paul very carefully does not say something about the human and divine nature in perfect symmetry. He doesn't say he became human and he became divine. He says, according to his human nature, he became a son of David. But according to the spirit of holiness, he was declared to be the son of God. You see the difference? He was marked out. That means he was already a son of God before he was born. He didn't become a son of God. He was the son of God, but he became a son of David. And that's why the Athanasian Creed, that old ecumenical creed of years ago, puts it so perfectly when it says, our Lord Jesus Christ is perfect God and perfect man, not by conversion of the Godhead into flesh, but by the taking up of the humanity into God. He was already the son of God, and he became also the son of David. Now, why is that so important? to believe that Jesus is fully God and fully man, why is that so important? Why has that had the impact it's had on people? Why has it given Christians so much hope and confidence over the years that the world desperately wants to get in on it? For this reason, I would like you for a minute to think of the essence of the whole Christian message in terms of place-taking. Place-taking. The essence of sin and the essence of salvation is all about place-taking. Look, first of all, what's the essence of sin? What does the Bible say about sin? Some might say, well, sin is breaking the law. Well, it is. That's the result of it. That's the manifestation and expression of it. I don't want to detract from that. But that's not the essence of sin, according to the Bible. The essence of sin is taking God's place. You didn't create yourself. You don't keep yourself alive, and yet you insist on being your own master, your own king, your own lord. That's taking God's place. You're sitting on the throne. That's the essence of sin. It leads to breaking of rules, but it also leads to keeping of rules, all so that you can be in charge. You take God's place. When you say, I alone have the right to decide what is right or wrong for me, You're a self-actualized person. According to Abraham Maslow, that's the top of the pyramid of needs. You become a self-actualized person. And the Bible says it is the height of something. It's also the apex of sin. I am my own master. I'm in charge of myself. I didn't create myself. I don't sustain myself. Therefore, I really don't have those kinds of rights over myself. But I take them anyway. Sin is taking God's place. How does God respond? Well, how does a king, how should a king respond to someone who has wrongfully usurped the kingdom? God should respond through opposition, but instead what he does is he takes our place. You see, just as the essence of sin biblically can be summed up as us taking God's place, so the essence of salvation is God taking our place. Here's why he does that. God comes down, God incarnate, God descending, God becoming human, the Son of God becoming the Son of David to come down and take our place. Why? Because we need it. Everyone here knows, I think, in their deepest of deeps, you do not live the life you owe. Now, we all know that there's a life that we owe. For a minute, let's not even think about the law of God. Let's just see what you think the life is that you owe. Everybody has got some set of moral standards, some set. You can't live without them. And the way to find out what your real moral standards are is not to look at how you judge yourself because actually we're always giving ourselves breaks. You know, we're always giving ourselves breaks. To find out though what our real moral standards are, look and see what you expect of other people. It's a hard thing to judge, but if somehow I did have a little tape recorder that I could put on your pack, your belt, like I've got this little mic on my belt, and it had a little mic right here, but instead of it being a public address system, what if I could put something on your body like this that only picked up statements you made about how other people should be living? Only the things that you tell people you ought to be like this, the things that parents tell the child, you know, for example. Or the things that you say, usually behind their back, about other people at work, about how they ought to be living, about what honesty is, what compassion is, what fairness is. What if somehow there was one of these little things on you, so that all of your life, all it ever picked up was what you expected of other people? That's how you know what your conscience really consists of. That's how you know what you really believe. And at the end of time, at the end of your life, if I could pull that off and start playing it back and we could somehow distill those standards out, there isn't anyone in this room, nor is there anyone who has ever lived in history who could live up to their own standards. And that must mean that deep in our deepest of deeps, we know that we're not living the life we owe, even if you leave God out of it for a while. But then on top of that, we know that God's got higher standards than we do. Hopefully, you know. Thank God. And that means in our deepest of deeps, we know we owe something we're not able to pay. But God descends. He takes our place. He comes in to live the life that we owe, and he even comes in to die the death that we owe. The Bible tells us he comes in to live that life. The Bible says he comes in to die that death in our place for us. And the only way he could do that is to come and really be a human being. This is the part of the incarnation that people don't seem to understand. The fact is Jesus became a real human being. He did not just have a divine person who took on the body. He didn't just assume a body. He assumed an entire human nature. He had a human psyche. It was without sin, but he had a human nature, which means he did not rely on his own divine power when he was here. We're told in the book of Acts, he went everywhere relying on the Holy Spirit. He was like us in resources. He did not rely on his own power. That was the temptation in the wilderness. He was hungry. So Satan says, come on, I know that you could turn these stones into bread. But Jesus was made like unto us. Do you understand that? He had to do everything that we owe. He lived his life in complete dependence on the Father. He got things by prayer. He got things by relying on the Spirit. He was like us also in his feelings. He was not a man of steel with nerves of steel. He cried at the drop of a hat. he sweated blood before the prospect of his own death. And you see, if he was perfectly human, he's more human than anybody in here. None of us can be perfectly human. Sometimes we're inhuman. What does it mean to be inhuman? It means to sometimes not have feelings, to sometimes be hard, to sometimes be insensitive, to sometimes be cruel. Jesus was never inhuman. He was fully human and that means that he had feelings deeper and higher than anybody in this room. He felt pain. He felt fear. Yes, he did, before the death. Why? Because being God didn't mean he wasn't man. The spear was going to feel to him just like the spear feels to you in your side. The nail is going to feel to him the way the nail through your hand would feel. But worse than that, when he was rejected, he felt it more than we do. When he was mocked, he felt it more. God turned his back on him. He felt it even more than we would ever feel it. Because he was not inhuman at all. He was perfectly human. He suffered in ways deeper and higher than anyone else ever has or ever could suffer. By being really God, it didn't mean he wasn't really human. He was both. He came and lived the life that you and I know we should live with only our resources. Do you hear that? He did exactly what we should have done. He had to exercise all the courage we should have exercised. Now there's the glory of the doctrine of the incarnation. Unless he was fully God and fully man, he could not be your place-taker. He came to do it for you because you couldn't do it. He came to die the death you owe, came to live the life you owe. See, if he hadn't been a human being, he couldn't have suffered. If he hadn't been a real human being, he couldn't have actually come and lived the life we owe, to really take our place and be our representative and be our substitute and earn this all for us. But on the other hand, if he wasn't God, he could never have endured it. But not only that, if he wasn't God, the value of his death wouldn't have been infinite. Look whose blood it is that is shed. In Acts chapter 20, verse 28, it says, the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. What do you think the blood of Christ, the blood of God, is worth? It's of infinite value. It can pay for anything. Our Lord Jesus Christ was perfect God and perfect man, not by the swallowing up of the Godhead into flesh, but by the taking up of humanity into God. As Charles Wesley said, our God contracted to a span, incomprehensibly made man. He could not have been your place taker, but because he's God, he can. Because he's human, he can. Now, before moving on, I want you to see why understanding this, the true deity and the true humanity of Christ, has filled people in a very practical and pragmatic way with confidence and joy over the years. Do you really believe he's fully man? Have you really taken that seriously? Are you living out of it? If he has really experienced what we just talked about, if he's felt those things, then he should be someone that you trust implicitly and someone that you go to with all of your sins and all of your failings and all of your hurts because only he understands. You may say, I'd like to find somebody else who has gone through the same thing I've gone through. Okay, you get them together and you're in a support group and you think you understand each other until you find out that you're still unique. The only person who knows what you've gone through and beyond is him. You don't want to go to a counselor who will look at you and say, you did what? How could you? You want somebody who understands. Well, you say, but how could he understand failure? How could he understand how I feel? How could he understand what it's like not to even want to look at yourself in the mirror? But he does. It's a bit of a mystery. But listen, when the Bible says God made him sin who knew no sin, all we know is that has to mean that the ravages of the soul and the conscience that sin inflicts on us was poured out into Jesus' very human soul on that day like hot lava. And it burned him to death and he was torn to pieces. He knows what it's like to be forsaken. He knows what it's like to have all those same ravages. Though he wasn't a sinner himself, he experienced all the results, and beyond, because he's more human than you and me. If you really understand that he's fully human, then you trust him. But we don't. Then you'd go to him with everything, but we don't. We should run to him. There's one person who understands, who will never look at you and say, you did what? How could you? He understands perfectly how you could. He knows how you feel. Do you treat him that way? Or do you see him as some imperious, high king—beautiful, high, lofty, perfect, too far beyond you? He's been there. He's taken your place. He knows more than you what it's like to be a human being. But on the other hand, do you know that he's fully God? And here's why that part of the incarnation doctrine fills people with confidence. Do you know what it means that he's fully God? That means you know whose blood was shed for you. There's a tendency, you see, to look at his deity in a way that sort of obviates his humanity. "He didn't really suffer. He doesn't really understand." On the other hand, there's a way to look at his humanity in a way that obviates his deity. Well, yes, Jesus died on the cross, but you realize it was God who was shedding his blood. That means if you are still having trouble with guilt, you haven't really grasped the doctrine of Christmas. If you're still beating yourself up, if you still don't think what you've done could be forgiven, if you're still acting that way, think about it. What you're saying is what I have done is a match for what he has done. Come on. What he has done is no match for what you have done. You're overmatched. Jesus Christ, at Christmastime, is someone we celebrate as fully God and fully man. And one of the reasons why many of us in this room do not have the confidence and the joy that Christmas brings is because we haven't looked enough at who he is. Where do you think all the peace on earth comes from? You can't extract the principles from the person. You can't get the principles unless you've got the person, which leads me to the final point. The doctrine of Christmas is here when it says, he's the son of David who is also the son of God. He's fully man and fully God. And therefore, secondly, the doctrine of Christmas is that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, and the life. Jesus Christ is ultimate reality. Jesus Christ is the gospel. As right there in verse 3, Paul says, I have been given, as an apostle, the proclamation of the gospel of God concerning his son. You know what that is? Every other religion has a founder who comes to tell us about the gospel. What's the gospel? The word gospel means the message that leads to joy or the way to joy. Good news, joyful news. How to find joy. And every other religion, Mohammed or Confucius or Buddha, every other religion has come and said, this is the way to joy. They come to tell you the way to joy, but Jesus is the way to joy. Every other religion, their founder shows you the way to the joy. Jesus is the way to joy. The gospel is not through him. It's about him. It's concerning him. He is the gospel. He doesn't just show us the gospel. And that's the reason why the relationship between the principles and the person in Christianity are completely reversed from every other religion. No wonder the world can't get it. No wonder the world doesn't get it. No wonder the world... every other religion, it's easy to extract the founder and the person from the principles. In fact, they ask you to look at them. What they say is, "Me? I don't count. I'm not important. Let my name perish. What's important is the principles I bring. If you live by these principles, if you live this way, you'll have the way to joy." Every other religion says the person, the founder of the faith, the person is just a means to the end of the principles. That's what's important. No wonder in Christmas time people are constantly trying to do this to Christmas. They say, everybody can be united around the ideals of Christ, around joy and about love for all people, and about justice and truth. But as soon as you start trying to talk about, is Jesus God? Is he God come in the flesh? That divides people. So let's get the principles out instead of the person. Well, that's how every other religion works. The person is the means to the end of the principles. But in Christianity, the principles are just the means to the end of the person. Does Jesus give you ethics? Yes. Does Jesus say live like this and live like this? Yes. But what's the purpose of it? So that you'll know him. Does Jesus give you disciplines? Does Jesus give you ethics? Does Jesus give you principles, doctrines? Yes. But they're all means to an end: to know him. Because you see, the way to joy isn't something Jesus tells us about. The way to joy is Jesus. If he is God and man, if he is the person he insists he is, then he's done it all for us, and we're complete in him as soon as we believe, and God receives us and accepts us. And therefore, everything that Bible teaches you about how to live is all to get you to a person. That's what's so wonderful about this faith. Do you know what it means to be a Christian? It means to have a relationship with a living person. It means to know a person. It means to love a person. It means to serve a person. And all your obedience and all of your doctrines and all ways to get in there. I know that some people are squirming, and just a word here as we conclude. Please consider this. The trouble with Christmas is that it's not Jesus' principles that save us, it's his person. In every single other religion, it's not the person that saves us, it's the principles. I know it seems so much more open-minded to say that all the different founders aren't important. They all tell us to live lives of love and joy, and that's the important thing. Christianity doesn't work that way. Christianity is much more realistic. It says, listen, you know in your deepest of deep hearts that you can't live the life that you owe. You can't. Therefore, we have someone who's come. God has come himself. He's done it for us. And if we receive him, we have ultimate reality. And if we miss him, we lost it completely. Does that sound exclusive? It is. If someone says, I hate it when I hear Christians make claims for absolute truth, all religions are relative. Why can't Christians just see that all religions have got part of the truth? As soon as you say that, you're trying to convert the Christian. Oh, no, I'm not, you say. Yes, you are. You're trying to impose a whole different view of truth on them. You're doing the very thing that you insist that they mustn't do.

The person who insists that religion is bunk is making an absolute claim to religious knowledge. The person who insists there is no absolute truth is making an absolute claim. And therefore, there's no superiority that you can claim. You can't say, "I'm more tolerant than you are." As soon as you say there's no absolute truth, you're setting one down. Everybody's intolerant. Everybody makes absolute claims to truth. Everybody. And therefore, let's look. What's the basis for yours? I'll tell you what the basis is for ours. How do you account for the fact that hundreds of people insisted they saw this man raised from the dead? How do you account for the fact that it swept through the early Roman Empire and changed civilization? How do you account for the transformed lives of people who said, "I saw his miracles, I saw him raised from the dead"? How do you account for it? There's a basis there. I haven't just proved it to you. I'm not here to make the case. I'm trying to say there's a basis there for our absolute claims. And they all have to do with the manifestation of the phenomenon of Christ. What will you do with him? Don't you see? You're being pushed. Don't you feel it? Either you must lay down your arms and admit that you have put yourself in God's place and now he's put himself in your place. And as soon as you give yourself to him, in comes the joy and the confidence. Someone who will listen, understand everything, who pays for it all. Someone who now becomes your Lord and master. Or do you see a charlatan? Do you see a threat? Do you see somebody dangerous to world unity? It's one or the other, nothing in between. This child is set for the fall

Let's pray. Now, Father, we ask that as we go to your table, that we will be enabled to pick up the bread and the cup and to realize we're picking up your son, the one who came and took our place. Father, as we see the brokenness of the bread and the cup, help us to see that you came and took our place. There are people here, Lord, who don't really believe you understand. There's people here who don't really believe you can forgive. There's people here who don't really believe that your Son is their absolute monarch and king. Convince them now. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.