Now what we've been doing, and I'm going to just continue even though I haven't finished this year, and after our summer break I'll just have to pick it up in the fall. We've been looking at what we call defeaters, and a defeater is a belief that is usually considered a kind of common sense thing in a culture, and that belief automatically makes some other belief invalid. In every culture there are just common sense givens that are beliefs that make Christianity something that a person says, I don't really have to look at that. It can't be true because I know this. So we've been looking at what these defeaters are. Now tonight's is actually, it's awfully relevant because so many of you are Bible study leaders or so many of you are involved in studying biblical texts in groups. And so I can't help but think that this is the longest of all the handouts I've put together. Not that we can cover it all tonight, but it seems like if anybody needs some resources with questions that come up about the integrity and the truth and historicity and the reliability of the Bible, it would be folks in this room. So what I want to do is I want to not talk about defeaters. We've talked about that, so you can almost skip the whole first page. But down at the bottom, I'm going to call it, and in the handout I'm going to give it an acronym, something I'm going to call the Biblical Historical Criticism Defeater. And the Biblical Historical Criticism Defeater goes like this. It's at the very bottom of the first page. It's sort of out there on the street. And that is, objective scholarship has cast strong doubts on the historical reliability of the Bible in general and of the Gospels in particular. You can't know much about what Jesus actually said or did from them. So you really can't trust the Bible. It's a wonderful fount of sort of wisdom and good feelings, but basically we can't know that the things that the Bible's talking about ever really happened. An example of this, now this Dr. Abram Stroll, I've used this quote in the past. I couldn't find where I got it, but it doesn't matter. I don't even care if there is a Dr. Abram Stroll from the University of British Columbia, because this sort of thing has been said in every Religion 101 class in North America for the last 40 years. It doesn't matter, and it goes like this. An accretion of legends grew up around Jesus. It was incorporated into the Gospels by various devotees of the movement. It was rapidly spread throughout the Mediterranean by the ministry of Paul. Right there is a mistake. Paul came before the Gospels, but anyway. And that is because, and because this is so, it's impossible to separate the legendary elements in these purported descriptions of Jesus from that, those which in fact were really true. So we really even don't know what Jesus said or whether he claimed these things or whether any of these things happened. wonderful, legendary stories, doubtless with some historical core, you know, under all the myth and all the miraculous, but it's hard to get to it. And that's the biblical historical criticism. Now, Defeater. Now, in page two and three, this is the one area that I know something about professionally. And it's an area that I struggled with, especially as a new Christian, 30 years ago. 30 years ago. And this word doesn't count. 30. And I have a little bit, let me tell you, it's just something real quick about the state of sort of biblical scholarship. There has been almost a revolution in the 30 years from the first time I came to recognize as I was coming to Christ and I realized there was this very strong weight of scholarly opinion out there that says anybody who just takes the Bible at face value is just, you know, really just naive. and living in the past and intellectually obscurantist and so on. What's interesting is the whole idea of historical biblical criticism, the movement arose after the Enlightenment. Because after the Enlightenment, people started to say, you mustn't have faith when you study the Bible. We need to study the Bible objectively and scientifically using historical tools because the Bible is filled with miracles and we know miracles can't happen. and therefore we have to get down underneath the mythological and the miraculous to find out the sort of historical core of what really happened. Let's go find the historical Jesus. And I would say 20 or 30 years ago, if you went into the Society of Biblical Literature or any of these kind of major scholarly societies where people were studying the Bible with modern, critical, historical tools, You'd find very few, if any, members who believed in the basic trustworthiness of the Bible and of biblical history. There has been a revolution. In fact, if you want to get to this, turn over to page three near the end of the... This is for your perusal. It should be self-explanatory as you read through. It's even footnoted. But look at the second full paragraph, or the first full paragraph. Where we are now is really amazing. My friends in the scholarly world say that in societies like the Society of Biblical Literature, the change has been so remarkable. Thirty years ago, there would have been almost no members in such a place that believed in the basic trustworthiness of biblical history, but now there may be more than half. Half the members of these societies have very, very positive and optimistic assessments of the Bible. Now, one of the reasons I was trying to figure out what has happened, and here's what happened, for many, many years, if you were raised with faith in the Bible, you just stayed away from historical scholarship. You stayed away from using critical tools. And so you had the church and you had the academy, and they went in totally different directions. What's actually happened in the last generation, and to some degree, it's my generation of Christians. There's just been hundreds and hundreds, really, of folks who said, I'm going to see whether or not historical criticism might not support the trustworthiness of the Bible rather than just tear it down. And there's been almost a whole generation of scholars that rose up being essentially a little more open-minded about the Bible. And as a result, there has been, on the one hand, almost this revolution so that you have more top notch, how do I say it, people with tremendous credentials, top notch historical scholarship that fits the standards of the discipline, that really has very, very, very positive things to say about, I'm going to show you some of them in a minute. On the other hand, and that's what I put down here, I said, on the one hand, there's this enormous, how do you put it, there's vastly more biblical scholars that have a high view the same time the diminishing number of radical skeptics amongst scholars has become much more vocal and if anything more radical because the postmodern scholarship is different than modern scholarship modern scholarship believed you can understand what the authors saying we have to get rid of the miraculous postmodern scholarship tends to say we don't have any idea what the scholars mean you know their meaning is lost to us you know meaning is indeterminate. And what's interesting is a lot of the more skeptical scholars, though it's a much smaller percentage of the scholarly community, have, how do I say it, they've gone public, they've gone to the streets, they've gotten their books in Barnes & Noble, and especially the very famous Jesus Seminars, a group of very skeptical scholars who get together once a year and they vote on which sayings of Jesus really were authentic and which ones were made up by the early church. As a result, here's what's interesting, is the problem for seekers. And you, we're in New York and we're surrounded by people who are interested in Christianity and they come up against this idea. Ironically, as there's more scientific historical quote-unquote research that supports classic Christianity than ever, there's a common impression gained from the popular media that all historians and service scholars know the biblical accounts of Jesus are myth and legend. So ironically, as there's more support for the truth of the Bible, basically, the average lay person is years ago of this idea of the biblical criticism, historical criticism, defeater. It's more out there. It's more of a problem for the average person than it was 30 years ago, even though in the areas of scholarship, the scholarly world has no longer got the consensus that you can't trust the Bible. That's the great irony. You ought to know that.

However, let's get practical. You got somebody you're talking to. Somebody comes to your small group and so on. and they're finding Christianity compelling, but they hear this idea that, here you are feeling, you find Christianity compelling as you're reading about Jesus in the Gospels, but they hear people say, but you know what, none of this probably ever happened. This is just, Jesus is the creation of the early church, so you're falling in love with a myth. What happens? Now, my suggestion, without going through, because I don't want to take too long and read through it, there's three things that can happen you know, a true seeker after truth there at this point. The three things that can happen. One is that person may decide, I don't want to hear about it, I don't want to hear it, I don't want to even think about it, which I don't think is right. That lacks integrity, and it's also, that defensive posture is going to keep it away for a while, but it's just, it's not healthy. It's not healthy spiritually, intellectually, emotionally. The second possibility, and this is on page three, but you don't have to, I'm not reading it through totally. Some people find that the biblical criticism of the feeder isn't a big issue for them. And it's not a big issue for them because they might know, actually, that scholarship is, you know, in every field there's experts that differ and differ widely and sharply on many issues. And there's some people who find, look, I know there'll be people who say this, I know people who say this, but I find this compelling, and they don't need anybody to really help them with the biblical criticism of the feeder. by it. They move on through. Not because they're ignoring it, but because they recognize, listen, when a scholarly person says, you can't trust the Bible, what that person is actually saying is, you just have to trust me. Because as a lay person, you can't go off and get three PhDs and check out what he's saying, or she. And you also know there's somebody with as many PhDs as he or she has who actually says, you can trust everything you read there. And that's enough for a lot of people. And they say, look, I find this compelling and I realize there's issues on both sides. I don't have time to look at them all and you don't. And I'm not finding that it's holding me back. I'm finding myself growing in faith and on they go. And you have to be careful as a Christian leader, shepherd, helper, that you don't necessarily raise questions and try to answer questions people aren't asking. That's all. However, there's always a number of people that find they can't get on any further because of this. It's just a distraction. It creates severe doubts. They find themselves not being able to move forward. And with those people, you have to help. And of course, surely, you're going to find some of them in your small groups as you're studying the Bible, and they're going to raise questions like that. Now, what I've done here is... Oh, you better turn over one more thing. four. The first thing I want you to do when you're talking to people like this, let me tell you what not to do first. Do not make the mistake of trying to sit down with a person who's sort of trying to work everything out. I don't even know I'm a Christian. I don't know what I think about Christ. And try to argue for the inerrancy and the infallibility, the inspiration of the Bible, or the divinity even of the Bible. For example, if somebody sits there and says, you know, who you know is thinking about these things and says, you know, I just think it's ridiculous, the whole idea that there was a flood and all these animals got into the ark. That's just ridiculous. I just think that's a myth. Don't say, oh yeah? What are you going to say? How do you argue for that? Right? I want to know, how do you have an intelligent conversation with somebody trying to show that there really was an ark? It's so fruitless. And frankly, I'll tell you why I believe there was an arc of some kind, though I'm not really sure whether it was a worldwide flood or not. Okay, you've heard me preach on that. I have no idea quite. But the reason is, what I'm going to put down here is you should never try to prove or argue directly for the Bible being the Word of God. The sense that the Bible is the Word of God, my trust in the Bible as the Word of God is based on my acceptance of Jesus Christ as my Lord. In other words, because Jesus didn't just believe the Scripture, but his life was saturated in the Scripture, he quoted the Scripture every place somebody pricked him. He didn't just bleed blood, he bled Scripture. Have you ever noticed that? It's not just that he believed it. He was utterly saturated with it. And so I can't follow him as Lord and not have that same attitude toward the Bible. That's why I believe the Bible is the Word of God, the authority of Jesus. I don't believe the Bible is the Word of God because somebody dug up some, you know, in 1993 somebody dug up, by the way, the first outside of the Bible reference to King David. Did you know that? 1993 was the first time we had any, any evidence that there was a David. You know, only the Bible talks about King David. We had no inscription, we had no archaeological dig, we had nothing, we had no other document, nothing that ever mentioned David. See? And they just dug it up in 1993 and now we can believe there was a David? Before that we couldn't? It doesn't work that way. So don't make the mistake of trying to argue for the Bible being the Word of God. Show people Jesus, frankly. In fact, here's what I want to know. What would it help you, not that you can do this, but what would it help you to convince somebody the Bible's the Word of God if they didn't really come to love and believe in Jesus? How would that help them? Think about it. It might make them Pharisees. That's great. I mean, actually, I do know people who believe in the divine infallibility of the Word of God and who really don't understand the gospel of Jesus Christ, and they're dangerous people. I want you to know that. Do you know that? So don't press me on that one. Afterwards, you can ask me. People who really believe in the infallibility of the Bible but don't understand Jesus or this message and maybe don't even know him personally are really at least nuisances in society. So what should you do? Look in the middle of page four. This is how it works. Somebody says, oh, well, wait a minute. We're stuck in a circle. Because you're saying you believe the Bible because you believe in Jesus, but how can you believe in Jesus without believing the Bible? You have to read the Bible to get Jesus, don't you? I mean the biblical Jesus and the answer is it's not actually a vicious circle it's a circle of sorts but it's not a vicious circle very big difference if you look at the ABC D here's I think how people proceed to find the Bible to be the Word of God first of all they have to be exposed to the Jesus of the Bible that's the only safe way to go you don't argue about evolution you don't argue about the Ark you don't argue about history you don't argue well see we know there really wasn't David they dug that up you don't do that you expose people of the Jesus of the Bible then you have the division the beat at level B some people many people have heard something about the biblical historical criticism but they don't find it distracting if Jesus message in person is compelling they just sense it and they accept it and they move on through other people have to spend more time at level B these are people who find it distracting they find the defeat are distracting they have to work on it but here's what you're looking for with the person to help them on through you do not to help them move forward in their Christian faith, have to try to convince. In fact I said you can't really convince them the Bible's the Word of God and so on. All you have to do and all they need is to see the Bible as a generally a reliable historical account of what happened. That basically I've got, when I read the Bible I'm basically coming to grips with a person who spoke like this and did these things and made these claims and had this impact on people. And then I can decide for myself whether this is the one for me and this is the one who They have to not believe in the Bible as the Word of God, they just have to believe that basically that Jesus and the Bible really walk the earth. Then, C, if they get past C, the belief that Jesus is the Son of God, Lord and Savior, then eventually they can move on to D. I mean, that's how it worked for me. It worked for me. And I think that's the normal way the mind works. Therefore, how do you help somebody with the problem? They can't trust the reliability of the Bible.

to work on, and only, by the way, the Gospels, because that's how you find Jesus, right? Don't argue whether Ecclesiastes was fact or fiction, because actually I'm not even sure myself. But don't go there. Go to Jesus. Now, what I'm going to do here is I'm going to, it's going to be kind of brief, but the biblical historical criticism defeater has many tentacles, and almost all of them have probably come up in your small groups. Again, as I usually say, nobody gets argued into the kingdom of God by going through a long outline. I mean, people's eyes start glazing over. So you should never, ever, ever imagine yourself just delivering all this to people. But I want you to know one thing. Unlike the evil and suffering problem, a lot of people don't come to faith because of evil and suffering. And religious pluralism, remember? A lot of people just say, you know, Jesus just couldn't possibly be the unique way to God and so on. Those are much more emotional issues. with people in a place like New York, really emotional. Those things have to be dealt with through personal relationships and maybe with sound bites. You just have to be very careful. The biblical criticism defeater is more of a truly academic problem and more of a truly intellectual problem. And people can sustain a conversation with this without freaking out. And therefore get to know it. But I've broken down the thing into about ten different objections. So, what I'm going to do is I'm just, I think I've got the time to give you at least a gist of how you would basically handle them. And what I mean by handle them is you should have them well enough in your own mind that you can speak briefly about them and not spill on. If you're in a small group situation, some, if you have it down well enough you can say something quickly, but a small group is not a lecture, it's a discussion. And you can't go on for three or four minutes about anything in a small group. No one can. can. But you know what? A person in your group who's struggling with this, you could meet them somewhere else and spend time with them. Meet them every week and talk about the things. And you'll actually get some, if you look at the footnotes, you'll see there's most of the books, not all of them, but a lot of the books that I footnote are really good books to give people. But let me show you the ten. Here's one, this is under theoretical aspects, the bottom page four it starts. Objection one. The question is, why can't we trust the New Testament picture of Jesus. Objection one, well, we don't have the originals. That doesn't come up that much, but maybe you've heard it, right? We don't even have the originals. We just have copies of copies. How do we even know this is what Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John ever actually wrote? The reason I give so little to it is it's a fairly easy answer, and an awful lot of books have it better than I do here. The fact is that, no, we don't have the original autographs. But we have, how do I say it, we have copies of the Bible, full copies of the Bible, so close to the original date of authorship, so vastly more close than we have copies of any other ancient document that we have vastly more confidence about that the Bible we have is with a few variations the Bible that was originally written. example of this. Look, the oldest copy of Caesar's Gallic Wars, which was written in 50 BC, Gallic Wars was written 50 BC. The oldest copy we have of it is 850 AD. Got that? 900 years from when it was written to the oldest copy, you know, the oldest copy we have. In other words, it had been transmitted over and over and over again. Nobody doubts that we basically know what Caesar wrote in Gallic Wars. The New Testament, however, we've got small copies within just a few decades, and we have whole copies within a hundred years. And therefore, if you say we can't trust the Bible, you might as well say that we can know nothing about antiquity at all. If you want to have any integrity and any fairness, you have to say, you can't trust that we know what Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John wrote. You might as well say forget Tacitus, forget Suetonius, forget Herodotus, forget anybody. But they don't want to do that, and then they're being unfair. fair. But most people don't have a problem too much with this. That's objection one. Objection two, bigger one by far, more copy. And that's the kind of common statement that goes like this. Ancient writers weren't interested in the difference between history and legend. They just didn't, they didn't think like that. They weren't trying to write history. They were fabricating stories. And they were, they put a lot of legendary elements into it. And it was ancient writers were not really interested in the difference between history and legend. And this really isn't true. And by the way, again, more and more scholars are pretty much proving that's not true. And I can give you three quick answers for yourself. You're going to have to digest this so you understand it better. First of all, there are so many places in the Bible itself, like the very first four verses of Luke. Luke goes out of his way to say, I am telling you exactly what happened. This is not hearsay. They handed this down. I've checked all the sources. I'm giving you an orderly account. John in 1935 says, I saw this with my own eyes. And if you go to the first four verses of Luke, where Luke is clearly saying, I didn't make this up. Nobody made this up. This is what really happened. You can see right off the bat, yeah, there's an ancient writer. But he rather definitely knew the difference between writing legend. He was actually saying, I'm not writing you a legend. I'm not making this up. He actually says there were four stages in the development of what he wrote. He says, first of all, there were eyewitnesses who testified to what they'd seen. Secondly, they handed down their testimony to those who'd not been eyewitnesses. Thirdly, many wrote these things down. And fourthly, I have investigated all of them, and I've checked them with one another, and I'm giving you an orderly account. So he's actually claiming, what he's saying is, what I'm telling you actually happened. No legendary elements in it. Now if you want to say Luke's lying, that's fine. a right to say that, but you mustn't say that the Gospels were legends. They're not. The second issue, by the way, is I'm not going to mention because it's not going to hit you right off, so I won't spend much time on it, but if the Gospels were invented, as many scholars say, they were invented not to tell you what Jesus did, but stories about Jesus were made up in order to get across the agendas of the leaders and to deal with the issues that were before the church. That's what a lot of scholars say, is that this isn't what Jesus really did. This is what the church wrote Jesus did in order to deal with their issues. Well the problem in fact is when you read the Gospels in particular, why isn't there any place where Jesus has anything about circumcision? Why isn't there any place where Jesus talks about Jew and Gentile living in fellowship? We know from a lot of other writings that those were huge problems in the early church. The Gospels say nothing about it. Why wouldn't they say anything about it? Only if the authors felt that they weren't able to just make up things. But the most fun thing, and you've heard me use it sometimes in sermons, is the third answer to this question is, is people who read the Gospels and see this as a legend haven't learned how to read. ancient forms of fiction did not contain detailed descriptions of events that the Gospels do. For example, you may have heard me mention this, in John 21, 11, in John 21, 11, it says Jesus stood on the beach and he told his people, you know, the guys to throw in the nets, and they brought in the nets and they brought up a ton of fish, a whole lot of fish, and it says 153. They caught 153 fish. Now, the The average New Testament scholar in my day believed that was made up. Now, if you make that up, why would you use the word 153? And you can't believe the funny, ridiculous machinations and contortions that scholars had to go through in order to explain why somebody would have made up the number 153. Somebody said, for example, probably there were 153 elders in the church at Rome. In other words, their own theory forced them into ridiculous, implausible ways of explaining it. Because if they didn't believe it was symbolic, they'd have to admit that somebody wrote it down because they remembered it that way. Ancient epics, ancient legends just didn't have those kinds of details. And the classic quote on this is from C.S. Lewis himself at the bottom of page five. He says, I have been reading poems, romances, vision literature, legends, and myths all I know what they're like, I know none of them are like this. Of this text, and he's looking, I think, at the gospels. Of this text, there are only two possible views. Either this is reportage, pretty close to the facts, nearly as close as Boswell. Or else, some unknown ancient writer, without known predecessors or successors, suddenly anticipated the whole technique of modern novelistic realistic narrative. What do you think of that? This is one of the reasons why Lewis is such a famous apologist. I mean, that's a slam dunk argument, and he's right. He says they didn't have novels back then where you had realistic fiction, very realistic narrative to make it seem realistic. They didn't do it that way. And he says either the Gospel writers with no predecessors and almost no successors for another 1500 years invented a whole new genre of fiction, or else what they're saying is this really happened. And therefore the idea that these are really just legends, you know, and the ancient writers didn't think, you know, like historians, it's just silly. you're going to have to say these are very deliberate lies or else they're historical accounts, but you can't say they're legends. Turn over. Page six. Objection three. Well, they say, the gospel was written long after the event, so they can't reflect accurate first-person memory. They're written many years later. Remember Abram Stroll, if he exists? He said, you know, these things came down over the years, and you know how legends grow up over the years, about, and that's what you have in the Gospels, and these aren't eyewitness accounts, they were written many years later. Now I'll tell you, by the end of the 19th century because of this naturalistic bias, and it is the naturalistic bias, the idea is miracles can't happen. Therefore if you have miracles in a narrative, this must be legendary accretion that happens over many years. And therefore if it's true that you would say the miracles would be sort of worked in over the years as you first the eyewitness accounts and the eyewitness people as years go by these things get embroidered right these stories get embroidered and embellished therefore that Enlightenment view that says miracles came in much later and they were not part of the original eyewitness account they needed to believe the Gospels were all written in the second century and you know by the end of say 1890s 1895 1900 most historical critics actually said that all the Gospels were written 80, 90, 100, 120, 150, 200 years later. Then the nail in the coffin. There's three or four reasons why that's just not true. Let me show you this. First of all, the discovery of what's called Papyrus Egerton. It might be Edgerton. I've never heard anybody say it out loud. It's in the John Rylands Museum in London. Somebody dug up a fragment of the Gospel of John dating from A.D. 130. It's been carbon dated. It was also a whole lot of other ways they know of the AD 130. And that really, really screwed up 19th century historical criticism very badly. Because if you have the Gospel of John in Alexandria, Egypt is where they found it, in AD 130, figuring out how long it takes for copies to be made and transmission and things to spread around back then, they realized that you couldn't possibly say the Gospel of John was written later than say 90, 95. and since all scholars believe it was the last of the four Gospels to be written, that means that the Gospels were all written within the lifetime of the eyewitnesses. And that was the first nail in the coffin of the idea that this is much, much later. The second nail is just, scholars have been noticing a few things. Look at the most plausible reason for the abrupt ending of Acts. See, Acts ends with Paul in prison. And the last ten chapters of Acts are all leading up to the trial, which doesn't happen. them. Now, if you've written all this about Paul and about his trials and all this, and you end before his trial, what's the most plausible explanation for that? That it hadn't happened yet, right? And that's the normal thing you would say. And not only that, there is no place, Paul was put to death somewhere in the mid-60s AD. There's no mention of the by the Romans in 70 AD, anywhere in the book of Acts, which was so cataclysmic, it's almost impossible to imagine it not being mentioned. Therefore, Luke was almost certainly, most scholars would say, written around in the mid-60s, only 30 years after Jesus' death. And since Matthew and Mark, most scholars believe, were written before Luke, that really, see what's going on? More and more scholars are pressing and recognizing the fact that almost certainly the Gospels were completely written within, say, 1972, 30 years ago when I became a Christian. And the illustration I use here at the bottom, here's what this means. If I write a book today that says, in 1972, in a small town in Canada, a small town of 5,000 people in Canada, a flying saucer came down into the middle of the town square, and everybody saw it. Now if I write that book, what's probably going to happen? Somebody's going to ask, don't you think? Somebody's going to go to that town and ask, and what if there's 3,000 people still there who were alive in 1972 and nobody remembers anything like that? What's going to happen to the book? Probably not be a big seller. And more than that, what if I try to found a whole school of thought on this thing? It's just not going to go anywhere. However, if I say in 1774 in a small town in Canada of 5,000, I'm not sure there were any towns of 5,000 in Canada in 1774, down came a flying saucer, I could get away with that because there's no way to check. The real problem is that these things were all written within the lifetime of the eyewitnesses and therefore wholesale fabrication is extremely unlikely. Turn on over. Objection four. Yes, yes, yes, yes, but still, 30 to 60 years is a long time. And how can we be sure the memories of Jesus' words and deeds were conveyed accurately? Let me go through this one rather quickly. Here's what's coming up again with more historical critical scholarship. You sort of see why historical critical scholarship is actually getting more and more positive about the Bible. The Jewish world, and even the Greco-Roman world surrounding it, prized memorization utterly incredibly rabbis often memorize the entire Hebrew Bible education from the earliest years was based on rote memory Jewish disciples of a rabbi would have memorized his teaching word for word would have passed on the tradition faithfully and the rules of Jewish oral tradition would have governed the teaching of the earliest church for sure insisting on totally accurately memorizing massive amounts of material the scholars recognizing that Christians would not, pardon me, now scholars, though not all, recognize that almost certainly, because of the rules of Jewish oral tradition, rabbinical tradition, early Christians would not have used this process for transmitting popular folktales. It just wouldn't have happened. By the way, some of you know, because of... When I was at Westminster, one of the things that happened we had to work on quite a bit in the 1980s was that when students came from Korea, right from Korea, didn't come through American culture, but came right from Korea, and I would get blue books, you know, test pack, in which very dutiful people, students, had utterly memorized two, three, four chapters out of a book I'd written and had written it right back down into the test book. Okay, those of you who are Asian realize that's not all that far-fetched because the Asian world continues this tradition of saying, I don't mess with, I do not mess with the words of my teacher, you see. faithfully. See, it's very American for us to think that somehow the earliest Christians felt that they could just sort of mess with things. Let's put that in. Wouldn't it be neat to put a story in like this? You know, I mean, it's incredibly ethnocentric, incredibly ethnocentric. Also, the New Testament, keep going down here, the New Testament itself claims that this is exactly what happened. Luke 1.4, and see, Paul also kept talking about, I've received this. In fact, by the way, have you noticed every time I do the Lord's Supper and I read from 1 Corinthians 11, what does Okay? What I received I'm passing on to you. That is the words of Jewish oral tradition. I have not messed with these things. You know places where Paul says, this is my belief, I don't have a word from the Lord on this. Now, if you're charismatic you think he's talking about prophecy. What he really means is that the words of Jesus had been preserved, they were passed around, nobody messed with them. He says I don't have one about this so here's my opinion. So this idea that somehow these things were passed around for 30 or 40 years before they ridiculous. You can't use the whisper down the alley idea or the American idea that, you know, we're artists, you know, and we feel the need to, you know, who knows what Peter Jackson's going to do to the Lord of the Rings? I don't know. But if he was in the Jewish rabbinical tradition or if he was Korean, he wouldn't mess with it. Okay. All right. Objection five. A lot of people say, and I can be fast on this, this is going to go pretty quickly. We only have these authors' word for it. Here's the reason we can't trust the Bible. We have no corroboration. This is what they say? Well, you turn over. If you get a hold of, I'll only tell you one thing about this. If you get a hold of the little book that we've been passing around for years at Redeemer by Michael Green, who's a biblical scholar, but wrote a very, very accessible little book called Who Is This Jesus? Right? I mean, haven't we, Elaine, haven't we passed about three million of them? Yeah. Get a hold of one. Ask Elaine for, I don't know where they are. I couldn't find one. I've given so many away. I don't have any anywhere in my house. But he does a great little survey and he points out You don't have lots of sources. It's true. Jesus was a nobody. That's part of the gospel. You know, no reporters came to his town, you know, and did interviews with his family and things like that. But you have Pliny the Younger, Suetonius, Tacitus. You've got Josephus. You've got a number of Greek and Jewish sources that mention. And they're basically contemporaries. And what Michael Green points out, what almost everybody points out, is from the Greco-Roman sources, we learn there was a man named Jesus. He lived and died. on a cross in Palestine, founded the Christian movement, and his followers worshiped him as God. From the Jewish sources we learn he was conceived out of wedlock, he gathered his disciples, he claimed divine authority in titles and prerogatives, he worked miracles, that's what the Talmud says, and he was a magician. And we learn he was considered by many to be the Messiah, accused by Jewish leaders, condemned by Pilate, and considered to be resurrected by his disciples. We learn that from Josephus. You know what that is? That's the whole outline. We know every one of those things from some other source, you know, corroborative sources say that there's no corroboration is silly. Obviously, that's only the outline, but it's there. The whole thing's there. Objection six. People say, well, but they were biased. These are people of faith. And you see, the old Enlightenment idea was you need unbiased people, unbiased people to study the Bible, not biased people. And you need unbiased people to write about Jesus, not biased people. Now, in our postmodern context, by and large, we've gotten rid of this idea that you can be unbiased, and that's good. And let me put it, let me press you a little bit. And if a woman was a judge, and a case came before her, and she realized that if the case went dollars. If the case went this way, she lost a million dollars. She would recuse herself, right? Okay. When you read Suetonius's Lives of the Caesars and you try to figure out whether it was historically reliable, will it have any impact on you whether it is or not? Will it make any difference to your life whether you decide he's historically accurate or he's not? Will it have any impact on you? No. But when you sit down, supposedly an objective, detached person, And ask yourself, is Luke telling the truth? Will that make any difference to your life whether he is or not?

Class? Of course. It would make all the difference in the world. You'll have to change everything if he's true. So who dares say they're reading the Bible objectively? Every single person who sits down to read the Bible ought to recuse him or herself. In a court of law, they'd have to. to, they realize that if I'm sitting down here, I'm just objectively checking it out. No you're not, nobody's doing that. Nobody's doing that. And do you think somebody could sit down and listen to a guy claim to be the son of God and then write an unbiased account? You either think the guy's crazy or you think the guy's a fraud or you think the guy's God. That's C.S. Lewis, he's either a liar or a lunatic or the Lord. You come to a conclusion, but the one thing is you realize that the conclusion is going in the world. I mean, there's nobody who's objective. It's silly to talk like that. But, by the way, there's a little at the bottom of this eight, and I'm almost done here, very close, this, the best way to answer this bias, look at the little bullets at the bottom. The best way to answer this idea that the, you know, the gospel writers were biased is to basically do a cumulative argument. All the reasons why, sure, the gospel writers were biased. The real question is, could they, did they, just make up stories about Jesus? And the answer is, one, the non-fictional literary form and the blunt claims of accuracy means these were true or they were deliberate lies, not legends. Secondly, the brevity of time between written record and the event, allowing little time for unverifiable, leads to little time for legendary accretion. See, they were written too soon. Three, the culture and rules of Jewish oral tradition, which meant they were bound by their own view of truth to words and deeds accurately means that they weren't just fabricating them. Four, the existence of so many hard and embarrassing sayings and incidents in the life of Christ that were not in the self-interest of the authors to report, I didn't talk to you about that, indicates that it was true. Why if the early church wanted everybody to believe that Peter and the apostles started our church, why did the apostles look so idiotic in the book? What possible motive would early church leaders have for making Peter look like an ass, which the book of Mark particularly does, but almost all of them do. Why? You put all, and the existence of contemporary eyewitnesses and of corroborative testimonies and writings mean that wholesale fabrication would have been impossible. So of course they're biased, but the real question is, do you have any evidence they just made things up? Turn over. Okay. Objection seven is, are there contradictions? And here's what you need to keep in mind. Read this. This is very important. You know why? If you're a Bible study leader, and you study John's approach to, John's account of the resurrection and Luke's account of the resurrection, you're going to have some of your people going, wait a minute.

John says Mary Magdalene was the first one to the tomb. She came alone. It says Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and saw Baba and then she ran. And Luke and Matthew say a group of women went. Well, that's a contradiction, isn't it? No. Though on the one hand, it's true, that the gospel writers, being ancient people, would not probably, they probably feel, they probably felt, that they had the right to be very selective in their use of data in a way that a modern biographer wouldn't. See, biography is a genre they didn't have then. Post-Enlightenment biographers feel like they've got to put in everything. And the ancient writers probably didn't feel the need to do that. But just because, see, if Luke says a lot of women went, and John says only Mary went, that's not a contradiction. In fact, look here at the second paragraph. For example, the third paragraph on page 9. For example, many people have said that John contradicts the other Gospels because he depicts Mary coming to the tomb alone on Easter Sunday. And yet, when Mary runs to the disciples, John reports her as saying, and John would have been there, by the way, to hear her, said, they have taken away the Lord out of the tomb, and we don't know where they've laid him. She seems to go alone, according to John. She comes back alone and says, we don't know. Why? Because frankly, she was with a bunch of women and John just left it out. If you read Luke 24, here's what's the interesting thing. If you read Luke 24, the last chapter of Luke 24, and if we only had Luke and we didn't have the book of Acts, you would think that Luke was saying that Jesus ascended the same day he rose. Because if you look carefully, it'll say, you know, he rose, the road to Emmaus, the visitation in the upper room, and then it has him ascending. And if you only had Luke and not Acts, you would say that Luke was teaching that Jesus ascended the same day he rose, which contradicts, of course, you know, Matthew and John. But when you get into Acts chapter 1, which was written by Luke, it says he appeared 40 times over to many apostles, many different times and ways for 40 If you didn't have Acts, you would swear that Luke was saying, you know, it all happened in one day. Why? Because of selective use of data. And once you get rid of the idea that every biblical writer is giving you an absolutely comprehensive biographical kind of narrative, you realize there's really no contradictions at all. Objection eight, miracles aren't possible. Now, this is the bottom line for some people, but I'll tell you what. What? If they look like me, you know, old and balding, graying. Of course, if they're women, they're just old and graying. But in other words, if they look like me, people my age and older still have a lot of problem with the very idea of miracles. People your age, is from what most of you look like, and younger, don't have as much. But one of the things you ought to do is read, it's a big subject. Page 10 and 11 tells you about it. But the reason it's becoming less and less of a problem is because quantum mechanics, Heisenberg's theory of interterminacy, is that the name of it? Uncertainty. People are becoming more aware of presuppositions. If you say there can't be any such thing as a miracle, what you're really saying, in a sense, is if the only way you know there's a miracle is because somebody reports it, report of a miracle couldn't be true. Here's how you're reasoning. Miracles have not happened. Therefore, miracles cannot happen. Circular reasoning, which is getting more and more recognized by people. Because the good thing about postmodernism is there's a lot of bad things. But postmodernism, postmodernity looks at presuppositions. And the most interesting thing of all is how identity politics, to some degree, can come at people. Look at top of page 10. this is a very typical thing that people say. This is a quote. We can't believe in miracles now in a modern technological age. Haven't you heard people say that? We can't do that anymore. Rudolf Bultmann says, It's impossible to use electrical lights and the radio and avail ourselves of modern medical and surgical discoveries and at the same time to believe in the New Testament world of spirits and miracles. We can't believe in this anymore. Now here's the postmodern answer to that. What do you mean we? You mean we poor people? You mean we Latin Americans? You mean we Africans? Who's we? Are you talking about women? No, what you're really talking about, by and large, is we Anglo-European older white males are the people who wrote that. And you see, as soon as they say we can't, that's a sociological argument. It's not a rational argument. And what they're really saying is, yeah, I know that most people in Latin America and Africa and China and places like that do believe in miracles. But so what? We know better. bottom of the idea that there can't be miracles very often is a sociological imperialistic pride and circular reasoning and then lastly now wait somebody's gonna ask you about the Canon how do we know the right books are in there and here's a lot of answer but here's the one thing I want you to know if second Peter if they made a mistake if the church made a mistake and put second Peter in there and it shouldn't be there Peter didn't write that you Eusebius thought that, by the way. If the church made a mistake, do you realize that the truth of the Bible and the truth of the Christian faith is so webbed together that there is no, there's almost no plank in the platform of Christian faith that doesn't have multiple attestation all the way through the Bible. If you threw 2 Peter out, if you threw the book of Hebrews out, if you threw Revelation out, you think that would change the Apostles' Creed?

Now, that may sound kind of like a radical thing to hear a Presbyterian minister say. I'm not saying throw them out. What I'm trying to say is, when people say, how do we know the church didn't make a mistake? And the answer is, well, you know, that's all in the providence of God. But the very fact is that wouldn't change the truth of the gospel a bit, even if there was a mistake. I don't think there was, and here's some reasons why. On page 12 is it. The worst objection, and you might not realize it is, sure people know this, and then I'll close in prayer, and then we have an announcement or two. Objection number 10. It's not important. A person goes like this. You know what? It doesn't matter whether the gospel is a reliable history. It doesn't matter whether Jesus said these things. It doesn't matter whether these things happen. All that matters is I experience spiritual meaning when I read them. Now, by the way, be really careful. If a person is saying this and they started coming, don't say, that's not right. I mean, hopefully, since your small groups aren't dying, I figure that you have decent small group leadership skills and you're not doing things like that. But I thought I'd just throw that in. If a person says, I just get meaning, it doesn't matter whether it's true or not, don't come after them. But I want you to know that's really not a helpful way of thinking. And you ought to try as much as you can to try to move people in a different direction. Here's why. This is maybe the greatest mistake of all. the central message of every other religion is you're saved by what you do by living in this way. That means that ultimately it doesn't matter whether the incidents in the Buddhist or the Muslim scripture really happen or not. It doesn't matter whether Buddha or Muhammad did this or that miracle or not. Because what saves us is not what they did, but what they said and taught us to do, right? Whether Muhammad moved the mountain doesn't have a thing to do with my salvation. I have to do what Muhammad says. I have to follow the five pillars. you know, I have to submit Islam. I have to submit to Allah in the way he said. We're saved by following the path to God. But the central message of the Christian documents is the opposite, totally the opposite. It's this you are saved not by what you do but by what he's done. You're saved not by his teaching but by what he did. He's entered history and he's lived the life we should have lived, died the death you should have died. You never heard anybody say that? This means atonement has been made. This means the kingdom of God has broken into the world of history. That's the Christian message. In other words, if we're to be saved by grace the historical events must have happened. That's the fact. There has never been a more concrete religion than Christianity. There has never been a religion that is more concerned about reality and here and now and the stream of history. There has never been a less otherworldly religion. I'm not kidding. It had to happen. Jesus had to really become somebody I can touch and feel and hug and kiss. It's just critical. Frankly, Buddha and Mohammed could have been ghosts. They could have come and given us the truth and then left. But Jesus had to be really, really, really real. Ever notice how the Gospels give 30 to 50 percent of their time to treat just the last week of Jesus' life? What kind of biography does that? So disproportionately focusing on what he did rather than what he said. The Gospel writers believed it wasn't the example and teaching of Jesus, but his saving work in history for us is death and resurrection. Therefore, historical reliability of the gospel is critical if you're saved by grace. If you get spiritual meaning and general inspiration without understanding the central message, then you're really settling for crumbs. So when a person says, you know, it just makes me feel good to read, I don't know whether it happened, okay, that person's on their way, that's good. You know, don't squelch that. You know, don't snuff a little wick, you know, that's just starting to burn. But you have to that the person's just settling for crumbs. They have no way that they can understand the assurance and the power of knowing that God has broken into real history. And he's broken into your lives and he saved you by grace.