The passage we're going to be looking at as we, on which we will base our teaching this morning, it's Mark chapter 10 verses 35 to 40, pardon me, 35 to 45. Then James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came to him. Teacher, they said, this is great by the way, we want you to do for us whatever we ask. Sort of the primordial prayer. We want you to do for us whatever we ask. What do you want me to do for you, he asked. They replied, let one of us sit at your right and the other at your left in your glory. You don't know what you're asking, Jesus said. Can you drink the cup I drink or be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with? We can, they answered. Jesus said to them, you will drink the cup I drink and you will be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with, but to sit at my right or my left is not for me to grant. These places belong to those for whom they have been prepared. Then the ten heard about this. They were indignant with James and John and Jesus called them together and said, you know that those who are regarded as rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them and their high officials exercise authority over them. Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant. And whoever wants to be first must be slave of all. For even the son of man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. This is God's word. We've been looking for a number of weeks at the meaning of the cross. And I must say to you that it would be better, though not necessary, it would be better for you to understand the message today if you'd been in on the other messages. And here's why. Up to now, we have been looking really at how the cross brings wave after wave of privileges into our lives. We have looked at the fact that the cross, and we won't recap this, but just note them, the cross brings us freedom from the world. The world no longer scares us. The world no longer really has any control over us. Freedom from the world. Freedom from guilt. Remember? Freedom from having to prove yourselves. And last week we looked at freedom from bitterness and from anger. Tremendous freedoms. Now, however, the cross does not simply, in some general way, save a lot of isolated individuals into a kind of state of vague happiness. But rather, we're told that the cross creates a dynamic community which has a new attitude toward the world. One of mission and service. Service. Servanthood. So, for example, in Titus chapter 2, verse 14, that one verse, in a sense, summarizes everything that this passage tells us. In Titus 2.14 we read, He gave himself to ransom us from all wickedness to purify for himself a people for his very own, eager to do what is good. He ransomed us to create a people. Eager to do what is good. In other words, the waves of privilege. Freedom from the world. Freedom from guilt. Freedom from bitterness. Freedom from all these things. The new self-understandings. The new perspectives. The new freedoms. They come into our lives not just to give us a thrill, but to turn us into a dynamic community that goes out into the world with an entirely different mindset than we had before. We're servants. The one that would be greatest. Among you must be your servant. Whoever wants to be the very first must be the last. What does that mean? What does the cross do? How does it turn us into servants? What does that mean? Well, there's two parts to what Titus 2.14 says. He ransomed us to turn us into a people eager to do what is good. And then we have the very same thing here. Jesus tells us that he has ransomed us. And the ransom, it creates a new position out of which, comes a new mission. A new position. The cross creates a new position for us and therefore a new mission or purpose. The purpose of servanthood. The mindset of servanthood. So let's look at those two things. Number one. We're told, first of all, that he came to give his life a ransom. A ransom. Very important. Extremely important. Usually when you see this word, this Greek word translated in the New Testament, it's usually translated redeemed. But it's the same word. It comes from the Greek word, loutron, louo, which means to loosen, which always has meant, throughout history, to unchain somebody. But more specifically, a ransom is a buying a person out of captivity. Think about what a ransom is. If there's someone that has been kidnapped and the kidnapper sent a note that says, we will return your child if you give us, $100,000 ransom, what does that mean? It means the child is in captivity and it will only be freed through a terribly costly exchange. Ransom is a cost. Ransom is a price. Ransom is an amount that is substitutionary in character, that affects freedom from some kind of captivity, some kind of bondage. That's what it all means. And therefore, when Jesus says that he came to ransom us, he's telling us two things about ourselves. They're both vitally important. Number one, he says, we're in bondage. And number two, he says, I have come to give a terrible, costly, to pay a terrible, costly price in exchange for your freedom. So he's telling us, number one, that we're in bondage, and number two, he has come to be our substitute, to make a substitutionary payment. Look at these. First of all, when he says that he came to ransom us, he is saying that we're in bondage. And that's a tough thing for people. Lots of people will say, yes, I know I'm not totally happy. I know I'm not very religious. I know I don't believe what you believe. But they would say, I'm not in bondage. I'm a free person. But the Bible would retort, no one is more a prisoner than the one that doesn't even know that he or she is a prisoner. Or, put it another way, anyone who doesn't know that he or she is a prisoner is the most complete prisoner of all. The Bible says, regardless of what you think or how you feel, you're in bondage. And if you don't know that you're in bondage, it proves that you're really in bondage. I mean, it's one thing, you know, for someone to have tied you up, and there you are struggling. You know you're in bondage. You know you're in bonds. It's another thing for someone to have knocked you out and tied you up. You're completely overcome. You don't even know you're in bonds. The person who doesn't know they're in bondage is the most complete prisoner of all. Do you know what the Bible says is true of all of us? What Jesus is saying when he says, I came to ransom you, is he means that we are captive to bad masters. To tyrants. We are under oppression to bad, to terrible masters. What are those masters? Well, I can only name some of them very briefly. One of them, the Bible says, is that sin creates all these slaveries, these captivities, that we're all slaves to self. We're slaves to self. Self, capital S. It says in 2 Timothy 3, it says we're lovers of self. Now, that's not talking about the healthy people. That's talking about the healthy confidence. It's talking about the terrible bondage that comes, to one degree or another, with all of us, because we put the self in the center. You know what kind of bondage comes from that? If you are always looking at yourself, if you are... The self is a terrible taskmaster because you're always feeling hurt. Because you're always comparing yourself to other people. Because you're always feeling that you're being shunned. You always feel like someone is... not treating you properly. You always feel that you're on the outside. And these are the marks of the bondage of the self because you're looking at yourself. And what ends up happening is the great business of your life, whether you know it or not,

is the self-protection. Protecting the hypersensitive self which is in the center. That's a bondage. Then there's another kind of bondage, the Bible says, that sin creates. And that is, unless Jesus is your master, your supreme Lord, not only in bondage to yourself, you're in bondage to idols. I'll just mention them, of course, because in a month or so I want to come back to this subject in more depth. But, you know, there's a number of places where the Bible says you should shun epithumia, which means over-desires. If you don't have Jesus as your Lord, something else will be. Whatever you put your hope in, is it your career, is it your looks, is it romance, is it relationships? You know, we've talked about this in the past, but anything that you have to have besides God to be happy is your real master. Anything that you have to have, anything that you know, boy, if I didn't have that, my life would fall apart, you might not think you're in bondage to it, that's just because right now it's not jerking you around, but you are. Bad masters, see? Or third, you're also not only a slave to self, you're not only a slave to idols, you're also a slave to the law. What's that mean? It means all of us have bad consciences at least. It says in Romans 6, it says in other places, that the cross frees us from being under the law so that now we're under grace. What does that mean? Well, it means this. Everybody has a sensation at some level of the universal moral law of God, we all know in our hearts, no matter what religion we are, the Bible says, no matter whether we have no religion or not, we know the fundamentals. Look at the golden rule. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Nobody has to teach you that, it's imprinted on your conscience, you know it, and there is no more devastating exercise than to actually look back on your day and all your interactions and all of your relationships and just ask yourself this, did I meet the needs of other people with all the joy, with all the speed, with all of the energy, and with all of the creativity with which I would meet my own needs? Just ask yourself that. Do I meet the needs of other people with all the joy, with all the speed, with all the energy, and with all the creativity with which I meet my own needs? Have I treated everybody just the way I'd want to be treated in the same circumstances? You break it every hour. And everybody knows that you can have the same circumstances as a society this way without this. Everybody knows that this is just simple justice. Everybody knows the universal law of God, yet you break it all the time. And to be under the law means that we all know that we are guilty. We all know that we break it. We all have a sense of moral accountability. We all sense being under the law. And people do very different things with this terrible bondage. This is a bondage. We know we haven't measured up. We know we're always behind. We're always behind when it comes to the moral standards. And so what do we do? Some people, listen, some people respond to being under the law. They respond by getting into the most detailed and moralistic religions they can find. Because you see, if you find a religion that has 700 laws and rules, you can concentrate on those and you can obey them, and it gets you away from having to think about the main principles of morality. Do you love God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind? And do you love your neighbor as yourself, the golden rule? See, if you don't have to think about the main things, if you can focus on hundreds of little rules, lots and lots of little rules that the churches or that the various religions set up, some people, the only way they can deal with that sense of being under the law is get into the most authoritarian and the most specific and moralistic and legalistic religions they possibly can. And other people deal with the sense of being under the law by trying to convince themselves that everything is relative. That who knows what's going on, who knows what's right and wrong, whose values do you mean? In fact, some people are so nihilistic, they basically sense, I'm going to be damned anyway, I might as well go out and have fun. You see, these are all ways of dealing with the fact that we know that we're under the law. That's a bondage. We know we're morally accountable. Jesus says, this is what I've come to ransom you from. And unless you understand that you're in bondage, unless you understand the purpose of the cross was to ransom you out of it, I've seen, I would say, many people, maybe even most of the people that go to church, actually incorporate the cross into their bondage, into being under the law. See, most people basically think of the cross this way. They say, here's what it means to be a Christian. I try my best to be a good person. And so I try real hard, but as time goes on in trying to live up, I start to fall behind, and finally I feel so guilty, I need forgiveness. So I go to God, and I remember that somehow, in some vague way, Jesus died for me. So I ask for forgiveness. Then I feel a little better. You know, I come, take the Lord's Supper, I ask forgiveness, I remember Jesus died for me, and then I go out and I try as hard as I possibly can to live up again, until I start to need forgiveness again. But you see, a ransom means you're in captivity, and the cross, if the cross is a ransom, it brings you into a whole new relationship. You're no longer relating to the bad masters anymore. You're taken away. It's an entirely different position. And what Jesus means is, I have come to do something so radical that it puts you onto a whole different footing. Well, what is it that he did? He came to pay a substitutionary price. And you know what it is? The cup. Jesus talks about the cup. And you know, if you understand the cup, if you think about what he went through in the garden, if you think about what he went through on the cross, you can't do anything without reading this passage, without it giving you goosebumps, without it making your flesh crawl. I'm going to try my best to make it crawl, if it hasn't already. What does he mean when he says, oh, the cup? Do you have any ability to understand what it means, the cup that I'm going to drink? In the Bible, in the Old Testament, the term cup and the term baptism represent ordeals. Ordeals. Not ideals. Ordeals. But the cup in particular had a very, very specific meaning. In the Old Testament, the cup was always the cup of God's wrath and judgment. So, for example, in Isaiah 51, it says, you will drink the cup of God's fury and you will stagger. In Ezekiel 23, it says, you will drink the cup of ruin and desolation and you will tear at your breasts. Now, somebody says, oh my gosh, you have this primitive view of God as a God of judgment and of wrath. Now, look, I'll just, I'll say it. Here's a 30-second sound bite, but let me listen. To be angry about evil and to love are not only not incompatible, they're inseparable. When an artist sees someone destroying her work, how does her love for her work express itself? But with anger. If a father sees something destroying his son, how does his love for his son express itself without anger? And therefore, what is sin? It's destroying the creation of God. You know, as C.S. Lewis puts it, I think we even quoted it last week, if that's true, how much more persistent will be the love that made the worlds that made you, more persistent than an artist's love for his work. More venerable than a father's love for his son. More exacting, more inexorable than love between the sexes. Remember that? And so you see, when God looks at our sin, when we sin, when we're not treating our neighbors as ourselves, we're not only mistreating each other and trampling on each other, but humanity is destroying itself, of course. And that's the reason why dishonesty and stealing and abuse and all these things are destroying God's creation. But you know what? The greatest act of destruction is sin. It's what you and I have done to ourselves by deciding we're going to take our body and our souls, which belong to God, and we're going to run them the way we want to run them. We're not going to do it under God. We're not going to make Him our boss. We're going to be our own bosses. That's like an eight-year-old saying, I want to take the family car for a little spin. You're not qualified, oh eight-year-old. And what your little spin is going to end in destruction. Is God mad at that destruction? Like the artist is mad at the artist? Like the father is mad? Of course. There's wrath there. There has to be wrath. The cup of God's wrath is an eternal monument to the goodness of God. And because we have sinned and because we have done this, this wrath has to come out to us. We deserve it. A price has to be paid. And who pays it? It's Jesus. You will drink the cup of God's wrath. And you will be saved. And you will stagger. You will drink the cup of God's wrath. And you will tear at your breasts. What was it like for Jesus to drink it? Let me tell you. We're not totally sure, but we know this. When He was in the Garden of Gethsemane, just the anticipation of it, the anticipation of it,

so astonished Him and so traumatized Him that He began to sweat blood. And the medical authorities will tell you. That only a severe shock can push the blood, break the capillaries under the skin and push the blood out through the pores. What would be so incredible and so terrible that the very Son of God, in anticipation of it, not even in the experience of it, but in the anticipation of it, would sweat blood, would writhe on the ground. What do you think it would have taken? What must it have been like? That's the reason why, in the famous Jonathan Edwards sermon, he puts it this way. This agony was caused, he says, by a vivid, bright, full, immediate view of the wrath of God. That's what Jesus saw in the Garden. God the Father, as it were, set the cup down before His only Son, which was vastly more terrible than Nebuchadnezzar's furnace, and said, Son, here's the cup. Smell it. If you don't drink it, they will perish. Will you? Will you be cast into the furnace? Jesus now had a near view of that furnace of wrath into which He was about to be cast, and He stood and He viewed its raging flames and the glowing of its heat, and He knew what it would be like to suffer. As the prophet said, who can stand before the indignation, who can abide the fierceness of His anger or His fury which is poured out like fire. And Jesus could have responded, Why should I, infinitely greater than all the angels of heaven, why should I leave all my glory and love and take this burning agony into my soul for those who will never repay me and don't even love me enough to stay awake with me in the hour of my greatest need? Do I deserve this? I don't. Oh, the cup. Let it pass from me, He said. But if there's no other way, I'll take the cup for them. And He staggered. And He tore His breasts. This is what He took. It was the ransom. It was substitutionary in character. Listen, you must understand, you might want to believe that I don't believe in a God. You say, I don't believe in a God who punishes sin. I don't believe in a God who would pour out His wrath on sin like that and pour out His wrath on His Son so He could save us. I don't believe in a God like that. I hope you're sure of yourself. Do you see what you're doing? You tear the guts out of what Jesus Christ did. Why would He be writhing like this? What would the cup mean? Don't you know how many Christians over the years have died better than Jesus? They've died for their faith. They've died in the arenas. They've died singing hymns. Many people have died better than Jesus. What would make sense over the agony and the pain of Jesus Christ? The only thing is that He experienced something that no one else ever has or ever will. Can you, He says, bear the cup and the baptism that I'm going to have? No. It's a rhetorical question. You better be sure when you say, I don't believe in a God who pours out His wrath on sin. Because if you decide to believe in a God who pours out His wrath on sin, you better be sure of it. What you have just done is you have robbed yourself of the greatest gift that you can possibly have. Without an understanding of the wrath of God, you'll never know how much Jesus loves you. You'll never have an understanding of what He did for you. You'll never be transformed by it. You'll never be melted by it. You'll never be invigorated by it. You'll never be changed by it. You make it incomprehensible. You better be sure. There better be lots of evidence that God's a God of love. Look out in the world and see how much there is that would never punish sin, that would never hate evil. Realize that your own father and your own mother, a good father and mother, a good artist, everybody else would be different. But God, no, God does not punish sin. If He doesn't, what did Jesus go through? Jesus paid the ransom. And where does this leave us? In an entirely new situation. Because of the depth of what He did, because of the, because of the thoroughness of what He did. We are free from ourselves because now we have more honor than any ego could ever want in a hundred lifetimes. What are you out there doing? Worried because somebody snubbed you? Worried because somebody's ignored you? Worried because somebody didn't ask you out? Here's all the honor your ego could possibly want in a hundred lifetimes. He looked at you. Listen, the Father and the Son, looked at you when they said, this is the only way. I will take the cup. Gee. You're free from yourself if you understand the cross. You're free from idols if you understand the cross. And you're free ultimately and completely from the law and your conscience because what He did was absolutely thoroughgoing. You're accepted. Jesus is your friend, your king, your shepherd, your brother. And the Father accepts you as perfect in Him. Your sins are wiped out. Now, if it's true, if all this is true, if you really have been completely released from self, you've been ransomed, you're out of that relationship, the old relationship to yourself, it's gone. Your old relationship to idols, things that you used to have to have to be happy. You're out of the old relationship with the law. I mean, the law's still there. You still obey the law. Of course you do. The law says don't murder, so you don't murder. The law says love, so you love. Of course you still obey the law, but your relationship to it is utterly changed forever. It can't condemn you anymore. You know that when you fall down, you are in a relationship with the Father who accepts you. Now, you know what that does? It makes you servants. It changes your attitude toward yourself so you're not selfish. You don't need to be. It changes your attitude toward the world. No longer are you afraid of it. You now are able to serve it. That's why Jesus said, if you want to be the greatest, be like me. Now, there's an interesting little two-step that Jesus does because in verse 38, he seems to say, you can't take my cup. Right? He says, you can't. Greatness in my kingdom, he says, depends on the fact, the reason I'm going to be great in the kingdom is because I'm taking the cup. I've come not to be served, but to serve and to take the wrath of God for you. So in verse 38, he says, you can't do that. You can't take the wrath of God. That's his rhetorical question. But in verse 39, he says, you will take that. What's that mean? It's fairly simple, but so profound. What he's saying is, you can't serve the way I served. You don't suffer the wrath of God. You don't take the big cup. But you will find that if you let me serve you infallibly, you will become a servant. If you let me love you infallibly, you'll become more loving than ever. You'll go out into the world as a servant. Now, why? It's pretty simple. When you are bought out of captivity, you're still in a kind of bondage, but it's the bond. You're still in bonds, but you're in bonds of love. Just imagine if somebody saved your life. And let's just say she saved your life in some tremendous crisis, but then as a result, she was injured for life. So you go to see her. You're free. You're healthy. She's not. She's in bonds, right? She'll never walk again, let's say, because she saved you. Just imagine a situation like that. So you're free. But don't you see there's a different kind of bonds now? You go in and you say, how can I ever repay you? There's a pressure on your spirit. And that's the reason Jesus says you're not your own. I mean, pardon me, Paul says you're not your own. You're bought with a price. And what if you went to her in the hospital room and you say, you have freed me. How can I ever repay you? And what if she said, well, take care of my mother? You would gladly do that. You would gladly say, okay, what I owe you, I will pay your mother. It's the least I can do. And that's exactly what Jesus Christ says to those of us who are his followers. Have you understood what the cup is? Have you understood what he did for you? It turns you into a servant of everyone. Why? You go to Matthew chapter 25. And in Matthew chapter 25, Jesus says on the last day, he's going to get a bunch of us together. He's going to say, I was hungry, and you didn't feed me. I was distressed, and you didn't hold me and listen to me. I was homeless, and you didn't take me in. And the Bible tells us, Matthew 25 says on that day, people are going to say, when? When did that happen? When did we see you homeless? When did we see you in distress? When did we see you hungry? And he says, they were all around you. They were me. When you ignored them, you ignored me. Jesus is saying, from his hospital bed, as it were, take care of them. What you owe me, pay them. And what is your attitude going to be? If you understand the cup, if you understand the cross, your attitude is, it's the least I can do. And it is. And so you see, you go out following him, and you're a servant. A servant is somebody who now says, I don't have to jockey for position. I don't have to always be trying to make sure everybody likes me or knows me. I don't need any thanks anymore. It's my job to move out and to see what people need and to give it to them. A servant is somebody who makes you feel so valuable because he or she is lavish with affirmation, but it's never maudlin or vague. It's always specific and sincere and real. A servant is somebody who just focuses on you. You know, Bonhoeffer says, it's a natural impulse of the human heart that when you meet somebody else, you immediately look for a position of strategic superiority. You automatically say, what does this person think of me? Is this the kind of person I want? Is this the kind of person I want to know? That's how people size each other up all the time. New York is worse than ever. Happens in the East Lounge constantly. A servant says, what can I do for this person? When you're around a servant, you feel valued. You feel affirmed. You feel listened to. You feel helped. You are helped. A servant is not somebody who needs a whole lot of affirmation because you've got all the affirmation and honor. A servant is not somebody who says, I work my fingers to the bone in this church. I've done this and this and this. Nobody seems to cooperate. Nobody gives me any thanks. I lent some money and it looks like I got ripped off. I've had it. Jesus says, don't you understand that in my kingdom, it always entails cups? It entails cups. If you're going to serve, of course you're going to get it on the chin sometime. I took the big cup so you could take the little cups. These are little cups. But don't you see? A servant knows that. A servant says, how could I feel self-pity when I see what I've gotten from him? Let me put it to you this way to conclude. When the disciples James and John said, Lord Jesus, we want you to do whatever we ask. Jesus looked at them and in his heart he's got to be saying, I'm drinking the cup for these people? In the garden, Jesus says, I'm only asking one thing. I'm asking you selfish little things that you stay awake with me and pray for me while I wrestle on the ground over what I'm about to do for you. He comes back and they're asleep. What does he do? He serves them. He dies for them. In fact, he says, the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak. He says, I know you meant well. He finds something to compliment them for. The heart of a servant. Now listen, those people represent you and me. Jesus died for people who were stubborn. So are there people in your life that are stubborn? How are you treating them? Jesus died for people who were always wanting from him. And never wanting to give anything. Are there people around you that always want to take and never want to give? Don't you see? Jesus died for people who slept through his hour of greatest need. Aren't there people around that you're really mad at right now because they slept through your hour of greatest need? You're looking at people around you saying, they should have known I've been upset. And what are you doing? Are you withdrawing from them? Are you attacking them? Are you being cold to them? Or do you keep in a position, a stance of servanthood toward them? Have you given up on them? If you have, may I put it this way, how dare you? Look at what Jesus did for you. And the more you're melted by that, and the more you draw on the resources of that, the more you're going to be able to be the servant that he is. Yes, he ransomed us, not with corruptible things like silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. He ransomed us, not just to make us happy, but to prepare us for the day of judgment. And he's going to prepare people for himself, eager to do what is good. Let's pray. Our Father,

we want to be a church of people who do care for the homeless and for the poor, for the distressed. We want to be a church of people that do reach out to folks that are hard to love. We want to be, in other words, a church full of servants. Now where are we going to get the strength for that? Where are we going to get the ability to drink those little cups? Only if we see what great big cup you drank from. Father, make us servants. Help us to love infallibly because we've been infallibly loved. Help us to serve because we've been served. We ask that you would turn us into the great and beautiful servant that your son was. There was no weakness in his servanthood, nothing but courage. We pray that you would, in the same way, put in us strength, along with the sweetness that will turn us into people like Jesus, who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.
