The topic is why work matters. And I've often thought that the Christian understanding of work and vocation can fairly well be grasped under two headings that have to do with that. I'd like to tell you why your work matters to God and why God matters to your work. If you understand both of those, I think you have a pretty good picture of what the Bible says about work, that work matters to God and that God matters to work. Let's get going on this. Recently, I've done some more study on Martin Luther and his views of work. And during the time of the Reformation, of course, it was a time of great upheaval. And there was really a Christianity, in many bad and good ways, divided in ways that are still with us. The medieval church was a church that dominated society. It just dominated. It created, as it were, Christian society. Another form of the Reformation is called the Radical Reformation, the Anabaptist, by the way, not to be mistaken necessarily with Baptist. But it was a wing of the Protestant Reformation that said it was the opposite of the medieval approach, which is to say that we should have nothing to do with trying to engage society. Many of the people in the Radical Reformation said that you shouldn't vote, that you certainly shouldn't serve in the military, that wasn't our job, that the world was actually a sort of Satan's world, and it's only inside the Christian community that you can do God's work. So on the one hand, you had the triumphalistic approach that talked about Christianity dominating society, and then you had the withdrawal approach that we have nothing to do with it. Interestingly, both the medieval church and the radical reformation both had a tendency to say that work out there in the world isn't really God's work. What's really God's work is work inside the church. church. Now along comes Martin Luther, and actually he wasn't the only one in both the Lutheran and Reformed churches that were good at this. They came up with a middle way. And recently I've been doing some reading there that shows a wonderful approach to, and a very biblical approach to work, especially Luther came up with. First of all, Luther in his famous address to the to the Christian nobility of the German nation, talks about how wrong it is to think of dividing Christianity, Christian work into spiritual work and secular or worldly work. And in that place, he talks about the priesthood of all believers. He says this, he says, there has been a fiction by which bishops, priests, and monks are called the spiritual estate, quote unquote, while princes, lords, and artisans and peasants are considered the temporal estate. This is an artful lie and a hypocritical invention. Never missed words. But let no one be made afraid of it, and that for this reason, that all Christians are truly of the spiritual estate, and there is no difference among them. Thus we are all consecrated as priests by baptism. As St. Peter says, you are a royal priesthood, a holy nation. And the book of Revelation says, and thou hast made us unto our God by thy blood, kings and priests. So first of all, he says, hey, it's not a spirit. Do not say, well, only the people inside the church are doing God's work. Oh, no. We're all priests. Every Christian, therefore, we're all doing God's work. Well, what does that mean? All right. In his expositions of the Psalms, especially Psalm 145, 147. If you read those psalms, they're wonderful psalms in which it talks about how God feeds every living thing. God gives food to every living thing. He feeds and he loves everything that he has made. And it also says, it's just, you know, when you read it, you don't think of the implications the way a guy like Martin Luther did. It says, for example, in Psalm 147, verse 13, God strengthens the bars of your gates. He gives your city security. He to eat. And you sit there and say, yes, yes. But Martin Luther then thought this out. And he said some interesting things, actually some amazing things. Here's one of the things he says. He says, God could easily have given you grain and fruit without plowing and planting, but he does not want to do so. Then he gives an illustration. He says, when Christmas is coming, you know you're going to give your kids gifts anyway. But what you tell them is, will not give you gifts unless you're very good and you work very hard. And so you get your kids to be really good and really hard, even though you're going to give them gifts anyway. I can think of a slightly better illustration, actually, though I get the point. Let's just say you go to a cabin with your son, which I used to do, very cold, taking them out when they're little and camping. And then it's very, very cold. And you say, you know what? We're going to freeze to of death unless we keep a fire going in the stove on the whole weekend. And he says, I want you. You have to cut the wood. I'm going to show you how to chop the wood. It's up to you to keep it chopped. It's up to you to keep the fire stoked. Now, why do you say that to a nine-year-old boy?

You know, you're not going to let him freeze. You know, if he doesn't do the work, you're going to keep him warm anyway. What are you doing? You want to involve him. You know, it's a, you want to train him. You want him to be part of the family. You want to be part of doing the work that we do. Now, that's Luther's idea. Then listen to this. He says, what else then is all of our work to God, whether in the fields, in the garden, in the city, in the house, in war, or in government, but such child's performance by which he wants to give us his gifts. Therefore, our work, these are the masks of God behind which he wants to remain concealed and do all things. Did you get that? He goes on to say, when the farm girl milks the cow to give you milk, That's God milking the cows. God's way of giving you milk. He didn't have to use her, but he does. When the farmer grows it, when the baker bakes it, when the transport transports it, when the grocer sells it, what is that? God doesn't have to do it that way, but he is. And what he's actually doing, he's loving you through other people's work. In which case, he actually goes so far as to say, the baker, the farmer, in work, it's God in disguise. These are the masks of God. God is loving you and distributing his gifts through work. Therefore, you're really in the place of God. He actually goes on a little further. He actually says, for example, he says, you know, he goes, this is Luther going on and saying, when it says God strengthens the bars of your gates and Luther goes a little further and says, well, now bars means the gates, but he says, what makes a city secure is not just, is not just gates or iron bars. He said, what makes a city secure, and this is his list. He says, wherever there's protection and security, it's a gift of God. Why? It says, whenever there's good order, faithful and wise rulers, good government, good city ordinances, good city planning. He also says, God could bring babies up out of the dust. After all, I did it in the beginning. But instead, he has fathers and mothers and childbearing. And so here's his conclusion. He says, when you marry and bear children, that's a calling of God. This is God's way of bringing life into the world. You are God in disguise. When you work, when you bake, when you dig a ditch, when you build a bridge when you write a play. This is God distributing his gifts. God giving people what they need to flourish through the work of other people. When you simply are a good neighbor, by the way, he just says, you know what makes cities secure? How does God keep the bars of the city? How does God make cities secure? This is what Luther says. He says, when you're a good neighbor, when you vote, when you knock on doors to see if the older people are okay. He goes on

by being a good neighbor, you are giving God's gift of security to your city. He says, among the Jews, there is a curse. May God give you a bad neighbor.

He says, the peace God gives is a gift of his grace, but comes through ordinary civic duties, being a good neighbor, living in the community, being involved, voting, involved in public institutions, and so on. So over and over, he says, does your work matter to God? Absolutely. There is no work that's menial. Jesus came not as a philosopher, not as a general. He came as a carpenter. And therefore, by this understanding that God is distributing his gifts through our work, the Bible says all work matters. All work has dignity. All work. Not just work that pays a lot in our economy. All work.

So that's why our work matters to God. On the other hand, you have to understand that God matters to our work. And what that means is belief in God, belief in the scriptures, belief in the gospel affects how you do your work. Let me strike a couple balances here. Because this is actually the balance we've been trying to strike at Redeemer and the Center for Faith and Work. And it's not an easy balance actually to strike. I'll tell you why in a second.

There's triumphalism and there's withdrawal. Remember we said that? That was the thing that Luther and Calvin and the, you know, the magisterial reformers were trying to avoid. There's the triumphalism. It says we're, it's a very negative view of the world, a very negative view of society. We're going to take over. It's a terrible place. We're going to take it back, you know. The medieval view, dominate. The other approach is that the world is just sort of, that's a worldly thing, and here is the Christian church, and this is where we do God's work. And you're schizophrenic. really think that your faith has anything to do with how you do your work. You just do your work because you have to, because you got to make a living. It's a very, very, it's also a very negative approach. The point is, according to the Bible, when Jesus Christ came, he brought the kingdom. The kingdom is a healing power of God in the world. But when Jesus Christ came the first time, he didn't bring the kingdom fully. Sometimes around Redeemer, we say, if you want to understand The biblical understanding of the kingdom. The kingdom of God is all ready. But not yet. It's all ready. It's all ready here partly. But it's not yet here fully. And what that means is. The power that's within us. As Christians. If you're priests. A royal priesthood. Which means. You're out there representing the values of the king. You go out into the world. To say. How does Christianity affect. How does Jesus. Values affect the way in which I work. If I do that. I'm going to make a better society. But not a perfect society. If things are going to get better. Because the kingdom is partly here. perfect, you're not going to take over. You're not going to make it to Christian society because Jesus isn't fully here. That balance, avoiding triumphalism, or on the other hand, the pessimistic withdrawal is what we try to strike. However, and here's another part of the balance, not every field is the same. When it comes to thinking out how God matters to your work, I mean, how does my Christianity affect the way in which I work? Think for a minute, even just of art. here's instrumental musicians are you artists yes you are and here's a playwright you write plays are you an artist yes you are on the one hand is there a christian way

to perform that violin concerto no there's probably just a good way or a bad way right now you could say whoever composed the violin concerto we can talk about the fact that different cultures, Christianity, Buddhism, Hinduism do create different kinds of music. And there's an interesting question there. But in general, if you're a Christian instrumentalist, you're not sitting around saying, what is the Christian way to perform this concerto? No, you're not on the, uh, you certainly going to be Christian in your motivation. You're certainly going to, your Christianity is going to affect why you do what you do and how you treat your, your, uh, relative success or failure and, and how you treat the people around you. It's going to affect the way in which you do your work, but in some ways, it's not going to actually shape what you do. On the other hand, if you're a playwright, you're all about values and right and wrong and truth and human nature and what's the meaning of life. Your Christianity profoundly affects everything you do. It's just exactly what you're doing. You see the complexity of this? I'm trying to avoid the triumphalism that says we dominate the society with our work withdrawal that says, you know, there's nothing you can do. It's a wicked place out there. I'm trying to avoid the simplicity of saying that there is a Christian way to do everything. I'm sorry. There's probably not a Christian way to bake bread. If you are a baker, you're probably going to treat your employees differently. And maybe your price points will be a little different and maybe how you treat your customers. But basically, you're going to make the break. You're going to bake bread pretty much the way an atheist is. On the other hand, well, I hope. plays like an atheist will. And therefore, we have to get rid of the simplicity. We have to get rid of the triumphalism. We have to get rid of the negativism and pessimism and say, however, nevertheless, to be a Christian is to always say, how does God matter to my work? If you're in the business world, you know profit is an idol, which means profit is an ultimate, and profit is more important than a whole lot of other things that are good and therefore there's a distortion in the business world. If you're in the art world, self-expression is an ultimate. It's an idol. What really matters is that I'm true to myself and I'm expressing myself and of course that creates distortions. If you're a Christian in any field, you ask yourself, how does God matter to my work? And it will matter.

But the way in which we work those things out, I often say this, is when it comes to evangelism, if you want to learn how to evangelize people, come to me. I got the answers, in a way. You know, I got theological training. I've been doing this for years. You know, and you can come. You're the student, and I'm the expert, and I can tell you. When it comes to thinking out, what does it mean to be a Christian hedge fund manager? What does it mean to be a Christian visual artist? What does it mean to be a Christian journalist? What does it mean to be a Christian? We're equal. I've got some knowledge. You've got some knowledge. I got the Bible. There's certain things that bear on it. You've got the questions. And we need to come together and as a community, accumulate wisdom as we think and as we talk and as we pray and as we work it out. Avoiding falling off the cliffs over in these other directions. Avoiding falling off the cliff of triumphalism or pessimism or simplisticism. I made that up. And that is, there it is. Do you want to have a Christian understanding of work? on the one hand, that's why work matters to God because by it, you're loving the human race and letting God's loving gifts come to them, to the human race. On the other hand, you have to not only see that work matters to God, but that God matters to your work and will shape and affect your motivation, your way of dealing with other people, and very often, the very way in which you do your work. And we're a church trying to, on the one hand, say your work matters. we have this, the Center for Faith at Work. That's the reason why we preach about it. That's the reason why we do not ignore people's work lives. How crazy it is, since most of you spend 90% of your time in the workplace, for us to say that, you know, Christianity has nothing to do with that. It has everything to do with that. On the other hand, we also are saying, come together, and only in the church can you really do this, or only within Christian community can you really do this, to think out what it means to be a Christian in my work. And do it when you're young, if possible. Because as you go on and on and on, older and older, very often you get locked into, your career gets very often locked in to certain values that you know in your head as a Christian. I shouldn't be really doing it like that, but I don't know what to do now because that's the way I make my money. And it's very, very important. So I've already started to mention this, but let me just say, at Redeemer, this view of work is a challenge. If you come here from another church or in other places in the country, you usually will have either experienced places where work is ignored by the church or work is seen in almost completely political ways, saying we're We're going to take back the culture.

If you come from other places, you might either have a more pietistic, you might say, approach to work, which is all work is a place to win other people to faith in Christ. That's it. You may have maybe come from a place where there was a little bit more of an intellectualistic approach to work, which is to say you have to figure out what it means to be working in your area as a Christian worldview. The Center for Faith and Work. and I know I created the atmosphere for it so I'm very happy whenever they say, oh, thank you, Tim. But the Center for Faith at Work is really the creation of a very talented group of leaders who took a lot of my basic ideas and just ran with them so that they're much more, frankly, cogent and they're being worked out practically and in all sorts of ways that I could never have envisioned. And I appreciate it so, so much. I also would like to, take a minute to, let me read you something that a guy named, his name might be Briner or Brinner, I don't know, I've never known, it's B-R-I-N-E-R, wrote a book some years ago called Roaring Lambs, A Gentle Plan to Radically Change Your World, and in it he said something that struck me years ago, and I always thought we should do this, and actually Catherine, and Catherine told me, let's do it at the end of your lecture here today, I said, it's great, this is what he says, he's talking about the fact that whenever people go off on mission trips, people get up and pray for them. Whenever somebody's going off to seminary, you know, to study for the ministry, people will get up and charge them and pray for them. And of course, that's completely against Luther's idea that we're all priests and that all work matters to God. And it's all ways in which God is actually loving the human race through your work. And so Bob Briner says this, quote, quote, there should be no less support or attention for an earnest Christian young person who has been accepted to the Juilliard School of Music than for one going off to a theological seminary. The church needs writers, performers, artists, speakers, politicians, businessmen and businesswomen, and workers in every craft and trade. In God's eyes, there should be no hierarchy. There certainly should not be in ours. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to have Catherine and come up here and she is going to have you stand by your profession. I'm going to read you a couple of verses and charge you and pray for you the way you see people who are ministers being charged and prayed because we're going to do that for you. In a sense, we're going to be trying to live out what I just said, Martin Luther says, and the Bible says about work.

We're going to share this mic, aren't we? I'd like to get my staff up here as well. So David, David, Calvin, Maria, Amy Lee, could you all come on up on the stage and we'll all be part of this ceremony. So Amy Lee does our leader development for our vacation group leaders. David is a reverend, a pastor ordained in the PCA. He leads our Gotham Fellows Program and has been very helpful in us broadening and deepening the theology that we impart in all of our programs. Maria is a artist, a visual artist, who leads a number of the artist programs along with Kenyon, who's at the end. Calvin runs our entrepreneurship initiative, which has a big business plan competition going on right now. And Chris manages, works to support the entrepreneurship initiative. He manages all our communications. And if you Twitter or tweet or email us on your mobile device, we'll put you on our list. You're welcome to do that. So I want them all to be up here with us as we go through trying to commission you for the work in the world. So I'm going to call you by vocation and ask you to stand. Stay standing. Look around at the other people who stand when I call their names. And we're going to all be standing, and Tim is going to give us a charge. So first of all, let me ask all artists in any artist field, the creative fields, to stand.

and you're spread all over like artists would be. Good job. Next, I would like to ask everyone, and do we have a sign for this? Good. Entrepreneurs, if you're an entrepreneur, stand up.

Good. And if you're in finance or business, please stand up.

That's great. That's a big. I think we have about almost 20% of our congregation are artists and almost 20% are in finance. So large concentrations that would never be found anywhere else in the country inside a church. So it's very interesting. If you're in health care, please stand up. If you're not on call, if you're not working, thank you. If you're in education, please stand up. And you're scattered all through the room. and law stand. It's harder to see these last people rising. Thank you. Social services, any of the helping professions that I haven't yet mentioned. Even faith-based professions can stand up here. Religion-based professions. Non-for-profit sector. And everyone else. And by the way, if you're not working at the moment, stand with your group that you have been working with or hope to be working with. Okay, thank you. As they're standing, Tim? Now, please stand, stay standing. Let me read you these two passages of scripture. Colossians 1, 16 to 18. For by him all things were created, things in heaven and earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or powers or rulers or authorities, all things were created by him and for him. He is before all things and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning and the firstborn from the dead so that in everything he might have the preeminence. In every area of life he might have preeminence. And 1 Peter 2, 9, but you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, of people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. Did you hear that? Declare is the work of a prophet. Priesthood is a priest. Royal is king. If you live right now, you're in a very big city, New York. It is an exhausting city. It's a very hard place to work because of the pace of things. It is a secular city, it's very hard to bring your values to bear on the way in which you do your work. And therefore, because of the power of the gospel, I call you to think like a prophet, serve like a priest, and plan like a king. It means getting together to think. Think, how does he have preeminence in my field? It means to come together and serve each other, and to serve the people around you in the city. I mean, the gospel gives you the humility

what's already happening in the city so you don't have to look down at it. But at the same time, it gives you the courage of a king. It gives you the courage to get out and declare the wonders of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light and show the world how God matters to your work. Let's pray. Our Father, we do ask that you'd make us as wise as prophets, as humble as priests, and as bold as kings. In our work, we ask that you would help us to come together to nurture and support each other because it's a very hard place to work. We ask that you would help us to come together to think out the implications of your Word and the Gospel on, uh, in our work because it's a very secular and difficult place to work in that sense. But most of all, Father, we sometimes feel intimidated by this huge city. And we pray that you would make us kings, kings, a royal priesthood, because we know who we are in Christ. The strength of the gospel, the humility of the gospel, and the wisdom of the gospel we need so we might be prophets and priests and kings in this city. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
