In your bulletin, you'll find printed the text for tonight. We're looking through, we're going through this whole year, the first letter of John. It's in the New Testament, but we have the part that we're going to be looking at tonight printed right where you would be if you actually are singing the words tonight, and not just mouthing them. You will find that we're going to read 1 John 1, verses 5 to 10.

This is the message we have heard from Him and declare to you. God is light. In Him there is no darkness at all. If we claim to have fellowship with Him yet walk in the darkness, we lie and do not live by the truth. But if we walk in the light as He is in the light, we have fellowship with one another, and the blood of Jesus, His Son, purifies us from all sin. If we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and purify us of all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him out to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. This is God's word.

Now, we said in looking at the first four verses of this passage, of this book,

is to give us the fullness of joy that he has. Because in the first four verses he says that as an apostle, as one of Jesus' twelve, he saw Jesus, he met Jesus, and he has a knowledge of Jesus which he calls fellowship. Fellowship with God. And fellowship with God we spent some time talking about. in God. It's not just a morality or a moral decency. It's actual sharing in his life. It's actual intimacy with God. It's knowing God, not just knowing about him. So we've talked about that. Now, the first question that comes up, I think, in anybody's mind, and I know because after, you know, one of the things that we do, we have lots of classes downstairs after the service, both morning and evening. And I have a question and answer time as one of those classes. And one thing that keeps coming out during those question and answer times and elsewhere, people say,

the way the Bible talks about fellowship with God makes me wonder if I've ever really tasted it or what I've tasted is so little. It makes me feel that maybe religion as these guys writing the New Testament. I don't even know if I'm in the same religion. I have some taste of what, I have some sense of what we're talking about here, but so little of it. So the first question that right away comes up, why, if this is so great, why if this is available, fellowship with God, why are our lives characterized by so little of it? Why are our lives characterized by so little greatness, so little breadth of experience of God. Why? What gets in the way? That's what the whole rest of the book of John is about. You know, John is a pastor. He's not just a teacher. He's a teacher and a pastor, and he knows this is how people think. And so what immediately he launches into, starting here at verse 5 and all the way through the end of the book, he actually will be showing us several obstacles, things that get in the way, things that hold us back from fellowship with God. There's actually three of them all together, but we're going to be looking at them over the weeks. And the first one he introduces is the whole issue of darkness. This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you. God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. We want to have fellowship with God, but if we are walking in the darkness, we don't have fellowship with God. Darkness. walking in the light. Now we're going to look at this for, as you know, a few weeks, but let's take a look at it for the first time tonight. There's a sense in which this term darkness, brought up by John as one of the main problems that we face, is so foundational. I realized as I was working this evening, when I was coming over here, I was thinking, how do I introduce this? I realized I have a difficult issue in front of me. difficult task. Ordinarily, I can start a sermon by saying, this is a problem that we face. There's a problem here that we face. And this passage addresses that problem. And right away, everybody's engaged. They say, yes, that's a problem I have, or that's a problem people have, or that's a problem we have. Let's do something about it. What is the answer? Everybody's engaged. The trouble is that by John bringing up this first issue, he says your biggest problem is the darkness of the world, the darkness of your hearts, the darkness of existence. He's bringing up something so foundational that it's hard for us to see. It is the problem, but it's something that we've virtually gotten used to. If you ask a fish about water, the fish will say, what's water? Because the fish, it's dead, has never really been out of water very long, except through some very, very traumatic experiences. You know, generally, those few fish know something about water because they've lost it for a while. But by and large, nobody's ever really been much out of the darkness. And so not much of, we really don't know much about it. Now, what is darkness? In the Bible, the word darkness has several aspects, and yet they're all linked. You can't can't separate these. For example, what is a dark mind? When the Bible talks about darkness of mind, when we talk about darkness of mind, we're talking about confusion, very little knowledge, unable to really see what's going on, unable to understand. When we talk about the darkness of the soul, what are we talking about? When the Bible talks about the darkness of the soul, the dark night of the soul, it's talking about despair. It's talking about despondency. But when we talk about dark desires, when the Bible talks about the dark heart, the dark desires, it's talking about what? It's talking about evil, wickedness, lust, impurity, violence. And so when John talks about darkness, he is saying, this is our big problem. And it's so great that we almost don't even think of it as a great problem because we have even lost hope to ever get out of it. Here's what I mean. I wrote a few questions down. In other words, why is it that no matter what we do, no matter how much we hope in things, they always fail of their promise? We put our hopes in ourselves, we never make it. We put our hopes in other people, we never make it. Why is it that we can dream? Why are we capable of dreaming of things so far beyond anything we can attain? Why are we always in pain because of the way people treat us? Why do we do the things that we know are wrong? Is there any other living being that does that? Why do we do things that we know will harm us?

That's darkness. That's a combination, not just of evil desires and of despondency, but also of confusion and a lack of understanding and a kind of twistedness and a kind of brokenness and a kind of incoherence. Why do we do things we know are wrong? Why do we aspire to things we can never get to? Why are we even capable of that? What's going on here? Why are we in pain? Why do we treat each other the way we do, you see? Why is there death? And not only that, why are we afraid of it? Why are we so cruel to each other? It's not too hard, is it, to make the case that the world is a dark place.

That there's a darkness about our existence, about our own hearts, about our relationships, about existence itself. Everything is breaking down. Everything is decaying. Everything disappoints us. Now, you see the problem? The problem here is this problem is so great that we even, you know, you're even a little startled, aren't you, as I ask these questions. You don't even ask those questions anymore. You just accept it. You don't sit around saying, why is it that people are afraid of death? Why should we be? Why is it that we aspire to things, can even know about things that nobody could ever attain to? Why is it that people are so cruel to each other? You just take it for granted. John will not. you know remember there was one night of maybe a year or so ago we talked about this there is nothing more pessimistic than the Bible and there is nothing more optimistic than the Bible the message of the gospel there is nothing more pessimistic everybody else says well there's things to do things to do to improve our situation things to do to get out of the darkness there's some things we can do and what does the Bible say there's not a thing you can do not a thing All the efforts will fall short. You're lost, you're lost. That's what the Bible says. But then, as soon as you start to talk about what you can do, ask human beings what they can do. And they talk like this. Well, all we can do is just light a match in the darkness. Just one little match. Just light one little candle in the darkness. I will just try to live a better life. I will try to rise above my circumstances. That's my contribution. And the Bible says you can destroy the darkness. You can abolish it forever. ever. It can be, it will be swallowed up. Oh, there's nothing. The way you can tell that you understand the Christian message is that you are far more pessimistic and far more optimistic than anything you can read in newspapers, anything you can read in the magazines, anything anybody says at the same time. And therefore, don't you dare accept darkness. Don't accept these things. things. John says, I can show you the way to escape. That's nothing less than that. That's what John is saying in these verses. As I said, we're going to look at him for several weeks, but I can at least outline what he tells us here. How can you escape the darkness? How can you eventually have it abolished? How can it be? How can you walk in the light? How can you get out of that despondency? How can you get out of the evil that you see in yourself? The selfishness and the pride and the cowardice. How can you have your mind enlightened in all those areas, in all those ways? Well, John tells us you have to do three things. And actually, you have to look at it for a while to see. But again, just like the problem is so basic we hardly even notice it, the solution is so foundational that it might be easy to miss it unless you do some thinking. So I'm going to try to paint with broad strokes here. First thing, look, this is the message we have heard from him and declare to you, God is light. So the first thing John says, if you want to escape the darkness, is you've got to begin with God. You've got to begin with God. This is the message. and what is the message? See, John has said, I've got fullness of joy. I've got a way to have fellowship with God. I have a way to escape the darkness of this world. I've got a message. So he starts the message and the first word of the message is God.

Now, I don't want to, you might say, isn't that kind of, you're belaboring the obvious. I told you I was, but I want you to see that the obvious is not as obvious as you might think. think. John starts his message with God and not with you. He starts his message with God and who he is, not with you and your problems. The Bible does the same thing. In the beginning, you know, the Bible starts, in the beginning, God. And actually, frankly, in the beginning, God. Four words. And frankly, everything else in the Bible is an elaboration on those first four words. That's basically it right there. In the beginning, God. What does it mean? John is saying that our problem not only is the answer the way to get out of darkness, not only is the answer to start with God instead of yourself,

but the answer, not only is the answer to start with God, but starting with God is the answer. Let me show you this in a couple of ways. Intellectually, this is certainly true. Intellectually, you have to start with God. One of the questions that people are continually trying to, one of the things people are trying to always say to me when I try to talk to them, they say, well, you know, religion isn't important to me. I don't need to figure those things out. One of the things I learned the other night at our college ministry meeting was somebody did a bunch of clips, most of which came out of Woody Allen. Alan, and so many of the Woody Allen comments about God are things like this. They say, you know, who knows about these things? Who knows about whether it's a God or not? Who knows about any of these big issues? They don't know. The great ones don't know. And we don't know either. So let's not try to figure it out. Let's just live our lives. Now that is very common. That is a whole intellectual mindset. The mindset is since all the great thinkers of the years have never answered these great questions about whether it's a God and what he's like and so on, am I to do it? I'm just going to decide on the basis of what seems good for me. I'm going to be a pragmatist. I'm going to live my life day to day. I don't need to decide about these big issues. The Bible says, and I hope you'll see common sense says, that's impossible. The Bible says you have to start with God intellectually. And I'm not going to belabor this one too far because I think this is something of a, this is really a good subject for another sermon at some point, but you can't avoid it. Did any of you see the New York Times book review section today? There is a review of a, the name of the review is The Odds on God. And it's a book about, it's a review of a book that talks about, well, it actually talks about cosmology. And in the book review, it mentions the fact that the big, Scientists agree that the universe was caused by the Big Bang. And the big question is what caused the demolition? What caused the Big Bang? And the writer points out that if the bang had happened any faster than it did even infinitesimally faster than it did there wouldn't have been matter coalescing. And if it happened any slower it wouldn't have been a Big Bang. And he says therefore the very fact that we exist is either a miracle fluke. Now, did those gases coalesce on their own? Are you an accident or are you a creature of design?

Everything, everything, everything depends on which of those two options are true. True, Pascal in his Pensees, I think it's one of his Pensees, Pensee 427, for those of you who even care. He's got a Pensee in which he says, he says, you cannot live with, quote, any sense or judgment unless you decide whether there is a God or an afterlife or whether your life is an accident. accident. So you can't make a move without thinking about it, and you say, well, yeah, well, I'm making my moves all the time, and I'm not thinking about it. And what Pascal would say is, no, that's not exactly true. You are betting your life on one of the other. That's what he'd say. You are assuming one of the other in all of your life choices. You're betting your life, so you better think about it. In other words, you have to start with God. Intellectually, it's the only coherent way to live a life, but pragmatically, it's unavoidable.

have to start with God. And people do. People who say, I don't know if there's a God, I don't believe there's a God. If you reason, if you use rationality in such a way that you assume the universe is orderly, if you make moral appeal, if you get angry about injustice and you act as if there's a standard out there that you and I should both know, if you complain that there's suffering and evil in the world and you assume there's a standard by which the world can be judged, you're starting with God. You're assuming God.

you just won't acknowledge it. And that's dishonest. Now, intellectually, in the beginning, God. You can't think unless you start with God. You can't understand the universe unless you start with God. But let me get into what I think John is getting at here even more directly. Personally, you cannot understand yourself unless you understand God. And the reason that the gospel message starts with God and not with you is because all of our problems come from a kind of self-centeredness and a self-absorption. The fact that our hearts really demand equality with God and we put ourselves first and that's the problem. And the gospel message demands that you depart from that self-centeredness right away, right at the beginning. In other words, it's very, very possible to approach, well, possible, it's inevitable that people approach Christianity starting with themselves. You come to Christianity because you got a problem, generally, because you have needs, because you have lacks in you. And so you come at it and you say, okay, I'd like to, I want to know if I should be a Christian or not. Now, how do you go about it? Boy, I can always see the wheels going. You've got a little calculator in there, and the calculator has got an assets and deficits thing on it. And what you're saying is, what does Christianity offer me, and what does Christianity demand of me? That's what you're doing. I got needs. I got problems. What is it that you have for me? And, okay, that's good. Oh, all those things. That's great. What do you demand of me? What do you want for me? What do I have to give up. What will it cost? And so you're sitting there, and sometimes, you know, depending on the sermon, you know, sometimes the sermons are asset sermons, aren't they? Look at all you have! Sometimes they're cost sermons, aren't they? Look at what you owe. And you know, you're sitting there, and from week to week, you know, you're getting excited, then you're getting kind of downcast, your little calculator's going on through, you know, and what you're doing is, the message doesn't start with you.

This is the message God The gospel says, here's how you get out of your darkness. Stop thinking about who you are and what you are owed and start by contemplating God and who he is and what he is owed. Get rid of your assets and deficits. Get rid of your cost analysis. Ask yourself, is God? See, this is the message we heard from him and declare to you. God is. Now, if God is, who cares how much it costs? Who cares? You owe it to him. Who cares what's good and what's bad? Oh, we don't think like that, do we? We don't think that it's possible that God might actually objectively be real. We have a tendency to come at it completely subjectively. We come at it saying, you know, what's in this for me? Is this right for me? Is this true for me? And plenty of Christians, well, plenty of people, after they start to really get into Christianity, will say, well, I certainly would never want to impose my faith on anybody else. Now, if you mean by impose, you know, a lot of people say, I like Christianity, but I don't think it's right to ever impose it on anybody else. Now, what do you mean by impose? If you mean by impose is pushing, being coercive, being mean, you know, manipulating, of course. But if you mean, I would never try to persuade somebody else, what you mean, you have got an understanding of Christianity that starts completely with you. because of me, you know? This is the message which you have heard. I have a need, and I've come to Jesus, and now I'm better. That's not the gospel. This is the gospel. God is light, see? See? And if you start with yourself, and you start with your needs,

you're never going to get out of the darkness. You know that old line from the poet? I'm trying to find the poet. In fact, maybe I've made it up, but I doubt it.

here's that line that goes what does he know of England who only England knows in other words you don't know your own culture until you get out of your culture you don't know your city until you get out of your city you don't really know yourself until you get out of yourself that's what you need as a perspective you don't understand yourself until you understand God

you don't understand life until you want something more than life you know the philosophers If this life is all there is, if when you die you rot, and when the sun dies everything goes to nothing and nobody even will be around, then it makes no difference whether you're a nice person or an evil person in the end because that's all a matter of opinion anyway. In other words, if this life is all there is, this life is pointless. That's the message of the Gospel. If you start with you, you'll never get out of the darkness. If you only have this, life won't mean anything until you get beyond life. This world will mean nothing to you. You'll never understand it unless you get beyond the world. This life you'll never be able to live with greatness unless you're able to say, like the psalmist says, thy loving kindness is better than life. Until there's something better than life, life won't be any better for you unless there's something worth dying for, lots of things worth dying for.

You have to start with God. And the gospel just demands, right at the start, that you do something about the self-centeredness which has gotten you down anyway. Alright, now, secondly, and this will be brief, the most brief, because I, this, you notice, if you want to get out of the darkness, you not only have to start with God, but you have to start with God as he reveals himself. Look, this is the message we have heard from him and declared to you. now again this goes right in the face of the way the average modern person wants to approach religion i said first of all we start with ourselves and right away the message is god stop forget yourself and think about god forget yourself for one minute and contemplate god and his greatness he's light and him knows darkness at all that's the only way you'll get out of your or darkness. But then secondly, not just a God in general, people want to search for God, and they want to kind of construct a God. But see, John comes right out and says, you have to not only start with God, number one, but number two, you have to start with the revelation from God, God as he reveals himself. He says, this is the message we have heard from him and declare to you.

did you see that? John does not say now I have I'm an old man he doesn't start this way he doesn't say I'm an old man and I've been studying for a long time I've been studying the Bible I've been I've talked to people I've studied Greek philosophy and over the years I have done much reflection and a lot of

distilling of many, many ideas and I have come after years of thought and to this particular conception of God no he says I used to have this stupid idea of God, and then I met him. And we heard this from him, and we declare it to you. The only way you're going to know God is if you believe that he has spoken through the apostles and through prophets and through Jesus, and he gives you a revelation of himself.

In other words, the gospel says, it doesn't matter what you think about God. All that matters is what he says about himself. Now, the reason I have to run right on this is because many people will say, well, now wait a minute, you know, are you trying to tell me that I have to believe that the Bible is the authoritative word of God if I'm going to escape the darkness?

Well, look at it this way. There's a lot of people who are kind of inconsistent on that. There's a lot of people who just really don't like to come down on our doctrine of Scripture, and yet they accept much of what the Bible says as the Word of God. I want just you to know this. If you don't have a book that you can come to and bow to and say, this is what God tells me about himself. If you are in a position of being able to say, this might be something God says, and this might be something God says, and how am I going to decide that? you will not be able to have a personal relationship with Him. See, I just assume not go into how we know the Bible is the Word of God tonight. I would just like you to know what the consequences are of it not being. And here's what the consequences are. If the Bible is the Word of God, you can have a personal relationship with Him. And if it's not, all you can have is a philosophical conception of Him.

I mean it. Why? Well, listen. Imagine trying to get to know somebody will not speak to you. You can get to know a lot about her. You can study her. You can talk to people who have met her and who do talk to her. You can get all sorts of legal records. You can even write the definitive biography. But unless she talks to you, you don't have a personal relationship with her. And you can know an awful lot about God, but unless you're able to look at some word somewhere and say, this is God speaking to me without a doubt. If you've got a body pick and choose depending on what you want to do. You're into philosophy. You're into constructing a God that you want. You're able to say, well, this might be God, this might not be God. What do I decide? What do I decide I think God is like? Which parts of the Bible do I think are okay? And what you've got is philosophy. You are constructing. You cannot really know God personally unless you're able to listen to these words. This is the message we have heard from Him and declare to you. You can't just start with God. You have to start with what God says about himself. It doesn't matter what you think about him. I'll tell you something. If somebody says, you know, Tim, you say that you were born in Pennsylvania, but I like to think of you having been born in Saudi Arabia and raised there until you were 20. And I would say, well, I'm glad you like to think that,

but you don't know me. because you refuse to be controlled by what I'm telling you. You don't know me. And you say, if you look at the Bible and you say, well, there's some of these things in here that, you know, I don't know if God said them or not. I certainly can't believe these things anymore. You can't have a personal relationship. You'll never escape the darkness unless you're willing to receive what the apostle said. This is the message we have heard from him and declare to you, God is light. Now, lastly, you not only have to start with God, you not only have to start with God's revelation of Himself, but last of all, you have got to start with the Holy God. Now, I'll give you the summary, though in the future we'll go into this in more detail. The message of the Gospel does not start with the love of God, it starts with the holiness of God.

You notice John says he starts with, God is light, and in him there is no darkness at all. That means God is holy, and he cannot countenance darkness or evil. He cannot live with it. He cannot tolerate it. He cannot brook it. He cannot live with it. He is a holy and just God. That's how the gospel starts. Now, right away, we might say, wait a minute. Do we have a non sequitur here? In verse 4, John said, I've got a lot of joy. joy. I know the Lord, and I want to share this joy with you. I want to show you how you can have this joy. So we're there going, okay, okay, tell me, what's the message? How can I know this joy? Okay, I want joy. So the first thing he says after verse four is, okay, let me tell you the message that brings me such joy. God is absolutely holy, and he will not brook evil at all. And you say, this is supposed to bring me joy. This is good news.

You know what John is saying? John is saying you will not understand the love of God objectively and you will not enjoy the love of God subjectively unless you understand that he is utterly holy. Let me give you a little case illustration of this.

a couple centuries ago. It was a famous story. And he had lived a very licentious life, a very immoral life by Christian standards, and he was dying. And on his deathbed, somebody said, aren't you afraid of meeting God? And he said, very nonchalantly, God will forgive me. That's his job. God will forgive me. That's his job. Now look carefully, and you'll see what happened. Here's a man who believed in a God of love, light. Here's a man who believed that God was absolutely love. And if you believe God is only love and not holy, look what happened. His understanding of God being nothing but love, in his life, it didn't change him. And in his death, it didn't console him. And unless you understand that God is light, The idea of Jesus dying on the cross will make no sense to you at all. As a matter of fact, let me conclude with this statement. Look carefully. God is light. And then, and that's how it begins, but how it ends is the blood of Jesus. God is light. But our fellowship with God and our fellowship with each other all comes because of the blood of Jesus purifying God. If you believe in a God of light, but not a God of the blood, or if you believe in a God of love, but not a God of light, that either of those kinds of misunderstandings of God injects distortion into your life, and I will submit to you that all of us don't really have the Gospel together here. The Gospel is you are utterly wicked and lost, but you are completely loved and completely saved completely accepted through the blood of Christ. And nobody, as far as I know, including me, has that so much together. We all have a tendency to see God more as one or more than the other, and it will destroy you. And even if you have just a little bit out of balance, it will tip you. See, friends, is there anybody here who really has that view of God that's very popular today? God is nothing but love, no standards. He's just kind of your assistant on the road to self-actualization. you try to raise a child that way. You try to raise a child that way. Just give the child love. Let the child have no parental authority, no standards, and you will see that child will grow up to be an orphan.

That child will not know which way is up. That child will not have any sense of, he'll have a vertigo. He won't know which way is up. Nobody around him, no feeling of limits, no understanding. You just try that. but love, never say no, never say obey, never. That's child abuse. And a lot of you have been raised on the enlightened idea of a God that's nothing but love, and you feel like an orphan because you are. But if you've got a God that's only light, and you don't know anything about the blood, that's a God, you'll be a driven person.

you'll be driven.

You'll always be feeling something's wrong. You'll be pretty moral and yet you'll be always fleeing and nobody pursuing. You'll always feel like two little butters stretched over too much bread. Something's wrong. I don't know what it is. Driven into the ground. You will never know the joy of God unless you know that he's light. And only because you know he's light Any idea of how important and how critical and how wonderful it is that Jesus Christ died for you? Don't you see? Light without blood will crush you. Love without light, it's just trivial. Of course, it's his job.

No, God is light. And he had the right to crush us all, but he didn't. He sent his son to die for us. And that's the only way you'll ever get out of the darkness. is to know that and have it lift you up. And that's the way God will destroy the darkness on the strength of what Jesus did for us on the cross. And we'll look at this more as the weeks go on. But, oh, my friends, you can know. You can walk in light. You can get out of the darkness if you're willing to start with him. And what he says about himself, and what he says about himself is, I am light. In me is no darkness at all. But through Jesus Christ, all the darkness in your life can go away forever let's pray thank you Father thank you Father for being a God of truth because the truth is food and we've just been given something to eat it's very sweet it'll also make us strong help us to digest it now we ask that in Jesus name Amen