The scripture is from Paul's letter to the Romans, chapter 12, verses 9 to 21.

Love must be sincere.

Hate what is evil, cling to what is good. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Honor one another above yourselves. Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spiritual fervor serving the Lord. Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Share with God's people who are in need. Practice hospitality.

Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. More. Mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited. Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everybody. If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my friends, but leave room for God's wrath, for it is written, it is mine to avenge, I will repay, says the Lord. On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. This is God's word.

Many people believe that God is real and that God loves them. And yet, those people are just as selfish, just as messed up, just as anxious as everybody else. Now, that belief ought to make a big difference. That belief ought to make you more secure. More happy, more humble. And yet, our beliefs don't do that in so many cases. And the reason they do that is because beliefs don't automatically turn into changed thoughts and feelings and behavior. Beliefs have to be turned into changed character through what we're calling each week Christian practices, spiritual disciplines. There are certain things we have to participate in and do. If our beliefs are actually going to produce change. If our beliefs are actually going to change lives. Now, this week we're starting, actually for the next two or three weeks, we're going to be looking at a new set of practices that I guess we could call community building. And as over the next three weeks, we're going to be looking at different aspects of this. But it's the participation in intimate Christian relationships, love relationships, being integrally involved in close Christian community. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.

 So when you read, for example, when you read the Sermon on the Mount, where Jesus says, you must do this, you must do this, you must do this, we read it and we tend to think of it, this is just the way God wants me to behave. But actually, almost all the verbs in there, I mean, all the pronouns in there are you all. They're plural. And what Jesus is saying is, I want you to be part of a community like this. I want you to form a community like this. And you missed the whole point of the Sermon on the Mount. Now, what I want to do today is just begin looking at this subject of the importance of Christian community. And in chapter 12 of Romans, we have a whole lot of statements. They're great. There's more here than I can possibly cover. But I want to pull out three things that we're going to learn about community from the passage. There's more than that in the passage, but here's the three I'd like to cover. I'd like us to notice the family nature of Christian community, the graciousness of it, and its ultimate source. Christian community, its family nature, its graciousness, and its ultimate source. Now, first, the family nature. This is crucial to the whole passage. It's right up here in verse 10. Be devoted to one another in brotherly love. Now, brotherly love, really, in English at least, it's a very vague and sentimental idea. But the original Greeks and Romans who saw the brotherly love, practiced by Christians, knew how radical it was and how offensive it was. Lucian of Samosata, who was a Greek writer and author who watched Christianity growing and didn't like it, said this. He wrote, That's Jesus. Their founder persuades them that they should be like brothers to one another, and therefore they despise their own privacy and view all their possessions as common property. See, he recognized how radical it was to say, and you know, a lot of us have heard us, you know, we've said this ourselves or we've heard this, but we don't see how radical it is to say that every other person who's experienced the saving grace of God through Jesus Christ is your brother or your sister. See, Lucian understood that. He understood that was radical. Do you? Let me just take a look out of this passage of three things about what it means to have a family relationship with all other people who have experienced the saving grace of God through Jesus Christ. There's three marks of a family relationship. I'm going to put them negatively first. Family relationships are marked by non-selectivity, non-privacy, and non-safety. Why even be in a family then, right? Non-selectivity. Non-privacy, non-safety. First of all, non-selectivity. Verse 10, it says, and that is one of the few Greek words that everybody knows when it says, the word brotherly love is the word Philadelphia, which means love of brothers. But the first word in that sentence, was another word that describes family love, and it's actually the word philostorge. Storge. Storge. Storge, which is often, translated bondedness or affection. You should experience family bonding, is what it's saying, if you understand the gospel. C.S. Lewis wrote a book called The Four Loves, and he was a student of ancient literature, and knew ancient literature as well as anyone, and he said there were four basic Greek words used to describe four kinds of love, and one of them was storge, which is this word for family or familiar affection. And then there was the word philos, which means friendship. And then there was the word eros, which of course eros, which means romantic love. And then there was agape, which meant sacrificial serving love. And Lewis points out that storge has a particular glory, because all the other loves require some strength or merit, either in the lover or the lovee, either in the one giving the love or the object of the love. So he said, for example, in agape, which is sacrificial serving love, that requires a certain selflessness in the lover, you know, a strength or merit in you. Or in philos, friendship, or eros, romantic love, that requires something attractive or strong, something that merits your love in them. But he says storge is different, because he said, originally, the word storge meant the love of a mother for her infant, and a love of the... the infant for its mother. A kind of automatic, natural, deep bond. That's what storge meant. And Lewis goes on and talks about the peculiar glory of it in his book, and he says this. He says, Storge is not discriminating. Friends and lovers will say that they were, quote, made for each other. But the special glory of storge is that it unites those who most emphatically, even comically, are not.

Storge exists between people who, if they had found themselves in the same householder... if they had not found themselves in the same householder community, would have had nothing to do with each other. See, what he's trying to say is, think about brothers or sisters that you may feel a bond with, but frankly, you'd never want them... you'd never choose a person like your sibling to be your friend. Right? You know, you didn't choose your sibling. There it was. And you wouldn't have chosen your sibling. So he says, storge exists between people who, if they had not found themselves in the same household or community, would have had nothing to do with each other. But listen. Growing fond, though, of old so-and-so, simply because he or she happened to be there, because you're thrown together in the same family or the same platoon or same ship,

there's a wonder about that. For when you begin to say, though she is not my sort of person, yet she's really very good in her own way, you've crossed a frontier. It means you're getting beyond your own idiosyncrasies. That you're beginning to learn to appreciate goodness or intelligence in themselves, not merely goodness or intelligence that is flavored and served to suit your tastes and views and your own palate. And then Lewis adds, dogs and cats should always be brought up together. It broadens their minds so. Now, what is he saying? He says, storge, this is a very important word. He says, storge is a deep sense of connection and connection to yourself. That bondedness that is there with people that are just given to you. People that you wouldn't have chosen and you don't choose. And yet you sense that connection, you sense that bond, you begin to see things in them that you never would have seen otherwise because if you had a chance to choose them, you never would have chosen them. And that connection, Paul is saying, is there and must be practiced and seen by all Christians with all other Christians. David Martin Lloyd-Jones was a physician in Britain in 1910, 1920. And he was a very educated man in a society that was very class conscious. And then he heard, he felt a call to the ministry, heard a call to the ministry. And he went into the ministry and he took a church in Sandfields, which is a very small,

very blue collar town on the sea, on the ocean. And he was a very good Christian. And he was a very good Christian in Wales. And his church was filled with tin makers and fishermen and very, very simple, humble people. And he came to realize something as he began to minister among them, he found something very strange happened. So he'd become a Christian, he felt the call to the ministry. And when he got there, and when he talked to these people that he otherwise had nothing in common with, and that he never really in the past felt any kind of affinity with, when he spoke to them about the gospel, and they were both talking about the fact that they had come by the grace of God to see they were sinners. And they had come by the grace of God to see they were saved completely by grace. And as he spoke, he felt a bond, he felt a connection that shouldn't have been there, that he'd never felt with someone of such a different class and station. And then he came upon a place in Ephesians 1 verse 15, where Paul says that one of the tests of Christian faith is that you feel a love for all Christians. And Lloyd-Jones, Lloyd-Jones wrote a sermon on that text that really meant a lot to me, and actually meant a lot to him. Because when he read that verse, he suddenly realized, I've become a Christian.

Because people that I would never have chosen, people of a different class, people of a different race, people of a different temperament, people I never would have liked, I feel a bond, I feel a connection. I sense that we are related to the Father through grace. And he said he began to realize that he had one of the marks of real Christianity, which is the bank account didn't matter. The temperament didn't matter. He began to say, okay, some of these people are very difficult. Some of these people are not very pleasant. Some of these people are certainly not cool. They're not hip. They're not sophisticated. I don't care anymore. I feel a connection. I feel a love. I feel, in many ways, a connection with them that I don't feel with people from my own class who have not had the paradigm-shifting experience of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And one of the, in the sermon, it also meant a lot to me. I read that sermon when my wife and I, Kathy and I, had moved to Hopewell, Virginia, a small blue-collar town, and began to feel that same connection with people that we really shouldn't have had anything, any affinity with at all, who we still do. And in that sermon that meant a lot to me, he wrote this. He used an illustration, and he explained it. He said, Matthew Henry, the famous commentator, had a father, Philip Henry, and a mother, who he didn't name in the illustration, who, this is back in the late 1600s, had fallen in love. And it says, now, Philip Henry belonged to a much lower social class than his fiancee, Matthew Henry's future mother. But when she became a Christian, social standing no longer counted with her. However, her parents were not pleased. And they came to her and said, this man, Philip Henry, we don't know his family. We don't know where he's from. And she said, very famously, I don't know where he's from. All that matters to me is I know where he's going. And she said, I don't know where he's going. And Lloyd-Jones went on and said this. We belong to the same father, the same household, the same family. We are going to the father's mansion, and we know it. Some brothers and sisters are very difficult. Some are very trying. Some are very unworthy. That doesn't bother us. We don't stay away from them. We've stopped selecting them. We've stopped auditioning people, like we do in every other area of life. We've stopped auditioning people. You don't choose your brothers. You don't choose your sisters. And he says, he says, he says, thank God, because we're all God's children, we are on the journey together, and the day will come when all our faults and blemishes will disappear. We shall be glorified and beautiful together, and we know that.

Non-selectivity. Christian community has to be marked by a lack of incredible snobbishness toward people of different temperaments and personalities and races and classes. But also non-privacy. Remember what Lucian of Samosata said? Non-privacy. See, now, now think about family relationships. And here's a place where, this is going to get uncomfortable, everybody. In a family, how much privacy is there?

Now, there's one subset of people in a family that demands their privacy. Teenagers. They demand their privacy. See, I'm not a child anymore. How dare you look into my drawers? That kind of thing. And yet, parents know that the law will throw the book at you, that the world will throw the book at you, if you don't know what your children are doing, teenagers or not. And though, of course, you do have to give them a certain amount of privacy, there's no doubt about that. But you would be legally liable. Right? You'll be legally liable. The world and the law will throw the book at you if you don't know where your children are, if you don't know what they're spending their money on. Which means that even teenagers, there's, for them, inside a family there's a limit to how much privacy there is. Now, we don't like this. And this, Lucian of Samosata didn't like it. This isn't just an American thing, but it's especially an American thing. This church is not a club. In a club, you get together for a particular reason and you only contact each other over that reason. So let's just say we're the bird watchers club. And if you're the bird watchers club, then you want to talk about birds when you get together. And you can talk to each other about birds. But if at that bird watchers club, somebody comes up to you and says, what are you dating him for? He's not good for you. You're going to say, excuse me? That's none of your business. Let's talk about birds, please. Okay?

But in a family, who you date, what you spend your money on, all those things actually entails everybody. And the simple fact of the matter is, if the Christians around you are brothers and sisters, then who you're dating and how you're spending your money and your life, of course there has to be a certain amount of privacy even inside a family. But there's a limit to it. What does verse 9 say? It says, hate what is evil, cling to what is good. What is that doing in a whole list of things on relationships and community? The answer is, the Christians are supposed to be holding each other accountable for the truth or they're not loving. You don't love somebody by letting them do something wrong. We're going to talk more about that next week when we get to Galatians 6.1. And so you see, to be, have brothers and sisters means that they have a claim on you in every aspect of your life. And Lucian of Samosata particularly was scared about the fact that if these people are my brothers and sisters, they have a claim on my possessions. And indeed, look at verse 13. What does it say? It says, share with God's people who are in need. And by the way, the words there, the Greek words actually mean, give your money, share your possessions. They have a claim on them. If you have other brothers and sisters in need, they have a claim on your money and your possessions and your time. And not only that, but thirdly, on your emotions. When I say non-selectivity, non-privacy and non-safety. Right in the middle of all this talk about community, you've got a very interesting couple of exhortations in verse 11. Don't be lacking in zeal, be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer. Now, if those were somewhere else, we might think that they were talking about how you shouldn't, you know, you should in some general way keep your spiritual fervor. But they're in the middle of brotherly, brotherly love and in the middle of sharing with God's people. And so what this means is, if you take seriously what the Bible says about your relationships with your brothers and sisters, you will find yourself relatively often exhausted. Especially look at verse 15. Rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. And that is actually saying there has to be an involvement and an emotional identification so deep that what is happening to them affects you. And notice the order.

Rejoice with those who rejoice before you weep with those who weep. You know why? Because rejoicing with those who rejoice is a lot harder. You ever thought about that? Like for example, what if you're a Christian musician

and you found out that a very famous and successful Christian musician, Stephen Curtis Chapman, had this horrible tragedy last week and his little five-year-old daughter was killed. Are you weeping with him because he's weeping? Does your heart go out to him? But here's, let me ask you a question. If you're a Christian musician, were you rejoicing with him in his success? Were you so excited about the fact that he was making so much money and becoming so famous? Don't you see, it is much harder to rejoice with your Christian brothers and sisters who are actually doing better than you.

That's real love. That's real identification. Weeping with those who weep is relatively easy. But what this is saying is it's not emotionally safe to be weeping with those who weep. It's not emotionally safe to be a brother or sister. You can't be detached. You have to be involved. You have to care. You can never give up on them. And when they're hurting, you're hurting. And that's the reason why Lewis could say this. C.S. Lewis could say, love anything and your heart will be wrong and possibly broken. If you want to make sure of keeping it intact, give it to no one. Wrap it carefully around with hobbies and little luxuries. Avoid all entanglements. Lock it up safe in a casket of selfishness. But in that casket, safe, dark, and motionless, it will change. It will not become broken. It will become unbreakable, impenetrable, and irredeemable. The only alternative to tragedy, or at least to the risk of tragedy, is damnation. The only place outside of heaven where you can be perfectly safe from all the perturbations of love is hell.

To have brothers and sisters is not safe. It's to be willing to have your heart broken. To have brothers and sisters is not private. It means to, they have claims on you. To have brothers and sisters means they're given to you and you sense that bond and you give them brotherly and sisterly love and you find that bond. Whether you like that kind of person or not, non-selectively, you stop auditioning. How are we doing as a church? How are you doing as a Christian? It's the family nature of community. See? Secondly, rather briefly actually, there's something else that this text tells us which really deserves not only one sermon but a whole set of sermons. The last half, the first half of the text is mainly talking about relationships between Christians inside, family relationships. But the last part of the text is talking mainly about how people inside the Christian community relate to their opponents, relate to the people outside, persecutors, enemies, and this is as crucial to the uniqueness of Christian community as the relationships inside because there are many other communities in the world that have extremely close bonds and have such shared values that they talk about each other as brothers and sisters. Fine. But here's something that I think is very difficult to replicate and that is your relationship not to brothers and sisters but to outsiders and enemies. Here's why this is so important. We live in a very pluralistic society now. Very. And it used to be that everybody in a particular society believed one thing. So, you know, everybody in Sweden was a Lutheran, everybody in Italy was, you know, Catholic, and, you know, everybody in India was Hindu and everybody here was Buddhist. But now you have these things called cities and they're increasing and cities are pluralistic. And cities have all kinds of communities. And now, how are we going to get along with each other? How are we going to deal with each other? And one of the answers, and it's a naive answer and it's not a good answer, one of the answers is let's get rid of exclusive views. Let's get rid of exclusive views of truth. Don't say you have the truth. Don't you dare say that because that leads to

demonizing the people who don't have the truth. And look at you, Redeemer Presbyterian Church, you know, how dare you say that Jesus is the Son of God and the Bible is the truth and that only people who believe in the Bible is the truth can even join. That's very exclusive. Why don't you just let anybody in? Then you would be inclusive. That would be making the world a better place to be. There's a naivete in saying that. There's a huge naivete. For example, when someone says, let's not draw boundaries anymore. Let's not draw any lines. You know what you just did? You drew a line. And the line is over here, the good people who don't draw lines and over here, the bad people who do.

Even to say, let's not draw a line, let's draw a line. Or to say, don't tell anybody that you have the truth and that they have to believe in the gospel to be saved. You know, don't do that. Well, what have you just done? You're saying, you have a better way of doing it and we ought to adopt your way. You're doing the very thing you said I'm not allowed to do over here. And also, this idea that all communities ought to be inclusive is actually silly because all communities have to have boundaries because what makes you a community, to be a community, you have to have values that set you off from others. So, for example, here's the National Rifle Association chapter and here's the Greenpeace chapter. You say, one of these is very conservative, one of these is very liberal. Yeah, I know. But, if you're on the steering committee of the Greenpeace chapter and you say, I've come to believe that we need to do a lot more drilling for oil in the Alaskan tundra. They'd say, why don't you go join the National Rifle Association?

Well, aren't we very liberal? Shouldn't we be very inclusive? Well, if we're so inclusive, we can't be the chapter anymore. We're not a community anymore if everybody can believe anything. Right? Right. So, you don't say, oh, what the world needs is people with less exclusive truth. That is an exclusive truth. You're saying that's the answer and everybody else is wrong unless you believe. No. No. To quote my wife, one of her more famous quotes, was after 9-11, some of you heard this, of course, after 9-11, when there was all these newspaper articles saying, the trouble with the world are fundamentalists, people who believe they have the truth. They're the ones who are doing the terrorism. They're the ones who are being violent. And Kathy says, no, it's not true that fundamentals lead to violence. It depends on what your fundamental is. She said, have you ever seen an Amish terrorist? She said. Which means, why not? Why haven't you ever seen an Amish terrorist? If anybody's a fundamentalist, Amish are fundamentalists. Because their fundamental is a man dying on the cross for his enemies. A man who refuses to strike back even when they come after him. And if that's the fundamental of your life, if that's the exclusive truth that you have to believe in order to become part of Redeemer or any Christian church, then that should lead you to be the most open and yet in your exclusivity. Why? Because your exclusive truth leads you to be loving and kind to the people outside. See, here's what you really want in a community. Not a community that doesn't believe in exclusive truth and bondedness and boundaries. What you actually want is a community whose beliefs lead them to not demonize the opposition but love and respect the people on the other side. And here's what Paul says. Bless those that curse you.

Bless and curse not. He doesn't just say don't revenge. He does say that, right? Don't hurt them. Okay. But he doesn't just say that. He says bless them. What does that mean? Wish them good. Love them. Respect them. This is something we ought to put on every blog. I promise to be loving and respectful to anybody I'm criticizing.

Paul says, if you understand the fundamentals of the gospel, you will bless and not curse. You will love and respect and never disdain or demonize the people who don't agree with you. Even the people who are against you. Even your opponents. Even your enemies. If you believe they need judgment and revenge, you leave it to God. That's verse 19. And if you believe they need great conviction for their sins, they need to see the error of their ways, they need to have burning coals put on their head. That's to wake them up and be convicted of their sin. Then convict them through your loving behavior. Convict them through your doing good to them.

What makes Christian community unique is not just the family nature between those inside, but the absolute love and respect that you show to the people outside. Where do we get the power for this? Well, we've already hinted at it when I gave Kathy's famous, statement about the Amish fundamentalists. But here's where we get the source. Here's the source of it all. The Bible is actually about the failure of family. Do you know that? As I was getting ready for this sermon, I suddenly realized if you look back through the Bible, in some ways, the story of the Bible is a story of the failure of blood, the failure of family to give us the unconditional, intimate, endlessly palatable relationships we really need. See, that's what it means to have a family relationship. Non-selectivity means unconditional love. Non-privacy means intimacy. And non-safety basically means that people have to be, will put up with you and they love you and they just never give up. Unconditional, intimate love. We want that. And yet family has basically failed to give it. If you go all the way back to the very beginning of Genesis, what do you have? Cain killing Abel. Blood out on the ground. Oh, okay. Well, that's maybe just a very bad start. But let's keep going.

Cain killing his brother, Abel. But then what do you have? The rest of Genesis. Ishmael struggling with Isaac, brother and brother. Rachel struggling with Leah, sister and sister. You're not going to get off the hook, women. See? Esau wanting to kill Jacob, he has to run away. Joseph sold into slavery by his brothers. On and on it goes. And it doesn't stop there. And you get into the history of Israel. And you get into David. You know, where's this idea of Storge? This idea of the mother and the child and the child and the mother. Here's David being driven into the wilderness by his son Absalom who's trying to kill him. Here's Amnon, the son of David, raping Tamar, his sister. Here's Abimelech in Judges 9 killing all of his brothers so he can be king. And we get all the way up to Mary and Martha. Martha's saying, rebuking Mary and the great, the greatest of all parables of Jesus Christ, the parable of the prodigal son is actually about an elder brother who just absolutely hates the guts of the younger brother and will not be reconciled to him. And the Bible talks about over and over again the failure of family to give you the unconditional intimate relationships that your hearts were built for.

And even where you have some reconciliation like Jacob and Esau are reconciled and Joseph and his brothers are reconciled, it comes at enormous cost. After years of pain. And there's a place in Proverbs, Proverbs 18 that actually says,

an offended brother is harder to win back than a strong city. But then Jesus comes. And when Jesus comes, we see in Mark chapter 3 him saying something that's absolutely remarkable.

His brothers were against him. His mother was against him. His family had turned on him. His blood.

And they say, what are you going to do about that? In Mark chapter 3 verse 35 he gets up and he says, whoever does the will of my father in heaven, that's my brother. That person's my sister. And that person's my mother. You know what he's saying there? He says, blood has failed you. The human family has failed you. But I have something that can give you

the storge that can give you that unconditional, intimate relationship that you need.

What is it? Well, here's what it is. When Abel was slain by Cain, his blood spilled out on the ground. And God comes to Cain and says, the blood of your brother Abel cries out to me from the ground. Now that's actually a metaphor that happens a lot in the Bible. And that metaphor is that innocent blood spilled on the ground cries out to me from the ground. Cries out for condemnation of the people who spilled it. Cries out for vengeance.

Vengeance. And so Cain is driven out. He's exiled. But in Hebrews chapter 12, there's a fascinating spot where it says, you have come through the gospel to Jesus Christ, the mediator of a new covenant, a new relationship with God, and to his shed blood that speaks more graciously than the blood of Abel. And you know what he's saying? Think about it. Jesus came to his own, but his own received him not. Jesus was denied. He was betrayed. He was handed over into death by his brothers. He's like Abel. And his blood has been spilled out on the ground. And he was slain. One more testimony to the failure of human family love. But there's a difference. He did it voluntarily. He did it as our substitute. He came to pay the penalty for all of our failures to love one another. All of our selfishness, all of our pride, all of our... He came to pay the penalty for all of our spilled blood. Think of all the ways in which you have failed to be a brother or sister to your real brothers and your real sisters and the people around you. And Jesus Christ said, I'm going to deal with the barrier between you and God. And what that means is that Jesus Christ is the true and sweet and ultimate Abel. And he's the one to do that. who though his innocent blood was shed, his blood cries out not for condemnation but for acquittal. His blood cries out not for justice but for grace. His blood demands that the Father give you fatherly love. Unconditional. Intimate. Endlessly patient. And he does. And that's the thing that you're really looking for. The mother, the infant. How dare God say this? But in the book of Isaiah, God looks at us and says, can a mother forget the infant nursing at her breast? Yea, she may forget you, but I will never forget you. You are engraved on the palms of my hands. And what God is trying to say is look at a mother loving her infant. It's store gay love, right? It's like biological. It's not even volitional. It's strong. It's chemical, right? And yet, that's nothing compared to my love for you. See, this is almost deeper than friendship love, deeper than romantic love. I mean, you can use all those images, but what we're talking about there in Isaiah where he says, my love for you is stronger than a mother's for the infant is through Jesus Christ you have the family love finally that your heart longs for. And that's the reason that will free you. When you see what we did, that I and my son did in order to bring you into my family, the Father said, he says, that'll free you to love your enemies. That'll free you to love non-selectively. It'll free you to look around this room and see people that ordinarily, you know, the unhip, the uncool, the people you wouldn't ordinarily like and say, sister, brother,

love one another as he has loved you. Or as Ephesians 5, 2 says it, live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Let us pray. Our Father, we thank you that you have created a family. And Lord, many ways, the gracious gospel love that we get through your son makes us able to heal our blood families. But even if our, if our, as you say in Psalm 27, that your mother and father forsake you, the Lord will lift you up. And we thank you, Lord, that we have family love from you. And that enables us when we especially, we see the cost that you bore in order to give it to us. That enables us to love each other as brothers and sisters, non-selectively, non-privately, non-safely, vulnerably, intimately, unconditionally. And we ask that you would help us to practice this more and more in right here in New York City. We are not worshiping you if we simply come to a service and we're not integrally involved in deep relationships of love. With not only each other, but with the people of our community in the city. And we ask that you would help us to live this out by your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.