Tonight's scripture comes from the book of Matthew, chapter 18, verses 1 through 14. At that time, the disciples came to Jesus and asked, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? He called a little child and had him stand among them. And he said, I tell you the truth, unless you change and become like little children, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Therefore, whoever humbles himself like this child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And whoever welcomes a little child like this in my name welcomes me. But if anyone causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a large millstone hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea. Woe to the world because of the things that cause people to sin. Such things must come. But woe to the man. And through whom they come. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life maimed or crippled than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, gouge it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into the fire of hell. See that you do not look down on one of these little ones. For I tell you that their angels in heaven always see the face of my Father in heaven. What do you think? If a man owns a hundred sheep and one of them wanders away, will he not leave the ninety-nine on the hills and go to look for the one that wandered off? And if he finds it, I tell you the truth, he is happier about that one sheep than about the ninety-nine that did not wander off. In the same way, your Father in heaven is not willing that any of these little ones should be lost. This is the word. The word of the Lord. Now, for a number of weeks, we've been looking at the big blocks of teaching that Jesus Christ gives us in the book of Matthew. There are lots and lots of practical teaching about how to live our lives. This passage gets to, I guess, a question that's almost an eternal question, no matter how you look at it. Jesus addresses the question, How do you measure human greatness? What is greatness? How do you measure human worth and greatness? And as we're going to see, and there's no reason to spend any time on an introduction, I'll show you right away that this question, or the answer to this question, has both personal and cultural relevance, extraordinary relevance. It's a long passage. It's all a way of answering that first question, who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And the very first, the first four or five verses actually tell us what true greatness is. The next five or six verses tell us what it looks like, what the traits would be in a life of a person who has true greatness. So first, what it is. Secondly, what it looked like. And then thirdly, how do you get it? How do you get it? Let's just move through the passage like that. First of all, the question. The disciples came to Jesus and asked, who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? This comes because Jesus is always talking about the kingdom. And what is a kingdom? A kingdom has a structure to it. A kingdom has a hierarchy to it, actually. Jesus has spoken about the greatest in the kingdom and the least in the kingdom. So here's the disciples. They hear Jesus talking about the kingdom of God, the kingdom that he's bringing. And they say, well, in a kingdom, you've got people at the top, and you've got people in the middle, and you've got people at the bottom. Who will have the top positions? Who will have the highest honor and recognition in this kingdom you're bringing? But this isn't an abstract question, by the way. This is not an academic question. They're not just saying,

Lord, talk to us about the concept of human greatness. Now, of course, Jesus does. But what they're really saying is, which of us is going to be at the top? Right? The book of Mark. And there's a parallel passage in the gospel of Mark that explains something about the context of this discussion. And in Mark chapter 9, it tells us that the disciples have been arguing about this. They've been fighting about this. Who's going to have the higher position in the kingdom when Jesus Christ establishes his kingdom? And that is very telling. And what it tells us is this, that in the world, the ordinary way in the world, the people, that people conceive of greatness, is that greatness is something that you fight for. It's something you struggle for. It's something you win. It's something you achieve. And therefore, the achievement of greatness is always accompanied by strife. That's the reason why they were arguing. They were fighting with each other. And it's not just strife on the outside. The ordinary way that the world pursues human greatness, which is struggling, and winning, and achieving, it's not just that creates strife on the outside because you have to fight with people. You have to climb over them. But it also creates strife on the inside. The reason they're coming and saying, who's going to be on the top? Is they're troubled. If you go back into the Old Testament, there's this great case study of this whole subject of what the world thinks of as greatness versus what God thinks of as true greatness. And the case study, is Nebuchadnezzar. He was the emperor of the greatest empire in the world at that time, the ancient empire of Babylonia. And when Nebuchadnezzar was at the height of his power, nobody could fire him. I mean, he had job security. No army could march against him. He had complete social and economic security. Nobody could assassinate him because he paid all the people around him too much. They didn't pay him. They would never want to let anybody in. You would say he had the greatness by the normal world definition. He was great. Here we are, thousands of years later, and we still know about him, Nebuchadnezzar. He got to the top, right? And yet he was troubled. You know why? He had dreams. That's actually how he comes into the book of Daniel. He has dreams. And he has dreams about a big, huge tree. And all the peoples of the earth are taking shelter. And they're taking shelter under the tree, but it's cut down. And there's nothing but a stump left. What is that? He knows that's him. In other words, when you achieve greatness the world's way, there's always strife. There's always troubled dreams. You're always looking over your shoulder. You're always filled with self-doubts. You're always filled with insecurity. Always. No matter, even if you're Nebuchadnezzar. And they were. And that's why, because they had the, basically the world's understanding of greatness, they were coming and saying, Lord, which of us is going to be at the top? Jesus responds like this. And when Jesus responds, he gives us the most counterintuitive, upside down, inside out, understanding of true human greatness that's ever been enunciated. In fact, what he says here was so startling that if you say, well, I've heard of somebody else say that, well, they got it from Jesus. That's where it came from. Because what does he say? Basically, it's this. Therefore, whoever humbles himself, literally, the Greek there says, whoever takes the lowest position, like this child, is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. Whoever humbles himself, true greatness, is the person who takes the lowest position. And in Mark chapter nine, I said in that parallel passage, what Jesus says is, who is first in my kingdom, whoever is first in my kingdom, must be the very last. And the servant of all. He brings out a child, of course. And he says, true greatness in my kingdom means you're like this child. Now, of course, it's an analogy. Jesus is saying you're like this child. He says that, it's like a child. He doesn't mean you're like a child in every way. You know, there's all sorts of ways which children are childish, and he's not saying that. So in what way does he mean? And the answer is this. Children have a total lack of gratitude, a grasp of social status. They have no concept of who's high and who's low, and who's important and who's unimportant, and who's wealthy and who's not. They have no concept of that at all. Children do not have the same sense of dignity that adults have. Children will do things that no adult would ever stoop to do. And Jesus says, the greatest in the kingdom, in my kingdom, in my administration, true greatness is someone who is willing to be humble, who's willing to take the lowest place, willing to be the servant of God. The servant of all. And you'll notice as we go through, and we'll get to this again in a minute, but let me point this out right away. You notice that Jesus not only talks about receiving and welcoming a child, but later on he starts talking about receiving and welcoming little ones. And I know when you were reading through this, you were saying, okay, children, little ones, it's a synonym. Not quite. Because the Greek word for little ones is actually a word that can mean anyone who is little. Anyone who is weak. Anyone who is marginal. Anyone who has little power. Anyone who is poor. And see what Jesus is saying. He says, the way you know you have true greatness is that you are very open, very interested, very willing to engage the people at the bottom of the social ladder, whatever your society, whatever ladder your society has. That's how you know that you have the true greatness. That's how you know you're really in my kingdom. Now, so that's what true greatness is. Humility. The willingness to take the lowest position. The willingness to be the servant of all. What does that look like? We'll get to that in one second. Let me just remind you what I said in the very beginning. What Jesus is saying here, Jesus says, if you believe in me, if you welcome me into your life, see that verse five? He says, whoever welcomes a little child like this in my name welcomes me. And what he means is, if you have brought me into the center of your life and you understand me, and you know what I've done, and you know what I've done, and you know what I'm all about, your attitude toward people will be such that you will not look down on anyone. You will not, verse 10, despise or look down on little ones. People who are of little economic power. People who are poor. People who are marginal. People who don't have a lot of credibility or cultural power. When he says that, I told you that doesn't just have personal relevance to how we live our lives, but has enormous cultural relevance. How so? Every society has a problem with what we could call social cohesion. That is to say, every society, frankly, is a kingdom. You know, whether or not it's a constitutional monarchy or a democracy or whatever. The point is, every society has a structure and it has people at the top and people in the middle and people at the bottom. It's got people with more power and more wealth and more status and people with less and people with very little or none. And one of the problems that every single society has, is how do you keep those classes together so that they're involved with each other, so they're not too distant from each other, so they're not moving away from each other, so we're having this fragmented culture and enormous differences of wealth and poverty. How do you create social cohesion? And the problem is that if the people who have the wealth and power think they deserve it, if they believe, I have produced this, I deserve this, I have worked very hard, and therefore, I have a right to this. And if they don't see where they are, their status, their talent, their abilities, their success, if they don't see it as a gift, then they will look at the people who don't have it and say, well, you know, I don't owe you anything. And only if you have an understanding that your position, your talent, your spot in the world, your level of success is a gift. It's a gift from God. Or it's just not something that you deserve, but here you have it. Then and only then will you look at the people who are the little ones, and you'll say, I need to share my resources with you. I need to be involved with you. I shouldn't look down on you in any way. Now, every society needs to have the people at the top to some degree not despising the little ones, or you don't have social cohesion. I was amazed to see one of my favorite public intellectuals, which is Andrew Delbanco, who teaches humanities at Columbia, just in March wrote an op-ed piece in the New York Times. The name of the op-ed piece was A Smug Education? And he was talking about the education that we today get in our elite universities, the top universities, the top institutions, the ones that people do everything to get into, and when you get in there, it opens all sorts of doors into all the best careers and all that. And in that op-ed piece, first of all, he refers to a slightly older article by William Deresowitz, who wrote in the American Scholar just about a year ago. And in that article, this author says that he was a person who graduated from Columbia and taught at Yale for a number of reasons, a number of years. And this is what he said in that article, and Delbanco refers to it. He says, quote, My education taught me to believe that people who didn't go to an Ivy League or equivalent school were beneath me. One of the great errors of an elite education in America today, then, is that it teaches us to think that the measure of intelligence and academic achievement are measures of value in some moral sense. But they're not. Graduates of elite schools are not more valuable than stupid or talentless or even lazy people. Their souls do not weigh more. If I were religious, I would say God does not love them more. Now, Delbanco, builds on that. He takes that article, and he says, yes, and then he says this. Listen carefully. He says, The charge that elite college culture today encourages smugness and self-satisfaction contains a germ of truth. Our oldest and most prestigious colleges are losing touch with the spirit in which they were founded. For to the stringent Protestants who founded Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, the mark of salvation was not high self-esteem, but a humbling awareness of one's lowliness in the eyes of God. With such awareness came the recognition that those whom God favors are granted grace not for any worthiness of their own, but by God's unmerited mercy as a gift to be converted into living on behalf of others." Now, Delbanco is not a Christian, not a believer, but Delbanco is a professor of early modernism, American literature, and therefore he knows the people who started Harvard, Yale, and Princeton were believers in the classic gospel. And did you hear what he said? He says, Every single culture needs somehow to deal with the natural tendency of the human heart to take credit for their status. If you're at the top, you take credit for it. You feel like it's my right. And then what that does is it means you pull away from the little ones. You look down at them. You despise them. You feel like you earned what you have. Delbanco says, the Christian gospel had the resources to put a cap on that. The Christian gospel told the people who came through Harvard, Yale, and Princeton that where you are is just God's gift. You are not worthy of it. You do not merit it at all. You have not produced your greatness. You have received it. And therefore, you must not think of yourself in any way as better than the people who are down at the bottom of the social ladder. You must not think of yourself like that. Now, what he says, it goes on in the article and say, the Christian gospel had the resources to create that kind of social cohesion and since we don't believe the Christian gospel anymore, we've lost it. We've got to find some other way, some secular way to get the same idea across to the people who come out of these institutions today. Now, if I was in a bad mood, I'd say, good luck. But I'm not. What I will say is this. We do believe the gospel. We do believe it's true. And therefore, we know that the gospel still has the resources to be the social cohesion glue that this culture needs. So may its number of believers increase. It's good for the country. It's good for the society. You see that? Do you see that not just the personal but the social and cultural relevance of what Jesus is saying? This is true greatness. That you see that whatever you have was a gift. That you don't have to look down on anyone, especially not the little ones. That he who is first in my kingdom takes the lowest place and is servant of all. Now, what does that actually look like? Point two. The middle part tells us that a person who's received this true greatness,

you can see it in both their relationships to others and your relationship to yourself. Your relationship to others and your relationship to yourself. First of all, in your relationship to others, you can see a relationship with others. We've actually already touched on it, but let me press it a little further. It says, whoever welcomes a little child like this in my name welcomes me. And then, verse 10, see that you do not look down on one of these little ones. Now, first of all, how do I break this up? Why does he go back and forth between children? You see, he's taken a child and he's put the child there. And he says, I want you to have an attitude such that you receive and welcome children. And then he talks about little ones and by using the term little ones, as I already said, he's broadening the category. Here's what I think, again, why he brings a child in. Let's think of three things that were true, especially in Jesus' day of children. Number one, children are completely ungrateful. They have no idea, they have no idea that they have completely ruined your life. You have reconfigured everything. Everything, everything revolves around you. You've lost your freedom. Everything is gone. They don't know. I mean, it's not like they're not, you know, you teach them to say thank you for the ice cream cone, but five seconds later, what have you done for me in the last three seconds? You know. They're ungrateful. I mean, you can say, well, that's unfair. They have their children. Well, the point is it's an analogy, all right? We're not bashing children. We're talking about, he says, what about the people out there who are really pretty ungrateful? They're not very appreciative. They're not very rewarding people to know. Secondly, children had no power. They had no money. They had no, they had no social power. They had no economic power. They have nothing to give you. They have nothing to enhance your life with. In fact, for a number of weeks, they don't even smile at you. You know. They didn't smile for a long time. Then they start smiling. That's a little something, but it doesn't quite balance out with what you're giving them. See? So, they're unappreciative. They have no power. They in no way can really open doors for you or do anything like that. And then, lastly, here's the thing that was hard for us to realize is Jesus was talking out of a culture. It was not a child-centric culture. Just yesterday, I was looking down at the park behind our apartment and there was a little, I don't know, about a two-year-old playing with two or three adults and he just had this little wiffle ball and every time he threw it, everybody went, yay, hooray, great job, lifted him on their shoulders, hooray, you know, ticker tape, confetti, hooray, and, you know, good job. And, you know, I'm glad I live in a culture like that but Jesus did not because in ancient cultures, children were ignored. Children had no social status. It was not a child-centric culture. Sometimes I think, to some degree, it might have been self-defense because if you had five children, you knew that only one or two of them were going to live to grow up and maybe you didn't want to get too close until you knew who it was going to be. I don't know. But the point is, children were ignored. Children were, shunted aside. Children had no social status and Jesus Christ says, if you have taken me into your life, if you welcome me into your life, then one of the marks of human greatness is, true human greatness, is that when you meet people like that, you engage them. You see, the world's understanding of greatness is, I have to struggle. I have to compete. I have to win. I have to achieve my greatness. And what that means, that creates an insecurity in you. Remember, we just said, I mean, bad dreams. And because of that, it means that you, when you walk into a room, you immediately filter out the people who can't help you come up. You're looking for people who enhance your credibility. You want to know them. People who can open doors for you. People who've got power. People who maybe suck up to you and who just make you feel better about yourself. In other words, not little ones. Not children. You're not looking for them. You just screen them out. You go away. Jesus says, the mark of true greatness is you don't screen people like that. You don't screen people like that. You welcome them. You're open to them. You're not cold and austere. You're not indifferent and impassive when people walk up to you. And when you see this as a person who's going to be more of a drain, more of a black hole, this person is not going to fill you up. This person is probably going to be more of a drain. You don't just say, let me out of here. What if Jesus had done that to you? What if Jesus had assessed who he was going to have a relationship like that? He could have saved himself a trip to earth. There isn't anybody down here that wasn't going to drain him. A person who's the mark of true greatness, first of all, it revolutionizes your relationships. But secondly, it revolutionizes your attitude toward yourself. And it would be very easy to preach not only a whole sermon, but several sermons on this middle section. And at first, this strong imagery. If you cause one of these little ones to sin, actually, the word that Jesus uses here is the word for stumble, over and over again. He says, if you cause one of these little ones to sin, how? Verse 10, by looking down on them. One of the ways that people who are weak, people who don't have a lot of credibility, people who are troubled, people who don't have a lot of cachet, one of the best ways you can throw them into doubts, throw them into bitterness, throw them, push them off the, path to spiritual growth, is by looking down on them. That's what he's saying to his disciples. And he says, then, he says, and if you see anything in you causing yourself to sin, and then he uses this incredible imagery. If your eye is causing you to sin, pluck it out. If your hand is causing you to sin, cut it off. Why does he use this strong imagery? He's talking about repentance. He says, if you see anything in your life that's causing you to move away from what God's will for you, instead of making excuses, instead of defending yourself, instead of looking the other way, ruthlessly admit this is wrong and I gotta do something about it. Now what, in the context, why does Jesus bring all this up? It's very simple. The mark of true greatness is humility, right? And we've already said that shows up in the way in which you choose who you deal with, but it also shows up in your attitude towards your own flaws. A truly great person is a repenter. A truly great person is a person who, who, is not in denial, is not blind, is not defensive, is quick to admit where you're wrong, is quick to admit this is wrong. They go together. See, Jesus is saying these go together. If you are open to people, especially people without power, people without status, you also will be a humble person with regard to yourself. If you're a networker, they're always working up and you kind of just screen out the people who aren't important and you're only dealing with the people who can help you get up the ladder, you also are going to be blind to your own flaws. You can't admit you're sinning. You can't admit what's wrong with you. When Jesus says the mark of true greatness is a person who repents, he also, I think, is saying the repentance is the way to true greatness. In fact, I'll tell you where he says it. The other great case study that this text reminds me of is in the book of, is actually, especially in the Gospels itself. You remember how Peter denies Jesus three times. Tremendous cowardice. Jesus is being arrested, tortured, killed. Three times people ask Peter, are you with him? And he denies. I never knew him. He abandons his master. So cowardly, so wrong. And after Jesus' resurrection, he sits down on the beach at a fire, this is in John chapter 21, and he asks Peter three times, Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? Three times. He died him three times. Jesus is essentially leading him back. He's actually taking him and rubbing his nose in it and leading him through a period of repentance. And Peter repents. And then he says, and some of you know how this works, he says, Peter, do you love me? And Peter says, I do love you. And Jesus says, feed my sheep. Peter, do you love me? I do love you, Lord. Feed my lambs. Peter, do you love me? I do love you, Lord. Feed my sheep. The word feed there is the word poimenos, which is the word for pastor or lead. And this is what Jesus is saying to Peter. Because your failure was the worst, if you repent, your leadership can be the best. Because you were the biggest failure. If you repent, you can be the greatest leader. Because nothing, nothing prepares you for greatness. Nothing makes you more able to speak into the lives of other people. Nothing prepares you for greatness more than to plunge one of your failures into my grace. To plunge your failure into my grace, that is to say, for you to take your failure, give it to me, experience my grace as you repent, turns you into the kind of person that would be a great leader, a great shepherd, a person who's more wise, more tender, more happy, more secure, more sympathetic than you ever would have been otherwise. The way to true greatness is through repentance. Plunging your failures into the grace of Jesus Christ. And the mark of true greatness is the ease with which, the quickness with which, the willingness to repent, to admit you're wrong. That's what it looks like. Now lastly, how do we get it? How in the world do we get it? I think I just figured this out. I should have done this when I was doing this. Well, there's two things that Jesus says he actually lets you know. The first thing, and I actually have avoided it up to now because it's the first thing he says, but the first thing he says in verse three is, I tell you the truth, unless you change and become like a little child, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. Look carefully at that. You say, well, haven't we been talking about that? Not quite, not quite. Because there he says, unless you change, is a good word for converting, conversion. Unless you convert and become like a little child, you will never enter the kingdom of heaven. What does that mean? To become a little child, to become a Christian, to be saved, you have to become like a little child. Well, it's the same thing as what Jesus meant when he said, to be a Christian, you must be poor in spirit. That was the beginning of Matthew 5. What does that mean? Well, here's how anybody who hasn't had a heart changed by the spirit approaches God like this. Anybody who has a heart not changed by the spirit approaches God like this. You go and say, God, if you're there, I'm not perfect. I've done bad things. I have, I failed. I do need forgiveness. I do need strength. I do need help. But I've got some spiritual money in the bank. I mean, I've got, I'm a good person too. I've done this, I've done that. I'm not a bad person. I'm a fairly good person, but I'm not a perfect person. In other words, I'm coming to you spiritually. I do need, you know, I do need a supplement. I need a grant. Okay. You know, I do need an infusion of cash. Spiritually speaking. But it's not like I got nothing. I'm not poor in spirit. I'm not a child. I'm not helpless. I mean, I don't need to be completely saved by grace. You know, I'm a good person and I'm not perfect person, but only when the Holy Spirit gets ahold of your heart. Do you see that? Yes, you've done bad things and you've done good things, but the good things were all done for the wrong reason. You did all your good things to keep control of your life, to feel better than other people, to maybe, so you could put yourself in a position of telling God how he had to live, how he has to treat you. And only by the power of the Holy Spirit do you become a little child, do you become poor in spirit, do you say, Lord, I need to be saved by sheer grace. Completely free salvation by sheer grace. If you gave me what I deserved, I would be lost. Save me by grace. And Jesus says, you'll never love the little ones of this world. You'll never develop true greatness until, first of all, you become as a little child spiritually. That is to say, you believe the gospel, you receive the gospel, you embrace the gospel, and that is that you're not saved. You can't be saved. You can't be saved by your good works. You can't earn any greatness through your achievements or your efforts, but it has to be received. And salvation has to be received surely by grace. That's the first thing. You have to become a child. The second thing is you've got to see who really is the greatest in the kingdom. Who's the greatest in the kingdom? Jesus says the greatest in the kingdom is the one who's come the lowest. Who has come the lowest? You notice at the end, Jesus changes the metaphor and suddenly talks about sheep. You know, sheep were even of less value than children, of course. And yet, Jesus says, God is like a shepherd who, if even one sheep is lost, he goes after it. Okay, that's wonderful, heartwarming, until you ask the question, how did God go after us lost sheep? And you know how? Jesus Christ is the ultimate shepherd because he's the only shepherd who's become a sheep. And when he went to the cross, he became a lost sheep. He was lost. And no one came to find him. He said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me to the darkness? There was no rescue. Nobody came to find him. Why? He died for our sin. Jesus Christ, who was the highest, went the lowest. He's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And when you say, who is the greatest? When you see him doing that for you. When you see him doing that for you, then you turn to others and you say, look, you know, you might be thinking, you're looking at somebody and you say, this person is really not going to help me. This person is not going to open any doors for me. This person is not going to make me feel better about myself. This person is going to be kind of a drain. But so what? I'm going to love this person because Jesus did this for me. And you know, in the end, I've been kind of negative about children so far in all my metaphorical work here. Let me just suggest this. Children are humble. That's what Jesus is trying to say. Children don't put on airs. They don't care about social status. In one sense, children are humble. But in another sense, unless a child's abused, and you can't abuse a child, of course, but ordinarily, a child is humble and yet at the same time, completely expectant of love. You ever notice children just jump on your lap? They expect you to love them no matter what they do to you. And in a way, that's right. That when you really truly give yourself to Jesus Christ, he becomes your savior, you become a child of the Father, you're a child of the King. And to become a child means, on the one hand, the gospel humbles you so you love the little ones and you're willing to repent, but it also affirms you to the sky. You know he loves you. You know your Father loves you. And that brings about a humility and boldness that's unique, true greatness. John Newton talks about it when he says, To see the law by Christ fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child. And duty into choice. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us everything we need for true greatness. It's right there. It's believing the gospel. It's living controlled by the truths of the gospel. But I pray that you would help us now to apply this to our hearts so that we become a community of people who welcome the little ones. As you have welcomed us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
