The reading for this week is from Matthew 26.

Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to them, Sit here while I go over there and pray. He took Peter and the two sons of Zebedee along with him, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them,

Then he returned to his disciples and found them sleeping. Could you men not keep watch with me for one hour, he asked Peter. Watch and pray so that you will not fall into temptation. The spirit is willing, but the body is weak. He went away a second time and prayed, prayed, My father, if it is not possible for this cup to be taken away unless I drink it, may your will be done. When he came back, he again found them sleeping because their eyes were heavy. So he left them and went away once more and prayed the third time, saying the same thing. Then he returned to the disciples and said to them, Are you still sleeping and resting? Look, the hour is near, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise, let us go. Here comes my betrayer. This is the word of the Lord. Lord. Now, in the weeks leading up to Easter, we're looking at a life of Jesus, looking at the most well-known and prominent episodes in his life as we find them in the Gospel of Matthew. And what we come to now is the night before he's to die, he's just had his last supper, and he goes out into the Garden of Gethsemane, which is basically an olive grove. And if you have been with us through the series, you know that Jesus' career begins with a temptation in the wilderness. And now, essentially, it's ending with a great temptation in a garden. He goes there to pray, and he's going there for an intense meeting with his father in prayer. But he takes his three disciples, takes three of his disciples, which shows that he has a desperate need for companionship and friendship at this time. And something happens in the garden that begs for an explanation. Luke says, even though Matthew doesn't use the same word, Luke says that he began to be in agony. And even though Matthew and Mark don't use the word agony exactly, they use synonyms. To understand that agony is to not only understand this text, but to understand why Jesus died and understand a great deal about how we should be living. So, that's what we're here to do, figure out what it is, what that agony, that pain, that sorrow, that overwhelming to death sorrow that he experienced, what it really meant. And I'm going to ask two questions. And if we answer the questions, I think we will come to understand what this text is all about. The first question is, why the magnitude of this agony? agony? Why the magnitude of Christ's agony? And the second question is, why the timing of it? Why does it happen here? Why does it happen now? The magnitude of his agony and the timing of his agony. So first, let's ask the question, why the magnitude? Now, let me get across to you the magnitude of it. In verse 37, literally it says, as he was walking along, he began. and it means something happened very suddenly. He's walking along and suddenly sorrow, which means inner pain, he's troubled, which means a sense of horror comes down upon him. And he, I mean, by the way, the book of Mark adds that he was astonished. He's walking along and all of a sudden, this incredible crushing agony comes upon him. And he's astonished by it. Takes him by a huge surprise. And he says here, to describe it, he says, my soul is overwhelmed with sorrow to the point of death. And what he means by that is that I've been crushed by this pain and this horror and this grief that's come down on me. I feel like it's going to kill me right here on the spot. spot. Jesus is not a man prone to exaggeration, if you've read along. And the book of Luke tells us one more thing that we're not told here, and that is the disciples saw that Jesus Christ was drenched with sweat, drenched in sweat, and there was blood in the sweat, which is rare, but not impossible for a person who is in a state of shock. Now, somebody asked the question, All right, here's Jesus Christ facing torture and death. He's trembling, he's sweating, he's reeling. How does that compare to his followers? Many, many of Christ's followers over the years face torture and death for their faith, right? Many of them. And you know, we have an awful lot of stories about them taking it with confidence and poise and inner peace. Polycarp, the bishop of Smyrna was actually a disciple of the Apostle John. And he was pulled out into the arena and threatened with fire and torture and death if he didn't renounce Christ. And he just waved at everyone and said, how can I renounce him? I've served him for all these years. Very brave. You know, at Oxford on Broad Street, Nicholas Ridley and Hugh Latimer were burned at the stake for their faith, Oxford, England. And it's perhaps the most famous words of any Christian martyrs. as the flames were coming up and they were in agony. And he says to Ridley, be of good cheer, Master Ridley, and play the man. We shall this day by God's grace light such a candle in England as I trust shall never be put out. People heard that. What do we have here? Well, we've got inner peace, tranquility, poise. Do we have that in Jesus? No. What we have in Jesus is three times him saying, is there any way out of this? He's trembling, he's reeling, and he's saying, is there any way out of this? So here's the question, or here's a question. Why is it that faced death with less agony and fear and trembling than Jesus did? Why did so many of Jesus' followers seemingly face death better than Jesus did? And you know what the answer is?

Nobody ever faced a death like Jesus was facing. Nobody. Why? You see, Jesus Christ knew he was going to die. He was telling, if you read the gospels, he's constantly telling people So he's not surprised that he's going to die. But something is astonishing him. Something has come upon him that levels the son of God into the dust. Something has put him into a virtual state of shock. What is it? It's not the fact that he's going to physically die. That's not what he mentions. What does he mention over and over again? The cup.

It's the cup. He says, Father, let this cup pass from me. Is there any way out of this cup? What's that? Well, in all ancient languages, in fact, in all ancient cultures, a cup very often meant suffering or an ordeal. And in fact, sometimes the cup was a way you executed people. Some of you might remember that Socrates was executed by drinking a cup of poison. So cup meant ordeal and suffering and poison. But in the Old Testament, which of course Jesus Christ was steeped in, in the Old Testament, the cup meant God's divine wrath on all wrongdoing, meant God's punishment and justice coming down on all wrongdoing. So you have in Ezekiel 23, Ezekiel saying to some people, you shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation and tear your breasts. Or Isaiah 54, you will drink the cup of his fury and you will stagger. stagger. See, tearing at your chest, staggering. The metaphor is having drunk some kind of fiery poison, and now you're dying. And this was justice. This was execution. This was the punishment of God coming down. And that's the reason. That's what Jesus is facing. Latimer and Ridley, Polycarp, nobody has ever before or since faced a death like Jesus because they haven't faced the cup because the cup is the divine infinite wrath of God that human evil deserves. And it's about to come down on Jesus and he's beginning to experience it. And then somebody says, well, didn't he know about that? Well, let's think about this. When you read the Bible and it talks a great deal about God's punishing of sin. One of the main themes is this, that God punishes people by excluding them from his presence. So, for example, 2 Thessalonians 1.8, they will be shut out from the presence of the Lord and the majesty of his power. They'll be shut out from the presence of the Lord and the majesty of his power. Now, why would that be a punishment? And the answer is, We were made for the presence of God. You go back to the book of Genesis. We were created to live in his presence and to love him and to know him. We need, our human nature needs his presence like a flower needs the sun or like a planet needs the sun. And if you take the sun away from the flower, it falls apart eventually. Or if you take a part of a side of the planet away from the sun permanently. It freezes solid and everything dies. And yet what sin does, sin, and this is one of the most pernicious things about sin, every human being, including me, all of us basically feel like I would be happier if I was free to live as I want to live. I would be happier if I didn't have God breathing over my, you know, looking on my shoulder and breathing down my neck. I'd be happier if I could live the life the way I want to live. In other words, sin convinces the mind from God, away from God, and yet the reality is we need the presence of God, and therefore, the ultimate punishment, it's ultimate because it's poetic justice, because it's extraordinarily fair. The ultimate punishment is God saying, if you want to be away from me, you can be away from me. And he excludes us, and we fall apart. And Jesus is beginning to experience that, and I want you to realize why it would be such a shock. Why did Jesus, everybody, why did Jesus go to the garden of Gethsemane? To pray. Jesus Christ, more than any human being in the history of the world, knew absolutely unbroken, perfect, at full face-to-face fellowship with the Father. He knew the glory of that. He knew the love of that face-to-face fellowship with the Father. But as he was walking into the garden, why does this come down all of a sudden? What would he have started to do as he was walking into the garden? He would have started to pray. And as he began to pray, shock. Why? Bill Lane, who wrote a commentary on Mark, this is what he says about the Garden of Gethsemane experience as it's written in the Gospel of Mark, Bill Lane says, quote, the dreadful sorrow and anxiety out of which the prayer for the passing of the cup springs is not an expression of fear before some dark destiny. It's not a shrinking from the prospect of physical suffering. It is rather the horror of one who lived wholly for the Father and who came to be with the Father for an interlude before his betrayal, but found hell rather than heaven open before him to his spiritual consciousness. See that? On the cross, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? But it's starting now. And think of the shock of that. Jonathan Edwards, 18th century Christian minister, American Christian minister and philosopher, has a masterful sermon on this, on the agony of Christ in the garden, this is what he says. The agony was caused by a vivid, bright, full, immediate view of the wrath of God. God the Father, as it were, set the cup down before him, which was vastly more terrible than Nebuchadnezzar's furnace. He now had a near view of that furnace into which he was about to be cast. He stood and viewed the raging flames and the glowing of its heat, that he might know where he was going and what he was about to suffer. He felt what Ezekiel said, you shall drink the cup of ruin and desolation and tear your breasts. And what Isaiah said, he will drink the cup of his fury and stagger. He's staggering.

He's tearing.

That's what Jesus is experiencing. experiencing, and he's beginning to experience it right here. And only if you understand that, in some ways, I've, you know, over the years, I've thought, in some ways, this tells me even a little more than the accounts of the cross, why he was dying. That was coming down now. He was beginning to experience it now. He turned to the Father in prayer and began to experience that but it's agony. Not only are we built for it, but he's had this fellowship with the Father throughout all eternity, and it's going or it's gone. And he's experiencing the divine, omnipotent, infinite wrath of God that human evil deserves coming down upon him. He's not surprised that he's going to die physically. He's not even complaining about physical death. death. It's the cup. It's the eternal destruction. It's hell. The experience of hell, the experience of eternal separation from God. That's what he's beginning to taste. And before going on to the second question, which is why is it happening now, which I think is the most revealing, let's just stop for a second and keep this in mind. Do you see what he's doing and what he's doing for us? I've had people say to me, I don't believe in a God of wrath. I believe in a God of love. And I wanted to, I just want them to say, I wanted to say, go read about the garden of Gethsemane because unless you understand a God of wrath, a God who has a cup for evil, you'll never understand a God of love, a God of love who was willing to come and drink it himself. You'll never If you don't understand the infinity and greatness of God's anger at sin, you'll never understand the infinity and greatness of a God who is willing to absorb that punishment himself. That's love. That's not sentimentality, just saying I love you. That's costly love. I do talk to people who say, well, I believe in a God of love, but I don't believe in Jesus and the cross. And my comeback always is, what did it cost your God to love you? And their answer always is, well, nothing. And I said, well, the biblical God doesn't just say, I love you. He has done something about it. And here's a question that Jonathan Edwards asks in his sermon on the agony in the garden. He says this, he says, if just the taste and glimpse of these sufferings in the garden were enough to throw the eternal son of God into shock, kill him in the anticipation of them, what was the actual full experience of those sufferings on the cross really like? I mean, if he's just thrown into shock now with a foretaste of it, what must it really have been like? And he did it for you. That's why the magnitude of his agony. But now the second question, it's very, I think, extremely revealing and helps us focus before we start to practically apply this to our lives. Why the timing of it? You would think, look, I would say, why not the Father give Jesus one last great prayer time to fortify him and strengthen him for the great test? Why start it here? Now, when you ask that question, I have to admit, we're having to do a little bit of guessing. guessing. And yet I do remember this. Do you not? John chapter 15, Jesus makes a major point of saying, I give my life for my sheep. I lay down my life of my own accord. No man takes my life from me. I lay it down of my own accord. It's voluntary, he says. Jonathan Edwards in his great sermon, it is, by the way, you can find it on the internet. It's called Christ's Agony, Christ's That's all over the internet, actually.

He gives an answer. He guesses, but he also gives what sounds to me like an extremely sound answer. He says, think about this. A lot of things you say, I'm going to do it. And once you've done it, you realize it was a lot harder than you thought, but then it's too late to back out. Like having children. See? Right? You say, oh, we're going to have a baby. And then you have the baby, and you say, if I had known it was this hard, would I have had the baby? And so there it is. All right. If you say, I'm going to go to the cross and I'm going to die for the sins of the world, and I'm going to take not only the physical suffering, but the spiritual punishment that human beings deserve.

And once you get to the cross, if you say, wow, this is a lot harder than I thought, you're nailed. You're not going anywhere. But you realize what's going on here.

It's dark. The soldiers aren't there yet. Even the disciples are asleep. And he's beginning to realize for the first time, he's beginning to sense, actually experience, not just know with his head, but experience as the human being he is, what it's going to be like.

And at that moment, it would have been so easy to indulge himself. Even talk to the father about it. Is there any way out? And yet what happens? He gives his life, which means, as Jonathan Edwards says, this was radically voluntary. And what that does is it enhances everything he does. So Edwards says, Christ was going to be cast into a dreadful furnace of wrath, and it was not proper that he should plunge himself into it, not knowing how dreadful that furnace would be. Therefore, God brought him and set him at the mouth of the furnace that he might look in and stand and view its fierce and raging flames, and might see where he was going, and might voluntarily enter into it and bear it for sinners as knowing what it was. If Christ had not fully known before he took it and drank it, it would not have properly been his own act as a man. But when he took that cup, knowing what he did, so was his love to us infinitely the more wonderful and his obedience to God infinitely the more perfect. Because it was so radically vulnerable,

radically voluntary, invulnerable, radically voluntary because it was dark and he could have left. Because of that, it made what he did infinitely more wonderful, infinitely more perfect. And let's press that. I mean, what Edwards is trying to say is because he began to experience it in the garden. It means that what he did was infinitely more perfect. How could something be infinitely more perfect? Well, let me show you. Aren't we supposed to love God and love our neighbor? Isn't that the law? Isn't that the whole of the law? Okay, let's look at Jesus Christ loving God. He obeyed God, didn't he? Oh, but look, no one's ever obeyed God like this. No one. Centuries before, God put Adam in the garden. and showed him a tree and said, obey me about the tree and you will live and I will be with you. Obey me about the tree and you will live and I'll be with you. And he didn't. Now, centuries later, God puts the second Adam in a garden, shows him a tree, only this time it's a cross and says, obey me about the tree and you will die and you will be crushed to powder and I will abandon you. You realize every other person in history has always been told by God. Every other person has always been told by God, obey me and I'll be with you. Obey me and you will live. Only Jesus is told, obey me and you will be destroyed. Troy, obey me and you will be abandoned. And he still obeyed. No one's ever loved God like that. No one's ever obeyed under those circumstances. You see what Edward says? His obedience to God was infinitely the more perfect. I mean, that's breaking the bounds of language. How can something be infinitely more perfect? But it was. And it's not just that no one ever loved and obeyed God like that. But no one's ever loved his neighbor like this. Look at his neighbors. He brings these guys because he's desperate for companionship and friendship and says, just please, you know, stay awake. I really need you. In some ways, Jesus could be saying this. This is the greatest test I'll ever have. This is in some ways a greater test than the cross. I really want my friends to be with me. Would you please stay awake? Please be there for me. And they repeatedly fall asleep. And these are the people and of course they represent us all these are the people that Jesus Christ is supposed to swallow the spiritual nuclear warhead for

one writer put it like this in that garden when he could have left and he's seeing humanity at its worst it's almost like God was saying this to him here's the cup that you are to drink there is the furnace into which you will be cast If they are to be saved, these people out here falling asleep on you, that you just begged to stay awake. If they're to be saved, there's no other way. Either they perish or you perish. See how terrible the heat is. See what pain and anguish you are going to endure.

Do you love them enough to do this?

And Edwards in his sermon is the last thing I'll read from Edwards, sermon. Edward says, Jesus Christ did not say this. He did not say, which he could have in all justice, he did not say, why should I, who am so great and glorious a person, why should I plunge myself into such dreadful, amazing torments for people who cannot ever requite me for it? Indeed, why should I be crushed under the weight of divine wrath for those who will not even stay awake with me in my hour of greatest need. But he didn't say that, did he?

He died. He went. He did love us. No one, listen, people have probably sacrificed for you when you weren't what you should be, but nobody ever sacrificed like this for you. No one's ever loved you like this. No one's ever loved anyone like this. No one.

his love for us is infinitely more wonderful and his obedience is infinitely more perfect because in the garden he sensed what was happening he began to taste it and he said

nevertheless not my will but thine be done now what difference does this make all the difference let me show you if this is true and it is

did. Then think of all this. First of all, you have an incredible model for obedience. What an example of obedience. Jesus Christ is a person of perfect integrity. What do I mean by integrity? A person of integrity is the same one place as another. And especially a person of integrity, high integrity is a person the same in the light as in the dark. See, when you're in the dark, that means no one's looking. Are you exactly what you profess to be in the light?

Are you the same in the dark as in the light? Jesus was. Are you? Probably not. Pull your life together. There's a verse in the Psalms where the psalmist says, I have a divided heart and says, oh Lord, unite my heart to fear thy name. look at those areas where you know you're a person of low integrity where you're doing things you shouldn't be doing and bring your life together so it's a terrific example of obedience he's also a terrific model here of prayer oh my goodness is he look at look listen jesus combines the two things that make prayer powerful and right on the one hand do you see what absolute emotional and spiritual reality you have here? He is being completely honest about his needs. He's not saying, stiff upper lip. There's nothing stoic about this. He's willing to lay down there and say, I think I'm going to die right here. Is there any other way? Is there any way that we could do it any other way? He's being honest about his needs. He's being open about them. He's being open about his feeling. He's not stoic. He's telling God honestly where he is, but at the same time, and here's what's so unusual. He knows that the purpose of prayer is not to bend God's will to fit yours. The purpose of prayer is to bend your will to fit God's so that you can rest in his wisdom. I mean, if this isn't a model prayer, here's Jesus Christ going into

saying, in the end, I realize you are brilliantly wise and your will be done. Now, we almost never do that. We have stoic people. We have people who are just crying out and running around and yelling. And then you have somebody like Jesus Christ who's absolutely emotionally honest and absolutely willing to say, in the end, after you've done it all, thy will be done. There's prayer for you. you. So not only is that a model of obedience and not only is it a great model of prayer, it's also a model for forgiveness. Look at how he treats the people who are letting him down. How are you doing right now with that? Isn't there anybody in your life that's letting you down? Isn't there anybody in your life that's falling asleep on you? You've begged them to do this and that for you and they're not? Boy, does that fry you? Take a look at Jesus. Because these people are pictures of you and me. We have let him down. If it wasn't for the way in which we have lived, he wouldn't have had to die. But look at him. I just, I never get over the fact that he comes to them and he says, the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. That is amazing. Because on the one hand, he's trying, what does he mean when he says the spirit is willing? He's saying, I know you meant well. You've got good motives. On the other hand, he says, but you're weak. fake. See, most of us, either we just blast people. You've let me down. We're not going to say, well, I know you meant well, but you're a little on the weak side. You either blast people or else you just shut up. You just shut up. I don't even want to talk about them. I don't want to see them. I don't want to talk about them. Here's Jesus Christ confronting them, being gentle, finding something to praise, but in the end, forgiving them. Why? Because he died for them. now if he did that for you and me and he did how in the world can you hold a grudge against other people who have not wronged you anything like we've wronged him and who have not let you down anything like we let him down come on he's a model for obedience he's a model for prayer he's a model for forgiveness he's also a model for handling suffering almost all of us feel like we have experienced a lot of unjust suffering right but you know we're always we're selective in the way we think about our lives I love to remember the punishments that I got that I didn't deserve. I don't like to remember the punishments I deserve that I never really got.

None of us, I mean, there is such a thing as unjust suffering in the narrow sense. In other words, you might be going through something right now you don't deserve. This happened and you didn't do anything to deserve it. But in the broad sense, we all deserve, because we're all sinners, because we all do wrong things, there is no innocent, completely innocent sufferers out there. But Jesus Christ was the only innocent sufferer. He actually suffered injustice, and it was completely unjust. He was the absolute innocent sufferer. And instead of shaking his fist at God, he says, I know that you're bringing something good out of this. He took his big cup for you. Now you take your little cup for him. He took his big cup with a certain amount of, uh, you know, with steadfastness. He took his unjust suffering for you. Now, if you have your little cups, can't you take it with a certain amount of steadfastness for him, knowing what he did for you. But listen, here's most important. Up to now, all I've given you is examples, right? An example of obedience, an example of forgiveness, an example of prayer, an example of endurance.

But examples don't work if all you're trying to do is use willpower to be more like Jesus. You need to have your heart changed if you're going to have his courage. You need to have your heart changed if you're going to have his integrity. And here's how your heart changes. Look at him suffering in the garden for you, dying in the dark for you, and then rely on his righteousness and on his love. That'll change your heart. What do I mean? First of all, when I say rely on his righteousness, 2 Corinthians 5.21, I often quote it, God made him sin. God made Christ sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Now, when it says God made Christ sin, that doesn't mean he made him sinful. It means he treated him as sinful on the cross. He took the punishment we deserve. Well, then what does it mean when it says God made him sin, putting our sins on him, that we might become the righteousness of God in him? Does that mean that we automatically become righteous? Well, eventually. But what it must mean is this, that God treats Jesus as if he'd done everything we have done, and he's punished on the cross, so that when you believe in Jesus Christ, God now treats you as if you've done everything Jesus Christ has done, and Edwards has shown us, this text has shown us, the radiant, brilliant beauty of Jesus Christ, his obedience, his love, his courage, his integrity. If righteousness was something that was visible, it would just be the most beautiful, radiant thing. And that's how you look to God if you are in Jesus Christ, if you have believed in him. Look, friends, you know, know, we're all struggling to feel good about ourselves. So we look to our career. We try to make money. We try to lose weight. We try to get somebody who's good looking to like us. And these are all ways I finally can feel good about myself. It's why we're always insecure. Why are we always unhappy? Why things are never going right? This is what you need, to know that his obedience is upon you. It's hard to quite understand. It's a legal thing, and yet it's not a legal thing. We know something about it, that when God looks at you and his eyes are the only ones that matter, he sees a beauty. Now, if you rely on his righteousness like that, and it's the righteousness that we see here in the garden in a way that you don't see anywhere else, perfect righteousness, infinitely more perfect, and yet that's how God regards you. Come on, that's going to change the way you handle. You're going to be able to forgive people health. You're going to be able to pray and get a certain contentment because you have that inner wealth of knowing how he regards you. But most of all, rest in his love. There is no better place, I know, to show you that you could not possibly wear Jesus' love out for you. I have people say, oh, pastor, I've really sinned in a bad way. I just don't know that Jesus loves me anymore. Hey, look, if that didn't, if hell didn't break his love for you, do you think your little flub up is going to? Of course it can't. This is the love you've always wanted. No married love, no child love, no professional acclaim, nothing, nothing else will give you what this will give you. This is the love you've been looking for all your life. Look at Jesus Christ, dying in the dark for you. Let it melt you. Let it move you. Let it strike you to the ground. Fall on your face. Adore him for it. And when you get up, you'll be more like him. And there's nothing better than that. Let's pray. Our Father, this, in many ways, we see into not just your son's heart, but into the heart of the Trinity here, the mystery of the Trinity. But we see a very human Jesus Christ suffering, writhing almost in agony, and yet steadfastly loving you and loving us to the end. And I pray, Lord, that you would let that be the transforming force in the middle of our lives. I pray, Father, that every person here might apply this to areas of obedience, to forgiveness, to endurance, to prayer, but most of all, help us to really build a solid new foundation for our very identities by understanding the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ given to us and making that the basis of our life and then remembering that those he loves to the end.

Make us more like your son who came not to be served but to serve and give his life a ransom for many. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
