I'd like to read you from 2 Peter chapter 3. This month we're looking at the second epistle of Peter, and I'm going to read you from chapter 3 verses 1 through 13.

Dear friends, this is now my second letter to you. I have written both of them as reminders to stimulate you to wholesome thinking. I want you to recall the words spoken in the past by the holy prophets and the command given by our Lord and Savior through your apostles. First of all, you must understand that in the last days, scoffers will come, scoffing and following their own evil desires. They will say, where is this coming, he promised. Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. but they deliberately forget that long ago by god's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed out of water and by water by these waters also the world of that time was deluged and destroyed by the same word the present heavens and earth are reserved for fire being kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men but do not forget this one thing dear friends with the lord a day is like a thousand years and a thousand years are like a day. The Lord is not slow to keep his promise, as some understand slowness. He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar. The elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare. Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? You ought to live holy and godly lives as you look of God and speed its coming. That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire and the elements will melt in the heat. But in keeping with his promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. This is God's word. We've been going through the book of Peter and Peter's always talking about wrath and judgment. Now, who in the Bible talks the most about hell and judgment? Is it Peter? Is it Paul?

Some of you certainly know the answer. I've tried to mention it as often as I possibly can. The person in the Bible who speaks the most about hell and judgment, more than everybody else put together, is Jesus, Prince of Peace, Lord of Love. of. You don't believe me? You can look it up. It's there. And the reason I bring it out is simply because we like to treat the teaching of the Bible as a kind of delicatessen. I would like a little bit of this. I would like a little bit of that. But think about this. Here is Jesus, and you say, I love to embrace the things he says about love and justice and a loving Father, but I reject his proclamation that he will return to judge the living and the dead on the last day, all the inhabitants of the earth. I reject that idea. Don't you see how arbitrary and self-serving that is?

Take a look. If Jesus is Lord at all, he's got to be Lord of all, and that includes your intellect, and you mustn't look at Jesus and say, Lord, I am less barbaric than you. I am more compassionate than you. I'm more modern and up-to-date than you. I have to reject this part of what you say. I would like to press for a second and point out to you that this doctrine, now you've heard of the doctrine of D-Day. Have you heard of D-Day? We talk about D-Day and V-E-Day. Well, this is J-Day, Judgment Day, the doctrine of Judgment Day, that when a society as a whole or when an individual person rejects the idea of Judgment Day, there are severe ramifications. Here's why. All of us have a sense of justice. We grow up with it. Nobody really, I don't think, has to give it to us. I mean, even little kids have this sense of tremendous injustice. If she shared her apple with you and you won't share your candy bar with her, oh, the, you know, The ceiling is falling down. The sky is falling. Kids have a tremendous sense of justice. We all have it. It's very deep. And if you read anything, if you read any history, if you read the history of any country, and you see thousands, in some cases millions of people, oppressed, violated, trodden down, either overtly in blood or a little more subtly economically in other ways, if you look at history, you see injustice everywhere. If you read the paper, you see injustice everywhere. Innately, we have this sense of justice. And when we see what the world is like and we experience it ourselves and we have this sense of justice, what are we going to do? I'll tell you, there's only three things possible. The first is you kill that part of you that really wants justice. You just start to say, it'll never happen. This is the way life is. And you just kill it. You just stifle it. You just harden yourself. You destroy that part of you. The second thing you can do is become an activist and just throw yourself against the injustice of life. Just throw yourself against it. Hurl yourself. Fling yourself at it desperately until you burn out, around the age of 23, usually. In other words, you either can be very hard and just kill that part of you that hates the injustice, or you can become an activist and throw yourself against it, or you can believe in the doctrine of Judgment Day. See, if you don't believe in the doctrine of Judgment Day, that someday a completely impartial judge will stand on the earth, and everything will be put right, and no one will get away with rectified. If you don't believe that, it pushes you to the extremes. There's no other way than to either become cynical or to become a desperate, burned-out activist. But a person who believes in the doctrine of judgment day, on the one hand, you see, it sharpens your sense of justice. So you work against injustice. On the other hand, it calms you out because it assures you that in the end, the right must and will inevitably triumph. Do you see?

Before you get rid of the doctrine of Judgment Day, realize what it does to a country. Realize what it does to a psyche. And realize how arbitrary and self-serving it is to receive some of what Jesus says and then reject others. And notice the part you like, and notice the part you don't like, and tell me how objective you're being. Where's the integrity in that?

let's look and see what 2 Peter 3, what this passage teaches us about the doctrine of judgment day. I mean, we've seen, you know, here in this church, when we go through the scripture, we come up against a number of passages. Let's see what this one teaches. And I'd like to divide the subject up under three headings that are, if you've ever read the old Puritans, this is the sort of headings that they would use. This is how they would probably name their points. I'd like to what Peter says about the nature of the doctrine of Judgment Day, the nature of the doctrine, and secondly, let's look at some of the objections to the doctrine, and then thirdly, let's look at the effects of the doctrine on those who believe it, the nature of the doctrine, objections to the doctrine, and the effect of the doctrine on those who believe it. That's a kind of abstract and, I think, somewhat impersonal way to break it down, but that's the way the Puritans used to do it. Let's look at it. First, everything we see about this judgment day sounds pretty terrible. It says, the heavens and earth are reserved for fire being kept for the day of judgment and the destruction of the ungodly. That sounds pretty awful. And of course, the Bible says a number of things about what will happen on that day. But here, Peter gives us an insight into what is happening on that day that I think sums up the essence of what will happen on Judgment Day. And it even sheds light on this very curious passage where it says down here in verse 11 and 12, and people have puzzled over this verse for years, as you look forward to the day of God and speed its coming. How can you speed its coming? People have talked about it a lot, but let's, what does, what is the nature of judgment? What is going to happen on that day? And actually, it's all bound up in this fascinating and pregnant phrase. Judgment day is not just called judgment day. Essentially, judgment day is in verse 10 and verse 9, but the day of the Lord will come like a thief. Now, you might, you know, for years reading the Bible, I went right by that. Sure, Judgment Day is the day of the Lord, but I began to realize and meditate on what that means. Why is Judgment Day called the day of the Lord? Let's think about it for a moment.

If somebody comes to you and says, this is your day, what does that mean? Well, it's probably, probably, maybe this is a very special day in your life. Maybe you're getting married on this day. Maybe you've been working for years and you're going to get your PhD on this day. Maybe this is the day in which, maybe this is your 20th wedding anniversary or something like that. When someone talks about this being his or her day, it means something unusual is happening. And on that day, that person is in the spotlight and everybody else who knows them, them, everybody else around them, you fall out of your normal relationship to them. The normal relationships stop and everything revolves around that person. So if one of your friends is getting married, on that day you really don't treat them the way you usually do. You're spending money on them probably. Their needs are supreme. Their accomplishments are supreme. Supreme, their interests are Supreme, and all the rest of us are the supporting cast. All the rest of us work our schedules around them. All the rest of us work our finances around them. All the rest of us are in the wings, there in the spotlight. All the rest of us are in the supporting cast, and there in the center, right? The day, that's their day, this is your day. day. Let me give you another illustration and then trough it together and show what Peter's getting at here. Another way to put it is this, I read an account of a play that was on Broadway some years ago, and when it was in the rehearsal time, the director just realized it was a disaster, and they were rehearsing, and it just didn't work, it was a disaster, everybody knew it was a disaster, everybody felt it was a disaster, everybody was very worried about it and then one day the director had an idea and he said to the woman who was playing the lead he suddenly realized that the woman who was playing the lead was not a good enough actor she did not have the ability to carry out the role that she had and suddenly in a quick flash, he had the woman who was in the lead role play the support role and the woman who was in the support play the lead role, and almost immediately, it was electric. Almost immediately, everybody realized that the person who was in that support role, nobody realized what her abilities were until she got into the lead, and suddenly, it was real. Everything gelled. Everything came together, and it was so overwhelmingly obvious to everybody that even the woman who had just lost the lead role, her mouth was stopped. She had no objection. She realized this is the only way going to save it. And the true ability of that actor, the woman who was out in the support role, who came into the center, was suddenly revealed. She became a star, but not only that, the rehearsals went extremely well, the play went on, and it was a huge success, a rousing success. Now, the Bible says that play is actually a metaphor for not only the life of the entire world, but your individual lives as well. The world will not be right. The sun will not be what it should be. The moon will not be what it should be. The stars, the mountains, and the seas will not be glorious as they were meant to be. Your body won't be right. Your soul won't be right. Your relationships won't be right. Nothing about you will be right until you see your main problem. Your main problem is you look at life and everything about life as a play written with you in the lead. You're the center. You have to begin to realize that is your basic problem. Every human being sees him or herself in the center. You look at life that way. You see it all as a big drama, and you're the lead. And you've written this great script for yourself. And of course, in it, everything centers around you. And things aren't going right. And here's the reason why. you were not built for that role you were not designed for that role you can't carry it off the whole play is in trouble everybody knows it and the bible says not until the last day the day of the lord the day in which suddenly everybody realizes that he and he alone can be in the center that all the rest of us are only in the supporting cast that he must be supreme and we must be subservient to him, that everything in our life must revolve around him, and not until that day happens and everyone sees that will the universe have the glory, and will your lives have the glory that they originally built for. Isn't that interesting? You see, let me be really frank about this. Jesus Christ, of course, opposes, he's dangerous to people who are wicked and violent, but let me just tell you, dangerous even to those of us who initially come and say, I want to serve you because I tell you that every human being, because of the sin in our hearts, because we are prone to look at life as a drama in which we are in the center and everything has to work according to the script we've written for ourselves, so that even when you become a Christian, almost always you write Jesus in and you give him the supporting role. Why do you, look, some of you may be looking at

know how you're doing it. I know how I did it. I know how I even looked at it for a number of years after I came into it. You're saying, I've got this and this and this and this that I want to happen in my life, and it's not happening. I wonder if Christianity can help. I've got this goal and this goal. This scene is supposed to go like this, and this scene is supposed to go like this. I don't know whether, it's just not working, it's not gelling. Let me, if I write Jesus Christ in, will he come through? Will he give me all the things that I want?

See, you know what the Bible says. Have you ever seen the movie Soap Dish? It's a funny movie, and of course, it's a satire. And in it, it's a comedy. It's got Sally Fields and Kevin Kline and all that, and they all play vain soap opera actors and actresses, all of whom are in a tizzy, all stabbing each other in the back, all upset because they're losing their centrality in the show. The Bible says that is your problem until you see it. You're never going to make any progress against it. You do not need in your life God to be a director that puts you in the center. You don't need in your life a God who is an agent for an egotistical actor. You don't need a God who is an indulgent father for a spoiled kid. That's not love. What you need is the day of the Lord. You need Jesus Christ seen finally as supreme. Being supreme in your life, and not until you take the job of supporting actor to him, will you really find yourself. Will you really become pure? Will the broken in you be mended? Will the crooked in you be straightened? Will the powerless in you become powerful? That's it.

I'll tell you, there's only two kinds of people in the world right now, and this is why Peter can say this amazing thing where he can say, we look forward to the day of God and we speed its coming. There are people, once you become Christians, you realize that really is the only way you're ever going to grow. Remember the place where John the Baptist says, he must increase, and I must decrease. And the irony is, the more you try to make him increase and make you decrease, the more you increase. That's the irony. The Bible says you must lose your life to find your life. The more you say, I'm going to put Jesus in the center and glorify him and not think about my own glory, the more glory and greatness you get. The more you say, well, here's what the Bible, here's what Jesus says, well, that's not practical, I can't do that, that, I would lose my job, I'd lose my friends, I can't do that, you see, I don't want his script, I want my script, but the more a Christian realizes, the more you put yourself as a support, you put yourself in the supportive role, the more you give him the supremacy, the more you grow, and therefore, Christians are all in the position of seeking to hasten the day of the Lord, where we're looking for it, we're waiting for it, we're trying to bring it about every day, every day, I'm trying to make this the day of the Lord, instead of my day, Because the more I make this his day, the more I grow. And yet the fact of the matter is that there's nobody, nobody, not one Christian, not the greatest Christian, not the most godly person who has ever brought that about. It won't be until the last day of history, the day of the Lord, that really happens. Well, there's two kinds of people in the world. There are people who are yearning for Judgment Day. day, they're yearning to finally have Jesus get the ascendancy in your life, which is what you've been after all these years, because you know only then will you be free, and then the other kind of person is a person who on the day of the Lord will find your greatest fears are realized, not your greatest desires, because the thing that you most hate is the idea of being out of control, you believe the lie, the lie of the serpent in the garden. And that is that if you really submit to him, he will strangle you. If you really give him the ascendancy, you will be dirt and ashes. The day of the Lord is the day we finally find ourselves because he comes into the center. That's the nature of the doctrine of judgment day. That's the essence of it. That's what will purify everything, so we'll purify the heavens and the earth, and we'll purify you, and everything will be laid bare, and the old world, and the old you, and the old everything will come to an end, and it'll be a funeral and a birth at the same time, the birth of the new world, and the new you, and the new heavens, and the new earth, okay, now the second thing that Jesus, that Peter does, see, Peter tells us the nature of the doctrine of judgment, he gives it such a positive look, doesn't he? It's not the day of wrath, though it's often called that. It's not the day of judgment, though it is that. It's not the day of fire, though it is that. That's not the essential nature of it. It's the day of the Lord. It's his day. The last time you saw him, he was clothed in the rags of mortality. The last time you saw him, he was beaten up, eyes all swollen last time you saw him he was meek and lowly and riding on a NASA's colt and the next time you see him he won't be riding on a colt he'll be riding on a cloud the next time you see him every eye will see him and his face will be like ten thousand suns burning the next time you see him it'll be his day now that's the nature of judgment day yeah, what are some of the objections to it? Peter, being a good teacher, immediately realizes plenty of people don't believe in this, and they have objections to this whole idea that Jesus is coming back to bring judgment. And he mentions and answers three of them, at least, right in this passage. And I want to, it's very brief, he's very brief, so we have to be brief as well. But all three of them are issues that are important, and I know there's people in this room who wrestle with them. So here we go. So he starts right off by saying, there will always be scoffers who say, where is the promise of his coming? Ever since our fathers died, everything goes on as it has since the beginning of creation. I know plenty of people who really can understand Christianity and are even ready to accept it, but this idea of the second coming, the end of the world, judgment day, is something that's very hard to believe. Many people find it extremely hard to believe. And so a lot of people today say the same thing. They say, listen, the world is just going to go on and on and on from creation. There isn't going to be a day like that. It's very hard for me to believe in that. Okay. There are three possible objections at least. I'm not saying there's only three possible. I mean there's at least three possible. And three of them are addressed by Peter. Let's look at them. The first one is an intellectual objection. We already just looked at it. but many people say, it's just untenable to believe that history is going to end. It's been going on and on and on for eons. We don't know how long it's been going on and on. It's just not going to stop. I just can't believe it. It's an intellectual objection. Peter, with tremendous insight, points out that if you can't intellectually accept the doctrine of Judgment Day, your problem is not really with the doctrine of Judgment Day, your problem is with the doctrine of creation,

you see he says if they say i don't believe it he says ah but they forget that long ago by god's word the heavens existed and the earth was formed and by the same word the present heavens and earth are being reserved for judgment now what's his case what's he saying just this first of all he is saying do you believe that the universe was created or it is the result of an accidental uh collusion of blind forces that's the question

Now, if you believe that the universe happened strictly by accident, just the accidental convergence of blind forces, in that case, everything is meaningless. History is meaningless. History is cyclical, or better yet, history is not even cyclical. It's sort of spaghetti. It's just a meaningless sequence of events. and in that case you have to agree, right, that we're all going to die and rot and then eventually the universe or the world will burn up in the sun and no one will be around to remember anything and therefore nothing you do will make any ultimate difference at all, whether you live a good life or a violent, oppressive life. It will make no difference and there is no fundamental mental distinctions between right and wrong, and nothing ultimately has any significance. Nothing makes any difference at all. If the universe wasn't created, but it's an accident, then of course Judgment Day makes no sense. But here's what Peter's case is. Peter says, do you believe that the universe was created, that there's design, that there is right and wrong, and things do mean something? Do you believe in creation? Do you believe God created the world? If you believe God created the world, then you have to believe he can judge it. Be consistent. Somebody says, oh, I believe in a God who created the universe, but I don't believe in judgment day. He says, by the same word that he made the world, which means the word means there's design here, there's a blueprint, there's meaning in here. Why would you design something and not then give up your right to evaluate it. Why would you design something and then give up your control over it? He says, oh, no, be consistent. If you believe in creation, you can believe in judgment. There's nothing inconsistent with believing in Judgment Day, but here's what the implications are, though. If you don't believe in Judgment Day, then you implicitly don't believe in a meaningful creation, and therefore, look, you don't have to believe in Judgment Day. I can't prove that to you, but I can prove this. If there is no Judgment Day, you must see that nothing means anything, that history is a meaningless sequence of events, that there is ultimately no right or wrong. There's no real distinction between right and wrong, because ultimately, how you live makes no final difference. Nothing makes any difference at all. Nothing has any meaning at all, and that's your alternatives. You don't have to believe in Judgment Day. If you reject Judgment Day, you're rejecting the idea of a meaningful design to creation and meaningful history and real distinctions between right and wrong. Is that what you want? You can have it, but know what you're doing. Reject Judgment Day, go ahead, but be consistent in it. And don't you dare have the comfort of rejecting Judgment Day and figuring I'll never have to stand before a judge and then go about living as if life is insisting that other people do too. Judgment Day and the idea of a meaningful orderly creation are intimately tied together. You know, Peter was an illiterate fisherman, but he must have been divinely inspired because that is heavy philosophy. Some people say, I just can't believe in Judgment Day. Intellectually, he says it's perfectly credible, absolutely credible. As a matter of fact, it makes more sense than the alternative. Second kind of objection, and it's The second one is a personal objection. And you see it down here. He's answering it in verse 8. Do not forget this one thing here, friends. With the Lord, a day is like a thousand years. The Lord is not slow in keeping his promises. Some understand slowness. He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but wanting everyone to come to repentance. Ah, this is great. Here, Peter realizes that most of us don't really have intellectual problems with the idea of God's coming in to judge. Most of us have personal problems. And you know what the personal problems are? We have seen so much injustice that God has just not responded to. It's almost impossible for people. I mean, it's happened to me, surely, and it still happens to me. It's impossible for anybody who has any sensitivity left not to look at life, look at particular incidents, or even look at their own experiences and say, God, if you're a just God, God, why aren't you doing anything? Why are you taking so much time? Why are you being so slow? Why haven't you shown up by now? This is ridiculous. How can you countenance all this? This is too slow. And everybody, I think, who's sensitive feels that way. It's hard to believe in a God coming to judge the heavens and the earth. Why hasn't he done it yet? We've seen some horrible things this century. Why in the world is he still waiting? Well, Peter, again, brilliantly points out, he says, slowness, God is not slow as some count slowness. Now, what he's pointing out is right and wrong are absolute categories, but fast and slow are not. They are always relative to your perspective. Let me give you a great example. Children. Children are the most impatient people because their perspective is so truncated. They're so young. You know, for them, a summer is a lifetime. So, for example, if a seven-year-old girl comes to you and says, Daddy, Mommy, I want a bike. And I want that bike. And you look at it and say, great, we'll give you that bike. But you know what? This bike costs $100. But if we wait just three weeks, there'll be a sale on at this other store, and we can get the same bike for only $30. dollars. Now, a normal person figures three weeks to wait for that kind of savings is very prudent, very reasonable. Who in their right mind, that doesn't even, does that tax your patience? If you're a seven-year-old, it more than taxes your patience. She says, you don't love me. I want it now. Three weeks? I might be dead by then. You see? And that is the way a child looks at it, absolutely, you know that. If you know any children, you probably can't remember the way it was, but when you were that age, if you know any children, that's exactly the way they are. With children, what rightly is called patience is always, to them, unconscionable slowness. They're always sure that you don't love them. And then when God says, I am coming soon, you have to realize your lack of perspective, Peter says. You have to realize when he uses the word soon, he's using it in his own horizon. And you have to realize that, you see, a seven-year-old's perspective is too small compared to an adult's, but your and my perspective is far, far

further behind God's perspective than even that is. And what we mean then is Peter is saying, be careful. You want God to be so fast, but your perspective can't possibly see it. You know, the irony of the whole thing is we want God to be very slow when it comes to giving us justice. We want him to be very, very fast when it comes to giving other people justice. That's the whole thing. How many of you would be in a lot of trouble if God had come back in 1968?

Some of us would have been in a great deal of trouble. He is not slow, as some count slowness humble yourself. Realize the childishness of your perspective. Those of you who are really suffering and saying, what is wrong with this God? Why won't he do something about this injustice? The answer is, he will. Lastly, the last objection.

Perhaps the most important objection that you might have, and many people have this idea of a God of judgment. The most important objection goes something like this.

This is too harsh. This is too cruel. I believe in a God of love.

Here, somebody might be here this morning or this afternoon, and you might be sitting there thinking, well, you know, this is the very reason that I've always had trouble with organized Christianity and organized religion anyway. This is not what I came here to want to hear. here, you're giving me a picture of a God up in heaven taking notes on me, writing down everything, keeping records, and then on the judgment day, he's going to throw all of my faults and all of my flaws and all of my sins at me. You know, throw them at me like a lawyer in a court, you know. He says, who wants that kind of God? What a guilt trip. How harsh. What a terrible burden. This is the very thing that is bad for people, this kind of guilt-inducing religion. That's what a God of does to you, now you feel that way, you don't understand it, I just want you to know you don't understand it, if you feel that the doctrine of judgment day, suddenly makes you feel like, hopeless, makes you feel guilty, and guilt ridden, and burdened down, it shows you don't understand the essence of Christianity, you don't understand the central message of it, which is called the gospel. And if you miss the gospel, everything else, every other biblical teaching will be hard to understand as well. Every other one. You see, if you look carefully, Peter has a wonderful thing he's saying. On judgment day, who passes? Who passes on judgment day? The good? The people who have got a great record, the people who have exercised self-control, all, the people who have never gotten into what you got into, people who never fall down as often as you fall down, is that it? The good, the religious, the moral, who is it? He says, the Lord is not slow in keeping his promise. Is that what he says? He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but he wants everyone to get their lives together. Is that what it says? What does it say? Who passes judgment? Who doesn't perish? The answer is the repentant.

Now, if you think that this lays guilt, if you think that this is bad news, you're crazy. The Bible says the people who will stand on judgment day are not the good ones. I mean, you know, relatively speaking, somebody's better than others. There's got to be a top 10%, right? There has to be. Morally speaking, there's got to be people through the history of the world who will be in the top 10%, top 20%. are they the ones who are going to stand on Judgment Day? Is that what it says? It's not the good who will stand on Judgment Day, but the ones who know they're not, and the ones who admit they're not, and unfortunately, an awful high percentage of those top 20% will never admit it, because you see, if you compare yourself to other people, which we all do, it's very difficult if you happen to be one of those wonderful people, wonderful,

Obviously, 20% of everybody is. It's almost impossible without God's help not to feel that you'll be able to stand in the judgment day. You look around you, you know, you're the only person in your family that's not a mess. The only person in your neighborhood that's not a mess. You're the only person at work that, you know, has not been having an affair and hasn't taken a bribe. You know, you feel pretty good about yourself. The Bible says not only will you not stand in judgment, but Jesus said to the Pharisees, the prostitutes and the pimps go into the kingdom of heaven before you because you're not the ones who will pass judgment. It's not the good, but the ones who know they're not good, or put it this way, it's not the ones who've done the most, but the ones who know the most what has been done for you because the Bible says that if you stand in your own righteousness on that day, if you stand in your own record, record, you'll be lost. Instead, the Scripture says that Jesus Christ, if you recognize that you aren't good enough, that Jesus Christ lived and died for you, if you rest in Him, you will stand in His righteousness, as it were, in His record, as it were. And there's this amazing, amazing hymn, probably based on 2 Peter 3 to some degree. You know, here it says in 2 Peter 10, on that day, everything will disappear with a roar. The destroyed by fire. The earth and everything in it will be laid bare. You see, a blazing heat. The elements will melt in the heat. And there's this great hymn by Count Nicholas von Zinzendorf, and there's that great line in it. He wrote it 200 years ago, and he says, Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are, my glorious dress. dress. Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed, with joy shall I lift up my head. That's the way it comes out. He wrote it in German. It doesn't rhyme, does it? But it's still beautiful. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are, my glorious dress. Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed, what does he say? Will Christians be people who just barely get through all that? Will he be like this? Everything, you know, going to pieces around us and we'll be shielding our eyes against the horror of it all. That's not what he says. No, he's right. Mids flaming worlds in these arrayed with joy will I lift up my head. It'll be like cool light.

A Christian is somebody, in other words, who looks at Jesus and says, because you were judged, judged, I won't be. Because you were judged for me and I believe in you, I can pass. I can stand in the judgment because you stood under my judgment. And if you say that today day from the heart. You have nothing to fear. You know, that's good news. Peter is not saying God is patient and he's giving you lots of time. He doesn't want you to perish. Instead, he wants you to get your life together. He says, no, he wants you to repent. Those are the ones who don't perish. The ones who repent. Anybody can do that if you're willing to swallow your pride. Not everybody can get their lives together. Not everybody can get up their self-control, boy, if that was it, some of us would be in a great deal of trouble. Not every, you can't, you can't get rid of your past record, and many of us will have a tremendous amount of trouble. Some people have a lot more advantages to living a moral life. Some people have had better homes. Some people have had better family backgrounds. Some people have had better moral communities they were raised in. Some people have had, have been raised in the most violent of backgrounds, and they have the worst habits because they just were taught them. You see, if God came and said, I don't want you to perish, I want you to get your life together, wouldn't that be unfair? Instead, he says, I don't want you to perish, I want you to repent. And frankly, if anything, if anybody's at a disadvantage, it's the moral ones. They're about the only ones that have a disadvantage. Don't you see how the gospel turns everything upside down? It's good news. Well, last of all, and we must be brief, but, because he's brief about it, we looked at the nature of the Doctrine of Judgment Day, and we also looked at the what? At the objections to the Doctrine of Judgment, and saw how they're all answered so well. But lastly, we have to see that Peter talks a bit about the effects of the Doctrine of Judgment Day on those who believe. Notice he says, in this great place, since everything will be destroyed in this way, What kind of people ought you to be? Why in the Bible does God ever talk to us about Judgment Day? Why? Why doesn't he just make it a surprise? You know, why not? After all, why doesn't he just surprise us? Whoops! You know, he shows up and says, guess what, I'm going to rectify everything. I didn't tell you anything about it in the Bible. I just wanted it to be a surprise. Why does he tell us about it? To scare us? To make us guess when he's coming back? Never. Every time it is brought up in the Bible, always it's brought up to be used. There's a place in 1 John 3, an amazing spot, and here's what it says. 1 John 3, we know that on that day, that day, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is, for this purifies himself as he is pure. Whoever hopes for this purifies. If you properly hold the doctrine of judgment in your mind before yourself every day, it will be like an engine changing you in many, many ways. I was reading a meditation by John Newton, the guy who wrote Amazing Grace. He was talking about the Hallelujah Chorus. He says, you know the trouble with the Hallelujah the hallelujah chorus is talking, it's got these great words, for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth. But the music is so beautiful, he says, most people just get thrilled by it and they don't listen to the words. He says, we walk out of the concert absolutely inspired without having really thought about what it's saying at all. And as a result, it washes completely off of us. He says most people just get thrilled with the Hallelujah Chorus without actually using the truth that's in the Hallelujah Chorus. Newton says it's a little bit like taking a telescope, buying a telescope and setting it on a pedestal and everybody admiring it. Oh, look at it. It's beautiful. Look how black it is. Look how shiny it is. And nobody ever looks into it. Now, I would say to you the Doctrine of Judgment Day is the same way in most people's minds. They believe in it, but you're not looking into it. You're not using it on yourself. And if you do, what will happen? Three quick things. Number one, and boy, I mean, this is something maybe in the question and answer time we could talk more about it right afterwards. Number one, it should give you a confidence and a poise. There should be a poise about you. Do you believe this? Then that means no matter what kind of setback and what kind of reversal you're experiencing right now, you know it's temporary, and it just does not get you down. It just can't. Oh, it doesn't mean you don't weep. Jesus was weeping all the time. It doesn't mean you don't feel pain, but you see, this thing overwhelms it. Do you see what kind of confidence? If you have this in front of you, you know that what's in front of you is not the war. You can't lose the war against injustice. You can't lose the war. You can't lose the war for, what are you out to do? Joy, you're out to seek. Justice, you're out to seek. A new heaven's a new earth, and you're going to get there. And anything, any reversal you experience today is just, you've just lost a skirmish. That's all. You can't lose the war. Do you believe that? Are you living as if that's true? Confidence, poise. Secondly, forgiveness. The doctrine of judgment is the only way to be a forgiving person. You know, if you don't believe the Doctrine of Judgment day and you experience injustice, you know what's going to happen to you? If you experience it. I've been reading a tremendous amount, haven't you, of articles about the new victim mentality that people have. And of course, it's led to incredible number of lawsuits and litigation in court. It's led to so much political gridlock in local neighborhoods. Everybody thinks that they're a victim. Everybody feels that they're an oppressed minority. already. Everybody feels that way. All right. Well, you know what's funny about it is the liberal kinds of commentators write about that and say, yeah, and it's true, and we should be angry. Go out there. You know, give it to them. The conservative commentators, you know, sort of sneer at this phenomenon and say, you see, you're just imagining it. All these injustices aren't real. Christianity doesn't fit into that. The Bible doesn't say either of those positions are true. What does the Bible say? First of all, the Bible says it's not imaginary. They are real injustices. But a Christian is somebody who says, I am not got the wisdom, I don't have the power, and I don't have the right to stand in judgment. I can't be the judge. I don't need to be the judge. I don't know what these people deserve. But I know this, nobody in the end will get away with anything. So I can give it to God. I can just give it to God. Do you do that? That's absolutely critical. See, if you don't do that, what are your alternatives to injustice? You can either, If you experience injustice, you experience it, I'm saying, you can either decide, I don't care. You know, harden yourself, I don't care. Or you can put yourself in the role of the judge. Get in the judgment seat, and what are you going to do? Most of us spend the rest of our lives, in our imagination, executing the criminal. Just imagining. In many cases, what we actually do is we spend also the rest of our time executing judgment on people like that person. Um, a man hurt us so we're against men, a woman hurt us so we're against women, you know, a black, a white, you know, you, you, you spend all of your life executing people in your mind because you are the judge, you're bitter. Now, what are the alternatives to being bitter or, or becoming numb to injustice? What are your alternatives? The only alternatives is to say, Lord Jesus, I want you to be the judge. You know, the greatest, and the third thing, if you really, really believe this doctrine of judgment day, It will not only give you a confidence and poise and secondly make you forgiving, you know, make it tough, at the same time make you so sweet and forgiving, but thirdly, it'll make you holy. There were two kinds of professors that I used to, when I was in school, there was the kind of professor who said, he told you when you were going to have your tests, you know, a midterm and a final or just a final, and then you had other kinds of professors who could give you pop quizzes anytime, time. You never knew when. In the beginning, I used to hate those professors. By the end of my academic career, I loved them. You know why? Because it was a second kind of professors. Because I knew I could be tested any moment. I had to keep up with the assignments, so my conscience was always clear. In other words, you had to walk into their classes without needing to hide your ignorance. You know, you should have nothing to hide. You had to keep abreast. You had clear, because any minute, Judgment Day could happen, you see. In other words, there's the kind of professors who said, Judgment Day will be at the end of May, and this is the beginning of January, and then there's the other kind of professors who say, this is the beginning of January, and Judgment Day could be any day, any time, and you see, I prefer those kinds of, why? Because they, I learned more in those courses, and I tell you, the Bible says that you must live as if today could be the last act. Make sure when you get up in the morning that you're not doing anything you will be ashamed of if tonight is the world's last night and if today is the world's last day and if this is the last act in your life.

Remember Stephen Covey, the guy who wrote the book The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People? And the second habit is begin with the end in mind. And he puts it this way. He says, think about how you want to be remembered at your funeral.
