Now, those who had been scattered by the persecution in connection with Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, telling the message only to Jews. Some of them, however, men from Cyprus and Cyrene, went to Antioch and began to speak to Greeks also, telling them the good news about the Lord Jesus. The Lord's hand was with them, and a great number of people believed and turned to the Lord. News of this reached the ears of the church at Jerusalem. And they sent Barnabas to Antioch. And when he arrived. And saw the evidence of the grace of God. He was glad. And encouraged them all. To remain true to the Lord. With all their hearts. He was a good man. Full of the Holy Spirit. And faith. And a great number of people. Were brought to the Lord. And Barnabas sent his Tarsus. To look for Saul. And when he found him. He brought him to Antioch. So for a whole year. Barnabas and Saul. Met with the church. And taught great numbers of people. called Christians first at Antioch. During this time, some prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch. One of them named Agabus stood up and through the spear predicted a severe famine would spread over the entire Roman world. This happened during the reign of Claudius. The disciples, each according to his ability, decided to provide help for the brothers living in Judea. This they did, sending their gift to the elders by Barnabas and Saul. This is the reading of God's word. we're looking at what the church should be, what the church is. The church as Jesus designed it, and as his earliest followers carried it out. One of the ways to understand this is to use this metaphor. You see, I've said all along, the reason to study what the Bible says the church should be is so we can get to know Jesus. Jesus says in John 17, when he's praying to his father, he looks at his disciples, church. He looks at the people that he is turning into a community of his disciples, and he says, Father, for their sake, I sanctify myself. And that word sanctify means I set myself apart for them. That means I give myself to them. I live for them. This means that there's never a time now where Jesus Christ in heaven says, the church, the church, ah, the little organization I left, I wonder how it's doing. Would you get that file up? Let's take a look. No. He eats, he breathes. You see, he lives for the church. Another way to put it is, imagine an artist, and if an artist had spent the last years, all the last years of his or her life on one particular work of art, maybe a novel or a poem or a sculpture or something like that. Imagine a great artist is spending all, doing nothing else, sanctifying him or herself to do this. Don't you think that when it was done, you could look at it and you could tell a little bit about the artist? Absolutely. In fact, frankly, a whole lot better, a whole lot more than if you just sat down and had an interview. Go look at the art. And this piece of art, the church, which is Jesus' masterpiece,

is like an incredible work of art that both mediocre artists and bad artists have been painting over for centuries. Now, if you know anything about this, this is a very difficult thing to do. When you find a masterpiece that's underneath some incredible master, some incredible genius who did a painting, and underneath the painting, underneath several layers, other figures, or maybe even completely overlaid in some case, underneath the work of mediocre or poor or bad artists is the work of the master, it's very hard work to get underneath. It's very hard work to very slowly and carefully scrape away and move away to get down. And that's what you do when you study the Bible about the church. There is so much about the church that turns people off to Christianity. But you cannot possibly say, Like 80% of all Americans. That you can be a good Christian. Which means. I think most people understand. Being a good Christian means. Follow Christ. Know Christ. You know. Relate to Christ. I can be a good Christian. Without being related to any church. 80% of all Americans say that. How could that be? He lives. He breathes. He did everything he can. His masterpiece. Is to create. A community of people. A community. He did all this. It says in Ephesians 1. He rules all things for the church. it says in John 17, he sanctified himself. This is his masterpiece. You can't get rid of it. We can't say, ah, it's just a big mess. But on the other hand, to find it again is every bit as tedious, every bit as difficult, every bit as hard as to find the masterpiece under all the overlays. That's why you have to look at the Bible and that's why you have to come to a church. With the Bible and with the church itself, you're trying to get back to the masterpiece. masterpiece. It's the only way to know Jesus is to look at his masterpiece. Now, today we're going to look at one more in this series of the great themes. When you look and see what the early church was like and what the followers of Jesus was like, we see several traits. And the one we're going to look at today is very easily seen in Acts chapter 11. The passage I just read is a very interesting passage. For the first time, the gospel has been brought to a very big city. Antioch was capital of Syria. Antioch was the third largest city in the Roman world. Think of it as the Chicago of the Roman world. See, it was the third largest city, like after New York and LA, it was the third. It was in Syria, it wasn't too far away, but it was 10, 15, or 20 times the size of Jerusalem. It was far more densely populated, it was far bigger, it was far more urban, far more pluralistic, far more multi-ethnic, far more troubled socially, far more urban. And when the gospel got there, some amazing things happened, but we can all bring them together under the heading of one. There is a principle that's taught here, and I want to just do three things. What is the principle? Why is the principle? How is the principle? What is the principle? Why is it true? And how can we respond? What, why, how? Okay, here's the principle. What is it? Let's take a couple of moments to see. The principle that we're seeing here is that the more urban the environment, the bigger the city, the more Christianity flourished. The more urban the environment, the bigger the city, the more Christianity had flourished. The more dense the population, the more pluralistic and multi-ethnic, the more crime, the more poverty, the more social troubles, the more personal brokenness. In other words, the city or the city, the deeper, the greater, the greater the fruit in quality and quantity that the gospel bore. Now, right away, this flies against the received wisdom, not just of people who are not Christians but of people who are Christians. In fact, what we're about to see, we're looking at a principle that it's amazing. 99% of all people think it's wrong. Christians and non-Christians. Everybody. In the middle of the... In other words, I'm talking about the relationship of the Christian faith to the city. The relationship of the Christian faith to urban environments. Back in the 60s, a book came out, which is probably the most popular, well-read book on this subject, but I'm trying to say that this is actually almost a kind of received wisdom now. Everybody believes it, but the book was by Harvey Cox called The Secular City. And essentially, this is what the book said, and this is what people have been saying for 50, 60, 70 years. This is what most Christians believe, as well as people who are not Christians, and this is what they believe. When Christianity flourished, we all lived in small, homogeneous, insulated little communities, but now, now is the urban age. Now the cities are growing. And Christian faith looks pale in the city. And so as urbanization has come, and as the great cities of the world have arisen, and they're different cities than we've known in the past. They're bigger cities than we've known in the past. They're more pluralistic and multi-ethnic cities than we've known in the past. As all this has risen up, this means Christianity has seen its zenith. Its Christianity, in a sense, is over. Why? Well, first of all, when you come into a city, races, many cultures, many religions. And right away, the idea, the Christian claim that they have the truth, it just looks silly. Or when you come into the city, you see many, many sophisticated people. And they have different views of morality and different views of sex and all that. And the Christian approach to morality looks just backward. And then, of course, the city is filled in a way that those little homogeneous insulated towns and communities were not filled with. filled with social brokenness and personal brokenness and racism and oppression and poverty and crime. And now, of course, obviously, the city needs something substantial, not Christianity. You know, it needs something really substantial for its problems. And therefore, Christianity is bound to wane in an urban environment. Now, not only, and by the way, anecdotal evidence supports towards this. Why? Because most people know of young people who seem very secure in their Christianity who go off to the big city and they lose their faith. The city, Christianity doesn't seem real to them, and they lose their faith. And so everybody says, yes, faith dies in the city. The relationship is, the more urban the environment, the less historic Christianity can flourish. This passage teaches us the opposite. And you say, well, wait a minute. This is maybe, how do you, isn't this a blip or is this a principle? This is a principle. You don't only see it in the book of Acts, but it is now almost 100% consensus on the part of all historians, all anthropologists and sociologists and archaeologists and the people that are studying this, and that is this. Let me just try to put it together quickly. I've gone back and done some research in the last couple of weeks. First of all, the cities of the Roman Empire

The Roman Empire was the most urbanized civilization that the world had ever seen and we are only now catching up to it. You see Rome had done something that never had happened before and that is you had several hundred ethnic groups several hundred countries you had a massive part of the world that was completely conquered and therefore there was an ease of travel that had never happened before there was there was peace between various sort of warring nationalities that never happened before possibility of commerce and travel that it didn't happen again until the 1750s. And therefore, for a period of time, when Rome was at its height, the biggest, densest, most pluralistic, most troubled cities that had ever arisen arose. And they didn't rise again until the 1850s. There was a million people in Rome. And these other cities were not far behind. And it wasn't until 1850 that there were four... In 1850, there were four cities in the whole world that were a million people. This means that we're just now catching up. And you see, the big cities of the past, before and after the Roman world, were usually homogeneous ethnically. But what you had here was you had tremendous amount of newcomers, you had a tremendous amount of ethnic diversity, you had fierce pluralism, all kinds of religions, and you had enormous social problems. Lots and lots of poverty, lots and lots of sickness because there was no sanitation, all sorts of urban decay. getting back to being a civilization where the same proportion of people live in cities and the cities are as urban, as dense, as pluralistic as this. We're just now getting back. We're just now catching up. But in the other era, in the time of the history of the world, when civilization was that urban, that dense, that troubled, that pluralistic, that difficult, that challenging, Christianity had its best time ever. Historians will tell you. The book of Acts shows you bigger the city, the higher the conversion rate. The bigger the city, the more Christianity flourished. Historians will tell you that by 313 AD, 56% of the population were Christians. But that was almost all and completely in the urban areas. And it's the people in the countryside, the pagans. You see, paganus means the countryside or farmland. And it was the people in the country. Who were the secular, who were the polytheists, and the people in the cities. The urbane. The sophisticated. Who are the Christians. The more urban. The more. Dense. The more pluralistic. The more. Christianity. Flourished. That's the. First. Point. And. By. The. Way. Before. We. Move. On. Let. Just. Suggest. This. You're. Going. To. Say. Why. Well. That's. The. Next. Point. But. Let. Just. Stop. For. A. Minute. And. Reflect. With. You. Anybody, let me put it this way. Any Christianity that dies in the city isn't real Christianity. Any understanding of the gospel that goes to seed and dies and falls apart in the city wasn't the real article. It can't be. I mean, we're talking about facts here. This is not just interpretation. This is a fact. When the gospel was understood, the greater the urbanness, the more the gospel broke out. And anybody who comes on in and says, my Christianity fell apart when I got into an urban pluralistic environment with all these personal problems. Never understood the gospel to start with. I don't know how many times over the years I've had Christians say to me. Long time Christians. Who were Christians before they came to the city. They said, when I came to the city I figured the city needed me. Now I realize I needed the city as much as the city needed me. I couldn't believe how the city humbled me. I can't believe how the city challenged me. how the city showed me who Jesus was. I can't believe how the city showed me what the gospel was. The power of the gospel. I had no idea. I was asleep spiritually until I came to the city. I don't know how many people have told me that. And the reason they were shocked was because everybody I don't mean that the non-Christian world is in error and the Christians have the truth. Everybody believes that the more urban the less Christianity will flourish the less the gospel will flourish and the Bible teaches and history teaches that it's exactly the opposite. principle. The more urban, the more city, the more the gospel's power is revealed and shown. In fact, you know, quickly, some years ago, many years ago, when my middle son was about two or three, I put him on the top of a sliding board. How old was he, Kathy? Huh? Three. See, I woke you up. Okay, some of you, I woke you up. Preaching is a science. I put him on the top of a sliding board. It was seven feet tall. It was a big sliding board in a playground. I went to the other end to catch him. I was 12 feet away. He rose up to try to move forward, lost his balance, and pitched backward head first. One third of a second later, I had caught him. Never touched the ground. And Kathy and I looked at each other. She was away, and she was looking, and I was looking. We saw it all happen. And we were both relieved that he wasn't dead or seriously injured, which he would have been if he had hit the ground. But we both looked at each other, and we said, because they said, how did you ever get there? How did you do that? I'm 6'4", I'm 240, I'm not athletic. I have never in my life moved that fast. I have never in my life been that agile. Never. I never before and never since. We looked at me and we said, how in the world was it possible? And the answer is, the situation brought something out of me that I didn't know. Now, the gospel in your hand in your heart. It's like a little weak flashlight sometimes till you get to the city. And it begins to blaze out. Why? Alright. Let's take a look. Three things happened in Antioch that had never happened before. There were three things that were starting to happen in the gospel. Well, two things in particular. And one thing in general. Two things in particular. One thing I'm going to show you. Three things that began to happen that only because it had come to the city. The Christians were astounded that the gospel could do this. But they would never have known if they hadn't gone to the city. Never even known it. thing. The first thing is the city reveals the gospel's power to transform individual lives. Notice in verse 19, it said that they were continuing at first when the missionaries went to Antioch to preach to the Jews. But then it says in verse 20, they also started preaching to the Greeks. And huge numbers began to come. Great numbers. Twice it says great numbers. Now, it's true that on Pentecost, lots of people become Christians. But since then, they hadn't seen And for a minute, I'll get to it. For a minute, we have to overlook. This is not an ethnic thing. Here's what it is. Up until then, Christians, Christian missionaries, had been preaching to Jews. Now that's, one of that is an ethnic. But here's another thing. They were preaching to religious people. They figured the people who would understand the gospel, the people who would love Christ, would be people who believe the Bible. Who were trying to follow God. Who were waiting for the Messiah. And you see, what they were doing was they were going along and they were preaching to the religious. And they expected, surely they're religious. Not the pagans. Not those people that have orgies. Not those people that worship idols. Not those people that are so far from God. Not those people who live in the cities. You know, the great cities of the Roman Empire where hardly anybody believes in the God or the Bible. Hardly anybody's moral. Not there. Well, let's go to the religious people. Now, here's what they were shocked at. When somebody finally, and by the way, cities always create unconventional and creative ministry. Always do. It happened again. This would never have happened if they hadn't gone to Antioch. When they started preaching to irreligious people. When they started preaching to pagans. So there's shock. These people were. As it were. Humanly speaking. More open to the gospel. Than the religious ones. They'd never seen this kind of people movement. Here's the reason why. Jew and Greek. Is an ethnic thing. And we're going to get to that in a second. But Jew and Greek. Also represents. Religious and irreligious people. In Romans 1. And 2. Paul says that. Look at the Greek. He says. Look at the Gentile. Look at how they live. Look at their debauchery. They're lost. But then he turns to the Jew and says, look at their morality. They're lost too. Now that's a very difficult thing to say. But actually, see the great thing about this sermon is this is almost a recap of every other sermon I've been doing for the last four months. If anybody knows, if you were here and you remember it, the story of the prodigal son, you'll remember that the parable of the prodigal son in Luke 15 tells us that a father had two sons. and one of the sons, the younger son, wanted control of the father's money, didn't want the father. And the way he expressed that desire to control his own life and to be his own master and his own savior was he took the money and ran and he openly rebelled against the father and therefore he left. And where did he go? He went someplace where he could have riotous living. Now that doesn't happen, you know, out on dairy farms. So we assume, even though eventually he ended up in a pigsty, He went out. And eventually he comes back in. Broken. Repentant. And the father receives him. But the way the parable ends. Is that the elder brother. The good brother. The moral brother. The brother who never leaves. The brother who stays right there. We come to realize. That he's just as alienated. If not more alienated. From the father. Because he's been trying. To get control. Of the father's money. He's been trying. To get control. Of his own life. He's trying. To be his own master. And his own savior. He's as alienated. From the father. But he has done it. and by following all the father's rules. But in the end, the younger brother is more open to the message of grace than the elder brother. Why? Well, there's a couple of reasons. But I want you to know as we go look at it, younger brothers go to cities. Elder brothers stay home. They stay in the town. They stay in the rural area. Younger brothers are men and women who go to cities. First of all, they go. They are trying. They're trying to be their own master and their own salvation. unconventionally, and their idols are good and obvious. They're going to save themselves through sexual ecstasy. That's a little more obvious of an idol than a person who stays home and saves himself through moral achievement and absolute obedience to the parents and the family traditions. So off go the, they're the ones who go to the city. They go off to the city, the younger brothers, men and women. And here's what goes on. First of all, the reason that the younger brothers in Antioch were vastly more open to the gospel than we've been finding the elder brothers who we've been preaching to. Was number one. Because younger brothers. People in cities. The historians know this. Are unconventional. They're. They're open. To new ideas. They're open. To paradigm. Busting. Ideas. All. The. Historians. Say. That. If. Christian. Missionaries. Had. Gone. To. The. Town. People. Would. Never. Listen. To. Them. They're. Too. Conservative. They. Had. To. Go. To. New. Ideas. and younger brothers. The gospel critiques both religion and irreligion. It critiques the younger brother and the older brother. The gospel is so new. It's so paradigm busting. Only people in the cities would believe it. But most of all, when a younger brother's life falls apart. When a

but when the moralist life fall apart you have no idea you're away from God so you just get madder at God than ever

and when somebody tries to talk to you about the gospel you say what are you talking to me about for grace for sin don't tell me that I need God I've got God and he's not giving me the things that I want it's much more subtle it's much more awful in the city have younger brothers in the city have people who are more willing and able people, to hear the gospel out and say, I'm a sinner saved by grace. And you see those changed lives. Now it's a plain fact that when I came to New York City, everybody said to me, well, you know what? People in the cities will be more close to the gospel. They're harder. They're more cynical. You see, they're more immoral. They're more. And this just isn't the case. And anybody who's been here, if you have been a Christian here in New York City and anywhere else, you know this is the case. If you don't know that this is the case, if you don't know, if you don't see God changing lives through the gospel here in a way you didn't somewhere else, then you're not even looking or else you're not trying. This is not just for the Roman world. This is for now. But see, the more the world gets now like the Roman world, the more the cities get like those cities, the more we're going to see this. So the cities, first of all, reveal the power of the gospel to change individual lives. Secondly, and in a way that we didn't see before we got to the city. Secondly, the city reveals the power of the gospel to transform relationships. Now, this is great. Did a little research on this. When Antioch was built, it was built by a guy named Seleucus, I think. He was one, I don't know that's how you pronounce his name. He was one of Alexander the Great's generals. And he named it after his father Antiochus. So, and he named it Antioch. And he built a huge wall around it to protect the people of the city from outsiders. And he knew that this was going to be, like many of the cities that were now arising, a multi-ethnic city. He knew because of where Syria is. You know where Syria is? And this is absolutely true. There were Romans and Greeks there, of course. There were lots of Jews because it was close to Israel. But because it was close to Africa, there were a lot of Africans. Because it was close to Asia, we know that there were Persians, Indians, and Chinese there. And of course, that was very remote. I mean, there's very few cities that had people from that far away. We know that there was at least 18 ethnic quarters. And the reason I say quarters is this. When Seleucus was building a city, when the Greco-Roman people were building their cities, one thing they knew is they were going to be multi-ethnic cities. Another thing they knew was every race and every culture, thinks it's superior to the other ones. Every one. And therefore, they didn't just build walls around the city to protect the city dwellers from the outsiders. They built walls within the city. High walls between every ethnic neighborhood to protect the different racial groups from each other. And this is, the reason is because it was at the drop of a hat in those cities. If there was an incident in a marketplace, somebody insulted somebody else, somebody stepped on somebody's robe or something like that. Next thing you know, one ethnic group was out to absolutely by another ethnic group, and the reason they had to have walls between the racial groups in Antioch was to protect the groups from each other. They needed fortresses inside fortresses. And the gospel comes to Antioch, and something happened that is so astounding that it says, for the first time, the disciples of Christ had to be called Christians. And here's why. The reason Barnabas was sent, the reason the people in Jerusalem came running to see, reason the world for the first time called them Christians was because for the first time in history, and I think I can say that, it certainly amazed everybody, people were crossing the walls to worship together. It's not just the Greeks, even though it only mentions Greeks. We know from Acts chapter 13 verse 1 that the five, you can look it up, the five leaders in Acts chapter 13 verse 1, if you look at their names carefully, they represented three continents and four different racial groups. They were the elders or the teachers or the pastors or something like that. And what was going on was so radical. And here's why it was so radical. Everybody in the world believes, and unfortunately many of us do in the Christian church, that basically religion is just a function or result of your culture. It's just an outgrowth of your culture. That's all it is. That's why people say, I'm Presbyterian because I'm Scottish. I'm Muslim because I'm Bosnian. I'm Roman Catholic because I'm Italian. And that's how the world sees it. And therefore, when the world would see, at first, when the world saw the earliest Christians, they were all Jewish, and they were worshiping a Jewish Messiah. Okay. And the Ephesians were worshiping the Ephesian God. And the Greeks were worshiping the Greek gods. The Romans were worshiping the Roman gods. And the Jews were worshiping the Jewish god. Fine. And suddenly, for the first time, they began to realize that there was an experience of God that was so profound. It was bringing people together across cultures. They were becoming friends. They were worshiping together. They were becoming a body and the world was forced for the first time to come up with a different name. They had to come up with a name. Why? Because they couldn't just call it Jew religion or Greek religion or Hindu or Indian religion or Chinese religion. They couldn't do it. Why not? Because here was an experience deeper than culture. Here was a spiritual union deeper than culture. And they suddenly were forced to admit, maybe there is a reality and a truth that's not just culturally constructed. See? Christians are way ahead their time. And Barnabas comes up. It's astounding the reason that everybody was so astounded and probably the reason why the church was growing was not just that this multi-ethnic, multi-racial, bringing down the barriers new fellowship was the result of the preaching of the gospel. It probably was the reason the gospel was believed. See it was not only the result of the gospel. It was also part of the communication of the gospel. People said there must be something to this. it wasn't just the result of conversions it was the cause of conversions then too because obviously nobody had an idea until the gospel came to a city that it could transform relationships like this that it could finally, finally break down barriers that no other power in heaven or earth could do get people like this to live together now let me give a couple personal quick applications and we have to move on

If you're a Christian and you have lived in New York City for a while, this is what you're going to say eventually. Some of your best friends. Some of the people who have changed your life. Some of the people without whom you wouldn't know who you are. You're going to have to look at them and if you reflect, this is what you're going to have to say. You're going to have to say, the only reason you're my friend is A. because we're both Christians and B. we're in the city. And if we weren't Christians and in a city, we would never know each other. If I was still back where I was from, the zoning board would have kept you out. of my life. Or the racist, informal, real estate system would have kept you out. Or if you're part of a majority culture, your snobbishness would have kept you away. Or if you're part of a minority culture, your bitterness would have kept you away. Without both Christianity and the city, some of the most important people in your life through whom God is doing incredible things you would never know. Without the city, you would have no idea Judea, the power of the gospel to transform relationships. And lastly, quickly, isn't it amazing that as soon as these former pagan Gentile Christians hear that there's a physical need, hunger coming down in Judea, it says they send money to the needy brethren, the brethren in Judea, the brethren. These are Jewish Christians. See, this is just the tip of the iceberg. And what the historians will tell you is that those cities were so filled with sickness because do you know the density? Get this. The density of Manhattan is 100 people per acre. And 98% of all of our buildings are more than seven stories high. So we're in these high rises. The density of Rome was 300 people per acre. No high rises. The density of Antioch was something like 200. No high rises. No toilets. there was tremendous amount of sickness. And when the pagans were upset because they realized people were dying, they just threw them in the street. The Christians brought them in. You know why? First of all, Christians cared for not just their own poor, but for other people's poor. Christians didn't care just for their own sick, others sick. Why? First of all, the gospel gave something to them that no other religion could give, assurance that when they died, they'd have Christ. religious person, you can't live with assurance. Because you never know you're living up. And if you're a secular person, you can't live with assurance. You never know you're living up. Therefore, there's a limit to what your sacrifices can be. But Christians say, well, the Christians at the time said, what? Who cares? And besides that, Christians alone, of any of the other religions, had a god different than the other gods. See, all the other gods of all the other religions, basically, they come to the lip of heaven and they throw down the law. is it's sort of like a ladder. They throw the ladder down and they say, come on, you can do it. And you know, you're trying real hard and you can do it. That's it. We're the only religion that even claims that our God dove down in... Remember the guy that dove into the icy waters of the Potomac during that plane crash many years ago and he kept bringing up people up, saving them, bringing up, saving them, went down last time and died. We're the only one that even has, even claims that we have a God like that. A God who did what? A God who actually came down into our lives and was contaminated and died of the same disease we had, which is sin. That's the reason why this one historian is able to say what I put in the quote. And for some of you, it's in the very beginning of the book, and some of you, it's in the middle of the bulletin. But it goes Christianity, as a revitalization movement in the urban Greco-Roman world, Christianity revitalized life in cities. This is why it did what it did. It provided new norms and new kinds of social relationships able to cope with the urgent urban problems. To cities filled with homeless and impoverished, Christians offered charity as well as hope. To cities filled with orphans and widows, Christians offered a new and expanded sense of family. To cities torn by violent ethnic strife, Christianity offered a new basis for social solidarity. solidarity. The cities faced with epidemics, fires, earthquakes, Christianity offered effective medical services. And so what does he say? Look at the bottom. No wonder the early Christian missionaries were so warmly received for what they brought was not simply an urban movement, but a new culture, a new culture capable of making life in Greco-Roman cities more tolerable. Do you not see, unless you go into the cities, you don't know that the gospel is capable of transforming lives, transforming relationships, and transforming a whole society. Now, Let's end like this. Somebody said, I was keeping count. You said the principle, number one, point one, was the more urban the setting, the more Christianity flourishes. Number two, you said, the reason why, because the gospel, its powers are incipient unless you get into the city. As Kathy put it this way this morning, it's like Gideon. God comes in and says, I'm going to deliver you from the Midianites by my hand. Therefore, I don't want 2,000, 3,000. I only want a few of you to go in there. Then you'll know it's by my hand. Notice, if you look carefully, it says, the hand of the Lord was with them. You know, the hand of the Lord is with you. When you became a Christian, whoever you are, the hand of the Lord, it was a miracle. But when you say, oh, the city, it's too bad. It's too difficult. That shows that until you go to the city, know the hand of the Lord. You see, it's like only when you get to the city does God get the glory. He's got it all along, but you just didn't know it. Only when you get to the city and you begin to see people that you think were miracles, how could that person become a Christian? You realize that you were a miracle too. It's only in cities that we really see the power of the gospel revealed. But lastly, how can we respond? We should be like Barnabas. I'll just mention two things, and I mean 30 seconds each. I wish I could go into it. Barnabas does it right. First of all, Barnabas was not scattered. For whatever reason, he was able to stay in Jerusalem. He was not scattered. These people, these Christian missionaries had gone to Antioch because they were in, in a sense, they were in exile. They were pushed. They had to live in the city. But Barnabas came in and he stayed scattered. He stayed there. He permanently stayed in that city. He lived there. We know that he stayed put. Why? because he began to realize something perhaps that if you read the Bible, you'll see. Nobody does much for God if they live where they want to live. Nobody does much for God if they live where they're comfortable. God comes to Abraham and says, I want to save the world for you, Abraham. Abraham says, how can I start? He says, get out. Get out to a land I will show you where you will never, never really feel at home. Where you'll never really be able to put down stakes in some ways. And Jesus of Christ, of course, was the one who ultimately, he's the ultimate minority. flesh. He let himself be scattered. And unless we have a significant number of Christians who are willing to live in cities, not necessarily the most comfortable places, but the most useful places possible, to stay scattered, to realize that this is the way God always works, to see that this is the best possible place to live as a Christian if you can. Listen, I'm I'm continually saying it's very possible that it would be bad stewardship for you if a job that fits your gifts, that makes you much more useful to the human community. I'm not just saying pays you more. Much more useful to the human community. Takes you somewhere besides the city. You go. If there's a reason why your family can't fit in the city, then you go. I mean, I'm not saying there's a... But what we're trying to say here is if you can't live in the city, you should. That's all. Secondly, Barnabas served. and secondly, he served. One of the most amazing things to me about Barnabas is his attitude toward the city. He came in from the outside, and everybody came to him. Do you see how everybody became a Christian? Look. See what it says? What a chance he has to build an empire. What a chance to feather his nest. It says there were new young baby Christians. They came up, and he was the best preacher they ever heard. And many became Christians. He was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit. And they came up, and they said, you're the best. You're the best. And what did he say? They say, aha, I can build a big church. I'll get a big salary. People will want me to, you know, I'll be in charge. He says, I know a better preacher. I'll go get him. One of the things that amazes, he goes to get Paul. Oh, my word. Barnabas's whole attitude was service. He went to the city to serve. He went to the city to partner. He went to the city to be on teams. to give away what he could do to somebody else. He went to the city and gave a man a job that he knew would do a much better job and get a lot more glory than he. White Christians can't come in saying, I will bestow myself on a great city because of all you poor ethnic people need my help. You can't do that. Christians can't come and build these great big churches without saying, we're here not to build a big church. We're here to build a great city. We're here to create better schools. For a quick example, people say, well, you know what? I'd like to be a Christian City, but one of the problems is a lousy place to raise children. Oh, okay, now listen. In all the details, yes. Grocery shopping. Try to go out and buy enough groceries in New York City for five people. That's awful. Schools, somebody says. Well, that's a problem. You know, out in the suburbs, I can just send my kid to school, but now look, look what happens right away. Yeah, you're right. In the details, what a headache. Schools, they're always having to think about schools, but listen, Listen. Every alternative gets you involved with your children or with your community in a way that out there you would never have done. You can send your kid to a public school and you're going to have to be part of the Parents Association and it really helps that school get up. Or you could start a school which helps the whole community as long as you have to make sure that the people who don't have the economic means can come to it. Or you could homeschool. But you see, no matter what you do, suddenly the city is making you use the gospel. Suddenly the city is turning you into a better father, a better mother, a better citizen for. In details, yes, it's a bad place to, only in details. In substance, you see. In giving your kids confidence to face anything. In showing your children, in getting your kids cross-cultural skills. In showing your kids what real Christianity is as opposed to moralism and religion. Hey, come on. Isn't this great? If you're here and you're not sure you're a believer, you're not sure what you believe about Christianity, even a message on the city has been a help. Because it shows you that the gospel is not just religion but a whole new way of approaching God and you have to be a very unconventional person to even grab a hold of it. And you also see that the gospel is not just something that gives you a little personal peace and happiness but it's something that changes you so utterly it creates a new humanity, a new Christian counterculture that engages with the world around it and through sacrificial service heals it. And if you're a Christian, that's the reason why we're doing what we're going to do at Redeemer. we want to have the spirit of Barnabas we want to keep people here but what we want to do is we want to create a counterculture not just churches not just churches with great programs are you ready for this? whenever Jesus Christ got near a city he went crazy, he started crying and weeping and loving, Jerusalem, Jerusalem if only you knew the things when God gets near a city, he says to Jonah there's 120,000 people in don't know the right hand from their left should I not be filled with compassion for that great city whether you live here or not get the same heart whether you are called to the city or not get the same heart let's pray we thank you father for granting us this insight be with us now as we seek by your spirit to apply what we've heard We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.