You know, it's just awful, the stereotype of people from New York. Everybody says New Yorkers aren't friendly. And I say to them, you know, I get up there Sunday night and there's all these people waving at me. New Yorkers are tremendously friendly. Then I realize it's just a hot evening and... Oh my... One other thing, one other announcement. Next. You don't have to do it just for me, okay? It doesn't actually help the temperature up here at all, just so you know. Next week, do not forget. Next week, when you come here, we hope that you will realize you're going to get something different. Next week, there will be a concert. There will be a talk. There will be a question and answer time. and it will be geared for people who aren't sure what they believe or whether they believe or who know they don't believe in the basic tenets of the Christian faith. And we call it to you a friendship program. It's a night to bring your friends out. If you want to get little red, white, and blue cards that are kind of invitation cards that have the facts about it, the time and all that to use to give people a reminder, you can get them at the information table. Turn with me to the place where we're going tonight for our teaching. We're moving through the first epistle of Peter bit by bit. And the bit I give you tonight is written here in your bulletin. And I'm just going to read from verses 7 to 11 of chapter 4. It's all the time we have really to look at tonight. In fact, as you'll see, we won't even do most of that. But we're moving into a new section. and I'm going to read verses 7 to 11 of 1 Peter 4. The end of all things is near. Therefore, be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Above all, love each other deeply because love covers a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others. Faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. I would just like to attack the first verse and look at what it teaches in both its form and its content, because it's very striking and very telling and very practical and really very wonderful. Look, the end is near. Therefore, be clear-minded, sober, love one another, serve. The end is near. Therefore, live in this way. Let's look at the form of it. I can't resist at least mentioning it again. Those of you who were here last week, I spent quite a bit of time on this. the word therefore. Don't you see, every time the Bible tells you to serve others or to love others, every time it gives you practical directions for how to live, it always draws it out of a conviction about ultimate reality. The end is near, and we'll get to that in a minute, therefore live in this way. And let me just remind you how utterly different and how utterly at variance that is with the modern understanding of morality. The modern man or woman says we can know nothing about whether there's a God, what is the meaning of life, whether human nature is sinful or not, the nature of moral absolutes, life after death. We can't know these things. And then says, but racism is wrong, violence is wrong, but sexually you can do whatever you feel is right for you. Now, in other words, morality is not based on a therefore. Morality is not based on any convictions about the nature of things. And therefore, all modern moral prescriptions are baseless. You see, for example, if you say racism is wrong and violence is wrong, but sexually you can do pretty much what you want, why are we allowed to follow our sexual instincts but not follow our aggressive instincts? instincts and if you don't know anything about human nature and if you have really no moral basis or you know any philosophical basis for differentiating a tree or an animal or a stone from a human being because you don't know anything about the ultimate nature of reality how do you have the right to pick and choose which instincts we can follow and which instincts we can't you know woody allen at the end of crimes and misdemeanors you know when there's you know the guys dancing with his daughter at the wedding you hear Woody Allen's voice and basically it says I don't remember the exact words but the paraphrase is this because we don't really know answers to the big questions we don't know if there's a God we don't know what the meaning in life is we don't know about moral absolutes we don't know the meaning of the big questions we don't have the answers therefore all you can do is love your family and just try to do good to others wait a minute if we don't know any of the big questions is the meaning of life, life after death, what is right and wrong, how does it follow we should be good? Why not rob, murder, and pillage? One is as logical as the other. But you never find that in Christianity. Ever. You see? There's always a therefore. You see the, did anybody see The Simpsons this week? The Simpsons was about a town that decided that they were going to have a new basis for how they ran the town. You're always going to do what you feel. In fact, they decided to have an annual festival and they called it the Do What You Feel Festival. The Do What You Feel Festival. pretty well until the stands collapsed and a whole bunch of people got injured. And somebody said to the guy who had set up the stands, well, you didn't fasten the bolts. You didn't fasten the thing. And he said, it would have taken me two hours to fasten all the bolts. I didn't feel like it. And then somebody said, that's irresponsible. And then someone ran up and says, oh no, wait a minute. it, don't forget the rules. We mustn't should one another. We mustn't throw shoulds at each other. We have to do what we feel. And the guy turns around and says, wait a minute. If that's so, how can you should me about using shoulds? Isn't that a should? And then somebody says, I feel like choking you. Another guy comes up and says, uh-uh, mustn't have violence. There's a should. And next thing you know, the whole town descends into, of course, you know, a frenzy of hurting each other and choking each other. They're doing what they feel. Somebody, some writer, some very bright writer, knows that if anybody thinks very long about the modern basis of morality, it degenerates into a vapor. There is no basis for it. It is complete arbitrariness. There is just the slightest little film, the slightest membrane, you see, between moral decency and anarchy. And it's just the membrane of people not really thinking out the implications of, in a sense, living off the capital of a society that once believed there was absolutes. But that capital is going down. We're eating into our principle every year. Therefore, love one another, serve one another, always on the basis of ultimate reality. Christianity, at least, you may not agree with its convictions, but at least there's a coherence to it. At least Christians have a right to say you should. Okay, now that's the form. But look at the content. The content of it is, the end is near, therefore. The end is near. This is hilarious, I think, and it raises all sorts of issues. Let me show you what the issues are. First of all, it raises the sanity issue. The end is near. Now, you know, in cartoons, in advertising, who walks around saying the end is near? maybe carrying a sign, the end is near. Usually some guy, you know, a crazy person with his hair, you know, sticking out in all these directions, wearing sandals, the end is near. A fanatic, a crazy man. Now, actually, you know, even in New York, I've never seen anybody do that. Only in the cartoons, only in the commercials, the end is near. Crazy people, right? Here's the irony. This tells us, the Bible tells us, the end is near. Therefore, be clear-minded. Do you know means? It means become sane. In Mark chapter 5 and in Luke chapter 8, it tells us the story of the demoniac, a demented man. And he was demented, we're told, night and day among the tombs and in the hills. He would cry out and cut himself with stones. But when Jesus healed him, Jesus' power

Same word. Because the word that Peter uses here is sane. Another way to put it, the fog had lifted. He could be in touch with reality. Because you see, to be clear-minded, to be sane, is to live realistically. Realistically, it's to be in touch with reality. That's what sanity is. To be crazy is to be driving with your eyes closed, to not care what reality is. Now, can you see how utterly opposed the spirit of Christ, the spirit of the Bible, and the spirit of the world is? It couldn't be more opposite to one another. The world says, if you live as if the end is near, you're crazy. And this text literally says, you want to know what the paraphrase of this text is? It could be translated,

Now, how could this be? It's really quite simple. Let's move on to it. But what it's really saying is, If there's a God, if there's moral absolutes, if it's really true, therefore, there will be a reckoning. and if there's going to be a reckoning to live as if there won't be a reckoning is crazy if you know it's one thing to embezzle it's one thing you know here you are at the office and here you are working for this company it's one thing to embezzle it's another thing to embezzle the day before the books are getting audited or the week before the books are getting audited it's another thing to be crazy

if you don't live as if the end is near if you don't live as if the books are about to be audited you're out of touch. You know, Peter's verse here reminds us of a quote from C.S. Lewis. He says, quote, If the truth is objective, if we live in a world we did not create and cannot change merely by thinking, if the world is not really a dream of our own, then the most destructive belief we could possibly believe would be the denial of this primary fact. In other words, if there are moral absolutes and we don't care to discover them, it would be like closing your eyes while you're driving. All right, now, let's move on a little further. So first of all, we see, unless you live as if the end is near, you're crazy. Some people say, well, you know, okay, call me crazy, but that's so silly, that's so primitive. Do you believe anything Jesus Christ said makes sense? Do you know that probably 20% of all the things that he said had to do with this,

to judge the Quick and the Dead, the Living and the Dead. And you know, if Jesus is a lunatic, let go of everything, but if he's the prophet telling the truth, how can you pick and choose? Plenty of people would like to pick and choose. But let me tell you, whenever somebody says, Ah, look, the Bible, the teachings of Jesus, many of the things Jesus says are wonderful. Many of the things the Bible says are wonderful. Many of them are timeless. They transcend time. But you know, there are things that Jesus says, that the Bible says that clearly we can't agree with anymore. This might be one of them. Yes, back then, people had apocalyptic delusions. They felt the end was always coming. We know better now. Or Paul believes this, or Jesus says this. You know, we know better now. Some of the teachings of the Bible are timeless, and they transcend time. They're for all time. But some of them we have to reject now. We can't believe as modern people. You know the only problem with that? Oh, please look at your assumptions. Please look at them. Whenever you doubt, you always doubt by believing in something else. When a person says, some of what Jesus says, some of what the Bible says is timeless, but some of it we have to reject, you're assuming that your time and the values of your time, by which you are picking and choosing here, is not time-bound. Or put it this way, I think I got this quote from somebody, I don't even know where it is. where it came from. Oh, it says, many people look at Jesus Christ's teaching and the Bible and very self-deceptive they are in picking and choosing. For when they say, well, there are many things in Jesus' teaching and the Bible teaching that is timeless, but other things we have to reject. What's funny is when we think we can take the Bible and determine what is timeless and what is erroneous, we're assuming that the thought of our age by which we are doing the picking and choosing is correct and timeless. For when we talk about the parts of the Bible that is timeless and that transcends time, what we really mean, those are the parts that agree with us. You can't do that because either God has spoken in his word or else we're just at sea. But if he's spoken, you can't pick and choose on the basis of our time because our time will eventually look as silly as all the other times. G.K. Chesterton says, the one thing that's hardest to remember about our time is that it's a time. And when you think you can pick through the eternal truths of the Word of God on the basis of what we now know we can't believe anymore, what you're really doing is you are assuming that your time is timeless and your views are timeless. They are not. All that is not eternal is eternally out of date. What Jesus said is I'm coming back. If anything Jesus says is true, true as well. And you'd be foolish to live as if he wasn't coming back to audit the books. He is the great accountant, as well as the great son of man, the great Lord. He's also the auditor. Now, if this is true, you see, it says, if you understand that, the end is near, then how should we live? A little tangent here, by the way, a little tangent. Somebody says, well, but Peter was wrong. Peter said the end is near. When did he write that? 1900 years ago. The end wasn't near. But that's not really true. Because if you read how Jesus describes his coming, everywhere in the Gospels he says, when Jesus was on earth, he says, I don't even know when I'm coming back. Therefore, live as if I could always come back. This morning, we were running a little late, and I was in the car, and one of my sons was in the car too, and we were waiting for the rest of the family to come down, and we were late. And so one of my sons says, you know what, it's so pretty, the park here, run around, you know, just sort of look at the trees and the grass. I said, yeah, but mommy could be here any minute. Any minute. After 10 minutes, he pointed out that we could have easily been around the park three times by now. In other words, I was wrong 10 minutes ago when I said, mommy could be here any minute. And the answer is, no, I wasn't. In hindsight, mommy didn't come in the first minute, the second minute, at the third minute, but because mommy could always show at any time to know that if I'm on my way around the park, when she does show, I'm in tremendous trouble, means that at every minute it was true that the end was near to the waiting. And Peter, when he says the end is near, he was right. And when I say to you, the end is near, I'm right too. Because Jesus says, you must live as if I could come back anytime. Now, if that's true, how should we then live? The answers are all really ready through all the rest of the chapters, but I'll just enumerate them kind of briefly to show you. What's so wonderful about this, first of all, if Jesus is coming back anytime and he could audit the books anytime, how should we live? It's wonderful. First of all, You'll live with integrity. Because you now know that the ends can never be justified. The ends can never justify the means. See, a lot of our disobedience comes because we think we know better than God what will get the right accomplishment. For example, you may say, well, yeah, it's a lie. It'll be a lie. But if I tell the truth, this and that will go wrong. I've got to tell a lie if I'm going to get this particular goal, effect, you see. And it's good. See, the means is justified by the ends. You're assuming that today in Act 3, you're going to lie. But tomorrow in Act 4, good things will come. In other words, the means will justify the ends. How do you know, the Bible says, that tonight's not the last act? How do you know that wonderful effect will ever happen? How do you know that Jesus will not show up in the middle of your lie. And the Bible says, therefore, you see, if you believe in the imminent coming of Christ, if you believe the end is always near, you will live a life of tremendous integrity. You'll never make that kind of, they'll never do that kind of casuistry, you see. One of the great illustrations that Lewis, C.S. Lewis uses in his great essay on the second coming of Christ called The World's Last Night, based on John Donne's little line in his sonnet, what if the present was the world's last night and he says even though he didn't have a whole lot of you know experience of this he wrote this when he was still a bachelor he says you know women have these things called makeup mirrors and these makeup mirrors you know if the woman's going to go out into the daylight into the sunlight and she wants to make herself up in such a way that she'll look okay in the sunlight how can she do it in the sort of dim electrical lights of her bedroom? Well, she gets the makeup mirror. And the makeup mirror enables her to make herself up so that she will look wonderful should the irresistible and greater light of the sun strike her face. And Lewis says, that's what it means to live a Christian life. You go out into of the world every day, dressed and made up, not for the light of your bedroom. You go out there dressed and ready for that irresistible light to break in at any moment, and you will live lives of integrity. Nobody else has that ability to live lives of integrity like that. But then on the other hand, and lastly, if you believe that the judge could come any time, you'll live lives of integrity, but secondly, you will live lives of love. You see, it's said here, the end of all things is near. Therefore, be clear-minded and sober, self-controlled so that you can pray, and above all, love. I've spent two days, and I'm going to spend two minutes telling you what I got, but I spent two days meditating on this question. Why would the knowledge of imminent judgment day lead you to love,

why would the idea that the judge could show up any time, why would that turn you into a loving person? Wouldn't it make you kind of scared? Wouldn't it make you kind of anxious? Wouldn't you always be scurrying around saying, I better have all my, you know, my I's dotted and my T's crossed? And here's the reason why. The only possible reason why Peter could say, think about it. The end is near. The judge could show up any time. Therefore, the more you think about it, the more loving you'll be. afraid of judgment day. They're not afraid of punishment. Christians are afraid of meeting someone who has said, I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever forsake you. I died so that there would be no condemnation to you. I will never reject you. Him who cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Christians are afraid of meeting the one who says, I will not reject you, and living an ungrateful life. There's nothing, you see, I remember Charles Spurge in one of his sermons says, oh my word, he said, justice, justice, if you cross the will of justice, the face of justice is a terrible thing to see. But if you cross the will of mercy, see, it's even more terrible. And what he simply meant is, the motive of Christians is, when I meet my master, I'm not going to be afraid that he's going to cast me out. What I'm going to be afraid of is, I will know immediately that I have not been living as if I was completely loved. When you disobey, do you know what you're really doing? Every time you disobey God, you're assuming two things. When you say, I shouldn't obey this, you're assuming that this word of the word of God is not good for me. And under that, you're assuming that I love and care more for my benefits than God does. In other words, every time you sin, you're impugning the goodness of God. The lie beneath every sin is, if you obey God, you'll miss out. If you obey God, he will crush you. If you obey God, he doesn't love you like you love yourself. He's not as and your well-being as you are. And therefore, sometimes you have to disobey. That's the lie underneath every lie. You are impugning the goodness of God. And a Christian knows by thinking about the fact that God's face could show up any time. A Christian lives as if he's going to have to face his or her lover any moment. The one who's done everything. And so that melts you. The thought of meeting God, the thought of living before his face, means there is a personal nature to everything you do. You look at every sin as a personal betrayal, not just a moral violation. And you find you're able to obey, yes, by the thought of meeting the judge, but more than anything else, your heart's melted by the idea of meeting your lover. Is that true of you? Got to stop right now, but you know, in East of Eden, that great Jimmy Dean movie, James Dean movie. There's a place where he tries to hug his father, Raymond Massey, and Raymond Massey won't hug him back. It's one of the most unbelievable scenes I've ever seen. He tries to hug Raymond Massey, and the father is like this. You know why? He's the kind of father, nothing you do, you see, is ever right. And yet go to Luke 15, and a Christian knows that when we see, when we meet the Father face to face, he's going to say,

put on a ring, put on a robe, kill the fatted calf. It's so good to see you. And we just know how absolutely and utterly terrible we're going to feel if we live lives that aren't characterized by a knowledge of the goodness and the love of God. Our obedience springs from that. Go before him and learn what that means. There is forgiveness of sins, therefore I am feared. It's your kindness that leads us to repentance. Oh Lord, the end is near. Let's pray. Give us, oh Father, grace to understand how sane and how loving we can be if we live as if your face and the radiant light of your face can burst in upon us at any time. We know that light will be life itself. We know that light will be endless love and joy and therefore we seek to obey you with every fiber of our being. Help us to live like that, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
