We've also had a chance to get to know one another, and in the next few weeks, a lot of you may find yourself getting phone calls saying, could you do this or could you do that? Because on the final Sunday of this month, we want to begin morning services as well at 11 o'clock Sunday morning, just like the Bible says it should be. It got a laugh. We've actually been studying this for I've forgotten how many weeks, because it tells us so much about the church.

Ephesians chapter 2, verses 14 through 22.

For he himself is our peace, who has made the two one, and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations. His purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace. And in this one body, to reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their hostility. He came and preached peace to you who were near, and peace to those who were far away. For through him, we both have access to the Father by one spirit. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people. You are members of God's temple and members of God's household, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone. In him, the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him, you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. The word of the Lord.

What we want to focus in on tonight is the fact that this is a time of peace. This passage tells us the church is a building. You see, in verse 19, it says we're God's household. In verse 21 and 22, it talks about us as stones that are being built in to a temple, to a house. In other words, Christians are not just a loose aggregate of individuals, but rather we are parts of a larger whole. And the Bible talks about this a number of places. In 1 Corinthians. 1 Peter chapter 2. Peter writes this. Come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God, precious to him. And you also, like living stones, are being built up into a spiritual house. For the Bible says, I lay a stone in Zion, a chosen and precious cornerstone. The one who trusts in him will never be put to shame. The teaching is that we were not designed to live for ourselves or to stand by ourselves. Any more than a hewn stone is supposed to stand by itself on the grass. If you just see a boulder or a rock on the grass, it looks great. But if you ever come to see a brick or a stone that obviously was supposed to be part of a building that's just sitting, or a couple stones just sitting spread out on the grass, it looks so forlorn, doesn't it? And the Bible says that we were designed to fit. To be part of God and of his kingdom and of one another. Now, this flies completely in the face of the spirit of the age. Completely. Recently, 81% of all Americans affirmed this statement. I love saying things like this. It sounds so authoritative. 81% of Americans affirm, quote, quote,

What do you think? Does that sound democratic? Does it sound healthy to you? Think what you're saying. This kind of religion, a religion that you choose independent, of what any church or synagogue or any religious tradition says, this kind of religion eliminates the ability, the possibility of obedience or self-denial or courage. Because you see, obedience, self-denial, and courage is this. It's an individual taking his or her needs or desires and submitting them to a larger call to a whole. Saying, I am just a part and I am submitting to the will of God. That's the whole. That's the only way that you can obey. That's what self-denial is. That's what courage is. It was interesting. In, there's a place, well, excuse me, nations for years, up to 50 or 60 years ago, everybody understood this. Everybody. All nations understood this. They understood what obedience and self-denial and courage were. It was interesting. Here's this line in the play Les Miserables. And in the play, there's a bunch of college students that are ready to lead a revolt, to overthrow the government, to liberate the poor. Not a bad thing to do. One of the college students you know, Marius, his name is, is in love. And the leader of the college students turns to Marius and he says, Marius, you're no longer a child. I do not doubt you mean it well, but now there is a higher call. Who cares about your lonely soul? We strive to reach a higher goal. Our little lives don't count at all. Now everybody claps, you know. New York audiences clap. They have no idea what he's talking about. Because you see, 81% of Americans say

that you need to do what fulfills you in religion. You should not say, my little life doesn't count at all. I have to submit to a higher call, you see. I have to become part of the whole. Now you see, Americans' understanding of life and meaning and religion is really summed up in what Barbara Walder said. I heard her, but I can't remember where it was. It might have been on 2020, but she was talking to Sam Donaldson. Was he ever on 2020? I don't know where it was. But this is what she said, quote, why can't people see, this isn't profound, it's just typical, quote, why can't people see that a person has a right to live any way that makes him better, that makes him happy as long as he doesn't interfere with others doing the same thing? Now see, that's the essence of what we believe today. What she has said is very, very revealing. There's only one high call. What's the highest call? See, the only thing that's wrong to do is to keep somebody else from doing what will make him happy. That's the only absolute. It's the only thing that's inviolate. It's the only high call. And of course, that brings us to the place where we are, with that young man that all the photographers snapped when, back when Jimmy Carter was trying to reinstitute the draft, and there were protests, and one guy held up a banner that said, or a placard that said, nothing is worth dying for, which is true for 81% of all Americans, I believe, or more. Because you see, if you say, the highest call is, anything that fulfills me is right, unless, unless, it keeps somebody else from doing the same thing, finding what makes them happy. There's no possibility of self-denial because there's no basis for it. There's no possibility of courage, there's no basis for it. There's no basis for ever dying for anything. There's no basis for ever saying no to yourself, unless you hurt somebody else on that same quest for joy and fulfillment. The Bible says something differently. You see, it would be possible to argue against this, on completely pragmatic grounds. I wouldn't even have to go to the Bible, but I will. You can be pragmatic. You can say, do you realize that up until 50 or 60 years ago, everybody understood what that man was saying in Les Mis. Everybody understood the idea that at certain points there are high calls, high causes, there are things that are right, and it doesn't matter what you want, because they're more important. We have to submit. We have to become a part of a whole. We have to be a building block in a building. Everybody understood. We might have disagreed on what those higher calls were. Every culture had different ones. Every religion had different ones. We all believed there were such.

But now we've come to the place where everybody is saying, no. What's right is what fulfills me. You can't have a community. You can't have a government. You can't have a nation like that. If you look at most of the political problems we've got, it boils down to this. People are saying this. Yeah, this is necessary to do, but not in my neighborhood. Yeah, this is necessary to have done, but not out of my pocket. And what that means is I refuse to be a part of the whole. I see that I should sublimate myself for the good of the whole. There's a higher cause, a higher goal, not on your life. I will not be a building block in a house. I am the house. You see. Now when you have that attitude, you can't have a nation. And you can argue against that on the basis, that view on the basis of pragmatism. But I won't do that because the Bible says the reason it's stupid, the reason it's impractical is because it's wicked. It's not impractical just because it's impractical. It's impractical because it's wicked. God says, because of the way I designed you, you must lose yourself to find yourself. You must submit to me in order to be free.

You must fit in to my house and to my kingdom, or you will find that you will be tyrannized to fit into somebody else or something else. Now do you hear that? Bob Dylan put it this way, you gotta serve somebody. You remember that? Now what he meant by this is that everyone is mastered by something. And God, Jesus Christ says, you shall know the truth, you continue in the truth and the truth will set you free. And what he means at that point is it, my yoke is easy, my burden is light, he says. It's easier than any other yoke because if you don't fit in, if you don't sublimate yourself to me, to my rules, to my agenda, to my kingdom, you will be mastered by something else. You'll be mastered by your drives. Or you'll be mastered by the social circles. or the group of people that you've got to fit in with. Because we've all got to fit in with somebody, huh? You have to dress to fit in to the group of people that you need to be in to find that happiness, huh? You need to speak in a certain way to fit in, don't you? And there's some of you out there saying, oh no, I'm not that kind of person. I'm absolutely independent. I refuse to fit into anybody. So you fit into non-conformity. And I know your type and you know who you are too. You are just as enslaved because you have to be an outsider. You won't ever conform. You won't ever fit in even when you need to. Even when you should out of love. You see, you've got to serve somebody. Everybody has to fit into something. Nobody really is a freestanding stone. And God says, lose yourself to find yourself. That means lose yourself in my service. Lose yourself in obedience to me. Come in and be part of my larger whole.

Or else, somebody else will get you. And you'll fit into something else. But when Jesus says, my yoke is easy and my burden is light, he's saying, I'm the only master that won't crush you. I'm the only one that won't crush you. Every other master is a taskmaster. I'm the only master who adopts. You won't just be a slave. You'll be my son, my daughter.

Now, you see, the Bible says that if you are built into God's house, number one, you'll experience freedom. Really, for the first time in your life, you'll be able to be creative because you won't need to fit into anybody else or anything else. You see. And you'll also have a sense of purpose. You'll know what you're for. You'll know where you fit.

Are you experiencing that in your life? If you're not at all, or if you're not enough, then it's because in some way you're failing to let yourself be built into God's house. Now, how can you be built into God's house? There's five things that this text suggests that you've got to do. And every one of them is not just another sermon. It's a series. And I will get to them all, but not tonight. Now, let me explain what this means. This text here tells us that we are built into God's house. Built into a house. Where first of all, verse 19, laid on a foundation. There's a depth dimension to building a house. There's got to be a foundation. If you are to be a stone, a living stone in God's house, you have to be laid on that foundation. Secondly, there's a height dimension. It says the building rises to become a holy temple. That means that you don't just stack stones any old way. The stones have to follow the blueprint of the architect. There's a design. And it has to rise according to the blueprint. And then lastly, there's a breadth aspect. Because it says in verse 22, it says that we're built together to form a holy temple in the Lord. That means the blocks are built together. Now, let me draw some analogies here to help us see what it means to be a living stone in God's house. Because this gives us a tremendous inventory, a way for you to look at yourself tonight and to say, number one, on the basis of this inventory, I can see that I am not in God's house at all. I'm not a living stone. I'm not part of his kingdom. Or you might say, I'm not experiencing the freedom I should. It's because I am not doing as well in one of these areas as I should. Now, let's look at these areas first. The first area is foundation. It says, if you're to be a living stone, you've got to be built on the foundation. What is that foundation? Do you see? The foundation of the prophets and the apostles.

The prophets and the apostles were the people who brought revealed truth from God, and it's written down in the Word of God. And when we say that there's a foundation, we mean that stones have to be laid on the foundation. They can't be laid on the plain earth, can they? And they can't be laid part on the foundation and part on the earth. They've got to be laid on the foundation. This means that there's a foundation. This means a Christian has got to submit completely to the Word of God. I plan, I will, I promise, that actually I'll preach on this next week. But I'll just explain what it means real briefly here. If you look through the Word of God and you say, I like what it says about integrity and honesty, and I like what it says about love and relationships, but if you don't like or if you just ignore what it says about sexuality or what it says about materialism, and wealth, and the use of your money, then you are a person who's, you're building your rock, you know, you set your rock partly on the earth and partly on the foundation, and everybody knows what will happen to a house built like that.

When Jesus Christ says, my yoke is easy, my burden is light, what he's saying is, all other ground is sinking sand. All other ground is sinking sand. Build your life on what I say. Say in my word, on the foundation of the prophets and the apostles, there's no other foundation that'll hold you up.

And if you refuse to do that, you're just not building yourself into God's house. That's the first step, you might say, to being a stone. First step. The second, it says there, the building rises. Now that means several things, frankly. First of all, for a building to rise, that means stones. Stones are being cut out of the earth somewhere, at a quarry, right? They used to be part of the earth. They're cut out of the earth, and they're brought. It says in 1 Peter 2, come to him, the living stone, and become a living stone and be built up. You know what this means? You have to be added to the church. To be added to the church means you have to be converted. You have to be converted. It says in, Acts chapter 2, it says, daily God added to the church those that were being saved. And so when it talks about the fact that you need to come to him, to the living stone, and become a living stone in the house of God, it means in order to be fit for the kingdom of God, you've got to be converted. Are you saying, okay, let's move on. Everybody knows that. First of all, to be in the house of God, you've got to be built on the prophets and the apostles, the word of God. You also have to be converted. Now before somebody says, come on, move on, everybody knows that. Listen, most of the people sitting in churches today, in this city or anywhere in the country, most of the people sitting in churches today, if you went up to them and asked them, are you converted? They would be angry and or confused. Very angry and very confused. Why? Because they don't know.

That's why they're angry or confused, or both. Now usually, and I think this is fair, usually if you don't know you're converted or not, you're not.

Usually. However,

there is still some confusion because some people are awfully good at giving conversion stories that are incredibly dramatic. And sometimes some of us say, well, that never really happened to me. So let me just say, if you are, are going to be a stone in the house, a living stone in the house of the Lord, you've got to be converted. How do you know if you're converted? All conversions, whether they're dramatic or not, I think have two sides to them, two aspects. They've all got this in common. If you're converted, first of all, you have a deeper sense of your sin. Now,

the Bible says that the spirit comes into the world to convict people of sin. If there's never been, in a time, in your life, in which your weaknesses, your limitations, your faults, and your flaws, things that you've hidden from yourself for years, things that you blamed on other people, things that you ran from and rationalized away, finally, finally, you can't run from them anymore. That's what I mean by a sense of sin that comes with conversion. The spirit opens you to the place where you finally say, I'm helpless. I'm helpless. I see it finally. You know, some people say, that there's two selves in every person. There's a higher self, the noble self, and there's the lower animal self. And that's based more on Plato and the Greeks than on the Bible. Frankly, my dear friends, there's three of you. Very confusing. Each one of you has three selves. And only Christians can see the three. In fact, it takes conversion. It takes conviction of sin to see those three. The first self is the false self, the one that we try to make ourselves and other people believe in. A self that doesn't, denies the pride that's there, denies the hurt that's there, denies the pain that's there, denies the wickedness that's in there. There's a false self, you know, a false front. Then there's the true self. And the true self is so much more full of anger and so much more full of fear and so much more full of pride and self-centeredness than we ever dared believe. And only the spirit of God in conversion can give us the courage to admit that self is false. The true self is there. And the third self is the potential self, the incredible, beautiful person that you know in Christ you can become, that you are becoming. It's far greater than anything you ever dared hope you could be. You see, before conversion, you can only see the false self and none of the rest. But when you're converted, when you're convicted of sin, you see all three. Has that happened to you?

And then the second aspect of real conversion besides a sense of sin, there's a sense of the preciousness of Christ. Now, I use that word carefully because in 1 Peter 2, I just read you, it says, come to him to the living stone. It says, no one who ever believes in him will be put to shame. And then it says, for to you who believe he is precious. You may believe in Jesus in the sense that you believe he exists, you believe he existed, you believe he did all the things the Bible says, but have you ever come to the place where he became precious to you? That means, did you ever get to the place where you began to look at him the way a very hungry person looks at great food? The way a very, very poor person looks at a pile of money? Have you ever gotten to the place where he began to be your hope? Someone you really depended on? That's preciousness. And conversion brings both of those things together. A sense of the preciousness of Christ so you depend on him, a sense of the conviction of sin so you admit who you are. And it's, it's this experience that fits us for the household of God. The reason we fit together, friends, is because Christians have been cut out of the world by conversion. We never will be the same. We don't fit there anymore. There's a place in Ephesians that says, the spiritual man judges all things but himself is judged of no one. Do you know what that means? It means on the one hand, the spiritual man judges things, he can evaluate things, but nobody can figure him out. Because you see, a person from the world can't figure it out. Conversion on the one hand, because of the first thing, the conviction of sin, makes you much more realistic about yourself, much, much more willing to take criticism. But on the other hand, the second part of conversion, the preciousness of Christ, brings a kind of brimming confidence, but it's a humble confidence. People can't figure that out. People that haven't been through, they can't figure that out. You've been cut out of the world. You've been cut out of the quarry. You don't fit there anymore. You fit in the temple. You fit in the house of God. So, when we say the temple rises, that means God has added you to the temple. That's not all. When we say the temple rises, we also mean you've been shaped. It says you've been fit together in verse 21. You see, if I just go to the quarry and cut out a piece of rock and just, you know, bring all the pieces of rock and just try to build a building out of them, you know, they don't fit together. They've got to be shaped. And in 1 Peter, it says that the living stones grow. What that means is God is shaping you. He is maturing you. And if you're a stone, a living stone in the household of God, that's happening. Now, let me ask you. Let me be very, very specific. Is it happening? Do you see yourself growing into the likeness of Christ? Do you see yourself growing in supernatural maturity? Do you see yourself growing in the fruit of the Spirit? Love, joy, patience, peace, kindness, humility? Have they grown deeper since last year? Have they grown deeper since last month? Do you see Him shaping you or not? You're not a stone unless, you see, you've been shaped. Now, listen. In construction, the shaping of a stone to fit into a building is a mechanical process. But in the church, the way God shapes us, the way God shapes us to fit together, it's an organic process. He grows us, and here's the sermon series. There's three ways in which you can grow. Three ways. The way of acceptance, the way of exchange, and the way of nourishment. The way of acceptance means that when God sends troubles into your life, instead of kicking and screaming and fighting like a wild horse fights the bridle, you say, I admit my rights, your rights over me, Lord. I'm looking for you. I'm looking for my lessons. I'm patient with the things that you've given me, and I will grow. Are you like that? When troubles come into your life, do you say, Lord, I accept this as your teaching and your training. Show me what you want me to learn. Then there's the way of exchange. That means Christians are supposed to support and confront each other. Did you hear that? Not everything I say you have to really, really listen to, but you have to listen to that one. Support and confront. There's no growth. There's not this hewing, this shaping of your stone in Christian relationships unless you have both supporting and confronting. Not one or just the other. If you have a person that's only confronting you, you're going to get rid of that relationship. If you have a person that's only supporting you, you're not going to learn a thing.

Haven't you recently heard yourself on a tape recorder? Do you know why it sounds so obvious? Do you know why it sounds so awful? Do you know why you say, who is that? That sounds like my sister. That sounds like my brother. That sounds like my mother. That's not me. You know why it sounds so awful? Because you know it is exactly how you really sound. It really is. You don't sound like what you sound to yourself because you don't hear yourself. You hear yourself through the bones in your ears or something, right? Doctors out there, I've forgotten. But the point is, unless you have tape recorders, video cameras, and things like that,

you don't know what you look like. And it's gas. Especially when you see it. Right? But that's what you really look like. Now listen. Without fellowship, you'll never know who you are, really. You'll never have perspective. You'll never be sane. You'll be out of touch with reality. Unless you've got people through whom you're growing through the way of exchange. And then there's the way of nourishment. You know what the way of nourishment is? The way of nourishment means taking God's truth in the Bible, His summonses, His promises, His commands, His, uh, His, everything He says. And not just saying, yep, I believe that. But eating it. Now how do you eat the truth? Well, how do you eat food? You taste it. You get the sweetness out of it. You reflect on the truth. You meditate on the truth. And you get it into your heart and into your mind until it's saturating you so that you think and look at everything through a biblical grid. You see? And it really becomes part of you. You digest it. You see? Just like Irma Bombeck says, why even, why eat spaghetti? Just, why don't I just put it on my hips? You know, food is something you digest. It becomes part of you. Food is something you taste. And when truth is something you're tasting and it's something you're digesting and making part of you, that's the way of nourishment. That's a process of not just reading the Bible, but praying it in. Are you growing? If not, you are neglecting one or two or all three. The way of exchange, that means troubles in your life that you're refusing to learn from. The way of nourishment, that means that you just don't have the discipline to spend the time with the truth. And the way of exchange, that means you're too busy or too short-sighted or too scared to actually get into decent Christian friendships where you can grow.

One more thing about stones. Stones not only have to be added by taking out of the quarry, they not only have to be shaped, but then they have to be placed. You see, every stone has its own function in the building. Not every stone can be a capstone. Not every stone can be a keystone. Just try it. It doesn't work. And in the same way, the Bible tells us, like Ephesians 4, it says the church grows when every part is working properly. And this means that for a Christian to be part of the building, a Christian has to know, discover his or her spiritual gifts.

What does that mean? The Bible teaches that when Jesus Christ ascended to heaven, it says he gave gifts to men. It tells us that in Ephesians 4. Before he went to heaven, he said something very strange. He said to his disciples, you will do greater deeds than me. Do you believe that? He said, oh, that was those apostles. But if that's all he meant, just those 12 apostles, sure, how could they have done greater deeds than Jesus? Here's the answer. When Jesus went to heaven, he gave gifts to men. And that means he is determined to distribute his ministry powers out to his people so that he can continue his ministry in the world through us. See, Jesus had the power to win people and the power to teach and the power to counsel and the power to do all things. What we get is a distribution so that some of us get some of his powers and some of us get some of his powers and some of us get some of his powers. But it's really him. He died so that we wouldn't live for ourselves, but that he could live his life through us. His business in the world is to make new men and women. New men and women. And our business in the world is to let him live his life through us to do the same thing.

Now, Paul is so committed to this truth that he says something almost in passing, almost casually, that if you're not thinking, you miss it. Right there in chapter 2, verse 17, he says to the Ephesians what? Do you see that? It says, He came and preached peace. Jesus Christ came and preached peace to you who were near and who were far away. Hey, I have a question for you. When did Jesus Christ ever go to Greece? When did Jesus Christ ever go to Ephesus and preach? Well, we know that Jesus Christ never left Palestine. Well, then how could Paul talk like this? Paul is so almost unconsciously committed to this truth that he just goes on by it. The fact is that somebody, some Christian went and used gifts of public communication to preach to the Ephesians. And as far as Paul's concerned, that wasn't that person. It was Jesus Christ doing it.

Jesus has distributed his ministry gifts to us all. And do you know what that means? It's a picture that God's giving us of a stained glass window. Every one of us is a little piece of glass in that window. And as pretty as those little pieces of white and red and emerald glass are, it's only when they're put together and the sun hits them all at once that you see the whole picture. And only as we pull together can we show the world coordinating our gifts, using our gifts, discovering our gifts, our ministry abilities, can we show the world Jesus Christ in all of his glory.

Now, coordination's critical. For example, there's no gift of counseling in the Bible. Do you know that? You can't find a gift of counseling. There's a gift of mercy. Tender people, see. There's a gift of new Thale confrontation. There's a gift of exhortation. There's a gift of teaching. Now, you know why? I'll tell you why.

Everybody's problems are different. As a counselor, I know that. Some people need to have their hand held. Some people need to have their mouth socked. They need a punch in the mouth. See, some of you know that you went to counselors until somebody finally said, cut it out! And it was the best thing you ever got. But that same counselor who says cut it out to everybody, because that's the gift, that counselor has, will crush other people. Because you see, it's only as all of our gifts are working that we can solve everybody's problems. It's only as we all have and use our ministry abilities that we can show Jesus Christ to the world. Now, this is exciting, but it's humbling. It's exciting because it means that Jesus is really in charge of the church. How do you know, how do I know what kind of ministries this church is supposed to have in New York City? How do I know? I don't know. You know why? Because this church is like a connect-the-dots picture.

Until God surfaces people with their burdens and their gifts and their ministries and all that, we can't know what God wants the church to be. Do you see that? But only as you come to understand what you're supposed to be giving to the Lord, your ministry ability, do we find out what the church should be. Ah, now somebody says, I don't know what my gifts are. In fact, I'm not gifted at all. Don't be so proud. You are gifted. What you do is you proceed to get active. You proceed to minister. It's just like you find what you're good at anything else. You do some things. You check out your desires. You check out your effectiveness. It takes time, but you can't be a consumer. You cannot come and sit and soak. Matthew 25 tells us about the day that Jesus comes back and he has four servants, three servants. One of them was given ten talents, one five and one. And the one with ten talents says, Here, Master, I got your ten talents. I invested it and I have ten back. Another person says, Here, Master, I had five talents and I invested them and I give you five back. And the last one said, Here, Master, I have one talent and I knew that you'd be scared if I lost it, so I buried it and here it is.

That last guy said, I was scared. And a lot of you are going to say, I don't know what kind of ministry I could do. I'm scared. I don't want to look foolish. But you know what? In that parable in Matthew 25, the king does not say to that last guy, You wicked, scared servant. He doesn't say that. You know what he says? He says, You wicked, lazy servant.

And he says, I gave you something and the only way to take care of it was to invest it. I hate to say this in a room like this, in a city like this, but you're stockbrokers for God.

And if somebody gave you as a stockbroker a huge amount of money to invest with fear and trauma, you knew that you could not sit on that because if you sat on it, that person would be losing money. You had to invest it. You had to invest it well. You had to give a good return on it. This is far more valuable than a billion dollars. This is far more powerful than a billion dollars. You understand that. We should be looking at New York saying, All the power we've got, but who knows what it's going to be, but we've got to get it out there. And now you see why Jesus can say, You will do greater works than me. Because Jesus Christ, as powerfully as he was, was in one body, in one place. But now his ministry gifts and his kingdom powers are distributed in millions of cells that can go everywhere and there are not enough of them in New York. But we need to penetrate.

And the last thing, now look, you see where we are? I've got to close. If you want to be in the house of God, a living stone, you have to be built on the foundation. That means you have to be obeying his word. You have to be converted. You have to be growing in supernatural maturity. You have to be finding and using your gifts, not a consumer, not just sitting and soaking, but doing things for him, using the gifts he's given you. Lastly, it says, we fit together into the church. And that just simply means, just as a good stone in the walls here, you know, you don't want gaps in the masonry. You want the stones to be completely related to the other stones at every point. And we talked about this several weeks ago. And that is, if you want to be really built into the kingdom of God, you have to have intimate relationships with the people of God. And you have to work at it. It says, bear one another's burdens. It says, confess your sins to each other. It says, exhort one another daily lest you be hardened by deceitfulness of sin. And it says, pray for one another. My friends, how many people have you got that you're obeying those commandments with? How many people do you know so well that they're exhorting you daily lest you be hardened by sin? How many people are you confessing your sins to? How many people, how many people are you bearing burdens with? Now, we talked about this, but the fact is that kind of fellowship is a command. So here we are. End of the service. Here's the inventory. Look at it. Are you converted? Are you obeying? Are you growing? Can you see yourself changing in character?

Are you ministering? Have you discovered what your gifts are and what God wants you to be doing in the world? And are you really plugged into good fellowship? There's what? Five things? One, two, three, four, five. Five things. If you are not experiencing the freedom in your life, the power in your life that God wants you to have, you are weak somewhere. Huh? Some of you are definitely weak at the fellowship level. You don't, you're too busy or you're too scared. Some of you are definitely weak at the gifts level. You're just consumers. Some of you are definitely weak at the growth level because for one reason, another, you're not being disciplined in the way of acceptance and the way of nourishment and the way of exchange. Some of you are simply refusing to be obedient. There's an area of your life you're not giving him obedience in. Well, then how do you expect to know the truth and have the truth set you free? How can you expect to find yourself when Jesus Christ says, lose yourself to find yourself? Become part of the whole, the higher call. Submit.

It's a good inventory, but let me just warn you about some of the things that you've read You'll never be the same again because what you've read and what you've heard, you never will. Do you realize that now that you have this very clear chart, you either will obey what you've heard, you'll act on it, and you'll become far more a living stone, or else you won't act on it and you'll become harder in your heart and more guilty before God. You're responsible, my friends. I should be responsible. I should have warned you before you sat through this. Don't you see? You have been polarized. You can either be pushed ahead or way behind in your relationship with God because of what you've heard tonight. You're responsible.

But don't be afraid. Go ahead. Come to Him, to the living stone, and you can be living stones built up into a spiritual house. For God has said, I am laying in Zion a cornerstone. No one who believes in Him will ever be put to shame. Let's take a moment of silence, and I do mean a moment here. And I'm going to suggest that some of you who know you need to work on obedience will promise Him that obedience. Things in your life you know you should be obeying and you're not. Some of you, it's a lack of discipline, just an unwillingness to give God the time, give ministry the time. Some of you, I hope, realize that you've never been converted. And if that's true, what you need to say tonight is to go to Him and pray and say, Lord, I see that I've been trying to stand on my own. Build me into your house. I receive you as my Lord and Savior. That needs to be said tonight. Let's take a moment. Let's take time to ask God to apply this to our hearts.