I'd like to call your attention to the Gospel of John again, where we return. I'd like to have you go to John chapter 8. We'll read verses 2 through 11. But Jesus went to the Mount of Olives, and at dawn he appeared again in the temple courts, where all the people gathered around him, and he sat down to teach them. The teachers of the law and the Pharisees brought in a woman caught in adultery. They made her stand before the group and said to Jesus, Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery. In the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. Now what do you say? They were using this question as a trap in order to have a basis for accusing him. But Jesus bent down and started to write on the ground with his finger. And when they kept on questioning him, he straightened up and said to them, If any one of you is without sin, let him be the first to throw a stone. Let him be the first to throw a stone at her. Again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. And at this, those who heard it began to go away one at a time. The older ones first, until only Jesus was left with the woman standing there. And Jesus straightened up and asked her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? No one, Lord, she said. Then neither do I condemn you. Go now and leave your life of sin. There's a... Some of you, if you have Bibles with you, some of you may notice all sorts of little brackets. And some of you may have to have read that in the fine print of a footnote. I don't want to bore you with details, but in the earliest manuscripts we have, the earliest Greek manuscripts we've unearthed of the Gospel of John, this passage isn't in it. And therefore, without boring you with details, I can say that the scholars that I trust the best would say that this is an incident from the life of Christ, but probably not written by John, but attached here by the early church. And, you know, it's so parallel, completely parallel to the way in which he treats social outcasts like this. When we see how he treats Mary Magdalene, when we see how he treats other people, how he treats lepers, when we see how he reacts to people like this, it's so clear. It's so clearly parallel that we can trust it. And what we do is we now look and say, what do we learn from this incident? And here's what we learn. This incident is an example of the passage you already read. This is an illustration of something that the Bible, of something the Old Testament predicted about the Messiah in Matthew 12, verses 18 to 20, where it says, A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoking wick he will not quench. You're put out till he brings forth judgment to victory. What's that mean? It means this, that Jesus Christ combines compassion and justice so perfectly that the world has never seen its like. He's the most absolutely unsurpassed, integrated personality, balanced, wise human being we've ever seen. He's not just a kind of compromise halfway between strong and tender, but rather he's just and righteous to the nth degree. And he's compassionate and melt-in-your-mouth, gentle to the nth degree. And these two traits in him don't fight in him, they unite in him. A bruised reed he will not break, a smoking wick he will not put out till he brings forth judgment to victory means here is a person of absolute power and majesty. He will bring forth judgment to victory. He will win over evil. But in the meantime, he is so sensitive and so tender that a bruised heart... a broken heart, just held together by the filament, a flickering soul, just ready to go out, in his hands, it won't be harmed, it will be healed. Now, this principle is illustrated by the way he treats this woman. And here we see that he deals gently with her, and that teaches us that he deals gently with us, and it teaches us that we have to deal gently with each other. Let's see. Let's see what the passage teaches us. First of all, let's take a look for a moment at the problem that's posed here. We're told twice in verse 3 and 4 that this woman was caught. She was... In the Old King James it says she was taken in adultery, and here it says she was caught twice. And I'll get back to this in a minute, but that means literally she must have actually been caught. According to the Jewish law, she could not have been charged unless at least two eyewitnesses saw her doing it. Not coming out of a room, not in a compromising position, not even lying, not even lying on bed with somebody, but actually doing it. Had to be so she was caught. Secondly, Jesus is not being asked whether she's guilty, because that's been ascertained. He's being asked about the penalty. And these folks come and say, and they point to Leviticus chapter 20, verse 10, and they point to Deuteronomy 22, 22, or something like that. And they point out to the fact that the Mosaic law said that adultery, which is any kind of sexual activity outside of marriage, is punishable by execution. And they come, it says, to trap him. And here's why this is a marvelous trap. I mean, this is a terrific trap. Because they know that he is stuck, in a sense, between two issues, two concerns. On the one hand, the life of the woman, and on the other hand, the divine law of Moses. Because, you see, they know that Jesus Christ was the consummate teacher of compassion, justice, grace, forgiveness, and tenderness. He said the kingdom of heaven, his kingdom is entered by grace and forgiveness. And therefore, they thought they had him. Because he said that, but on the other hand, he said in the Sermon on the Mount, he says that the law of Moses was from God, that not a jot or a tittle will pass away till all is fulfilled. And so they said, hey, we've got him. We've got him. What if he comes and says, well, yes, the law of Moses, that's what the law of Moses says. Then we'll say, ha! Here's your Messiah. He says, I am meek and lowly of heart. Come to me, you see, and I will give you rest. Sure, come to him with your sins, and he'll execute you. Great Messiah. But on the other hand, what if he says, oh, no. She has to be forgiven. We can't punish her. Then we can say, ha! He says he's from God. And he says that the law of Moses is from God. He's not from God. Otherwise, there wouldn't be this contradiction. They thought they had him. And you see, with their devilish ingenuity, they had come to a crux. They had come to a problem that really, up to this time, and maybe even since this time, apart from Jesus, neither society nor religion has ever been able to handle, has ever been able to solve. Because if you have compassion, you relativize morality. And if you have absolute morality, you crush people. How do we get out of this? We have him, but no, we don't have him. Because this isn't a man that they're dealing with. This is God himself. What does Jesus do? What Jesus does is just rather remarkable. First of all, he deals, well, he does two things, if you look carefully, and right there, you have a summary of ministry. He, first of all, disturbs the comfortable, and then he comforts the disturbed. That's the two things he does. He first, he disturbs the comfortable. He deals with them first. And then he turns around and comforts the disturbed. He disturbs the comfortable this way. He turns to these men. Now, what's interesting is, oh, forgive me for about a 45-second tangent. He sits down and he scribbles with his finger in the dust. What is he saying? It doesn't tell us. It has absolutely, from what we can tell, almost nothing to do with the story. I mean, he sits there and he scribbles in the dust. And they, you know, they're waiting. And then he says, let him who is without sin cast the first stone at her. And then he goes back and he scribbles. You know, there's a one man once wrote this about this. This is just a tangent. A lot of you are going to say, well, what was he scribbling? And the answer is, nobody knows. I don't know. And anybody who claims to know doesn't know. And let me read you an interesting quote. A man once put it this way. As a literary historian, I am perfectly convinced that whatever the Gospels are, they are not legends. They are not artistic enough. They don't build up to things. Look at this story about him scribbling in the dust with the woman caught in adultery. Nothing comes of the scribbling. It adds nothing to the story. And the art of inventing little irrelevant details to make an imaginary scene more convincing is a purely modern art. Surely the only explanation of this passage is that the thing really happened. The author put it in simply because he'd seen it. There's no other reason for it to be there. But he gets up and he says to them, that was my tangent. It has nothing to do with the story. You're going to ask me, what does it have to do? It happened. The reason it's there is because somebody who wrote this incident down, actually saw it. There's no other reason for it to be there. It doesn't contribute otherwise. But what he says to them is ingenious. He gets up and he says this. He never ever actually says, a stone shouldn't be thrown, does he? He says, throw a stone, but make sure that the one who does it is without sin. He never says anything about, he never denies that there needs to be punishment. And he doesn't say anything about capital punishment. Now, in the New Testament, capital punishment for adultery is abrogated. You can go to 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians and see how Paul deals with the man who's living with his father's wife and see what happens there. In this situation, Jesus says nothing about capital punishment one way or the other. He doesn't defend it. He doesn't attack it. Instead, what he does, and it's very wise, he basically makes this case. In any case, he says, you are disqualified from being witnesses or executioners. See, what he's doing to them is, he's not going to say anything about whether capital punishment is right or wrong in this situation. He just walks aside of that. He says, in any case, you are not qualified to be witnesses or executioners. Why not? How does he do this? What he does is this. How was this woman caught in adultery? I think I've told you that, I've already alluded to this. The Jewish law knew that capital punishment was an easily abused penalty. And therefore, it was absolutely, almost impossible to actually convict somebody of a capital offense. What the Jewish law did was make it extremely, extremely difficult to do it. The Jewish law required that for someone to be convicted of a capital offense, there had to be at least two witnesses who not only saw it eyewitness, but in their testimony under cross-examination, there had to be absolute and complete agreement. There's a story of Susanna. There's an old Jewish story of Susanna, a woman who was accused by two witnesses of doing something under a particular tree. And she was acquitted because in the cross-examination, they couldn't agree, the witnesses couldn't agree on the size of the leaves of the tree. And the Mishnah said, the Mishnah, which was the Jewish commentary on the law, said that a court that executed more than one person every seven years was a slaughterhouse. In order for this woman to be caught in adultery, she virtually had to be set up. She virtually had to be entrapped. And the evidence for that is, where was the man? You see, if two witnesses had actually seen this woman do adultery, then they must have seen the man. And the Old Testament law is absolutely clear that it's the man and the woman who has to be executed. There's no double standard. The Old and the New Testament are absolutely against what is called the sin of partiality, injustice. Old and New Testament absolutely abhors the idea that you would have partiality toward the rich versus the poor, partiality for men versus women. And the fact that these people came with this woman and said, we saw her do it, but the man's not there, virtually proves that there was entrapment, there was prejudice, and possibly the man engineered it. The man who was missing possibly could have been there, that the witnesses were lying in wait for her, maybe with his collaboration. Not only that, not only that, not only that, but the law of Moses demands a trial. And instead of a trial, they bring her out publicly and make her stand in the midst, it says in verse 3, in public humiliation. So what does Jesus do? Jesus turns to them and says, let him who is without sin cast the first stone. What is he doing? What is he saying? Now, he is not saying what a lot of people have thought, and he's not saying what many movie makers have thought, and that is that only a sinless person could ever punish someone. That's ridiculous. Ridiculous. And not only that, these men who are here would never have been convicted by that kind of statement. But instead, what he's saying is, I know you. And the very law of Moses that you say, that you invoke here today, the very law of Moses you invoke, you are breaking. Probably, for example, they understood that what he's saying is the law against adultery. The sin of adultery that you are about here to stone her for, what about you? It's extremely difficult, extremely rare to execute somebody for adultery in Old Testament Israel, because it was so rampant, it was also so hard to prove. And so, first of all, what he's saying is, here's what he's saying. Your hypocrisy is a stench in the nostrils of God, O men. Yes, you invoke the law of Moses. What about the law against conspiracy? What about the law against partiality and justice? What about the law against sexual conduct that you are doing? My dear friends, he says, I do not deny the law of Moses, but by the law of Moses, I deny that you are qualified to be witnesses or executioners. I do not deny the law of Moses, but by the law of Moses, I deny that you are qualified to be executioners or witnesses. It's an ingenious stroke. It's an absolute stroke of wisdom. And they're cut to the heart. And they file out, by the way, oldest first, because, you know, it's as time goes on that you are more willing to admit your faults. That's another sermon. He got them. He nailed them to the wall. You see, friends, because they wouldn't name their sin, Jesus dealt with them first. If you don't name your sin, Jesus will have to name it for you. Now then, secondly, he turns around and begins, he's already now disturbed the comfortable, but now he turns to comfort the disturbed. What does he do? He turns to her and he says, essentially, neither do I condemn thee, go and sin no more. Now, again, we have here the most exquisite kind of balance. First of all, let's just point out that he says, go and sin no more. He's knocked them down. He knocked down these people because of entrapment. But you notice here, Jesus Christ will have absolutely nothing of the victim mentality. Nothing of blame shifting. Nothing at all. The entrapment meant that they no longer had a case. But Jesus knows, and the Bible says, that you can't be entrapped unless you're, unless that your own wrong desires and motives of your heart entrap you. It says in James that your heart tempts you, not your circumstances. You know the sting operations you hear about all the time. You remember the old FBI ab scam and they said, well, of course I took the bribe, but an FBI agent gave me the bribe. I was entrapped. And the Bible says, but you can't bribe an honest heart. And so Jesus will have none of the victim mentality, none of blame shifting. He turns and says to her, I don't condemn you, but you are sinning. Sin no more. I hold you accountable to that. I hold you, I demand conversion. I demand change of heart and I demand change of life. But see the balance? Because then on the other hand, he turns around and he says this, neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Now, how can he say that? Doesn't he know what the law says? Would you look carefully? This man, Jesus Christ, does not say, you're not guilty. Because actually, when he says, go and sin no more, he's saying you are guilty. He doesn't say, you're not guilty. This is what he says. And this is what, listen, we're getting to the essence of Christianity. We're getting to the paradox and the beauty and the genius of it. He says, you're guilty, but I don't condemn you. How can he say that? Well, in the narrow sense, we've already seen how he can say that. What he's actually said, in the narrow sense, he has actually destroyed the case against her. And he has removed the witnesses. So in the narrow legal sense, there is no case against her, legally. And she can't be executed. The legal process has been broken off. But there's no way that I think, and nor do you, that Jesus is only thinking at that level. You know what he's saying? How can he say, you're guilty, but I don't condemn you? The Bible tells you. Paul says, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. The Bible actually says, it's because of what Jesus Christ did that God can justify, take condemnation away from the ungodly. It says in Romans 4, he justifies the ungodly. It says, Paul says, he took him who knew no sin to be sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And that means simply this, do you understand that Jesus Christ took your condemnation, took your punishment? When you believe in him like that and you rest in him like that, your punishment is gone. You're guilty, but you're not condemned. You deserved it, but all of the condemnation and all the penalty is gone. And so think, think. When Jesus says, neither do I condemn thee, imagine what he was feeling. Because he knows, and now you know, what it cost him. What it cost him to say that. My sister, I don't condemn you because I will be condemned for you. Yes, stones ought to be thrown, but they'll hit me. Spears ought to be launched, but they'll go into my side. Thorns ought to be brought down, but they'll go into my skull. Come, sister, you're free. Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. Jesus Christ is a shepherd. He's a brother. He's a husband. He says, he's a hen, he says, and I want you to come in under my wings. He weeps over Jerusalem, the ones who are going to kill him. And he says, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, if only you saw the things that pertain to your peace, but now they're hidden from your eyes. Here is the perfect physician of the soul who distinguishes between the sin and the sinner and with the beams of his love shrinks away the tumor of sin away from her so she can walk free. Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world. Behold the balance. Behold, on the one hand, this is sin and this is wrong and this deserves condemnation, but I do not condemn you. Why? Because I'll take your condemnation for you. Now, what are the implications of this? They're vast. The applications, how should this affect the way we live? The applications are vast and all I'll do is just show you a few until the time's up. Look, for example, one, if you're a bruised person, you need to go to him. If you're a bruised person, you need to go to him. Now, what that means is this. I mean, are you in some kind of trouble that has you beaten down or have you brought some trouble on yourself by wrongdoing that has you beaten down? He wants to see you. He wants to see you now. And what does it mean to go to him? Look at the text. What it means to go to him is, number one, stop your blame shifting. He will have none of that victim mentality. Then, number two, look at him broken and bleeding on the cross all so he could say to you, all so he could say to you, neither do I condemn thee. Get a sense of that. And then, lastly, do his bidding. Say to him like she says, Lord. No blame shifting. See him broken on the cross all so he can say to you, all so he can say, neither do I condemn thee. And do his bidding and his grace will come into your life and will melt you in the best of ways and will shrink the tumors in your life away from your center. This week when I was preaching at the lunchtime meetings that we have out in the city, I was preaching on the prodigal son and I was so struck by the similarity between this passage and that passage. When the prodigal son the young man who goes off from his father and squanders all of his wealth, when he comes to his senses, he says, wait a minute, what am I doing here? In my father's house there's bread and despair. Now, friends, is there anybody here saying, I don't want to come to him, I'm too bruised, I'm too messed up, I'm all black and blue, I'm, you know, my life's a wreck, I can't go to him. You haven't come to your senses. If you think you're too, whatever for him. You say, well, you don't know what I've done. With him there's forgiveness and despair. Well, I've got so many problems. With him there's power and despair. Well, I'm afraid I'll have to give up things that I like. With him there's joy and despair. But I'm so confused. With him there's wisdom and despair. A bruised reed he will not break till he brings forth judgment to victory. To victory. Him who comes to me I will know why he's cast out. Neither do I condemn thee. If you're bruised, you've got to go. You've got to go. What are you doing? Where are you? I'll give you another application. Whenever Jesus Christ, though, gives you a word of grace, it always includes a challenge to obedience and to growth. He doesn't say, neither do I condemn thee. I've seen some movies in which they, you know, movie makers love to go to this passage and they love to depict this passage. But what they'll do is they'll say, neither do I condemn thee. That's it. Hey, friends, nobody loves like that. Nobody. If you love somebody, you can't stand to see them destroyed. Grace is the intercepting self-destructive behavior. Real grace, real love says, I've got to get into this person's life and stop that person from destroying him or herself. You know, imagine, imagine you adopt a child who's a mess. He's from a terrible background. Why do you adopt it? It's free grace. You adopt, you adopt this child because it's free grace. You don't adopt the child because he's a wonderful person. He's a lousy person. You adopt it because you love him and you give him a roof over his head and you give him resources and so on. Now what do you do? Do you say, hey, you can live the way you were before. We don't care when you come in. We don't care whether you go to school today or not. Is that how you treat the child? No. If you love him out of free grace, then real grace brings you in freely and then it holds your feet to the fire until you become somebody great. And if somebody here says, well, if Jesus loves me so unconditionally, I'd like to come to him, but I'm afraid of all these things that he's going to ask me to do. Friends, that's how you love anybody. That's how he'll love you. Real grace comes in freely, but then he holds your feet to the fire until you become somebody great. Let me give you another application. The first one is, if you're bruised, go to him. The second one is, if you want his grace, though, he will always, his word of grace will always be attached to a challenge to growth and obedience. Thirdly, some of you cannot change bad habits because you're taking them to the law instead of to the cross. Take your bad habits to the cross and you'll really change. You notice, Jesus does not say, go and sin no more and then I won't condemn you. Do you see the order? He doesn't say, go and sin no more and then I won't condemn you. He says, I don't condemn you, go and sin no more. And what he means by that is, my dear friend, he says, do you? Do not. Get off the treadmill of effort. Get off the treadmill of trying to make yourself worthy in God's eyes or in others' eyes or your parents' eyes or your profession's eyes or your eyes. Get off that treadmill. I have taken your condemnation for you. Trust in my works, not your works. And get my free acceptance, my no condemnation stamp of approval. And then, you will find yourself being able to get rid of your sin and leave it behind. Then you'll change. That's the order. Let me speak very personally. For many years, I tried, there's things I wanted to change and I would take them to the law. By that I mean, I would take them to the law. I would say, I've got to change these things or I'm going to get it. And then when I became a Christian, I would take it to the cross and that means I would listen, I'd heard Jesus say something like this. He would say, Tim, you see these things in your life? Look, these things cannot come between you and me. I've died for them. They're not going to condemn you. But let's get rid of them. Look at what I've done for you. If you keep these up, is this how you repay me for my sacrifice? Is fellowship with me of such little value to you that you do these things right in my face? Do you defile the heart that I died to cleanse? Come on, Tim. I only want your greatness. I only want your purity. I only want your beauty. And that changed me. You see, when I would go to the law and heard the law saying, get rid of these things or I'll get you. You know, what would my heart say? To harden my heart, I'd say, oh yeah, make me. And when I went to Christ to the grace of the cross and heard him say, neither do I condemn thee now, now that I did that for you, go and sin no more. And I said, yeah, what do I want this for anyway? Do you hear that? Some of you can't change because you got the order reversed. Go and sin no more and then I won't condemn you. Oh no. Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Hey, one more. The other thing we need to learn from this is that sexual misconduct, we have got to be very careful not to count it too lightly or too heavily. I haven't spoken on this in a long time here, but I, and I'm not going to get into it now, but look, Jesus never ever says that adultery is a sin. Adultery is not a crime. And don't forget, the word adultery here means any kind of sex outside marriage. The Bible teaches this. The Bible teaches that sex was a way of expressing to someone else absolute, complete, exclusive, and permanent commitment. That's the reason the Bible says that sex is for inside marriage. The Bible says sex was invented, God's way of saying to someone else, I belong completely, permanently, and exclusively to you. That's why it's supposed to be for marriage between a man and a woman. And the reason for that is the Bible tells us that marriage, that sex is a picture of the perfect oneness and intimacy we will have with God in heaven. And that intimacy and oneness never ever comes apart from total commitment. God doesn't give his intimacy to you unless you completely commit to him and he completely commits to you. And therefore, sex doesn't work outside of a relationship of that total commitment. And if you're not married, you basically are keeping your options open and you're refusing to be vulnerable, totally, to that other person. And therefore, what God says here is adultery is definitely a very, very serious thing because you destroy your ability to trust someone else. And you destroy your ability to open yourself to someone. In the beginning, if you had sex outside of marriage, you remember you felt married. And in the process of having sex, you wanted to make vows of absolute fidelity, except you didn't. The Bible says, therefore, sex outside of marriage is very serious. But the Bible also says right here, don't make it too serious. There's people in this, there's societies that will say that sexual sin is worse than other kinds. Sexual sin is creepy. Sexual sin makes you really somebody who's going to have to be a second-class Christian. No way. God goes out of his way in Matthew chapter 1 to show us that Rahab the harlot, that Tamar the incestuous are in the line of the Messiah. God goes out of his way to make sure that we have prostitutes and tax collectors in the kingdom of God before the religious leaders. God goes out of his way. If there's anybody here that says, I'm too bruised sexually to come to him, he won't take me. You don't understand yet, do you? He's waiting for you. A bruised reed he will not break. A smoking flax he will not quench until he brings forth judgment to victory. This is Christianity. If you say a word of peace to yourself, Jesus will condemn you. If you say, I'm condemned, Jesus will say, you're at peace. If you don't name your sin, Jesus will name it for you. Look at how he treats these two kinds of people differently. If you say, I'm all right, he'll say, condemned. And if you say, I'm condemned, he'll say, no, you're all right. I have taken your condemnation. That's the heart of Christianity. Come to him. He's waiting. Let's pray. Father, during the offering, all we ask now is that you would help us to see what it means to go to you with our bruises, to go to you with our needs, to go to you with our weaknesses. We thank you that if we come and say, we're all right, you will send us away condemned. And if we come and say, we're condemned, you will send us away saying, you're all right. What a matchless gospel. What an incredible religion. And it's all because of the cross. Because on the cross, you were able to save us and condemn evil at the same time. Now, Father, we pray that everyone here will see that we can come to you and we can have that healing. Some of us need to come to you regularly with our bad habits. They're not shrinking away because we're taken to the law instead of to the gospel. Some of us are very bruised and we're holding back from you and refusing to see that there's bread and despair with you. Some of us are, some of us are refusing to admit our need and therefore we're in danger of being sent away condemned. Father, everyone in this room needs now to have this truth burned into their heart, to change them forever. Do it by your Spirit's power. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
