The reading for today is taken from the book of Matthew, chapter 2, verses 1 through 12. After Jesus was born in Bethlehem in Judea, during the time of King Herod, Magi from the east came to Jerusalem and asked, Where is the one who has been born King of the Jews? We saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. him. When King Herod heard this, he was disturbed and all Jerusalem with him. When he had called together all the people's chief priests and teachers of the law, he asked them where the Messiah was to be born. In Bethlehem in Judea, they replied, for this is what the prophet has written. But you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod called the magi secretly and found out from them the exact time the star had appeared. He sent them to Bethlehem and said, go and search carefully for the child. As soon as you find him, report to me so that I too may go and worship him. After they had heard the king, they went on their way, and the star they had seen when it rose went ahead of them until it stopped over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshipped him. Then they opened their treasures and presented him with gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. And having been warned in a dream not to go back to Herod, they returned to their country by another route, the word of the Lord. The passage that was just read is one of the Matthew passages about the birth of Jesus. We're looking at them this December. And I hate to break the news to you, but you don't know nearly as much about this story as you think. You say, well, wait a minute. I know the Christmas carol, We Three Kings of Orient are, no, I won't do that to you. But, uh, well, first of all, you notice there's no kings here. These are not kings. You thought they were kings. It says magi. We'll get to that in a second. And there's not three of them. There's nowhere. Did you read it? Nowhere in the text says there's three. You say what? But there's three gifts, gold, frankincense, wife three gifts, that doesn't mean there's three of me. Not only that, you probably think they come to the manger with the shepherds, but you notice Jesus is in a house by the time they get there. And so I'm sorry, all this stuff, you know, you just, you're just going to have to read the Bible instead of following all the, you know, a mall and the night visitors and the Christmas carols and all that stuff. Um, and somebody saying, well, what is he going to say next? There's no Santa Claus, and that's a different sermon. And now that I've had my little laugh, some of you are saying, but it's a legend anyway, right? I don't think so. No. For example, magi was a Greek word that meant what you might think. Astrologers, magicians, interpreters of dreams, dreams, and everywhere else in the Bible, Old Testament and New Testament, whenever the word comes up, magi, astrologers, magicians, it's always negative, totally negative. Old and New Testament condemns this, condemns this. And so why do we have Matthew, only Matthew, talking about these guys in such positive terms? What most historians point out is that no Christian writer would have

because they would have known, the writer would have known, that any Christian or Jew reading this story, red flags would have gone up everywhere. What are these people doing here? You know, Jews and Christians, you don't do this. So what is the most likely reason why this is in the text? The most likely reason it's in the text is that it happened. There's no other good reason for Matthew to even put it in here. But somebody says, but is this sort of thing even possible? be possible. Do you believe in astrology? Well, here's what we do know about astrology in ancient times. Did you know that when Julius Caesar was being buried, by some coincidence, there was a supernova? So over Julius Caesar's burial, there was this great star in the heavens. Now, this helped the astrology business for a number of years because it just became cemented in people's minds that when a great king was born or died, there'd be a star. And we do know that the year that this is talking about here, the year that this is talking about, there was a conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn that came together to form a, uh, you know, an event in the sky that looked like a very bright star. It happened on, and we have, we know this, what happened on, um, May 29th, October 3rd, and December 4th. We also know that there was a major rumor, not just a rumor of a Messiah, there was a rumor that a great king would come out of Judea. Suetonius, Tacitus, all sorts of pagan historians talk about it. It wasn't just the Jewish belief in a Messiah. There was a rumor that it was a great king. king. So you get this, basically on the 29th of May, you see this star. And if you are an astrologer and you know the story, you know, the rumor that going to Jerusalem and asking, where is this great king? Perfectly, perfectly historically plausible. But why does Matthew tell us about it? Because remember John, there's a place in the book of John where John says, there's so much that happened in Jesus' life that we couldn't put it, you know, it would take books and books and books to put it all in. So the gospel writers are always very selective, right? They only bring in, they only tell you stuff that is instructive. Well, what is Matthew trying to show us? And here's what I'm almost certain Matthew is trying to show us. And that is here you have the wisdom of the nations bowing down and acknowledging Jesus Christ as the true wisdom of God. We have the elite opinion Of the nations coming and acknowledging that the true wisdom is Jesus Christ. And therefore, this is a kind of commentary on a place where Paul says in 1 Corinthians, where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? This is 1 Corinthians 1. He says, has God shown the foolishness of the wisdom of the world? So God has been pleased to save those who believe through the foolishness of the gospel. Has God not made foolish the wisdom of this world? Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? That's what this entire text is telling us. So if we look at the features of this story, here's what I'd like to show you. That we're learning that the world's wisdom, that is elite opinion,

the world's wisdom is dated, insufficient, superficial, and yet with the hope of the Holy Spirit, it can burst its own banks. The wisdom of this world is dated, insufficient, superficial, but with the help of the Holy Spirit, can burst its own banks. First, it's dated. Now you have to remember that the people, that these guys, when they say they're the wise men, you know what that means? They're the most highly educated. These are the learned. These are the professors at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Oxford, Cambridge. These are the intelligentsia. these are the elites. And in that day, the elites believed that the way in which you dealt with the world was through astrology and the interpretation of dream and the magical arts. And we laugh, ha, we say, boy, that's then, but now we know better. Well, okay, well, first of all, let's go back. Where are the wise men of a hundred years ago? Well, they wrote probably on the pages of the New York Times or the Harvard Review or something like that. And if you go to those places a hundred years ago, you will see that a remarkable number of things that were written by the elites make us cringe now, just a hundred years ago. In fact, if you go back 40 years and you read the op-ed pages of the New York Times, there's lots of things that were said there that even then made you cringe. Why? Because a shocking amount of elite opinion becomes laughable within than a generation. As C.S. Lewis once put it, all that is not eternal is eternally out of date. And let me explain that. For example, when I got here 25 years ago, I moved to New York 25 years ago. And then I was a man in my 30s. When I talked to New Yorkers who'd been here, New Yorkers in their 50s, 60s, and 70s, New Yorkers who had been here through the 40s, 50s, and 60s, they told me that when they were young here in New York, Freud reigned. And that everybody who knew anything, all the elites, went to their psychoanalyst and went several times a week, two, three, four, five times a week was normal to go to your psychoanalyst because it took 10, 20 years to figure out your unconscious. And everybody knew that was the only way ahead. Everybody who was enlightened knew how to do that. And even by the time I got to here in the late 80s, Everybody was laughing at that. When I was a college student and I took anything on child development, anything on psychology, whenever we got to gender or sexual desire, I was told in no uncertain terms that these things are not fixed. They're not genetic. They're learned. And today we're told that your sexual desires are genetically fixed and determined. And all I can tell you is our grandchildren will laugh at that somehow. There will be something wrong with it. Because what I was taught 40 years ago in college was something by the professors, who of course would be a lot of you, your grandparents. Now we laugh at that too. All that is not eternal is eternally out of date. I was told in the 1960s that Christianity was a white Western religion and the more modern a country got, the less religious it would get. And now, of course, the average Christian, you'd realize Christianity is growing so fast in China, in Korea, in Africa, in Latin America. It's shocking. And the average Christian, of course, is not a white Westerner. And the more modern, by the way, China gets, the more Christian it's getting. And the sociologists who wrote in the 50s and 60s some of them are still around. They are appalled. And, and, uh, and governments are based on the idea that what the sociologists said in the fifties and sixties, look,

we always say, yes, elite opinion back then was wrong, but now we know. But is it really possible that we've come to the ultimate cultural moment that a hundred years from now, almost all the things that the smartest people in New York city are saying, Everybody will know that we reached the truth. No. And therefore, if somebody comes to you and says, oh, you Christian, you're out of date. You've got to change to keep up with the times. You're regressive. Look, we can change the music. The music's going to change. There's all sorts of things that Christians can change. But if you try to change the ancient doctrines in order to look like, in order to keep up with today, tomorrow it will be a laughing stock kind of Christianity. See, everything changes except go read Augustine. Go read Athanasius. Go read Anselm. Go read people who were trying to draw God's wisdom out of the scriptures 1,500 years ago. and if you're a Christian you read those folks and you say oh my goodness this is the same God these guys are dealing with that I'm dealing with it's incredible yes of course you can see the differences 1500 years there's a lot of historically and culturally they're very different every so often they'll say something you go oh my word but not the core is there any other field of endeavor like biblical study that is that it doesn't look ridiculous 50 years later

all that is not eternal is eternally out of date. Where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? The answer is always on the way out the door. Point two. In large part, not in all part, which gets us to point two. The wisdom of this world is insufficient. It's not all a crock. By God's common grace, there's all sorts of things that elite opinion, that scientists, that philosophers are saying will abide because there is wisdom in the wisdom of this world, but it's insufficient. And the way you learn that is what, here's what's interesting. The, um, the philosophy, pardon me, the wise men through their arts do learn that there's a king, but they can't find out without the scripture where that king is. Isn't that interesting? See, one of the things that, that all the night visitors and, and a lot of pageants leave out is they, they just say, Here's the wise men. I've seen pageants like that. And there's the star. It appears. Oh, and then the star has this little halo lamp that goes down onto the stage. And it moves and they follow it. And there's Jesus. They miss something. In fact, they miss a lot. There's really no indication, actually, that the star actually moved in the sky and took them to where Jesus is. If you read carefully. carefully, first of all, when this first star, when the star appeared the first time, which have been, would have been May 29th, they connected that with the rumor that there was a great, uh, King to come out of Judea. And they show up in Jerusalem and they say, where is the King? The star didn't take them to Jerusalem. They put two and two together. And by their own reason, by their own, you know, uh, thinking they came to the conclusion. It was, there was a King that was going to be born. But how was it they found where Bethlehem was? It was by listening to the prophet. This is an Old Testament prophet. You, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, from you will come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. And so we have an extraordinarily important thing. Romans 1 says the same thing. Romans chapter 1 says, by your reason, you may perceive that there is a God. Look at nature. You can perceive there is a God, but you'll never actually meet that God personally, except through the revelation of the Bible and Jesus Christ. so for example uh so the idea is the wisdom of the world can take you so far but can't take you home i'll give you three illustrations of it when i read books on the end of poverty i read books on here's how we can end poverty and when you read the books are really great they're encouraging and they should be followed because they talk about economic changes political changes and politics and sociology and technology, and they're all good. But anybody who's actually worked, really, really spent your life trying to deal with poverty knows that poverty ultimately is rooted in, first of all, three things I'll give you, at least these three. There are deep, deep things wrong in the human heart with the people who've got the resources and who just will not part with them. Secondly, there are deep problems in the hearts of the people who've experienced poverty by it and don't always behave like they ought to. And then thirdly, there's what we call systemic evil, which means systems, sociological systems, which are bigger than any individual that aggravate and support what's wrong in the hearts of the haves and the have-nots. And here's the conclusion. You're not going to end poverty with technology. No major human problem can ever be completely addressed with just human resources. Not when you've got evil, not when you've got a soul, not when you've got the heart. You need the grace of God and you need spiritual transformation. In other words, again, the wisdom of this world can tell you an awful lot about what the problem is and even some things to do, but it can't bring you home. One of my favorite stories to show this, Becky Pippert wrote a book some years ago called Hope Has Its Reasons. I love this story. And it's in the book. courses at Harvard University some years ago. And she was in a psychology class. And in the psychology class, this brilliant professor was presenting a case study of a man whose life had been ruined by and large by his resentment of his mother. And he brilliantly showed how this man's anger and bitterness toward his mother had distorted his marriage, had hurt his parenting, contracting had shaped and distorted his work life and job. And when it was all done, it was very brilliant, some of the students raised a hand and said, how do you treat that? And the professor says, well, you show the man what's wrong and what's going on. You make it conscious. You help him see it so he can as much as possible keep from unconsciously being

affected by the anger so you can mitigate many of the effects. But then I guess, I think if I remember, Becky raised her hand. She says, well, okay, that's how you treat it, but how do you solve it? How do you resolve it? Because if the man could really completely forgive his mother, wouldn't that go a long way to healing him? And the professor immediately pushed back and he says, Says. Hey. We're talking. About. Science. Here. He. Says. He. Says. As. Soon. As. Say. Should. He. Forgive. That's a. Moral. Question. That's. Au. Au. Au. world, empirical science, research science can show you what's wrong maybe to a great degree, but it can't bring you home because obviously, how are you going to be able to live without forgiveness? Nobody can live without forgiveness. You know that. And yet here's a guy saying, you're not in the wisdom of this world anymore. You're in something else. I saw a study empirically, empirically essentially proved that people who thought, people who prayed and who got joy in prayer and who thought they were connected to God, that after injury or surgery, they healed faster than people who did not. Okay. There we go. Fact research tells you, do you think the research can now go out and figure out how to pray, how to feel connected to God? No,

no. You see the wise men by their wisdom were able to know there was a King, but not where to find the King. Maybe even knew that they needed a King, but not where to find the King. and that's what Christmas means the kings come to you

now thirdly we said the wisdom of this world is always dated secondly the wisdom of this world is insufficient. The third thing that we learned is the wisdom of this world is superficial there's something hilarious about taking these people these are the wise men, these are the elites these are the intelligentsia and telling them to go to Bethlehem was not There was no studio from which you could do a broadcast. There was no arena. And right away, you see a contrast with the wisdom of this world. The wisdom of this world says if you're really going to make a difference in life, you got to go to the right schools. You have to have the right skills. You have to know the right people. You have to convene the right people. You have to have the right coalitions. And it's almost like, well, it's It's almost like, it is like. God set up the beginning of Jesus' life, Jesus' life, the single most influential person in the history of the world,

by basically breaking all those conventions, all the wisdom of the world's conventions. Jesus was not born to the right family. He was not born in the right place. He did not have the right credentials. And he never wrote a book. He did not lead an army. From what we can tell, he wasn't good looking. He didn't do anything the world's way. He did everything God's way. He said, well, what's God's way? Okay, here's God's way. The way up is down. The way to get power is to serve. The way to get really rich, which is to have a love that you can never lose, is to give all your money away. The opposite of what the world says. And so, what does that mean? Especially those of us who live in New York. Even those of us who say, say, oh, we're solid Christians, we live in New York. You just start to fall into,

you implicitly start to assume nothing good comes out of Nazareth or places like that. Nothing good comes out of Bethlehem. And yet, watch out, that wisdom of the world tends to superficiality. It tends to superficiality. So if you look, let's just, if you look at your level of professional success and material comfort, money, power, looks,

you're likely to either feel bad about your inventory or it's possible you might feel good about your inventory and I'm saying stop it stop both stop either of those it's not that important

why? because God has made foolish the wisdom of the world he has shown the wisdom of the world to be foolishness by the very birth of Jesus Christ in a manger to a poor girl an unwed mother surrounded by shepherds the scum of the earth in the wrong place to the wrong people the wisdom of the world is superficial so it's dated it's always insufficient can't bring you home it's superficial but it can burst its own banks through the power of the Holy Spirit see in the end look at the end

when they saw the star overjoyed, verse 11, on coming to the house, see, not the stable, by the way. Sorry to do that to you too, okay? I'm just destroying all of your fond memories of pageants. When they saw the star, they were overjoyed. On coming to the house, they saw the child with his mother Mary, and they bowed down and worshiped. See, the gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh were kingly gifts. gifts it's one of the reasons why probably uh it came to be believed that these were kings they're very well very expensive but it was also normal that when you went to see a king or anyone superior to you always brought gifts so for them to bow down for them to give gifts yeah to worship to worship. J.C. Ryle, a 19th century Christian who was the bishop of Liverpool, the Anglican bishop of Liverpool, wrote a series of little commentaries on Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And in his commentary on this passage, this is what he says. He says, they saw no miracles to convince them. They heard no wise words out of his mouth. mouth, they saw nothing but a newborn infant on the lap of a poor woman, but they worshiped. No greater faith than this can be found in the whole volume of the Bible. That's a pretty strong statement, but I understand what he means. I said, look at everybody else who ever believed. Generally, they believed because they heard a great sermon on the mount, or they saw a great miracle, or they were healed, or even the people, the rest of the New Testament, people believed in Jesus because they heard a great sermon at least but they walk in they see an infant on the lap of a poor woman and they worship him why the only reason why these pagan wise men would worship if is if by some divine revelation they realize this is what we've been looking for all our lives. What have these guys been looking for all their lives? What does they've lived for? Wisdom. And now they perceive, and it has to be from the Holy Spirit. Here's what we've been looking for all our life. And so they worship. Now I could end by saying, and I will say it, but I won't explain it. That everybody in this world, everybody in this room has been living for something. And I can tell you no matter who you are, no matter

position, whatever you have been looking for all your life will only be found in this child. But rather than expound on that, let's just end because this is about wisdom. And let me just suggest to you that you actually can have the same experience as these wise men. You can see in Jesus Christ, the ultimate wisdom of God. How can you have that kind of experience? Well, Paul actually tells you because in the passage In the passage where he says, where's the wise man? Where's the scholar? Where's the philosopher of this age? Has not God made foolish wisdom of the world? He then immediately says, but we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to Jews, foolishness to Gentiles, but to those whom God has called, Christ, the power of God and the wisdom of God. Where do you see? See, they went in, they saw a child, Holy Spirit, this is the true wisdom of God. How can you have that experience? Not by looking at a, you know, going home and looking at your manger scene. by looking at the cross. Why would Paul say that's where you see it? That's where you can have this experience. Well, think with me for a minute. Jesus was the ultimate wise. And what does that mean? Because he was not cookie cutter, because he was nuanced, because he was insightful. You know, in John chapter three, Nicodemus confronts him. You must be born again. John chapter 4, one chapter later, woman at the well. He's gentle, patient, careful, process. Funeral of Lazarus. The man's dead. Two sisters, Mary and Martha. Martha, Jesus meets Martha and she says, if you'd been here, my brother wouldn't have died. And Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. Boom. a minute or two later Mary comes up and says if you were here my brother wouldn't have died. All he does is weep. Why is he tender with Mary. Tough with Martha. Why is he tender with a woman. Tough with Nicodemus. Because he's not cookie cutter. Because he's not one size fits all. Because he's not one dimensional. Because he's wise. He's not just good. He's wise. Do you want to be wise? Well here's how you do it. Look at the cross. are looking at the cross. Let me ask you a question. Is God so Holy and righteous that he cannot disregard sin. He must always, always, always punish sin. Sin because he's that Holy and he's that righteous. Is God that Holy and righteous or is God so loving and merciful that he's going to accept you no matter what you do? Which is it? It's going to have to be one or the other, right? Can't be both equally. It has to be more one, the other surely. And by the way, that's how all of us are. We're one dimensional. Some of us are legalists. Some of us are relativists. Or at least we're moving in that direction. I mean, look at our political parties. They're moving in that direction. Look at our churches. They're moving in that direction. It's kind of one or it's the other. Now let's go to the cross. Is God a God so righteous and holy he has to punish sin or so loving and merciful that he's going to accept you no matter how you live? And the answer is both. Equal. Only on the cross could God in his consummate wisdom do something that on the one hand completely fulfilled holiness and law because it satisfied the justice of God and completely satisfies at the same time love and mercy because it makes it possible if you believe in him to be accepted no matter what you have done, even if you've done murder. murder. And therefore, if you see the consummate wisdom of God, how we did both at once, no either or both at the same time that passes into you and you become the most multi-dimensional uncookie cutter, wise, nuanced person. You're not a legalist. You're not a relativist. You have a high view of yourself as completely loved and a low view of yourself as a terrible sinner at the same time. That's nuance. That's multidimensionality. And you move through life being able to know how to be sympathetic at the same time, make the hard call and do the confrontation. Look at the cross and you will have the same experience as these wise men. Keep looking at the cross. And the more you do, and the more you believe in that cross, the more you will give him your all, give him the great gifts of your life, and the wiser you'll be. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us the beauty of your wisdom. The way these wise men came to see that all wisdom was in you, and of course, even though it was revealed to them, they didn't understand the cross. They couldn't actually see what we see. that you have shown us so much. Oh Lord, keep us from the simplistic, one-dimensional position of either despising completely the wisdom of this world and not seeing how by your common grace there is much fruit and good out there, or on the other hand, having our head turned by it, being enamored with it, being caught up in it,

and eventually as dated as the wisdom of this world is and will be. Help us, in other words, to walk like your son in all wisdom in this world. And we can only do that as we look more and more at your son and love him for what he did for us on the cross and find ourselves transformed more and more into his wise likeness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.