The scripture reading comes from the book of Exodus, chapter 7, verses 14 through 18, and chapter 10, verses 21 through 29.

Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is unyielding. He refuses to let the people go. Go to Pharaoh in the morning as he goes out to the water. Wait on the bank of the Nile to meet him and take in your hand the staff that was changed into a snake.

will not be able to drink its water. Then the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward the sky so that darkness will spread over Egypt, darkness that can be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward the sky and total darkness covered all Egypt for three days. No one could see anyone else or leave his place for three days, yet all the Israelites had light in the places where they Then Pharaoh summoned Moses and said, Go, worship the Lord. Even your women and children may go with you. Only leave your flocks and herds behind. But Moses said, You must allow us to have sacrifices and burnt offerings to present to the Lord our God. Our livestock, too, must go with us. Not a hoof is to be left behind. We have to use some of them in worshiping the Lord our God. And until we get there, we will not know what we are to use to worship the Lord. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he was not willing to let them go. Pharaoh said to Moses, Get out of my sight. Make sure you do not appear before me again. The day you see my face, you will die. Just as you say, Moses replied, I will never appear before you again. This is the word of the Lord.

We're looking at the life of Moses in the book of Exodus, and today we come to a very famous, but unfortunately for the preacher, a very long passage, part of the book of Exodus, the plagues of Egypt. We know from last week that God sent Moses to Pharaoh with a message, let my people go. They're in slavery. You're the king of the country where they're enslaved. slave, let them go that they might worship me. Now, the first time Pharaoh hears this message from Moses is in chapter 5, not in chapter 7 where we start. It's in chapter 5. That's the beginning of this part of the book of Exodus. And in chapter 5, Pharaoh responds to Moses by saying, who is the Lord that I should obey him? Who is the Lord that I should obey him? See, that's what Pharaoh says, and that is what triggers the plagues. Now, what do the plagues mean? Unfortunately, it stretches from chapter 5 all the way to chapter 10. We've printed and heard and read the first of the plagues, the smiting of the Nile River, the second last of the plagues before the great climax at Passover, which is the darkening of the sun and moon. There's actually nine plagues between the first one and the last one. But once Pharaoh says, who is the Lord that I should obey him? That's what triggers the series of plagues coming down and striking Egypt. Now, what's the plagues about? What does all this mean? Some people, I think there's two superficial responses. One is to say, great, I love that, a God who smites the bad people. Another response is, yep, that's exactly why I got out of institutional religion and the church and everything like that, because I hate this idea. I think it's dangerous to believe in a God who is a God of judgment, who strikes down the unbelievers. And both of those responses, I hope to show you, are superficial.

The plagues come to answer a question. Why should we obey God? Who is the Lord that we should obey him? Why should we obey this one? And there are three answers that the plagues give us for why we should obey. Because he's the unique judge of all the earth. Because he's the natural judge of all the earth. And because he's the saving judge of all the earth. Okay, let's go right through them. The plagues are answering the question in chapter 5, verse 2, who is the Lord that we should obey Him, that I should obey Him? First of all, the first thing the plagues tell us is we should obey God because He's the unique Lord of all the earth. When Pharaoh says, who is the Lord that I should obey Him, he's not speaking as a religious atheist, but as a religious pluralist. religious atheists. They were hardly any then in those days. There were no religious atheists. Religious pluralists was just about everybody. See, when he says, who is the Lord? He's not saying as an atheist would, I don't believe your God exists. He's saying what the pluralist would say is, which is, you've got your God, I've got my God. Why in the world would you insist that I should convert or obey or listen to your God? This is Egypt. We've got our gods. You've got your God's fine. But why should I ever obey your God? So that's the view of Pharaoh. And I must say that even though I'm sure there's a lot of things that Pharaoh would not like about Manhattan, one thing is he would feel very much at home here, because that's what almost everybody else in Manhattan believes too. And that is, most people, most New Yorkers today are religious pluralists. That is, they say, there are many views of God and spiritual reality, but no one should say there's superior, or that you should abandon your view and your God and take on mine. That's not good. That's wrong. That's intolerant. In other words, what the average New Yorker thinks is exactly what Pharaoh thought. But the first message of the plagues is that Pharaoh is mistaken. In fact, see, the plagues are very carefully chosen. The Nile River was a god. It was worshipped by the Egyptians, and God smites it. The sun and the moon were also gods, very important gods worshipped in the Egyptian pantheon, and God smites them. And of course, right here in chapter 7, verse 17, it says, by this you will know that I am the Lord. And actually, in chapter 9, there's another place during one of the, right before the great hailstorm, that God says this, go, or this time I will send the full force of my plagues against you, so you may know there is no one like me in all the earth. Okay, now there it is. It's kind of out there, but there it is. The first message of the plagues is that the religious pluralist view that everybody has their own God, and every religion is sort of equally valid, and every God is sort of equally good for the people who worship him, the first thing God is saying is, no, I'm the unique God. There is none like me in all the earth. Now, with all due respect, I understand why a lot of people go, oh, gee, I don't like this part at all. This is something I cannot accept. But in the context of the whole Bible, there's a very, very, very good answer to the question of why this God could claim to be none like me on all the earth. None like me on all the earth. I mean, is this just his way of saying, I'm bigger than the other gods. I'm badder than the other gods. I'm realer even than the other gods. The other gods aren't real. I am real. There's some element of truth in that, but I want to show you as we go on that's not the ultimate answer to the question is why would this God be unique? Why should I obey this God? Let's just leave it at this point. Let's leave point one right there. The first thing that the plagues of Egypt show us is that He is the unique God, the unique judge of all the earth. And we'll get back and explain why that makes sense in a moment. We'll get back to that, okay? Now, there's a second thing that plagues tell us. The second reason the plagues say we should obey beg God is because he's not just the unique judge, but he's the natural judge. Natural judge. That's a kind of, I know that's a kind of strange phrase, and I meant it to be strange. I meant it to make you think. I meant it to be a little odd. And here's what we mean. When people have read the plagues, one of the things they've noticed is how natural the plagues are. In fact, how, in many ways, how unmiraculous they are. For example, let me show you what I mean by this. The first plague is the Nile is smitten, and no one can drink it.

If the text means it was literally turned to blood or whatever the text means, God did something to the Nile, and there's a lot of debates about it by both liberal and conservative scholars, and I'll get into it. But whatever he did, it made it undrinkable and destroyed the ecosystem of the Nile. Because notice, all the other plagues come out consequentially from that. Because the Nile River is smitten so that it is undrinkable, it destroys the ecosystem of the Nile so that frogs, zillions of frogs, the second plague is, zillions of frogs come out of the Nile, out of the marshes, out of the river, into everything, into the beds, into the ovens, into everything, and they all die. And so there are just zillions of rotting, stinking, carcasses everywhere in Egypt. That's the second plague. As a result of the first plague, the second plague. As a result of the second plague, the third plague. Because of all these dead, rotting carcasses, next thing you know, you have a plague of gnats and a plague of flies. So the third and the fourth plague come from the second, which comes from the first. Naturally. There's natural consequences. It's an ecological disaster. Then on top of that, because of all the gnats and flies, what are plagues five and six. Plagues five and six are epidemics. An epidemic that destroys the livestock, then an epidemic that destroys the people, either a skin disease, and on it goes. Then the next plagues are a hailstorm, and then there's a plague of locusts. But surely God could have done a better job if his purpose, it was just to show these guys that he was there. If he just wanted to unmistakably, unarguably prove that he existed and that he was powerful and they had to listen to him, there surely were better things than this. In other words, these plagues are almost too natural. They're not miraculous enough. And I know this is going to be a bit funny, but I mean, I'm really asking this question. Couldn't Moses, I mean, a God who could do all this surely could have done this. He could have empowered Moses to do this. Couldn't Moses have walked in to Pharaoh the very first time, he could save everybody a lot of trouble, and said, okay, Pharaoh, I'm going to show you that an all-powerful, omnipotent, unique, supreme God has sent me, and let me show you. And suddenly he waves his hand, and all of Pharaoh's courtiers and noblemen around him turn into horses. And he looks at Pharaoh and said, you're next. Well, Pharaoh would be down on his knees, you know, and he said, now I'll turn them all back. Or, you know, and I'm not trying to be gross or something. He could have just, you know, someone...I mean, if this was a Hollywood movie, of course they would have done this. You know, he would have pointed to someone in Pharaoh's court, and they would have burst into flame. He would have pointed to another one, burst into flame, and said, you're next. It would have been easy. Why do you think it takes to almost the very end, the second last plague, Pharaoh starts to realize these aren't natural disasters? Yes, of course, they happened when Moses said. Yes, Yes, of course, they didn't happen down in Goshen where the Hebrews were living. But the fact is, up until the very end where this absolute thick darkness, everything that happened had happened before. And it happened very naturally. I mean, one thing led to another. They were all sort of natural disasters. They were terrible. They were devastating. But they were natural. And if God wanted to make sure that Pharaoh and the Egyptians immediately knew, that it was immediately proven that there was a supernatural omnipotent God behind everything, surely he could have done a better job than that. So why does he do it this way? And the answer is he's not just simply, he is not, in fact, it would be almost the exact, it would really, really undercut his message. The plagues have a message to them. And what is that message? Scholars have noted now for decades, that Exodus chapter 5 to 10 is an undoing of Genesis 1 to 2. That what's happening in Exodus 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, the plagues were not simply supernatural, though of course they were. Of course there was God at work. But what they are is nature out of control, nature breaking down, nature going crazy and devouring itself, nature reverting back to pre-creation chaos. See, what you have in Genesis 1 and 2 is we see God takes these elements, takes man, woman, animals, plants, land, water, and weather, and turns them into a beautiful, completely perfect, perfect, interdependent, harmonious, coherent whole. They are absolutely at one with each other. They absolutely cohere. Every one works with every other one in such perfection that everything is characterized by beauty and of flourishing and growth and wholeness and light and order. And now we see exactly the opposite. Every day of creation is being undone, in which what's going on through the plagues is now you have the weather destroying the animals and the insects destroying the plants and so on and so on until the end. When we get back to actually the very, very, very beginning, to Genesis 1 verse 2 where it says, and the earth was without form and void. The earth was completely chaotic and darkness was upon the face of the deep before the Spirit of God moved across the waters. Darkness was on the face of the deep. Before the Spirit, darkness, chaos. The spirit of God comes, light, order. And what God is saying in the plagues is very important. I'm going to take a moment here to expound it. God is saying, my power, my law, my authority is not arbitrary. It is not an exercise just of naked power. hour. But everything I tell you to do is natural, and every time you disobey me, the consequences are utterly natural. Because when I speak to you about how I want you to live, or put it this way, to disobey me is to unleash forces of chaos and disorder in your life and in the life of everything around you. Because when you disobey me, you are violating the fabric of the being of the world and of your own being. The consequences of disobedience to God are utterly natural because the law and the directives and the will of God is utterly natural. And when you disobey, the consequences are natural and you unleash all sorts of forces of disorder, and disintegration in your life and the life of everything around you. Let me give you an example. A doctor says to a 55-year-old man, you cannot eat this, this, this, this. You can't eat cholesterol. So you can't eat this and this and this and this. You mustn't eat any of these things. Stay away from them completely. Now, there's a couple of things the 55-year-old man will not say. The first thing he will not say is, this is simply a naked expression of power. you're just trying to control my life. Now, you know what? There are some people idiotic enough to say that generally, but in general, he will not say that. The second thing he won't say is, well, I guess if I do this, you're going to have me arrested? You're going to fine me?

And of course, the answer is no, because the doctor, she has given you directives, real directives. She has ordered you, as your doctor, to not do certain things, reflect the nature of your being. And her directives simply are trying to show you a way to live in a way that honors the fabric of your being so as to live a life of flourishing and to live a life of freedom. And if you violate her directives, you are at the very same moment violating yourself. If you trample on what she says, you've trampled on your own being. And it's going to start and you're going to have a heart attack and another heart attack, and maybe that's it.

God's authority is exactly like that, only a thousand times more so. Why? Well, first of all, God, unlike the doctor, the doctor has studied your physical fabric, but God created it. And secondly, God doesn't just know about the physical fabric of creation, but the emotional fabric, the psychological, the sociological, everything, and the spiritual. And what we mean, and this is so important, here's why you should obey God. God is speaking to you not just simply as your King saying, I have created these rules simply to show you that I'm bigger than you. I like you. I want you to do this, this, this, this, and this will prove to you that I'm bigger than you. No, no. God's rules are because He's our Maker. And because He's our Maker, maker. Everything he tells us reflects wisdom and actually reflects how we were created, the structure, the very fabric of our life. And this is, here's how this works. It's very, very simple. He gives you, how do I put this, psychological directives. He says, you mustn't have anything in your life more important than me, anything. You can't just come to church occasionally and say, well, I believe nothing more important. I have to be more important to you than your job, more important to you than your work. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. It must be more important than anything else. You must build your identity on me more than anything else and what I've done for you. Now, what if you don't do that? Will he say, that person's not living for me. I'll have to, tomorrow, I'll have him break his leg. big. You know, I'll give him a fender bender. That'll teach him. How are you kidding? You're going to start experiencing disintegration. I mean, just one perfect example is what if you make your work more important than God, and you overwork, and you overwork for years and years and years. You're going to experience what? Family disintegration. You're going to experience, especially if anything goes wrong with your work, emotional disintegration. And of course, your doctor will tell you eventually you experience physical disintegration. You're

you're going back to dust. Why did God say to Adam and Eve in the garden, dust thou art and to dust you will return? What he's simply saying is, I put you in a world, and the world was perfectly put together, and I put you in a world to love me with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. If you don't live the way I tell you to live, all the coherence will turn into incoherence. All the integration will turn Everything will start to fall apart. Let me give you another one. God says don't live for anything more important than me. He also says you must forgive. That's a relational command.

It's a relational command. Forgive. If someone hurts you, if someone wrongs you, you must forgive. Is there anybody here, and I'm sure there are, that have not been able to do that? Someone has wronged you, and you have not been able to forgive them. You haven't. You haven't been able to give it up. up. Maybe you would like to, but you're really not that motivated. Maybe you really feel like you're perfectly justified. I tell you, it's not like God is going to look down and say, why? That person's disobeying my command. I'm going to make sure that something goes wrong. No, you're going to experience disintegration. You already are. Bitterness will create, there'll be emotional disintegration, there'll be some relational disintegration, at least the person you're mad at. And you'll probably start, it'll probably start to create disintegration of relationships of people who are like the person you're mad at. Because there's a tendency, if you're bitter, anger starts to associate itself with other people who are like it. So if a woman wronged you, you might get mad at women. If a person of a particular race wronged you, you might start to look at that whole bunch of folks of the same race in the same way. There will be, and eventually there'll even be physical disintegration. If you refuse to obey what God has said, you're returning to dust. Or then there's his social commands. You must not think your race is superior to others. You must not take all the money you make and spend it on yourself, but rather you should be radically generous to people who don't make as much as you do. And if you don't obey that, there'll be social disintegration. There'll be political disintegration. There'll be civic disintegration. What God is saying is, if you disobey me, you unleash the forces of chaos. Creation begins to deconstruct everything, all the order, all the beauty, all the stuff that I created the world to be starts to break down. And therefore, judgment on disobedience to God is utterly and absolutely natural. This is one of the reasons we call him a judge, because he's a justice. In other words, the consequences of disobedience are absolutely just. just. But do you not see the law of God, and I know this doesn't sound like what you might expect, the law of God is medicine. You know, I don't know if they're going to do it because we've only had one of the three, you know, movies that are going to give you the entire J.R.R. Tolkien, in Lord of the Rings. But in the third book, there's a man who shows up and is the true king, but nobody's completely sure he's the true king until he goes into the houses, he goes into the hospital basically, and as he tries to deal with people who no one else can heal, they get better. And there's an old proverb, and the old proverb that somebody says, aha, this is the one, because there's an old proverb that goes like this. The hands of the king are healing hands, and thus shall the rightful king be known. And what God is saying in the plagues, he says, is to be in my unrestricted presence, completely under my royal rule, is to be fully alive. And only there will you be fully alive. Only there will things not fall for you. Only there will there be complete flourishing. And to move away from my healing hand, to move away from my lordship, to move away from my rule, to move away from my will, is to destroy yourself and to unleash forces of chaos and disintegration in your life and the life of everyone around you. That's the second reason you should obey him. But that's not all. In a way, it's not all. And the reason it can't be all is because even now, even if you bought everything I just said, and I hope you did. I mean, it does make sense, does it not? But even if you bought everything I just said, if you would go out and obey because of what I just said, you'd be going out and obeying out of fear. You'd be going out and obeying because, oh my gosh, I better do the things that God tells me. And even there, you'll see that won't be enough to keep you there. says, I better not eat any cholesterol. You know, she's absolutely right. My doctor's absolutely right. Very often he won't do it. It takes more than just fear in order to obey God. So, there's a third thing. And the third reason that the plagues point to, the third reason that we should obey the Lord is he's a saving judge. He's not just a unique judge. He's not just a natural judge. He's a saving judge. judge. Now, here's another thing that is very weird. As you read through the five chapters, I wish I could, you know, get them all out and print them and read them and go through them, but it would take weeks. We can't do it. But one of the things that people have noticed is that God doesn't really seem, well, how do I put it? God seems to be pulling his punches. I mean, now, isn't the purpose of the plagues to judge? And isn't the whole purpose of judgment just to make people suffer, to make people squirm, to make people crawl, to make people submit. Isn't that it? And yet, why is it that, for example, before the hail plague in chapter 9, God sends a message with Moses to Pharaoh, and he says, listen, I'm sending a plague of hail, so get your cattle out of the field, get your farmhands out of the field. Get them out or they're going to be hurt. What kind of judge is that? I mean, isn't the whole purpose of judgment to have lots of death and destruction? Why wasn't God saying, ha, I'll make sure that the hailstorm happens in the daytime instead of at night because there'll be more running and screaming and that's what I'm after? No. What's the matter with God? Why is he pulling his punches like this? And the answer is, you're missing the whole point of the plagues. The plagues have been sent to save. Do you realize that? Every one of the plagues has been sent to save. Let me show you three ways that's true. Number one, first of all, the most obvious, is the judgment. The plagues are judgment, but they're being sent to save the Hebrews. The Hebrews are going to be saved from slavery through the judgment, right? That's it's obvious, but let me give you another one, a little less obvious. There's a place in chapter 9 where God says to Pharaoh, right in the midst of it, he says, by now I could have stretched out my hand and struck you and your people with a plague that would have wiped you off the earth. But I have raised you up for this purpose, that I might show you my power and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. Now, what he's saying is this. The second reason for the plagues is because it's going to be going into a story that millions and millions and millions of people will be looking at for centuries and centuries and through it, through the story of this salvation, through the revelation of who God is and His redemption in the book of Exodus and in the Bible in general. He says, all the world will know. I mean, he says, I'm not sending these plagues just to save the Hebrews. I'm not after just saving one ethnic group. I'm doing it in such a way that the whole world will understand what is sin, what is salvation, what is my liberation, who I am. And thirdly, and I know this will take a little more time than I actually have right here, the third thing is the plagues even were designed to wake the Egyptians up. There's a place in chapter 9, a very interesting place, where it says that the Egyptians that had begun to fear the word of the Lord began to do the things God said, even though Pharaoh's heart was hardened. And I take a little bit of time to talk about this because, as you can see from the very text that we have printed, that there is a very, very interesting symbiosis between Pharaoh hardening his own heart, which you see at the top of chapter 7, and God hardening his heart, which you see at the end of chapter 10. And people have been very, very confused about this over the years, and I need to at least say this, since those of you who have read this may have noticed it, and I don't want to distract you by not talking about this. But you'll find, if you read through chapters 5 to 10, that over and over again it says, God hardened Pharaoh's heart, and it also says over and over again, Pharaoh hardened his own heart. When modern people say, which is it? But you know, it's really not that much different than the place where it says that Judas was punished for betraying Jesus, but his betrayal was absolutely foreordained and planned by God. Somebody had to betray Jesus. It was all part of the plan, and yet he was responsible for what he did. And that's really all it's saying. What it's saying is, on the one hand, everything is going exactly according to God's plan, but God was able to bear on the situation to make sure everything went according to His plan in such a way as not to violate the free choice and the responsibility of every human agent. But what it does mean here is that even the judgment, even the plagues were seeking to wake the Egyptians up. And therefore, every one of the plagues was sent to save. God's approach to judgment is not salvation or judgment, but salvation through judgment. Salvation through judgment. He judges in order to save. Well, you say that's interesting. It's more than interesting. this is why he's unique. This is the answer to the first point. I'm so sorry to walk away from that first point. A lot of you kind of almost look disappointed when I said, God says I'm unique. I'm not like the other gods. I am the true God, and I'm different. And you might say, my religion is unique and different than all other religions. You say, well, why is that? and here's the answer. It's got to do with his judgment. Many years later, darkness came again. You see, what's interesting is when you get back to the last of these plagues, you see in Genesis, at Genesis chapter 1, it says darkness was upon the face of the deep before creation started, and yet here at the last plague, the sun and the moon are gone. on. Darkness is across the land. It's the ultimate sign that the sin of human beings deconstructs nature, deconstructs the fabric of our own being, deconstructs everything that God has made, unleashes the force of disintegration and chaos to the place where we're now back to the pre-creation chaos of Genesis 1, verse 1 and 2. Darkness is upon the face of the deep. Darkness is across the whole land of Egypt. But centuries later, it happened again. And we read about it in Matthew 27, where it says, from the sixth hour to the ninth hour, darkness came over all the land. And at the ninth hour, Jesus Christ called, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And at that moment, the earth shook and the rocks split. What's going on? Do you see what's going on? On the cross, Jesus Christ became the enemy of God. On the cross, all the plagues of God's

On the cross, darkness. Pre-creation chaos came down on him, and he began to disintegrate because he was cut off from God, and everything else about him disintegrated. He experienced absolute agony.

Blood, water, flow mingled down. And as a result, why did he do this? Why did he do this? Because this is the ultimate exodus. This is the ultimate exodus. The rod of God came down on Jesus. The plagues of God came down on Jesus. The darkness of God came down on Jesus. And as a result, we do not receive those plagues. He did it in our place. This means this. Jesus Christ is the judge of all the earth. That's what he claimed. but He was the judge who came to bear judgment, not to bring judgment. Jesus Christ is the maker of the world. That's what John chapter 1 says, that nothing was made except through Him. But Jesus Christ, when He came down, He went to the cross. In other words, this is amazing. The maker, our maker was unmade on the cross so that He could remake you and me, so that He could forgive us, so that He could accept us. As the hymn goes, when Christ the mighty Maker died for man the creature's sin. Now, you know what this does? This makes it, this means here is the point at which Christianity, utterly unique, it is not like all the other religions. It is not at all like all the other religions. It's utterly contradictory at the heart. And here's why. Every other religion has a different approach is a judgment. Even Buddhism. A lot of people like Buddhism because, listen, Buddhism says, unless you live a life of compassion, you'll be reincarnated again until you're finally liberated. If you're good enough, you'll be liberated from the circle of reincarnation. Islam, in other words, every other religion says, here's the standards. Do them or you will experience judgment. And Christianity says, the judge himself came down and bore judgment for you so that you, He could receive you freely. Now, do you see why? There's two things quick about this. Number one, this is what makes Christianity absolutely unique. It says you're saved by grace. It says you're saved by the maker who was unmade that he could remake you. The judge who bore judgment so he wouldn't have to judge you. Utterly different. Totally different than all the other religions. And when people say, but you're still saying Christianity is somehow better than the other religions, aren't you? it is unavoidable, no matter how hard you try, it's unavoidable not to say, I have a view of spiritual reality that's better than yours. You know, I've had people come to me and say, you know, nobody can be sure that their view of spirituality is right. And of course, the right answer is, but how could you be sure about that. If you can't be sure, if no one has the knowledge to be sure about anything with regard to spiritual reality, you shouldn't be sure of that. Somebody says, it's arrogant to think that your take on spiritual reality is right and other people's are wrong. But of course, you have a take on spiritual reality that you think is right because more tolerant, and you think that others are wrong. In other words, it is unavoidable. No matter how hard you protest, it is unavoidable. spiritual reality no matter who you are. There is no neutrality. You have a view of spiritual reality, and you think yours is better than a lot of others, and that people would do better, and the world would be a better place if people abandoned a lot of their views on spiritual reality and adopted yours. So, it's unavoidable to think you've got a better view, and other people ought to abandon theirs and come over to yours. But here's what is avoidable. You don't have to do that with pride, with violence, with coercion, with disrespect. respect, and the cross. Jesus Christ dying for you, the judge being willing to be judged for you, is the most powerful and potent resource that makes you come to other people. Because honestly, a Buddhist is a good Buddhist because he or she has worked at it. A Muslim is a good Muslim because he or she has worked at it. But a Christian is not a good Christian because you've worked at it. Your eyes were open. You were saved in spite of your works. And as a result, the one thing you cannot avoid is saying, I have a take on spiritual reality that is better than yours. Everybody's doing that, no matter who you are. But what you can avoid is having a superior view to the person. You can avoid coercion. You have to do it with humility and respect and love and kindness and patience. And the Christian faith is not only unique in its approach to how you're saved, but it gives you a unique approach to people who disagree with you and therefore obey him. Three reasons. One, because he's the only true God. Two, because he's the designer of your soul and to disobey him will trample on your own being. But number three, he's also the judge who was judged, and to disobey him will trample on his heart. You're trampling on the heart of one who loved you infinitely and experienced uncreation on the cross for you. Let me just give you a couple of real, real, real quick practicals. If you believe what I just said, three balances you can live with. Number one, in obedience, there's a balance between trying and resting. What I mean by that is this. First of all, I've just given you an unbelievable incentive to try. You know, you can't avoid judgment, believe it or not. In a sense, in other words, if you disobey what God is saying, there's going to be disintegration. You're going to go to dust. So, there's a tremendous...in this whole passage, there's this tremendous incentive to try. But if you not only have a judge, you know, that's incentive to try. But if you have a judge that was judged.

When you fail, when you're not able to live up, you don't have to say, oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh. He's going to get me. No. You've already been judged on him, as it were. In other words, all the plagues that you deserve have fallen into the heart of your Savior. There's going to be a balance between trying and resting. Secondly, when it comes to working against the suffering of this world, you know one of the things that's so wonderful about Jesus' ministry? Jesus' miracles are the unplagues. Hear me? What are his miracles? They're not naked displays of power. He could have easily said, you want to see I'm the Son of God? Watch me turn that mountain upside down. Look at that. No. He healed the sick. He raised the dead. He fed the hungry. What does He mean? The miracles of Jesus Christ are not so much a suspension of the natural order as they are a restoration of the natural order. The miracles of Jesus show that He has come not just to save your individual soul in heaven forever, but to restore the natural order. Blind people aren't supposed to be blind. Deaf people aren't supposed to be deaf. dying people aren't supposed to be dying. That's not the way God invented the world to start with, and he's going to put it back there. And what's wonderful about this is utopian vision of getting rid of all the injustice and poverty and troubles, the utopian visions have all been devastating. But if you get cynical, like most people are today, and say, well, you know, there's nothing we can do about the world, and just live for your own individual happiness, that's devastating too. to, oh, friends, if you know that even though you're not going to make it perfect now, eventually, if you sign up and you side with Jesus Christ, you not only should share your faith with people so that they can have an experience of forgiveness, but you can rehab a home, you can tutor a kid so they do better in school than they would otherwise. All these things are part of Jesus' program. And instead of saying, oh, gosh, there's so much injustice, so much suffering in the world, I can never do enough about it. I might as well just go my own life. You're not utopian, you know, in other words, you're not idealistic, but you're not cynical. You're realistic. There's a balance between realism and idealism in our service to people in need. One more thing. You're going to have a balance in your attitude toward people who wrong you. A balance. Because you see, since we believe in a God who is a judge, we know there is a right and wrong. We're not relativists. When you see wrong being done, you say, something ought to be done about that. But knowing that God is a judge and not you is the most incredible resource, not for violence. Some people say, if I believe in a God who judged, I think that would lead to violence. No way. Believing in a God who judged leads to peace. If I know that He's the judge and I'm not, number one, that means I don't know what this person deserves, so I got to be a little reticent about dealing what I think because He's the judge and I'm not. Secondly, I not only acknowledge to be the judge. I don't have the right to be the judge because I'm flawed. See that? Because God's the judge and I'm not, I don't have the right to just deal out retribution. Secondly, I don't have the knowledge to be sure what the retribution should be. But finally, I don't have the power to really strike out at people. But I don't need the power because eventually God's going to get everything straight. And if I know that, then I can live at peace. If I know that, then I don't just get caught up in the cycle of violence and just pick up and

There's a balance in my attitude toward injustice and mistreatment. There's a balance in my service to people with needs and the suffering of the world. And there's a balance in my obedience to God, an enormous balance, an incredible equilibrium, a coherence versus disintegration. Who is the Lord that I should obey him? He's the designer of your heart. He's the healer of your soul. He's the judge who was judged. He was the maker who was unmade so that he could remake you and the whole world. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us in this terrible part of the Bible, the plagues, a heart that loves us, a heart that wants to save us, a heart, your heart, you're a physician. You are a Savior. and we pray that you would show us how we can follow in your footsteps in this world because we have been saved through judgment, the judgment of your son on the cross, Jesus Christ. We pray that you would transform our lives into lives of obedience and service and patience and forgiveness because of these truths. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
