What we're doing is we're looking fairly briefly, pretty much just in the month of May, we're doing a series of extractions from the book of 1 Corinthians, Paul's letter to the Corinthians. I'm calling them hot potatoes. Now why am I calling them hot potatoes? What we're taking a look at are certain issues that have divided the church over the centuries. I'll talk about why in the world I'd even do that in a minute, but just even before And I put two of them together, the first two, which I did the week before last and this week, which are doctrinal examples. Two weeks ago, we did the subject of predestination. Tonight, we're going to be looking at tongues and healing and miracles and what people call the charismatic gifts. The next two weeks, we're going to be looking at sexuality and gender roles. Why? Because Paul talks about them all. The church of Corinth had every problem possible. It was a troubled church, partly because, as I mentioned last week, but I won't go into it now, because it was such a vital church. I mean, vitality goes along with troubles, and it goes along with problems. And so what we're going to be doing is we're going to look fairly briefly at all these divisive issues, something which is not normal here at Redeemer. and you're going to have to have a little bit of self control as we read through this one because even though this is a passage on tongues and charismatic gifts and miracles and there's nobody nowadays that doesn't wonder about those things this used to be just an intramural issue you know Christians knew about well there's charismatic churches where people are very emotional and they seem to have healings and prophecies and revelations and they speak in tongues people outside the Christian church hardly even knew about that so it's not true anymore there's a lot of interest and curiosity we're going to look at that tonight right in the middle, there's a little statement about women that is going to raise some people's hair, and I have to just tell you this. We're going to get to that in two weeks. I can't possibly do justice to both subjects, which means tonight, as we go by that, some people are going to start itching, and I won't be able to scratch you.

And so you just, please, I mean, be sensitive to me. I can't possibly do that. We'll come on back. By the way, if somebody wants to know, there's a passage where Paul says women should be silent in the church. And if somebody here says, if you're saying, you mean you believe that women shouldn't teach, shouldn't speak, shouldn't lead in the church, and obviously the answer to that is that, Redeemer, we don't understand that's what Paul is actually saying. We don't believe that. However, if you want to understand all that stuff, you're going to have to come back. Sorry. Now, let's take a look and read this. And when it goes by and you start to want to itch, just let it go. Itches go away. 1 Corinthians 14.

Tongues, then, are assigned for believers. Oh, pardon me. 1 Corinthians 14, 22-40. Tongues, then, are assigned not for believers, but for unbelievers. Prophecy, however, is for believers, not for unbelievers. So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in tongues, and some of you who do not understand or some unbelievers come in, will they not say that you are out of your mind? But if an unbeliever or someone who does not understand comes in while

What then shall we say, brothers? When you come together, everyone has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue, or an interpretation. All of these must be done for the strengthening of the Church. If anyone speaks in a tongue, two or at the most three should speak,

The speaker should keep quiet in the church and speak to himself and God. Two or three prophets should speak, and the other should weigh carefully what is said. And if a revelation comes to someone who's sitting down, the first speaker should stop. For you can all prophesy in turn, so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. The spirits of prophets are subject to the control of prophets. For God is not a God of disorder, but of peace. As in all the congregations of the saints, women should remain silent in the churches. They're not allowed to speak, but must be in submission, as the law says.

This is God's Word. I know some of you are going, You can't? We'll do it later. Now, why bring up stuff like this? Let's just take a second. Let's ask two questions. Why should you go after certain things that divide people, that are controversial, that upset people? Why talk about them? That's the first question. The second question is, why don't you talk about them more? The first question, why talk about them at all? The reason we should sometimes talk about them,

they divide people and because they divide Christians. And that means every so often what we really ought to do is we ought to get out the subject, and if the Bible speaks to it, we shouldn't be too cowardly to talk about it. And once we look at it, we should be, actually, our discussion. Not only what I'm doing here, I'm going to try, but also our discussion afterwards and so on. We ought to say, how do we talk about this in a gracious way? How do we talk about this in a modest way? How do we talk about this in, as Paul says, let everything be done for edification. See that? Let everything be done, he says, in verse 26, for the strengthening of the church. How do we talk about this stuff in such a way that we're really clearly out for unity? How do we talk about these things in that kind of way? That's one of the reasons why we have to bring these up every so often. We have to bring them up because the Bible speaks to them and because they divide. And if we come about it with a gracious heart and with some insight, every time we do it, if we do it right, it'll divide us a little less. But on the other hand, somebody might say, how come at Redeemer you don't talk about this stuff more often? A lot of you are going to have a lot of trouble. Even if you've been coming here five or six years, it's going to be a long time. Some of you have never heard me talk about this subject. Some of you have never heard me talk about any of the subjects. Even if you've been coming for years. And you might say, well, why don't you get to these things? Does the Bible talk about them? Are you just being a coward? Lord. I'm an oldest child. You know, I want to please people. Yeah, I think there's got to be something to that. But here's the problem. A lot of churches want to talk about the things that make this church different from all other churches. See? No matter what you are, you're different. Even the churches that say we're non-denominational, you know, just say, okay, how do you do baptism? What do you believe about tongues? I mean, as soon as you... There's no such thing as a non-denominational church. There's just unaffiliated churches. I mean, everybody comes down somewhere, and churches differ. And so every church is different, and some churches love to talk about what makes them different from other churches. You know, we're different. We baptize this way, the right way, not the wrong way. We use tongues and healing the right way, not the wrong way. And we love to talk about why we're different. And at Redeemer, since the beginning, we have tried to set this. most talk about here is the things that make us the same as other churches. If possible, we're going to talk about the things that make us the same as all other churches, Orthodox, Catholic, and Protestant. As much as we possibly can, we're going to talk about, we're going to relish, we're going to rest in the things that make us the same as other churches. And that's where we're going to hammer. That's where we're going to raise our voice. Why? Well, think about this. The areas where all Christians pretty much have this broad consensus for centuries are the areas where the Bible talks very clearly and regularly. And the areas where there's a lot of division, this shouldn't surprise us, the areas where there's a lot of division, there's no consensus, are in areas where the Bible doesn't talk a lot. You don't have a whole lot of information. You have certain texts. There's not a lot of them, and they're disputable. and therefore if here at Redeemer we talked about the things that made us different from other churches anywhere close to as often as we talk about the things that make us the same we'd be giving people absolutely the wrong impression you see even tonight I worry because some of you are going to say well uh Tim said this well I don't want you to get the impression that what I'm going to tell you tonight is essential to the gospel and I don't want you to think uh what I'm telling you tonight that I'm as sure of you see most of the time the things we talk about are the things that, boy, I tell you something. If most Christians over all cultures through all the centuries agree that Jesus Christ is fully God and fully human, that the Bible is the Word of God, that God is three but one, that he rose triumphant over the grave, he passed through the heavens, he's seated at the right hand of the Father, all those things. Let's die for those things. And if we're going to die for those things because we know it's true, why do we know it's true? because if all those Christians can agree, it must be true. These sorts of things that divide us, we've got to come at them graciously, we've got to come at them modestly, and we have to come at them, to some degree, seldom. Otherwise, you're just giving people the wrong impression. So, having said that, this is still important. Why? It's in the Bible, and it talks about a very important subject, and that is worship. Now, look with me. This kind of remarkable passage, it's remarkable because most of you found you didn't understand. What does that mean? All sorts of red flags. And I can't get to them all, though we do have a Q&A time afterwards, and some of you want to pick up. I'm sure I'll scare a few snakes out that I can't kill, you know, before. See, a sermon is like throwing a rock into a bush, and all these snakes come out. The job of the preacher is to kill all the snakes before the sermon's over. You see? The trouble is, some of these passages, that's impossible. So I'm going to try to hit the biggest snakes. And some of the little worms and squiggles later. If you take a look at these three paragraphs, each of the paragraphs has a broad and very important guideline for worship, for the public worship. When the church gets together, what's it supposed to do? How's it supposed to be working? And there's three basic guidelines, and they're incredibly important. And the basic guidelines, I'm pretty sure of. All the applications I'm not as. But here's the first. The first basic guideline, you will see here in verses 22 to 25. first basic guideline is the goal of worship is to experience, to know, to realize the presence of God. That's the goal of worship. Look, it says, if even an unbeliever or someone who does not understand comes in while everybody is prophesying, he will be convinced by all he's a sinner and he will be judged by all and the secrets of his heart will be laid bare. So he will fall down and worship God exclaiming, God is really among you. Now think about this for me for a sec, with me for a second. And this is telling us that the church, there are churches that basically, when you get together for their services, the basic goal you can see, the basic gist of the service is instruction. The services are a lecture hall. The services are a place where information is coming. And the goal, therefore, in a sense, is to learn. learn. There are other churches in which the goal is not to learn. It's not an instruction hall. The goal in some ways is to feel. And as we're going to see down here, in a sense, verse 22 to 25 warns churches who basically turn their service into kind of a lecture hall, a place where we talk and we have information. It's kind of like a class. That's not the goal of worship. However, verses 26 to 33, as we're going to see a little later, warns us. Paul says some amazingly things in there. He basically says, get control. He says, in worship, I don't care if you've got a revelation. Sit down. Wait your turn. If the minister says five minutes, take five minutes. It's amazing. That is a remarkable, we'll get to that in a second. This paragraph is so unromantic, so ostensibly spirit quenching. He says, sit down, take your turn. Spirit of the prophets is subject to the prophets. You don't have to be out of control. I don't care what your impulses are. Think about the people around you. Be considerate. These paragraphs cut against charismatic churches and non-charismatic churches tremendously because charismatic churches do have a tendency to overshoot into emotion. And they encourage people basically to self-indulgently express their emotions without concern about who's around them. On the other hand, non-charismatic churches are afraid of emotion by and large, and their goal is instruction. But Paul says here that the goal of every worship service is to realize the presence of God, to fall down. See, falling down is not something. What's really interesting about verse 24 and 25, falling down is clearly not something that this person who came in planned to do. Why? Because this person who came in is an unbeliever or someone who does not understand.

kinds of non-believing people. The first one is an unbeliever. That means a skeptic. But the second Greek word, which is rendered someone who does not understand, is a seeker. So what Paul is talking about are sort of two spiritual conditions, a person who's very far away from belief and a person who's kind of interested but not there. These aren't people who come to church expecting to fall down. There are plenty of churches where everybody expects to fall down. They fall down every week. I'm not trying to make fun, okay? They fall down every week. People come, they fall down. I mean, you know, in Episcopal churches, everybody kneels. In Presbyterian churches, everybody stands and sits on their hands. And in Pentecostal churches, everybody falls down. And what I like about this is when the presence of God comes up, there are several things that happen, but one of them is surprise. These people did not come expecting to fall down. used to falling down. They've never fallen down, but they do. When the presence of God is realized, several things happen. What are they? Take a look. First of all, there's a surprise. You know that hymn, William Cooper's hymn, sometimes the light surprises the Christians when they sing, it is the sun who rises with healing in his wings. What he's trying to get across is the one way you know that the presence of God is here is it's not something that you're expecting. It doesn't come on cue. As we all know, churches where everybody expects to fall down, churches where nobody expects to fall down, you see, one of those is not necessarily more open to the presence of God than another. The presence of God come as a surprise. It's not expected, which means it does not always happen. It doesn't mean it doesn't always happen. Well, what are some of the marks of it? Here's just three. First of all, it says the secret of their heart will be revealed. about that. When the presence of God happens. This is not just information, but this is not just emotion. First of all, when it says the secrets of his heart will be laid bare, it means that when you have an experience like this, it means suddenly you come to understand your heart in a way you never did before. And this is one of the ways in which you know you've come into the presence of God. We're not talking about inspiration. We're not talking about information. confirmation. We're talking about suddenly you see your heart and you say, oh my God. You look at your heart and you, and you see how it works. And you see why you felt the way you have. And you see why you've done the things you've done. I mean, it's just revelatory. I mean, Freud wanted this so badly. Freud wants, you know, he wants insight. And years and years and years of therapy to get insight where suddenly people say, aha, in the presence of God, the secrets of your heart are laid bare. Laid bare, you suddenly see what's going on. But, but, when you come to the worship of God, you don't simply come to know yourself. But look, what happens? When the secrets of your heart are revealed, you go to God. You worship. And this means that you see how God's reality, and you sense God's reality, relates to the needs of your heart and you go and you drink deep. You see, when you're experiencing the presence of God, first of all, you see your heart in a way you never have before and then you realize how God relates to that. And basically, I think the language of an experience of the presence of God is to say, ah, it was you all along. It was you all along. You're the one I've been longing for. Now I see. You were there. When I was a teenager, bridge. You're the one that gave me that insight. You're the one. You've been there all along. See, when the presence of God comes, God is no longer an abstraction, but you sense his reality in such a way, in such a way that you really see how it meets the deepest needs of your heart, which you now understand for the first time. That's the experience. And we're told that when the presence of God is a reality in a service of worship, virtually everybody understands because it says as the unbeliever does. Now, listen very quickly. This is not a promise that when the presence of God is present, every single person who is in that room evidently knows. It doesn't have to be. You know, one of my favorite and kind of sad but helpful stories that I've ever read, William Wilberforce was an MP, a member of parliament back in the early part of the 19th century. And he was a major politician in Great Britain. And he and the Clapham Sec, politicians, Christian politicians that came out of the great awakenings of the 18th century. They were sort of children and grandchildren of the great awakenings of the 18th century. In the early part of the 19th century, the Christians got together and applied their biblical principles and abolished the slave trade in the British Empire. It took years and years to do it. William Wilberforce was the leader of that. He was a great man. One of his best friends was a man named William Pitt, William Pitt the Younger. His father, I guess, was the guy after whom Pittsburgh is named in Fort Pitt. And I think he was the son, therefore, of the prime minister. He was a very able man, and he wasn't a Christian. And he was Wilberforce's dear friend. And one day, William Wilberforce brought William Pitt to church. Pitt didn't usually go to church, but one day he came to church. And Wilberforce was so excited and so happy because the preacher was a man named Richard Cecil, who was a good minister. And when he got up and he began to preach, Wilberforce was so excited because it was a good sermon. Now, you know what it's like. You bring a friend to church and it's Stewardship Sunday. And the minister's up there telling why you need to give more of your money to the church and you're just sitting there sinking down. And Wilberforce was so excited because as Richard Cecil preached, he realized this is one of the best sermons he'd ever heard. And he finally found, his heart was bursting with joy because his dear friend was actually getting a presentation and a communication of the gospel of Jesus Christ in a way that was credible, that it was attractive, that it was worthy of it, you see. And on the way out, Wilberforce just couldn't, after it was all done, he just could hardly wait. And he turned to Pitt and said, well, what'd you think? And William Pitt, a brilliant man, said, Wilberforce, could you explain, I could not understand what that man was saying. I couldn't make it out at all. I haven't the slightest idea what he was talking about. I mean, there's certainly a spiritual obtuseness very often that's over the heart. And this is not a claim that when the presence of God is present, that every single person in the room will immediately know. But here's what it does tell me. What it does tell me is one of the marks of this is that there's a consensus that people of all sorts of spiritual conditions say, something's going on there. I can sense it. Now, I got to and move on here. But here, this is the first thing. This is extremely important. Why? Because I would have to say that if we're looking at the charismatic churches, those churches that have arisen and they're very powerful in the 20th century, they're spreading all over the world, those churches which most of us would consider fairly emotionally expressive in their worship, I would have to say they have a lot to teach us. Because when I go into those churches, the one thing you can tell is they expect the presence of God. They know... There's an attitude by the worship leaders and an attitude by the people, and the attitude goes like this, God is here, and God could really come down, and our lives could be changed forever. I might never forget today. Anything could happen. God is here. God is present. I mean, that attitude is extremely important. And I would have to say, therefore, this first principle, and that is that the goal of worship is not instruction and it's not inspiration, but it's bringing people into the presence of God. I think what this means is basically we have got, those of us who are not in the charismatic churches, churches like Redeemer, which have a tendency toward the classroom. We've got to ask ourselves some questions. Are we ready for God to come down? Now think about this. When you read 25 and 24, if you read the history books, is there have been times in which God really came down. He was really present. Major, major ways. In Asbury College, for example, out in Kentucky, in the early 1970s, I think it was in 1970, a chapel program began. One day, and it ended two weeks later. Two weeks later. Why? Because in the middle of the service, suddenly this very thing happened. People got convicted, destructive way. You see, if you look at this and you say, convince that they're sinners, that sounds psychologically destructive. That sounds traumatic. That sounds painful. It is sweet.

With pleasing grief and mournful joy, my spirit now is filled that I should such a life destroy yet live by him I killed. The hymns are filled with this. And if you haven't experienced it yet, I pray that someday you will. Of course, there's a bitterness. Of course, there's a conviction, but it's sweet. You see your heart for the first time and you're convicted, but you go to him and you drink deep. There's a tremendous sweetness to it. Your hearts are wounded with sweet words. You see, your joy is like swords. Your tears are the very wine of blessedness. And are we ready for that? Because when that happens, it happens. Throughout history, there have been times like this, when God really comes down. Now, what I'm asking is, is do we seek it? Do we expect it? When the service goes through, do you just say, okay, now time for the offering, pastoral prayer is over, or do you seek him? Are you savoring every part? You see, are you reaching out? Are we looking just for information? Are we anticipating what could happen? See, this is something the charismatic churches have to teach us. Charismatic churches are very much in line with this first paragraph, very much in line with it, and I think many of the rest of us are not. And so that's what we have to be looking for. Secondly, and the second paragraph is pretty interesting, and it's kind of weird, because in the first paragraph I think it's a challenge to the non-charismatic churches like Redeemer. It says, are you really after bringing people in the presence of God, or are you here just to get inspiration or information? Are you really out to meet God? On the other hand, verses 26 to 33 is really a shocking paragraph, especially if you've ever gone to or you're part of a typical charismatic church, this. He says, basically, no matter how much God seems to be working in your heart, no matter what your impulses are, he says, get control of yourself. And he says, why? Here's the reason why, because of the first paragraph. He goes in and he says, there should be spiritual diversity in your congregation. He says, in any congregation, there will be some people who don't believe at all. See the unbeliever in verse 24. And there will also be people who don't understand. That means they're kind of spiritually open. And then you'll have new believers. Then you'll have mature believers. And here's what he says. He says there are some things that will make outsiders think you're crazy. And one of them is tongues. Okay, now bear with me on this. Verse 22 says tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers. Prophecy is a sign for believers, not for unbelievers. So if the whole church comes together and everyone speaks in tongues and some who do not understand or some unbelievers come in, won't they say that you're out of your mind? Now, what's he saying? Verse 22, I probably shouldn't have printed that without the verse 21 and 20. In verse 20 and 21, Paul quotes a passage out of Isaiah in which God curses the Israelites because they won't obey him, and he sends them people, the Assyrians, who speak to them in a foreign language as a kind of condemnation. And then he turns around and says, tongues then are a sign not for believers, for unbelievers. Now, how does verse 22 fit with Because there he says, when unbelievers come in and they hear everybody praying in tongues, they're going to think you're crazy. The only way that verse 23 fits with 22 is that what Paul is saying is tongues are a bad sign for unbelievers. Tongues are a sign, but what they do is they make unbelievers feel condemned. When an outsider comes in, they see everybody kind of going crazy emotionally. They say, you know, you just say, this is not for me. They feel like, what is wrong with me? people crazy. It's one or the other. And what Paul is saying should not be shocking to you. There's plenty of people over the last seven, eight years that I've been here who have said, I wish Redeemer was more emotionally expressive. I much prefer a charismatic church, but if I want to bring a friend of mine who doesn't understand the gospel, I've got to bring him here. I feel kind of antsy. I have to sit on my hands, but I can't bring him to my church. And this is exactly what Paul's saying. Paul is saying that if you want a spiritually diverse place, you've got to feel in your heart, no matter how much emotion you've got, you've got to think about the people around you. That's what he's saying. That's what the whole gist of this is. And therefore, he says, don't pray in tongues in public. Unless, he says, if anyone prays in a tongue, two are at the most three. And only if you're able to give the gist of what you mean. Because tongues is not in the vernacular. And therefore, he says, there should never be praying in tongues in a public service except just a couple of people. And only if you can give the gist of what you mean. In other words, Paul says, you need to be very concerned about the people around you. It's just totally selfish and self-indulgent if you just come and let it all hang out. And it's amazing, when you go on through, he says, if somebody has a revelation, in other words, I'll get to this in a second, if somebody wants to say something, let the other person sit down, take turns. If you've only got five minutes, just take five minutes. Why? The spirit of the prophets are subject to the prophets. That is one of the most unspiritual sounding things you're ever going to hear. What it's really trying to say is, I don't care how you feel. I don't care what God's doing in your heart. You need to think about other people. Sit down. Wait your turn. Let things be done decently and in order. Now, listen. What's actually going on here is a great challenge, not so much to the non-charismatic churches, but it's a great challenge to the charismatic churches. Why? Well, here's why. What is prophecy? prophecy. Well, we'll get to this in just one second because it's my last point. But in this point, what we're really being told is it is absolutely important for people who are in church to think about how are we going to be spiritually diverse? How are we going to make sure that the non-Christians, the new Christians, the baby Christians, the mature Christians, even the hostile people, hostile non-Christians, how do we understand that this service is going to really include them in? Why? Because there's nothing better for people than to hear the gospel embodied in a worshiping community. That's the best possible way to hear the gospel. And what this really means is, for the charismatic churches, there's nothing quenching of the spirit to control yourself emotionally for the consideration of the people around you. There we go. Now, last of all, I mean, if somebody wants to say, just like a Presbyterian to say that, well, you know, I can't help it. I've got to be something. But I want you to, are you reading this passage with me? Do you see the sense of this? This is pretty remarkable. You know, he says, if God sends you a revelation, and somebody else who has a revelation is up there already speaking, let the person, one person sit down, one person get up. You know, two or three people, and if you're the fourth or fifth person, just shut up until next week. I mean, Paul is so incredibly prosaic, unbelievably no-nonsense. It doesn't seem like, I've had people who over the years have said, boy, you need to be open to the Spirit. Why do you always cut off at a certain time in the service? Well, listen, on the one hand, I've got to be open to God really being here. All right? But on the other hand, on the other hand, Paul says the Spirit of the prophets are subject to the prophets. I try to speak for 30 minutes. Is that quenching the Spirit? See? Paul says absolutely not. Think about it. Be considerate. People want to know when they're going to go home. This balance is very tough. Very, very tough. But Paul's laying it out for us. Now, lastly, and in some ways this gets to the sort of controversial issue. Lastly, we have the goal of worship. And that goal of worship is the presence of God. And we have the discipline of worship. And that discipline of worship is based on consideration for the of people who are not in our spiritual condition in that worship service. Got that? But then number three, there's a dynamic in worship. And this dynamic, remember I said the first one, the goal of worship is the presence of God. Non-charismatic churches need to keep that in mind. And the second, the discipline of considering the spiritually diverse congregation around you, that is particularly something that charismatic churches need to think about. But this third point is something for both of us, and that is this, the word prophecy. In this last paragraph, Paul says, let the prophecies go on, let the prophecies go on. Then he says, if anybody thinks he's a prophet or spiritually gifted, let him acknowledge that what I'm writing to you is the Lord's command. If he ignores this, he himself will be ignored. Therefore, be eager to prophesy. Do not forbid speaking in tongues, but everything should be done in a fitting and orderly way. Okay, people are going to say, what the heck is prophecy? Simple but complex. Hear this. In the Old Testament, prophets were extremely unusual people. They knew God. They had a personal intimacy with God. And the average person just had nothing like that intimacy with God. And the words of the prophets were the words of God. That interchangeability was so, So it's so remarkable. For example, in Matthew, Jesus at one point says, God said, a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave unto his wife. You know, that's in Matthew 10, I think. No, it's Mark 10. Or both places he says it. God says, a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. But if you go back to Genesis 2 and you look that up, you will see God doesn't say that there, but rather that's Whoever wrote Genesis, the prophetic author wrote that. Jesus can say what the prophet said is God's word and vice versa. There's a place in Galatians 3, verse 8, 9, and 10. It's an amazing passage where Paul says, The scripture foresaw justification by faith, and so the scripture came to Abraham and told him, In thy seed the whole world will be blessed. The scripture did. If you go back to Genesis 12, you will see that God is the one who comes and talks to Abraham. How in the world could Paul say the scripture came and talked to Abram? How could Jesus say that God said what the scripture says? How can Paul say the scripture says what God says? Uh-oh. It's because the understanding of prophecy in the Old Testament was very simple. God gave special revelation to certain people and that revelation was so powerful, so pure, that what they said and what they wrote down was God's word. What the scripture says is God says. What God says, the scripture says. Period. In the New Testament, suddenly we see this word prophecy everywhere. In every church in these days, right, in every church, Paul and Corinth, people are prophesying all over the place. Everybody that wants to give an exhortation, Paul says that's a revelation. He calls it a prophecy. Several people prophesy. Now, what is this all about? Here's the first question. Does this mean that every Christian in every one of those services was bringing new just like Moses, just like Abraham, just like Isaiah. Is that what it means? And a lot of people think so. And I just think common sense says that's ridiculous. Paul would have been saying, write everything down and send it to me. I mean, you know, can you imagine? It means every church, everywhere, all around the Mediterranean, every week, we're getting reams and reams and reams of new prophecy. It couldn't be. And not only that, not only does common sense say it couldn't be, But down here at the very bottom, Paul says, when the prophets are done, he says, evaluate them. Evaluate the prophets. But does he say, evaluate me? Oh, no. As an apostle, he has what he calls the Lord's command. His words are the Lord's command. He doesn't say, now listen, when 1 Corinthians is read, evaluate it. Oh, no, he doesn't do that. He would never do that. He says, if you will not listen to my word, 1 Corinthians, you're ignored. In other words, the apostolic revelation evaluates prophecy, this prophecy that all the Christians were having. However, the prophets don't evaluate back. And what this means is this, that this prophecy was not the same. Well, somebody says, why was it called prophecy? And here's the challenge. I think what's going on here is this. The New Testament says that when the day of Pentecost came and the Holy Spirit came down, every single Christian, lay person and minister, man and woman, see, high class, low class, no matter what you are, no matter who you are, we all suddenly become prophets, priests, and kings, according to the Bible. Prophets, priests, and kings. The Bible pushes that. What does that mean? In the Old Testament, only the prophets knew God, and therefore they were the only ones that could communicate the word of God. But what happens in the New Testament is that every Christian is told, you can evangelize, you can counsel. It says in Romans 15, verse 14, it says, you're filled with all wisdom and you're competent to counsel each other. Every therapist I know, and in a sense, I'm kind of a counselor myself, every counselor who has people coming, knows that there's all sorts of people coming. And the reason that you've got problems is that you don't have good friends. Good Christian friends could handle these things. You are competent to counsel each other. You are competent to teach each other. You are competent to run small groups. You are competent to do this. Now, charismatic churches go to one side, and charismatic churches have a very strong tendency to say, The prophecy that all Christians do now is just like the prophecy of the Old Testament. And therefore, in charismatic churches, it's typical for people to come and say, The Lord told me that you should date her. The Lord told me that you should leave this church. The Lord told me that you should drop your job and go to another job. And there is nothing more destructive in the whole charismatic movement than that. In other words, there's a complete misunderstanding of prophecy. And there's nothing worse than that. I mean, when somebody comes to you and says, The Lord told me this to tell you. the conversation's over. What if you disagree? You can't. I mean, the only thing you can do at a time like that, and this is sort of a lie, but try it. The only thing you can do is say, well, gee, the Lord told me something else, so the only thing we have to do now is sit down and talk about it like normal human beings. You see, in the charismatic churches, there's such an emphasis and such a misunderstanding of prophecy being the same. But in the non-charismatic churches, there is an elitism. Only the ministers. I wonder how the New Testament church did before they had seminary. You see, in the New Testament church, you don't have this incredible control. One of the things about Redeemer that a lot of people don't like is the preacher can't be your pastor. I can't be your pastor. There's too many of you. Some of you try, and you wait eight weeks to come see me, and then you have to wait another eight weeks to see me. Now, in the New Testament, there was no sweat because we were all prophesying. We're all prophets. We're all priests. We're all kings. There is a power and a right that Christians are given through the Holy Spirit to pastor each other, to minister the word of God to each other, and to counsel each other, and to build each other up. This is extremely important to understand. And in many non-charismatic churches, there's a great fear of that. We've got to make sure that only those who are properly trained, who know all the right answers, they're the only ones that teach. They're the only ones that lead. They're the only ones that lead groups. They're the only ones that do these things. And that's the reason why there is, there is, there was a vitality in the Corinthian church. And this, and it's shown by the fact that Paul is willing to call all the stuff, all the sharing, all the exhortation, prophecy. Why? Because there is a, there's a new level. There's a new heightened level. of ministry now that we're in the Pentecostal era because the Holy Spirit has come down. We've got a knowledge of God that only the prophets had, but it doesn't mean we're getting revelation that we can just tack onto the back of the Bible. Do you understand? How are we going to keep that together? I don't know. How are we going to be a church? How will Redeemer and how will the churches that you go to, some of you certainly don't go here except sometimes or you're visiting, how will our churches keep this together? I don't know. kind of church that keeps us together. We have much more, too much of a tendency to move toward the non-charismatic excesses and troubles. The charismatic churches move toward their excesses and troubles. When will revival come? I don't know. That's what we need to pray for. Now, one last thing. One last thing. Somebody's going to say, what's tongues? Well, I didn't get to it. At Redeemer, we do exactly what the last verse says. There are some people who think tongues and Redeemer. And there's some people who think tongues continue. And what we have done is we encourage prophecy. We encourage ministry. We say, go lead a small group. Now listen, you know, when Jeff was up here saying, we need people to come lead small groups. That means to get five to ten people that you help them study the Bible. And you take care of them. And you nurture them. And you build them up. And you try to get them to take care of each other. What do you think that is? Do you think that's just Nif-Nar-Fee group facilitation? Maybe when you were in college, you read a little book on group facilitation. But under the power of the Holy Spirit in the church, it's prophecy. Do you understand that? It's special. It's important. God works through it. God works in it.

If you come here to say, I want the big guru, the guy with all the doctorate and knows the Bible real well, he's going to feed me. And then I'm going to go home. And that's about it. Maybe I'll try to encourage a few people that I see at the worship service. That's not good enough. That's not what this is talking about. Everybody has a revelation. has a hymn. Everybody has a song. We're competent to counsel each other. But then on the other hand, you've got the other excess, the idea that every one of us has got a little pipeline to God, and I have the right to tell all of you what God wants for your life. Lord, deliver us. Make us what we're supposed to be. Hey, let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would enable us not to be the perfect church, but just to become more and more like what Paul asked, obviously wants the church to be. Father, there are people here tonight who need to sense your presence, and I pray that you will meet them. There's people here tonight who have had a tendency to either be afraid of emotion or they've binged on emotion. There's churches represented here besides Redeemer. I ask that your Holy Spirit will guide us so that more and more we might become the church that the world needs, a church in which when the world comes, they see that God is truly among us. Make us that. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
