I was supposed to introduce Tim. Yes, Tim, I know you can hear me. It's your time to be up here. I'm supposed to introduce Tim. I've known Tim for many, many years very well. and he's here to talk about moving forward positively, disagreeing agreeably, and agreeing to disagree, right? Isn't that it? Yeah, it's your turn. It's you. You're up. And after that, there's a panel, and you're going to be up on that, too. Actually, after this, there's a Q&A with the two of us, so I'll come back up. I knew that. I'm trying to talk to you about Redeemer itself, not the principles and the things that Kathy was talking about, not the hermeneutics and all that, but Redeemer itself, since you all have, virtually all of you have various sorts of very important leadership positions in the church, and you've invested in the church. And so I'm going to talk about that under two headings. These were both actually given to me, and I was happy to take them up. One is

disagreeing agreeably, and one is practicing what we profess. Now, under the topic disagreeing agreeably, I want to talk to you about how the things that Kathy's been talking about is actually part of what makes Redeemer, Redeemer. It's part of what we would call our DNA. Redeemer's position and attitude on the subject of men and women in ministry and in the church, Redeemer's position and attitude is not unique, but rare. And Kathy would say in the 24 years we've been here, you know, it's been 24 years ago that Redeemer started, at least was already getting going in this time of year in 1989, 24 years ago. Some of you look sentient then. Abe was 10 years old, right? 1989? But I had my eye on him. I knew he was going to be good. But the point is, for 24 years, this has actually been a very important part of what makes Redeemer, Redeemer. You shouldn't look at it, no matter who you are, as if, well, I guess eventually Redeemer, you know, is going to kind of get with the program or going to, you know, know, get up with, it's going to finally catch up with how things are going out there in the world. This is a very important, as far as Kathy and I are concerned, it's a very important part of what makes Redeemer itself in these two ways. First of all, the position. I'm not going to recount what Kathy said already, but this might be a good way of summarizing it, and this way I summarize it. When it comes to maleness and femaleness, egalitarians don't want to talk about the maleness and femaleness. They may say there are such person-specific differences, but they don't want to talk about it because they're afraid that what that's going to mean is that it'll be used to talk about the differences to preclude women from something. Complementarians, on the other hand, admit the differences, I think, but tend to express the differences through lists. Lists of things that women can't do, usually. Lists of things that only women can do or only men can do. do? Lists of things that are permitted or forbidden. What Redeemer's done from the beginning is we've admitted that the Bible is brilliant because the Bible gives you a principle, and the principle is in the home and in the church, the differences between men and women, though hard to define. See, all those lists that the complementarians so often write are not in the Bible that I can find. Lists of things that only women can do and only men can do and lists of maleness and femaleness and masculinity and femininity. Those things aren't there. But what the Bible says, and Kathy's been trying to show, unavoidably, the Bible says, is that in the home and in the church, a principle of authority needs to be laid down. Somehow,

there should be male authority in those two places. And the Bible is brilliant because it doesn't tell you what that looks like exactly. It doesn't give you the specifics of that. It doesn't say, for example, for the husband to be head of the wife, that means that the wife does all the work children, and the husband pays the bills. It doesn't say anything like that. And here's what's so brilliant. Because the cultures are different, because temperaments are different, an obedient Christian response is inside the home where you have, women, by the way, have chosen the man that you're doing this with, and inside the church where actually, women, again, you have chosen the men you're doing this with, the pastors generally. You know, You look at the passage and say, okay, I trust them. What you do is you work out what that principle of authority will be. You both agree to it. You work it out. You agree to it. You both submit to it. And then the differences, your maleness and your femaleness, you just get in touch with in those situations. Otherwise, you wouldn't get in touch with it. In other words, I mean, Kathy and I, by submitting to this idea that I'm the head of the home without making lists of other things. we've made no lists. Just submitting that principle means that we've both gotten in touch with maleness and femaleness that we otherwise would never have gotten in touch with. So instead of trying to define it in an abstract way, work out the principle, every church, every home, somewhat different, submit that principle together. Now, what that means is Redeemer, well, you know what the principle is? It's the NOM principle, N-O-M. You know what N-O-M N-O-M is Kathy? Yes, you do. At Redeemer, whatever a non-ordained male can do, a woman can do. Whatever a nom can do, a woman can do. That's the principle. Instead of making up all sorts of lists, instead we say, well, if you don't have to be an ordained, trained, you know, elder or pastor to do it, a woman can do it. In other words, what we've said is women aren't ordained in our PCA church and our denomination in our church. And then beyond that, anything that a nom can do, a woman can do. That's the principle. What that means is, if you look at Redeemer, even though we don't have women pastors or elders, it's hard to find things that women aren't allowed to do, which is right. Women lead small groups. Women teach. Women are on staff. Women are over large budgets within Redeemer and so on. And as a result of that, Redeemer is in a unique position. Well, not unique. It's rare. But the other part of what makes Redeemer rare, besides that position, is attitude. Now, Kathy's already kind of referred to it. Here's what happens. In our situation today, if you believe in women's ordination, you're an egalitarian, and you come upon a person that doesn't, or if you believe that the Bible says women shouldn't be ordained and you come upon a person that does. The two things we almost always do, and by the way, in the last 24 years, the internet just made this default mode of the heart worse, is we impute motives to the other side and we insist that they hold to what we consider

consequent positions that they themselves don't hold to. So, for example, a complementarian might say to an egalitarian. You've sold out to the spirit of the age. You just don't want to look stupid to other people. You don't like the idea of being under authority. You don't like the authority of the word of God. That's imputing motives. That's also saying you don't believe in the authority of the word of God. When actually you just think, well, what Kathy and I would say, and we are saying it, is that we think in order to make room for women's ordination, you have to do things to the way you interpret Scripture that in the long run do result in a loosening of the authority of Scripture. Yeah, we can argue that. But to say to a person who believes in women's ordination, you don't believe in the authority of the Bible, which is what typically happens, is wrong. You give people the benefit of the doubt or vice versa. See, one of the problems, if you believe that the Bible condones slavery and it kept women out of ministry, And now we have to see that the Bible was wrong about slavery. We have to kind of develop here. And women have to be, you know, empowered to do everything inside the church. And if that's your position, you realize that people who don't believe in women's ordination are like slave owners. I mean, I've been called that by people. They would say, you're a chauvinist. You're a bigot. You don't trust women. You're an oppressor. Now, it's true you can have bad motives. There's no doubt about it. There are complementarians who are chauvinists. There are egalitarians who are just afraid of looking Neanderthal. And that's not good. But you know what? Our motives are always mixed. And that Redeemer, we give the benefit of the doubt, and we don't do that. We have never done that. Never. There's always been an ability to talk to one another and show respect for each other motives and not insist that people hold positions that they actually disavow. You don't do that. And I want you to know that's also not unique, but incredibly rare. So a redeemer in his position and in the attitude we've had in talking about these things are remarkable. It's a remarkable place. Kathy and I are very, very, I can even say that we're jealous that Redeemer would not lose this place, that this would stay part of what Redeemer is, because Redeemer actually in some ways is a stench in the nostrils of a lot of complementarian churches and a lot of egalitarian churches. And sometimes I think, well, that's a good sign. That's a good sign. Okay, now the second thing is looking at practicing what we profess. confess. I already talked to you about Nam, you know, the idea that whatever a non-ordained man can do, a woman would be able to do as well. And here's how Redeemer over the years has set up the way in which it does things. And here, let me also say, then say something about the challenges that lie ahead. First of all, Redeemer in the past has had three what I would call formal structural policies that have actually, I think, really helped include women and make women feel included in ministry and in the work of the church, in spite of the fact that we still in the sense we only have male elders and pastors. And those three formal structural things are this. Number one, we've always had actually an empowered staff. There are plenty of churches in which the staff is not very empowered, that the board, whether it's the elders or whatever, the board maintains a very, very tight control of the staff. And we've never been that way. We've always been a place where the board, of course, which is the elders, over the doctrine. They have authority over the discipline. They have the overall authority. But they do not descend and micromanage how the church works. And therefore, the staff has always been empowered. And so especially in the early days, what you had was basically two groups of people. They weren't huge groups. Two groups of about eight to ten people here. Eight to ten people here who ran the church. The eight to ten people here were elders and pastors. So it was all men. The other eight to ten people were women and men who were on the staff. And Kathy used to always like to point out to me all the way into the late 90s that if you looked at the women who were over the various departments, you looked at their budgets, women spent most of the money in the church. And in spite of the fact that here's the elders over here, every so often if she brought that up, somebody made a joke and says, yeah, just like the Keller household. So it's just, you know, so you just, which probably shouldn't have been thrown in there. Anyway. You can do the grocery shopping. Yes, yes, I know. Yes. So by having empowered staff, you essentially had two groups of people who were running the church, and, of course, women were quite empowered in the one group that actually had more to do with the actual policies. This is also a way of saying, okay, yeah, overall, overarching authority, only male elders. It's working. It's the whole idea by male headship, but not a headship that stifles in any way women. The second, by the way, formal structural issue was we've always had an empowered laity. There are plenty of churches in which only elders can lead a small group, in which only elders can pass out the Lord's Supper, in which only elders can read the Scripture, in which only ordained people can do everything. Now, you know, we could debate about whether that's a good idea or not. I mean, like doing what Roger Nicole used to do, trying to find the, you know, the bright side. That's an effort at quality control. It's a way of saying everything that happens in the church, we want to make sure that absolutely thoroughly theologically trained people are doing it. But I think it also kicks against a lot of things the Bible says about the priesthood of all believers and every member of ministry and everybody having spiritual gifts. And because we have always actually lifted up the laity in that way and have never really been, you know, we've always done it in those ways. From the very beginning, for example, the people that passed out at the Lord's Supper were just lay people, just people who came up. And in many Presbyterian churches, only the elders do that. It was another way of making sure we empowered lay people, which meant we empowered women. Number three, we don't have to go into this, in that we had an expanded diaconate in which you do not just have male deacons, but you also have female deaconesses. And those three things were part of the way in which we structurally, historically, structurally made sure that we maintain the idea of male headship at the same time we were really giving full scope to women's gifts and abilities to do ministry. But there was also, I have to say this, an attitude, an informal practice, and that was this. In Presbyterian churches, probably more than Episcopal and more than Baptist or Congregational, and that's a long story. I'm sure Kathy didn't get into it. But in our form of government, the pastors have an enormous amount of power. They have an enormous amount of power. And therefore, they're the key to making women feel not put down. And what that means is, Kathy, I think, was pushing a lot of us to read an article which puts it perfectly well. In a church, women shouldn't be permitted to do this and that. Women should be pursued to do this and that. The attitude makes a huge, huge difference. And let me confess some sins here. Ministers go to seminary, and in seminary, I know, I used to train people. I used to be a seminary professor. In seminary, one lecture in one course probably was on delegation, what it was called. And that's about all the pastors who get trained ever hear about what it means to make other people successful. And generally delegation was usually meant you can't do everything so have other people do the busy work. But if you go to business school, if you get an MBA, if you're almost anywhere else or nonprofit training, what does it mean to be a leader? What you hear there is you become successful by making other people successful. by making the people around you successful, by growing your organization. We pastors are trained to have the organization just be a platform for our personal ministry. Our understanding of ministry is preaching and teaching and counseling and discipling. And what we just want to do is we just want to do it. We just want to do it. We're not good. We're not trained at empowering other people to do it. In fact, we see meetings as busy work. And we see if people are reporting to us, my personal ministry, and I hope you're out there doing all the stuff that I don't want to do. And that destroys women particularly, since that they're being empowered to minister, and lay people in general. But over the years, we've had a pretty good run. I think of ministers who got this and were bucking against their own training. However, here's where we are now, the challenges. The challenges are this, and I'm not criticizing advertising anybody in particular. But we've gone to the collegiate model. First of all, that means that all staff are somewhat disempowered. Those of you who have been on the staff a long time know that when there was eight or ten people in the room, the whole staff got together. Everybody was talking about everything. Everybody was talking about all the strategies and policies. And now that we have hundreds, well, we have dozens of staff people in many, many different groups. You've got centralized staff. You've got congregationalized no staff person feels as empowered as they used to. And it's also important, it's difficult for me to see from the top whether or not women are feeling pursued rather than just permitted in those different staff enclaves. In other words, Redeemer is now probably kind of like a big lake and there's probably hot places and cold places in it now. And it's very difficult to have quality the control of that because so much of it is informal attitude on the part of the pastors. We've got more pastors than before. We've got more little enclaves than before. And so to me, here's what I think is the key to us in the future. Women have got to be willing to speak very candidly, particularly the pastors, and say, I don't feel very empowered by you. And the only way it's going to work is this. Women, you mustn't think that because you are a woman talking to a man about this, that you automatically have the moral high ground, and then you are automatically right, or at least you are 100 percent right. This is extraordinarily important. Going forward, we've got to have those kinds of conversations. And there's one other thing that one thing we've always said we were going to do, we've even written papers about it. But when we went, the session at one point had a paper in which we were talking about ways of releasing women, some ministries and gifts more in the church, especially as the church has gotten bigger and more complicated. And many of the women felt empowered, that those things aren't...we're afraid they may not be happening anymore. So we had a paper, and then we went to the collegiate change, and we actually haven't, in some ways, put the paper on the shelf because of the massive changes that came with all the restructuring of things. One of them is we don't have a good way of actually going out as an institution and saying, if you want to be in ministry, if you want to be theologically trained, If you want to be in Christian vocation, we want to help you do it, and here's the pathway. We haven't done that. Let me just close with one other. I think I told Kathy about that, and she remembered. In the early days of Redeemer, about three years in, two years in, there was a very interesting woman who came to the church for a number of years. She was a lawyer. She also wouldn't join the church, in spite of the fact that she became a Christian at the church, at Redeemer. But she wouldn't join because she says, I personally protest that you don't ordain women. And therefore, I feel like in my conscience I can't join. I love the church. I love everything about the church. You've brought me to faith, but I don't feel like I can join. I said, fine. You know, there's agreeing to agree, disagree. But then one of the things that she said, interestingly enough to me, was this. She says, what's weird is I grew up in a Methodist church. And the structure is open to women. But it's cold to women. If you have an idea and you're a woman, you better get a man behind it. It gets no traction. She says, what's really weird is here you have a structure in which you have male authority. But the climate is very open to women's ideas. So she said, you have a structure different. But you have a climate. So she says, I want you to realize I don't feel like the women here. In some ways, women here are being more empowered to do ministry than in my mainline Now, I don't know whether a woman's going to say that today or not. If she isn't, then we have to try to get ourselves to the place where she can. And I think that's it. So now, Abe, you're going to lead us in a Q&A, are you not?