The passage on which the teaching is based, which is 1 Corinthians 6, we're doing a series, short series this May on what I'm calling hot potatoes, issues that were controversial then and are controversial now in the church. And Paul deals with them in Corinth, so let's read this first one so you're not looking at it. and you'll see right away why this is one of our hot potatoes. 1 Corinthians 6, do you not know that the wicked will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral or idolaters, nor adulterers, nor male prostitutes, nor homosexual offenders, nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor slanderers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And that is what some of you were. But you were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And by the spirit of our God. Everything is permissible for me. But not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible for me. But I will not be mastered by anything. Food for the stomach. And the stomach for food. But God will destroy them both. does not meant for sexual immorality but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. By his power God raised the Lord from the dead, and he will raise us also. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ himself? Shall I then take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute? Never. Do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute is one with her in body? For it is said, the two will become one flesh. flesh, but he who unites himself with the Lord is one with him in spirit. Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a man commits are outside his body, but he who sins sexually sins against his own body. Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have received from God? You are not your own. You were bought with a price. Therefore, honor God with your body. And this is God's word. So, hot potato, huh? Let me give you some background about why this is such a significant passage, why this passage is even here. Why was Paul writing about this? And you'll see right away how germane this is to us. Because he was writing to a young church of new converts in Corinth. Corinth. I've mentioned this a couple of times, but let me show you what this has to do with sexuality. If you can imagine Greece, if you can think of Greece, you might remember that it's got lots of coastline. It's really a whole lot of very angular peninsulas. Right in the center, there's a large landmass below and a large landmass above, a tiny little isthmus of about four miles wide. And anybody who wants to go from northern Greece to southern Greece has to go And anybody who wants to go from the east to the west by sea, anybody who's going north to south by land has to go through it. Anybody who's going east to west or west to east by sea can either go all the way down around Greece or you can go to that spot at the Isthmus and unload your cargo and cart it across four miles and then put it on a ship and keep on going. And it cuts off hundreds of miles. In other words, everybody had to go through there. And there was a town there called Corinth. Corinth. And Corinth, therefore, was a tremendous place to make money. It was a commercial center, a trading center. Now, in 146 BC, when the Romans were taking over the Roman Empire, Greece, they wiped Corinth off the map. They destroyed it because it resisted them. 146 BC, Julius Caesar, and it was totally demolished. And about 100 years later, now we're talking about 40, 50 BC. 40 or 50 BC, the Romans realized that you couldn't do without a place like this. You needed an outpost. You needed a city there. And it would be a great place to make money because it would be just the ultimate trade center for trade routes. So they rebuilt Corinth. And in about 100 years, because you see from 146 BC to about 46 BC, it was just not there. from 46 BC to about 50 AD, which is when this letter is being written. In 100 years, Corinth grew back into one of the biggest cities in the world, just like that. And because of the nature of Corinth, because it was essentially a brand new megacity, I mean, you've heard of boom towns. We're talking about boom megacity. And what was so intriguing about it was the nature of the people who lived in Corinth. Now, let me ask you whether this sounds like any city you know. First of all, nobody was from there. You know, there were some people, surely, that lived there for a while, but it had no, it didn't have people who were from there. It wasn't the sort of place you lived and raised your family and stayed for generations and generations. It's a place you came to make money or to make it. And almost everybody who did come to Corinth left their family far away have those kinds of family accountability structures. And they were under tremendous pressure. And they were all young. And as a result, there was enormous sexual energy there. Because everybody was young and everybody was detached. They were away from the extended family accountability structures. They were under tremendous pressure. They were at the, you know, at the peak of their sexual energy part of their lives. And they all came to Corinth at once. And as a result, there was so much, so much sexual activity that Corinth actually became a verb. That's pretty bad. In other words, in the Greek language, eventually, a verb grew up called Corinthianize. To Corinthianize was to have incredible sex with just about anything that moved. Corinthianize became a verb. And we're not totally sure how it worked or why it worked this way. But there was a skyline. To Corinth. And the skyline to Corinth included a ridge. Not so much a skyscraper. But there was a high place. The Acrocorinth. And at the top of that ridge was a temple. And it was the temple. Which became the patron. The patron deity. The patron. Religion. Of. The city of Corinth. And guess what. It was a temple. To the worship of Aphrodite. The goddess of love. of sex. And, you know, it's difficult to know whether the sexual energy led to that becoming the religion or whether the religion stimulated the sexual energy or whether they fed off of each other. But every night, over a thousand temple prostitutes came right down into the city to do it everywhere. And that was Corinth. Now, imagine you become a Christian in Corinth. Now, here's what began to happen. The sex ethic, or I should really say the life ethic of Christians The early Christians were basically turned the lifestyle of the pagan world on its head. You see, Christians believed that sex was sacred and money was easy come, easy go. Christians believed that you held on to your sexuality. It was a glorious and sacred and holy thing. But money, who cared? Give it away. You know, it was a medium of exchange. So sex was sacred, money was easy come, easy go. But the pagan world believed that money was sacred. You held on to that. But sex was easy come, easy go. This is the reason why one of the earliest Christian documents, the Epistle of Diognetus, it's a fascinating epistle, and it tries to describe the lifestyle of the early Christians. And in that epistle, it says, We Christians, we share our table with all, but we don't share our bed with all. all. And you see, that's exactly the opposite of the lifestyle of the people surrounding the Christians. They did not share their table with all. That was ridiculous to think that we're supposed to give all of our money away and live that kind of lifestyle. We're promiscuous with our bodies, but not promiscuous with our money. But Christians were promiscuous with their money, but not promiscuous with their body. And as a result, people thought Christians were nuts. nuts. They're absolutely crazy, absolutely ridiculous. And in a place like Corinth, the minute you became a Christian, because of the culture and because of the society, it was almost impossible for a new Christian not to immediately stick out like a sore thumb. Because, you know, you can just imagine, here's Claudius or Titius or Justice or Julius, becomes a new Christian. And, you know, just a very, like a week later, your friends come by and pick Julius up and say, Hey, let's go out. So Julius goes along with them with a little bit of fear and trepidation. They go over to somebody's house and they sit down and they get out the wine and they all tear off their clothes and all jump into the same bed. And Julius is sitting there saying, Can we do something else tonight? I mean, you know, you stuck out right away. And as a response to the pressure, as a response to the pressure, We know that the three things began to happen in the church of Corinth. And the first one was the simple one. We're not going to actually deal with that tonight. The first one was that real Christians would fall back into their old ways. It's very difficult for them to maintain their new ways, which was to live a life of promiscuity with money and sanctity with sex. And they just weren't able to do it. to it. And if you read through the book, you'll see some situations like that. So, for example, in 1 Corinthians 5, you'll see that a man, a Christian, a member of the church, had taken up and begun an affair with his father's wife. Probably not his mother. Otherwise, he probably would have called her his mother, his father's wife. And he was having an affair with the wife of his father. And what does Paul do? Paul writes and says, you know, you have to go to him. We don't live like this anymore. And we see in 2 Corinthians, in the next letter, that he changed and repented and moved away. And that was actually the least of the problems, because that wasn't a systemic problem. It was just something that normally happens, and it's really the sort of thing that is going to happen in any vital church in a city like Corinth. However, there were two systemic problems that came up. And what I mean by systemic was that Paul responds in this letter to two very deeply erroneous attitudes toward the body and toward sexuality that had arisen inside the church at Corinth largely because of the pressure. And when you read chapter 6 and chapter 7, and I've only printed chapter 6 because it's just too much to cover otherwise, you'll see that two things were being said around Corinth about sex. sex. The first thing was that it was best not to ever have sex at all. And if you read, we don't have it printed, but if you read the very beginning of chapter 7, Paul says, you wrote me and you said, some of you are saying it is good for a man never to even touch a woman. And what Paul is responding to is what grew up in the Corinthian church was an idea that went like this. Sexuality of any kind under any circumstances is polluting. if you really want to be spiritual. You just, you know, you get out of it altogether. It is better for you never even to touch another person. In fact, I think, and some commentators believe that Paul was having to respond to people who said that was even true if you were married. That if you were Christians and you were married and you really wanted to be holy and you really wanted to be spiritual, you just had, that was the end of sex. And it makes sense. In a sense. It makes sense. That Christians in a place like Corinth coming out of that background would have You know, sexuality was just, they didn't know it in any other form but a broken form. And therefore they said, it had nothing to do with it. And on the other hand, you had other people writing him and saying this, which is mentioned here and is put in quotes. People who were saying, on the other hand, everything is permissible for me. Anything goes. Now, how could a Christian say that? Not that hard. Because it was very easy for Christians to start to say, I'm saved. There's no condemnation for me. I'm right with God. And therefore, I just need to follow whatever feels like it's the loving and right thing to do. You know, I'm free. I'm a Christian. I'm not under the law anymore. You see, I'm forgiven. And therefore, anything that my heart leads me to do, I decide what's right for me. Anything is permissible for me. Now, these two approaches, one which said that sex is horrible and dirty and bad. We should have nothing to do with it. And on the other hand, that sex is basically a casual view of sex. In fact, you notice this third thing. It says, everything is permissible for me. It's verse 12. Everything is permissible for me, verse 12. And verse 13, food is for the stomach and stomach for food. Now, what had come over into the Christians' thinking was an attitude that was very, very rife in the Greek world, and that is that sex is just an appetite. When you get hungry, you eat food. food. When you have a deep need for sexuality, if you have a need for it, it feels right, and it feels good, and you're in love, then when you're hungry, you eat. And when you have a sexual need, you have sex. And that's just natural. It's perfectly natural. And we're Christians now, so we're free. We need to follow this. Now, here's what Paul says. And this is pretty remarkable to me. In this passage, Paul says that both a prudish view and a pagan view. Either a view that says sex is dirty and terrible and awful, and if you're really spiritual, you have nothing to do with it, or the view that says sex is a casual thing. Sex is an appetite. When you feel sexual towards someone, there's no reason why you can't do it. Paul says both of them come from a negative view of the body. You see, if you're a prude, you basically think the body is bad. Ah, but even if you're a pagan and you say, hey, it's all casual, even there he's going to show us in a minute that what you're really doing is you're saying the body doesn't matter. And Paul basically comes in and says, I want you to know that both of these views are absolutely wrong. And so what he does here is he shows us the goodness of the physical and therefore the goodness of sex. Then he gives us two, what I'm going to call, embankments for it. is great. It's created by God. It's a glorious thing. It's a great thing. And he is not prudish at all. Prudishness and paganism. The idea that a love of casual sex or a hatred of sexuality, period, both of them are unchristian, he says. But he says, if you want to understand the goodness of sex, sex has embankments. I mean, you know, the Thames goes through London and we have the Hudson River. Rivers are great, but they need to stay inside their embankments. Otherwise, otherwise, they're not so great. They destroy everything. They're not beautiful. They've got to be in their embankments. And he gives us two embankments. And he says, in these two embankments, sex is not dirty at all. As a matter of fact, sex is the greatest possible gift. It's a glorious thing. And Christianity actually gives you the highest view of sex possible, as I'm going to show you first. Now look, let me show you what he does. First of all, he takes a hold of the idea of the body. And he says, everything is permissible for me, but not everything is beneficial. Now notice he's being cool here. First of all, he says, even if everything was permissible, you shouldn't do things that are destructive. Then he says, everything is permissible for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. And he says, even if everything was permissible, he says, you shouldn't do things that are enslaving. And then he says, it is the food for the body and the body for food. But when he says God will destroy them both for the body was not meant for sexual morality but for the Lord and the Lord for the body. What he's trying to say is no. The stomach is not for food and the body is not for sexuality but the stomach, the body, everything is for the Lord because by his power God raised the Lord from the dead and he will raise us also. So he lays down a principle and he says I want to show you that our bodies are extremely important. Important. Very, very important. Then he goes on. The first principle he lays down is an astounding one. He says, Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ himself? I'll skip that for a second. It says, Shall I take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute? Never. Do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute is one with her in body? For it is said, the two will become one flesh. In a nutshell, this is the first astonishing argument against sexuality outside of marriage. Here's what he's doing. He's not arguing that you shouldn't have sex outside of marriage. You shouldn't have sex with a prostitute. He's arguing against sex outside of marriage. Up here in verse 9, he says, See, the first in that terrible list, that list that gave everybody sort of the creeps when we went through it. that sexually immoral is a simple Greek word that means sex outside of marriage. It means illegal sex. It means sex outside of a commitment. And Paul's first argument, and I hope everybody here gets, some of you have been here and you've heard this before, but I hope everybody understands this. Paul says it's a monstrosity for you to be physically one with someone without being personally one with them. He says when the bodies are joined. When two bodies are joined in sex. You become one body. You literally in a sense become one body. He says it is a monstrosity. It is a horrible thing. For you to be physically one with someone. With whom you are not personally one. If you are physically vulnerable to someone. Get naked. But you're not socially vulnerable. vulnerable, spiritually vulnerable. In other words, if you're not willing to marry somebody, what you're really saying is, I want you to be open to me and I want to be open to you physically, but not in any other way. See, I want you to be committed to me physically. Listen, if you want to injure somebody, there's no better way to do it than to get them to start to have sex with you, as we know. It's a tragic thing, but it's true. Why? Because in sexuality, in the sex act, you are absolutely vulnerable. Horrible things can happen during sex. Why? Because in sexuality, in a sex act, you're totally vulnerable. You're open. It's dangerous. It's frightening in some ways. And what Paul is saying is what you do with your body must be a reflection of what you do with your soul. If you say, I want to be vulnerable to you physically, physically, I don't want to marry you because then, well, you know, then I wouldn't be free to do this or that. In other words, you want to keep your defenses up in every other way, but you want to have your defenses down physically. And Paul says that splitting soul and body, the Christian ethic is the body is important. The body is integral. You are an integrated person. See, God can see both the immaterial and the material at once, right? Have you ever seen a monster picture? Have you ever seen some kind of gory picture where somebody walks in and his head is one-third severed, you know, and it's sort of hanging off, and his arm is off, and there's just, you know, ganglia and bones sticking out, and you turn away. It's a monstrosity. Why? Because he's not whole. You have a picture in your mind of what a whole person is, and when you see a part art person, it's a monstrosity. Now, God can see the immaterial and the material. And when he sees two people who want to split their souls from their body and who want to take sexuality and be physically one, but you don't want to be one in every other way, it's ugly. It's a monstrosity. It's not what you're supposed to be. And don't you see, this means, here's what Paul's trying to say. He says, the reason we believe you shouldn't have sex outside of marriage not because Christians have a low view of sex that we think there's something bad about it. It's because we have this incredible view of sex. And we have here an insight into what God made sex for. Sex is a way for you to give yourself completely to somebody else. And that's the only thing you ought to use it for. If you say, I want to have sex with you, but I don't want to give you my whole life forever. I don't want to be permanently and exclusively committed to you

a live. Well, then what you're doing is a lie. You're doing something with your body and you're refusing to back it up with the rest of your life. You're splitting the soul from the body. We have, Paul says, too high a view of the body. Don't you know that when you have sex with somebody, you become one flesh. Now this word one flesh is pretty interesting. He slides because over here it says the body, pardon me. He says, shall I take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute? Never. Do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute it is said, the two will become one flesh. Now he's quoting Genesis, where it says a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. And the two shall become one flesh. And the word flesh means more than the physical. All commentators know that the word flesh sometimes can mean the physical. You know, Paul can say, you know, my flesh is hurt. But in the Bible, the word flesh also means a whole person. You know, the place where God says, I will pour out He doesn't mean on all bodies. He means on all people. And clearly when Genesis 2 says a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife and the two shall become one flesh. What he means is they become a whole new unit. They become a whole new life. And when you say I want to be united with your body but not with your life. You've got a low view of the body. You say the body's unimportant. You know, you're either. You either have an Eastern view of the body that says the body's an illusion. Or a Western view of the body. Which is the body is, you know, kind of bad. And it's different. But you see, the Christian. The biblical view of the body. Is it's a great thing. God is redeeming your soul and your body. He raised up Jesus Christ in his body. He's going to raise us up. Your bodies are part of you. And for you to act as if they're not. To say, here's my body. But here's not myself. I give you my body. But I don't give you myself. you're a monster. You're half a person. You see, ganglia God sees, bones, blood, guts. And that's only the first argument. And that's about as strong as it gets. No, it isn't. There's a stronger one. So first of all, don't you see the goodness of sex? Sexuality is not just a way to get pleasure. Sexuality is God's way that he's given us to say to another person, I belong

The thing we want more than anything else is to be absolutely sure of someone, to have someone look at me and know me to the bottom and love me anyway, and never go and never leave, and be absolutely committed to me. We need that. We want that. And sex is the way to have that deep oneness. And you mustn't use it for anything else. Otherwise, you're missing God's best for what sex is. And that's the first reason why he says, don't be sexually immoral. sex with a prostitute, don't have sex with anybody else unless you're willing to become one flesh. No one body without one life. But then, secondly, and this is incredible, this is more, this is amazing. He then says, do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ himself? Verse 17, he who unites himself with the Lord is one with him in spirit. Now, Paul is making a reference here that it just takes my breath away, and if you understand it, or to the degree you understand it, it'll take your breath away too. He comes out and writes and says it overtly in Ephesians 5, where he says, this is a great mystery, but whenever husbands and wives unite, they're showing us a picture of Christ and his people. And he goes so even further in Romans 7, if you want to look up Romans 7, 1 to 4, he says the same thing, but here's this argument. argument. What the argument is this. The argument is God created sex not just as a way to give yourself to somebody else wholly, but he also created it as a foretaste and as a pointer to what it's going to be like to unite with him in heaven. Unfortunately, I really kind of blew it this morning, and our question and answer time after the service, somebody said to me, somebody asked the question, why didn't Jesus ever get married? And I just, you know, I don't know. I'm tired. You know, it's May. All ministers are tired in May. And, well, I thought about a number of reasons, but I got home right away and Kathy said, well, how did you forget this? The reason that Jesus never got married is because he's already engaged. He's engaged to us. The wedding supper of the Lamb. We're his bride. You see, if he got married, that would, that would, if he got married on earth, that would have completely blinded us to, it would have obscured what the real end of salvation is. What do you think the end of salvation is? God, Jesus Christ does not just want to rule us, though he does. He doesn't just want to shepherd us, though he does. He wants to marry us. The Bible says that sex on earth, the most rapturous, wonderful sex between a husband and a wife, is just the dimmest foretaste of what it's going to be like to come down the aisle to Jesus. See, intellectually, you and I know, if you understand the gospel, you know that he loves us. But it's only an intellectual thing, And it sinks in to some degree. But we're told that Jesus Christ delights in us the way a groom delights in a bride. And if you've ever seen a groom watching a bride come down the aisle, you will know how incredible a statement that is. Jesus Christ doesn't just accept us somehow. Somehow he's pardoned us. He's ravished with us. That's what it means to say that through the work of Jesus Christ, we are clothed in his righteousness. homelessness. So he is that ravished with us, and someday he's going to pick us up in his arms, and the first kiss from Jesus Christ is going to obliterate a thousand years of loneliness, even if you had them. And therefore, don't you see, sex inside a marriage, the reason it has to be inside a marriage is, can you imagine God coming to you and saying, I want to pour my love into you. But if you want to go follow after other gods, that's fine. Commitment isn't that important. As long as every so often we have a great prayer time. You see. Now listen. A lot of modern people want this. A lot of modern people want to sleep with God. But they don't want to marry Him. They want to show up when they want to show up. They want to pray when they're in trouble. They don't want to say unconditionally. I give myself to you and to you alone. See. They want. They want the joy. They want to know that they're ravished by Jesus Christ. They don't want the commitment. Impossible. You would never let somebody do that to you. How dare you do the same thing to God that you would never want them to do to you. When you're incredibly in love with somebody, and you say, I want to have a relationship with you, and that person says, okay, as long as I can date around, you say, no, it'll kill me. You would never let anybody do that. Don't you see, therefore, our marriage and our sexuality has to mirror, is a foretaste, and it's a pointer to the rapturous, ecstatic closure that we will have with God in heaven through Jesus Christ. And therefore, it has to operate the same way. And just like God does not pour his intimate love into your heart unless it's a commitment, you're not supposed to do the same thing nor ask for it. Now, that's the first of the embankments. But there's one more we have to talk about. The first embankment for sex. Sex is this glorious, great thing. What a high view. There's no religion that even comes close to this. But the one embankment is no sex without commitment. But there's another embankment. And the other embankment is not just no sex without commitment. But the other embankment is no sex without compliment. What do I mean? I'm sure some of you noticed as we move on through, that in the very beginning of the text, Paul says you cannot be, you cannot live a homosexual lifestyle. Now surely some of you noticed that as we went on by. Why would Paul say that? Here's why. Because there's two embankments. The one embankment is no sex without a commitment, but the other embankment is simply this. The other embankment is to say that sex is designed by God to create an interlocking fit between complementary natures. The problem with homosexuality, according to the Bible, is the same problem with premarital sex. They're not really different at all. See, premarital sex, extramarital sex, and homosexuality are not so much breaking the rules as much as they're both missing the best. Because, you see, in both cases, you're splitting body from soul. Well, how? Well, remember I said the thing that's wrong with premarital sex is you're splitting body from soul. You're saying, I want to give you my body. I want you to give me your body, but I don't want to give you my life. But here's the problem on the homosexual side. Is it a coincidence that in heterosexuality, two bodies fit so well because they literally interlock? All right. Does this mean, therefore, that's inconsequential? No. The Bible says that just as a male and female body interlock, that must mirror something deeper. That means that there's something about the male and female hearts that interlock. There's something about male and female souls and hearts that have a deep complementariness so that when they get together, there's a deep fit and a deep interlock. So what's wrong with homosexuality? It's ignoring that. It's saying, you see, even though you don't have the same kind of deep interlock physically, we can still have the same deep interlock spiritually and emotionally. And the Bible says you can't split soul from body like that. You can't do it. And here's what's so interesting about it. What the Bible's really saying about homosexuality is it's trying to dissuade and say, you're missing the best. The Bible's not saying that you can't have pleasure in homosexual sex. Especially if you have that capacity. The Bible's not saying that there can't be any love, any pleasure, any joy in homosexual sex. What it's really trying to say is, but you're missing the deep inner lock. It's not there. You're missing the best. Some people ask this question. Why does the Bible so seldom talk about homosexuality? Very often people have said to me, yeah, okay, here's this passage. But you know, there's only 11 verses in all of the Bible about homosexuality. Only 11. Only six or seven mentions. They say, well then, how do you know it's forbidden? How do you know it's not right? Well, think about this. That cuts two ways. On the one hand, the fact that it's mentioned always, always, every single time it's mentioned, the teacher is trying to dissuade you and say this isn't the way. This isn't the design. This isn't the way. You're splitting soul from body. You know, you're a whole person. The body's important. You can't just ignore it. Every time it says that. But it never expounds. You know why it doesn't expound? Listen, every time there was a controversy in the early church, if there was a controversy, if people were confused about it, if people didn't understand it, if there was difference of opinion, Paul would give it a whole chapter, a whole book. You know, like justification by faith. But the reason he's only able to make these fairly short references of us in the early church, even in Corinth. It was obvious. Everybody knew it. There's no question about it. This isn't the way to go. But here's what I like. It is only mentioned 11 times. And somebody says, well, Jesus never said anything about homosexuality. And I said, yes, he does. Where? He said a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. One of the things that Kathy and I always admired about Kathy's sister, Susan, was the way she handled children. We have a tendency, when our kids were little, every time they would do something wrong, we have a tendency to get their hand and say, don't do that. Susan was better because when she saw her children doing something they shouldn't be doing, instead of always slapping and always being negative, instead she would take them by the hand and say, oh honey, look at this. Isn't this great? The Bible, the reason the Bible doesn't talk about homosexuality all the time is because it really talks about heterosexuality all the time. In fact, I found this in a document around the house, and I'm almost positive Kathy wrote. I've never footnoted Kathy before. It's a little too good for me to have written. I'm a better speaker, and she's a better writer, and she put it this way. If the Bible never mentioned homosexuality, it would be clear that God is inviting us into heterosexual marriage as the picture and foretaste of our union to him, the wedding supper of the lamb, the big festival, the great dance. It is in the paired polarities and the mystery of the union of male and female in marriage that we get the foretaste of it all. You see, when you come to Jesus, you're committed to someone who is deeply and mysteriously different than you are. And that's what's going to happen in marriage. And, you know, Now, the interesting thing about all this is this is put forth as the great thing. And the Bible does not beat up on homosexuals. It does not hammer at homosexuality. And the last thing I better say is this text cuts two ways. Because on the one hand, as I've tried to show you, it cuts against the idea that homosexuality is God's design and the best way to go. It's not. But on the other hand, do you see what else is in the list? Greedy. I've been thinking about this. been thinking about this. How many times does the Bible talk about materialism in the Bible? How many times does the Bible say it's wrong? At least, I figure, fifty times more often than it talks about homosexuality. Why do we have some churches that hammer at homosexuality but never hammer at materialism? Why do we have churches that as soon as we know that somebody has kind of, you know, fallen into a homosexual lifestyle of some sort, why do we suddenly have the elders go and talk to them? But what about all the materialistic people. You know what materialism is? You're spending all your money on yourself. You're not giving it away to the church. You're not giving it away to the Lord. You're not giving it away to the poor. And Paul puts the greediness in here. He does not consider homosexuality worse than greed. And if you look at the whole Bible, it's considerably worse. Greed is considerably worse. Materialism is considerably worse than homosexuality. Well, why is it? Why is it that Christians have a tendency to beat up on homosexuality and unfortunately sometimes be very, very cruel to them. Here's the only point I can say. When people who are homosexual come to me and say, I don't think I could stop even if I wanted to, but Paul says, such were some of you. You see that verse? For you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified. What does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. The reason people have trouble with sexual self-control, whether it's homosexual, heterosexual, doesn't matter, is because of a love vacuum. vacuum. When somebody says to me, I didn't want to sleep with her, I didn't want to sleep with him, I don't know why I did. I'll tell you why. It was just too good to pass up. You don't feel that loved. If you knew how much Jesus loved you, you could control any sexual impulse at all. And that's the reason why you've got to be justified, and you've got to know that justification. You've got to know you're not your own, you're bought with a price. space. And if you know that, you will have sexual self-control. But on the other hand, do you understand that you're saved by faith, not by works? People that beat up and hammer at homosexuality all the time, and not materialism and other sins, the reason you're doing that is you want to define sin behaviorally. You want to make a list of rules and say, I don't break any of those, so you can feel superior to other people. And you are just as much justifying yourself. self. You're just as much into works righteousness as a person who's obsessed with sex because how else am I going to find out that I feel lovable? And people who hammer at homosexuals are people who don't see that the real problems are pride, self-righteousness, self-justification, lovelessness. Those are the main things. And therefore, this text absolutely and completely cuts on both sides. Well, I need to finish. How should I finish? here's the rest of that document that I found that I'm pretty sure Kathy wrote and if not who wrote it who is the wedding supper for it's for those who are willing to obey him no matter what the cost but Jesus tells us that God is no one's debtor he says that sometimes obedience means a permanent loss of some earthly satisfactions for an enrichment which is deeper

Mark 10, 29. Now, you know what the point of this is? The point is, if you are, if you say, I feel the homosexual feelings, I am a homosexual,

the point is not to decide whether you agree with what I just said tonight. If you read C.S. Lewis' book, Mere Christianity, and you get to the place on sexual morality, he says right at the top, this isn't the center. I love that. At the beginning of his chapter, he says, this isn't the center. This is not the problem. The problem in your life is that Jesus isn't your savior. You're trying to be your own savior. Figure out whether he is who he said he is. You know? Go to Dr. Montgomery's class, for example, tonight. Figure out who he is he said he is. Don't come and say, well, I don't know whether I believe this or that about homosexuality. It's not the point. It's not the center. The only reason I believe what I believe about this is because of who Jesus is. Now, you have to figure out who he is. But if he is who he said he is, and he calls you into a whole different approach, what I like about this is Mark 10, 29, when it says, anyone who loses brothers will get brothers. If you say, I'm gay and I need this, Jesus says, if you follow me, I'll give you a different kind of brother. He says, I am no one's debtor. Anything I call you to give up, I will give you ten times more in a different form. Instead of paying you in gold, I'll pay you in silver. I'll pay you in a different currency, but far more than whatever I think, whatever you gave up. Seek the new brothers and sisters. Seek the great dance. sell off your place at the dance for a bowl of breakfast oatmeal, no matter how hungry you are. Don't miss the great dance for any dance here. Let's pray. We thank you, Father, for granting us a look at this passage, which is filled with wisdom. And I pray that, though I know I've articulated this very poorly compared to what's the wisdom and truth and love that's in this passage. I pray that some of it got through, and I pray that all of us will see how great sexuality is, and I pray that you would show us that since you died for us, we need to and we can honor you with our bodies. Help us to do that, we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.