The passage we've been looking at since after Labor Day is again printed in your bulletin. It's the introduction to the first letter of John, and we're reading verses 1 to 4, and it's printed there. And though we finally come to the place, though we've been looking at it for three weeks, we finally come to the place where we're going to just consider this wonderful and important sentence in verse 3. So let me just read to you verse 3, and let us just consider it together. We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard so that you also may have fellowship with us and our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son, Jesus Christ. We want you to have fellowship with us and our fellowship. We want you to share what we have and what we share in. We share with the Father. We have fellowship with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. Now, finally here we come today to look at what this term means. And it's an extremely pregnant term, so it's time to deliver. It says, our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. And the little Greek word that's used here is a word that many of you have heard before. It's koinonia. And the Greek word koinonia means to share something, to have something in common, in koine. And we see two things just from this verse. We see the importance of fellowship with God, and then we see the nature of it. So we first see why it's so important or how it's important, and then secondly, we see something about what it is. So let's just look at it in that way. Let's look at those two things. First of all, now, it says, what we have seen and heard declare we unto you that you may have fellowship with us and therefore with the Father and the Son. Now, what John is saying, let me just remind you, John is an apostle. And verses 1 and 2, he says, as apostles, as disciples, as personal associates of Jesus Christ, we saw him. He calls him the word of life. We touched him. And now when he says that, we saw him with our own eyes, our own eyes. We touched him with our hands, our own hands. They're saying, first of all, he really lived. He wasn't just an idea. He really lived. And it's also probably talking about the fact that after his resurrection, his resurrection wasn't just a resurrection in spirit, the way the spirit of Abraham Lincoln lives on, but we touched him. So John is saying, the gospel, the gospel is that Jesus Christ, son of God, really was born, really lived, really died. We saw him. him. So the gospel is the proclamation of the events of Jesus' life. But then John says, why we're proclaiming the gospel? Why are we telling you the gospel? We have seen and declared this unto you, that you may have fellowship with us and share in our fellowship with God, with the Father and the Son. So the purpose of the gospel, the purpose of everything Jesus said, and did. The purpose of all the events that John is relating to them is that they might have fellowship, is that we might have fellowship. Now, what this means is not just belief in God, but sharing in God, experiencing God, knowing God, fellowship with God. Daily, what the old writers used to call communion with God, is the whole purpose of the gospel. It's the design and the goal of everything Jesus said and did. And it's the purpose of the very declaration of the gospel. Now, this means that what John is talking about is something, if you don't have it, let me put it to you this way. If you, you as individuals, if you don't sense God's presence, if you don't sense the warmth of his being coming down on your heart, if you don't actually feel his love shed abroad in your heart, if when you pray you don't sense a real personal connection with him, you are frustrating the very aim and design of the entire career of Jesus Christ. Everything he did was so that you could have that. This is life. See, in John chapter 17, Jesus says, This is life eternal. This is eternal life. to know you, speaking to the Father, and Jesus Christ, whom you sent. Now, think of that verse. So let me give you two verses that just support what John is saying here, that the very aim of the gospel, the very aim of everything Jesus did, was so that you could have fellowship with him. This is life eternal, that you know God and Jesus Christ, whom you sent. Now, what that means is not just that eternal life results in fellowship with God, knowing God, in personal communion with God, but that eternal life is. It's the definition. It's what eternal life consists of. This is eternal life that you know him. In other words, if you don't know the thing we're talking about here, if you haven't experienced the thing we're talking about here, you haven't even begun to live. You don't even understand what life is. This is life. This is eternal life, to know God. another verse in Jeremiah, Jeremiah 9, I think, where it says, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Let not the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him who glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me. Now, think about that. Imagine if you were, and everybody else knew, that you were the most brilliant person in the world, smartest And let's imagine that you not only were, but everybody knew it. The wisest person in the world. Think of the things that you would do. Think of the doors that would be open to you. Think of the places you would go. Think of the recognition you'd get. Or imagine that you were the world's greatest athlete and everybody knew it. Again, think of what kind of life you'd have. Or imagine that you were the sole heir of the greatest personal fortune in world history. Scores of billions of dollars. What kind of life would you have? Where would you be able to go? Well, what would you say? You'd say, that would be living. Any one of those, that would be living. Why? When we think of living, we think of at least two things. Living means at large. Power coursing through us. See, you see, at large, free to do things. But living also means being loved, being recognized. applause, acclaim. There's both the freedom of being at large and the sense of being able to do, and also the freedom of being accepted and being loved and being applauded and acclaimed and cheered. That's life, we say. If I don't have the power to do anything, if I don't have any love or relationship, you know, it's not life. That's life. Well, what is Jeremiah saying? What is God saying through Jeremiah? Jeremiah, let him who glories glory in this. What he's saying is, if you know God,

you have a life that the mightiest person, that the wisest person, and that the richest person in the world has no conception of. What Jeremiah is saying, what God is saying through Jeremiah, is the applause of God, the love of God. The power of God, the satisfaction of God

makes the life of the wisest, the mightiest, and the richest person in the history of the world nothing. Those people have nothing compared to the life that comes to you from knowing God. This is what we declare. Everything that God has done, everything that Jesus Christ has done, was so that you could have this. you know John Denver remember that old love song Annie's song I think it was called John Denver's Annie's song you fill up my senses yeah like a night in a forest you know like this sleepy blue ocean well you see a Christian that's true you look at God and you say but here's why you fill up my senses because the greatest ocean is just the outskirts of your ways the deepest forest is just a dim reflection of your depth The beautiful ocean is just a dim reflection of your beauty. You fill up my senses. Life. This is eternal life. See? Glory in this, that you know me. That glory is way beyond any other kind of glory and so on. Now, we've got to move on and talk about what it is. Let's talk about the nature of it. But before we go, the implication of this, that this is the greatest thing in life, that this is life, that you haven't even learned to live unless you've experienced it, that everything Jesus has ever done, the whole purpose of all of redemptive history is so that you can sit down tomorrow and have fellowship with God. Let me just draw two implications of this. Two implications. The first implication is a test. The second implication is an encouragement. Now, by the first implication, here's what I mean by a test. Test yourselves. This is what a Christian is. Ultimately, a Christian does have to believe in Orthodox creeds and doctrine. Ultimately, in fact, a Christian does have to believe that Jesus died for you and that your sins are forgiven. But it's possible to have an intellectual grasp on that only. We have to approach this verse with fear and trembling. trembling, real fear and trembling. And here's why. There have been many people in the history of the church, in fact, I've seen some of them, I've been with some of them, who have spent all their lives defending Orthodox doctrine, defending the beliefs, defending Christian morality, believing, really believing that Jesus died for them, really believing that Jesus died for their sins. And they get to their deathbeds, and they come They've never known God at all. That there's no inner spiritual life. That they don't know what it means to walk with Him. They don't know what it means to actually speak to Him. And they find that out very often in the time of their greatest need. And I've seen them come to realize that. What am I saying? Am I saying, see this is a test. they have no inner life. They have no place where they actually know how to walk and talk and speak and develop and listen to God. Now, am I saying, for example, that Orthodox doctrine is important? Of course not. I am not saying how silly it is to say, ah, it doesn't matter what you believe as long as your heart is right with God. That's like saying, yes, it is like saying, eat as long as you're healthy. Now you see, your health is a function of what you eat. Those things can't be abstracted from each other. And in the same way, your heart is a function. Where you are with God is a function of the truth. As a seed must penetrate the ground for the life to be released, and as a sperm must penetrate the egg for the life The Bible tells us, so truth must penetrate the heart for you to be born again. Truth. Orthodox belief. We have seen him. We have declared this to you, says John. You have to take this truth in. But the point is the penetration. The whole purpose of the truth, the whole purpose of the gospel, is it's supposed to come in and personally change you, alter you, psychologically and personally, radically, thoroughly. And it's very, very possible, unless you have experienced fellowship with God, for you might say the seed of the truth. You believe it, but it's seeds that lie on a bookcase shelf. Instead of get put in the ground, they just rot up there. And in the same way, you can have the truth, but it's never led you to fellowship, in which case you're not a Christian. That's a test. If everything that Jesus has done has been to get you to have fellowship with him, then if you really have no inner life, if you have no real spiritual life at all, if your religion is not a matter of thorough inner transformation, if your religion is all externals and compliance and behavior and ritual, you're not a Christian. Fellowship. But then, here's the encouragement. When you do sit down, God is not going to play peekaboo with you. If you say, ah, but so often I sit down and I pray in my life, it's just so dry, it's so hard. All right, okay, okay. Listen, there's all sorts of reasons why it can be dry. Our lack of spiritual discipline. Our lack of discipline to study and to pray and to meditate. Our lack of purity of heart. Our lack of concentration. There's all sorts of things, but you have to remember this. Yes, God is not trying to stay away from you. The barriers are on your side. Because everything he's ever done in Jesus Christ is designed to get you to the place where you can pray. To the place where you sense that you're resting in his arms. Where all of your hurts are being healed. because you sense him saying to you, you are my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. The dove comes down. Yeah, that's what God wants. That's the encouragement. Go pray. You think he's ready for you? It says in John chapter 4, Jesus says, the Lord seeketh those to worship him. He seeks us. He wants us to worship him. He wants us to rely. He wants us to fellowship with him. Okay. Now, what's the nature of it? See, we've talked about what the importance of it is. What is the nature of it? Now, what does this word fellowship mean? It means to share. Literally, we have fellowship, we have koinonia with the Father and Jesus Christ. And literally, the word means is we share in them. We hold things in common. So the question, of course, us to answer the question, what is this fellowship, is actually to ask, what do we share with them? What do we hold in common with them? Now, the old writers, and I'm thinking of two in particular that have written wonderfully lucid and extensive things on this, John Newton and John Owen, lived in different centuries, wrote in very different ways. They both talked a lot about communion, fellowship with God, and both of them tended to say the same thing. It says the Bible teaches us that we hold certain things in common with God, with the Godhead, with the Trinity, and what it is that we have communion with God in is we share in his life, we share in his interests, and we share in communication. We have communion, this is the way the old guys used to say it, we have communication in life, Life, we have communion in life, we have communion in interests, and we have communion in communication. Let me just run through those things and relate to you which one is which. First of all, and the reason we mentioned it first, we share in the same life. Fellowship means we have something in common, we share the same life. Now, we have to mention that first because all the other kinds of communion are based on it. This is an amazing statement, This is one of the reasons why we say fellowship with God has to go way beyond just believing and applying Christian teaching and so on. It says, of course, in 2 Peter,

whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises that by these ye might be made partakers of the divine nature. We share his nature. His life comes into us. Or Galatians 2. I live, says Paul, yet not I, but Christ lives in me. idea of being born again by the Spirit means that the life comes into us. Now, we have to be careful, and I'll just say it in passing, but if you don't have to say this in New York, I guess there's no place you have to say this. This does not mean that we mystically become God himself. Very important. You know, we, when you have children, we now know we pass an awful lot along to them. We pass a lot of things to our children genetically. One of my sons, for example, has my eyes. Poor thing. Obviously, a couple of them seem to have aspects of my temperament. So I've passed a lot of things on to them. It doesn't mean that they aren't their own person. They are still themselves. The Bible says the very lifeblood of God, the very substance of God, the being of God, God, the Spirit of God, the divine nature of God comes into us and we share it. An astonishing statement. We don't get immersed in the Godhead in the sense that we lose our individuality, we become part of the Trinity, part of the Godhead in that sense. No. It's important, but you know, nobody put this better. Nobody threaded the needle better to show us how incredible it is, what it means to share in the divine nature, but at the same time keep from going over into the mysticism idea that says basically what it means is you just simply are absorbed into the all soul, the ground of all being, God. And that's Lewis, C.S. Lewis, and that great quote that I get out at least twice a year, but it threads the needle. Let me show you how it works in this context. He says, he will make the feeblest and filthiest of us into dazzling, radiant, immortal creatures, pulsating all through with such energy and joy and wisdom and love as we cannot now imagine,

We share in his life. But then secondly, we share in his interests. What does that mean? This is hard to say. I'm afraid I'm not going to say this adequately, but it's extremely important. We get his mind. We have communion. We share his mind and his heart. This is not just prayer, and this is not just simply the infusion of the new life. We get a new mindset, and we begin to see things differently. We have his interests, which is the way the Puritans and the older writers used to put it. It means his priorities become our priorities because we start more and more to see life through him. See, there's a difference between being a religious person. and a religious person brings God in when there's a problem. You bring God in at critical times. That's not sharing his interests. Fellowship with God means instead of just bringing God in at certain times, there's a sense in which you put God on and he becomes the spectacle through which you see everything. You know,

let me see if I can get it to you out this way. One of the neat things about a marriage, If you've had a very good marriage for a very long time, you start to see this. The other gender is a mystery. That's one of the things that's attractive. There's a fundamental distinction. There's mysterious differences. But after a long period of time, and if you've had communion with your wife, and I'm speaking obviously from the male point of view, but it works absolutely the same, you very often find that when you're away from your wife and you see something, you experience something, you instantly know what she would think about it. You instantly know what she would say about it. You instantly know what she would react, how she would react. And what's amazing is you begin to realize not only do you have your view of it and your responses, but you know what she would say instinctively, and you know what she would see instinctively, and you actually are completed because you have a greater range of responses. You've learned to look at life through her eyes. Now, the dynamic is far, far more profound when it comes to God. things, there are things that you knew were wrong,

now turn your stomach. Things that you knew were sad now deeply distress you. You begin to love the things that he loves and you hate the things that he hates. And everywhere you look, you see what he sees, which is light and darkness, sin and grace and redemption and eternity. Everywhere. In other words, here's one of the great things about Being a Christian and having fellowship, having communion with his interests. Every good story to a Christian. Christians have more joy than anybody else and also more sadness than anybody else. Because you're having every joy and every sadness twice. Every time you hear a great story, you're actually hearing two great stories. The great story that you're hearing and the greater story, of which every great story is just a type. every song you're hearing, two songs. Every story you're hearing, two stories. I mean, this is true even in the great stories and even in the trivial ones, even in the cartoons sometimes. You know, the reason that my wife and I go to see The Lion King and weep, it's a cartoon. But you cannot help. It's a good story. But you're seeing two stories. And you're knowing that when the real king comes back, everything will be put right. I can't even watch, this afternoon I caught the end of The Last Starfighter. Great old, old, a really very well done, cute little science fiction movie from about 10 years ago. Remember that? The Last Starfighter. And you've got Alex, who goes off into the stars and saves the universe, and he comes back for his girlfriend Maggie. He shows up, you know, in their little town, their little trailer court in California. He comes on down, and he comes down with his alien buddy in his space suit, and he says, Maggie, I want to take you away because I have to keep saving in the universe for a while, but I love you and I want you to come with me. And so what does he do? I can't leave here. I just can't. I can't. What is Alex doing? He's saying, listen. He says, I love you, but if you're going to love me and I want you to unite with me and of course it's going to be very frightening to leave the familiar,

but I'm going to take you into a whole new realm. Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it ever entered in anybody's heart the kinds of things that are up there. For anyone who loves me, I want you to love me. I want you to unite with me. I want you to come with me. I know it's going to be frightening. You see. But if you're willing to turn your back on the familiar and come with me, you'll find yourself in a way you never did before. You see, every story is two stories. Every song is two songs. You share in the interest. You see it everywhere. Communion. Fellowship with God. Now, last of all, this is very important of course is when it comes down to we not only share in life and we not only have in common interests but ultimately we share communication now communication is the interchange of ideas and feelings

the interchange of ideas and feelings the way you know you have fellowship with somebody is that there's an interchange of both ideas and feelings in two ways Now, it's hard not to use the analogy of marriage again. When you're married, you're married. And that legal relationship never changes. Your relationship doesn't change, but your fellowship certainly changes. It's subject to degree. Sometimes it's not there at all. Sometimes it's actually, there's hostility. Sometimes there's just a kind of lack of enjoyment of each other, and there's no communication of ideas and feelings. Other times, there's tremendous enjoyment. Other times, there's tremendous intimacy. That is what it means to have fellowship with God. You pour out to him, he pours out to you. And here's how you know if you have fellowship with God. Let's look at it, us to him and him to us. Here's how it works. And I'm just going to outline this for you. Us to him. Here's how you know you're a Christian. If you share in his life and you share in his interests, if you've really received the spirit and the mind of Christ has been growing in you, one of the things you'll find is that you'll want to pray. I get so irritated by the tabloids and by the TV shows that say, does prayer work? Now, a Christian, the way you can tell a difference between a religious person who doesn't have fellowship with God and a person who shares and has communion with God is that the reason you spend time with somebody you love is just to spend time with them. There's a big difference between having breakfast with a friend and having breakfast as part of your business life, right? I mean, what if somebody calls in terms of business, you always want to know if you're going to a meeting, why are we here, right? What am I going to get out of this? You don't have a business breakfast unless there's something going to happen. And that's the way the non-fellowship, the person without fellowship with God, that's how they look at prayer. Does it work? I'm praying. Here's my list. Am I getting anything out of it? The way you can tell you have fellowship with God, the way you can tell you're really a Christian, you pray just to spend time. That's how you take a friend out to breakfast. If your friend feels like you've got an agenda, certain things I need to get out of this by 8.30, that's not much of a friend. That's not fellowship. The reason you take a friend out for breakfast is you just want to be with the person. You just want to know what's going on in the person's life, and you want the person to know what's going on in your life. And so the way you can tell the difference between a moralist religious person praying, and a Christian with God is that you're just happy to praise him and to thank him and just to journal in a sense, pour your heart out, tell him what's going on. Is that how you pray? Do you want to do that? That's a mark of somebody who's got fellowship with God. Do you? Do you say, I don't know what to do when I pray. I have a list and I just go on down it. No, I'm not. Hey, I'm all for that. But that's the second reason you pray if you're having fellowship The first reason is fellowship with God. But then on the other hand, there's him to us. Him to us. Now, if you really have fellowship with God, not only do you find in yourself a whole new way of looking at prayer and a desire to pray, and a desire just to be with him, but the other thing that you know is, to some degree or another, there's a bare minimum here, to some degree or another, you sense his presence. that he's there. Now, how does he do that? I told you before that this is subject to degrees, but there's a bare minimum. If you're really a Christian, every Christian who's really a Christian, who's had fellowship with God, says, there have been times in which I've felt his presence. He's let himself be known to me. He's manifested himself to me. He's shown me that he's here. Now, how does he do it? He does it, and by the way, if you want a lot more information on this, the last two sermons on Ephesians 3 that we did in the evening service about 13 months ago, the end of August of 1993, the last two sermons, certainly most of you weren't here then, the last two sermons on Ephesians 3 go into this in detail. But this is really what happens. When you are having fellowship with God, you sit down and you study His Word and you meditate on His Word until it catches fire. The way God shows you his presence, the way he communicates to you, is the truths get big. They get big. They get huge. You know, you might be sitting down and reading. I mentioned this last week. You might be reading about the fact that the Lord is a shield. About two weeks ago, I was reading on the idea that the Lord was a shield. And as I was meditating on it, I suddenly realized, wait a minute, why do such bad things happen? And as I looked at the psalm a little bit further, If he's a shield, why does he let bad things happen to me? And I suddenly realized, but the bad things are part of his shielding. They're the part of his shielding. It's the way in which he's protecting me from a lot of things that I wouldn't be protected from, I wouldn't be shielded from, unless he did it. And as I did that, the truth began to shine. And that's how God lets his presence known. And my worries started to melt away. way. That's the reason why there's been never, ever, ever a better description of what it means to have communion with God. Let me close with this. Then the wonderful hymn by William Cowper that sometimes we sing, it goes like this. He says, sometimes a light surprises the Christian as he sings. It is the sun who rises with healing in his wings. When comforts are declining, He grants the soul again a season of clear shining to clear it after rain. In holy contemplation, we sweetly then pursue the theme of God's salvation and find it ever new. That's it. In holy contemplation, we sweetly pursue the theme of God's salvation. And how does God let himself be known? It becomes new. It breaks in again, you see. A light surprises. The inner spot is touched. I feel it melt away. fellowship with God. That's how he speaks to you as you speak to him. Do you know this? Do you have an inner life? Everything Jesus has ever done in the history of this world has all been aimed, has all been for the end and purpose that you can sit down tomorrow and have a season of clear shining and have a light surprising and have the theme of God's salvation become new so that you're able to grasp the height and the width and the breadth and the depth of the love of Christ and have the eyes of your heart enlightened. So, there may be all sorts of reasons why it's not happening, but they're not on God's side. Don't stop until you have this. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us what we know we need, life itself. This is life, to know you. This is the fellowship we all want. Grant it, Father, that we can have it through your Son. In his name we pray. Amen. The offering is a time, if I were you, and I am, I would take time to offer my heart to God and say, Lord, I've had some fellowship with you. Some of you are going to say, I've had some fellowship with you, nothing like what I need. and ask for more. And some of you are going to say, I thought Christianity was just sort of living a good life. There's a lot more to it than I thought. And offer up to him your heart and say, give me that for which Jesus died. Fellowship with you. Offer your heart to him as we take up our offering and after that we'll close with two worship songs. Stay with us.