We started looking at it last week, and it's James chapter 3, verses 1 through 12. I'm going to read it. James 3, 1 to 12. Now not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he's a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal. Or take ships as an example. Although they are large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue also is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. All kinds of animals, birds, reptiles, and creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by man, but no man can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing. My brothers, this should not be. Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? My brothers, can a fig tree bear olives, or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. And this is God's Word. Well, last week we began looking at this and we took the opportunity to really dwell mainly on verse 1 because verse 1 is a case study of the whole passage, the subject of which is the power and the importance and the use of our tongue, words. Verse 1 is a case study of teachers, teachers in the church, ministers like me, people who have leadership in the church and are expressing or putting across teaching. And we talked about that at length, but now it's time to look at the whole passage as a whole. And we see that this is a very comprehensive exposition of the subject of our tongues, our words. And in here, I think the best way to break the thing down is to say that James shows us something about the power of words, and something of the proper use of words, though not much. He's not here to tell us good and bad, sins of speech and so on. He's here to talk more about, I think, the inner dynamics. So first, he's here to tell us about the power of words, and secondly, the proper use of words. But then lastly, he gives us some extremely important hints about how to heal our words, how to heal our tongue. Now, let's put it here. to be teachers. We already mentioned that. We all stumble in many ways. If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he's perfect, able to keep his whole body in check. And down here in verse 5 and 6, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue is a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, corrupts the whole person. Now, let's get started on this. This is telling us about the incredible power of words, the incredible power of our speech. In fact, what he says here really goes beyond, I think, what we would call common sense. I mean, he tells us some things that are unexpected, that are true, but we wouldn't expect them unless we thought about them, and that's what we're going to do. So, first of all, we see the power, and I'd like to show you that in verse 6, it actually tells us something about the power of words over the hearer as well as the power over the speaker. When you say something, the book of Proverbs, by the way, is just filled with this stuff. The book of Proverbs, for example, says in Proverbs 12, it says on the one hand, it's in verse 12, yeah, 12, 18, it says, reckless words pierce like a sword. Words have tremendous power to penetrate. On the other hand, there's another place in Proverbs where it says, Proverbs 12, 13, it says, a man's harmful speech will harm him. Now, what that means is that when you say something, that word, if you notice, it's not, in here, we're not talking about, James is not talking about so much that there's good words and bad words in the sense of there's true words and false words, though that, of course, is one way to divide them, nor is he much that the way you divide words up is correct words and incorrect words, or even ethical words, legal, you know, words, and unethical words, immoral words, but he says it's praising and cursing. In other words, words have a life to them. Words are either going to be giving life or taking it away, not only from the one who is hearing them, but from the one who's saying them. Pretty astonishing. So let's first of all take a look and see how it mentions here. that the tongue has got power over the listener. Now, you know, actually, it talks down here about it. It talks about cursing. It says, with your words, you can curse. Now, to curse somebody, you must remember, think about this, to put a curse on somebody is what? See, when we put it that way, you know, well, to put a curse is not only to wish them evil, but somehow to give them evil too. Isn't that right? Right? To put a curse on someone is not just to wish them evil, but to give them evil. And the Bible, as I already mentioned there, that when you say words that are there to hurt, and there's all sorts of subtle ways and not so subtle ways, your words are either out there to get people or they're out there to build people up. And when you put those words in, for either way, blessing, the Bible says, doesn't only wish, your words don't only wish good, but they impart good. They don't only wish evil, but they impart evil because words have got a power to them. First of all, for example, when it says we curse people and Proverbs 12 says, oh, it says reckless words penetrate. Now let's think about this for a minute. The power of penetration. The nursery rhyme goes, goes, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words can ever hurt me. And of course, you know, it's real ironic because children are the ones that say that. Children ought to know better. Some of you remember words that were said to you as children and you've never forgotten them and they've been haunting you all your life. Isn't that right? Things that people said about your body are things that people might have said about your character and you've never been able to forget them. What James is saying here, what the Bible says, is that they can set your life on fire, that they come in and they penetrate. They don't just wish, but they have a power to them. Words are acts in the Bible. Do you understand that? Words are actions. Words are deeds to a great extent. In other words, let me put it the way the Bible would put it, the way James would put it. Sticks and stones can only break my bones, but words can penetrate into my soul and pollute it.

Sticks and stones can only break my bones. Words can destroy my soul. They can set the whole course, the whole person on fire. They curse. Now you say, well, I mean, are you overdoing it? No, just think about it. You think about it. I already gave you a couple of examples. Some of you know that people have said things to you and they have sunk in and you haven't been able to forget them and they're still controlling you. Things that your parents may have said things that your friends may have said. They have a life to them. They're there. You can't get rid of them. It's not just, for example, by the way, that as I might as well, even though we're going to talk about this in a second, it's not just simply that a father can say to two daughters, say, you're pretty, you're not. You are lovable, you are not. I mean, those words go in and they affect that person's life. Words have got that kind of power. But by the way, you can do it to yourself. Now, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but if a kid may not just hear words that shape the course of his or her life, but a kid, for example, can say, you don't love me. Mom and Dad, you don't love me, and the reason you don't love me is because you won't buy me a Harley-Davidson. And if you loved me, you'd buy... Now listen, that's stupid, but you say it, and it has a power over you. Because when you say things, words have an effect. And by putting it into words, it has a reality now. And that reality can stay with that guy. A guy can distort his life by saying that and continuing to say that and arguing that. Words have got that kind of power. Words, it says here, the tongue is a poison. Your words can be like toxic chemicals that have been buried and for years they continue to poison the soil of the soul through seepage and on. Now, why? You know, you say, why is that? And why would words have such a power? And at this point, we get into some profound stuff. Verse 9, I can only tell you what he says. In verse 9, he says, what is so damaging about words, and what's so terrible about the abuse of words, he says here, is he says, with a tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Why would he add that? I think what he's getting at is this. The thing that makes us like God, this is the image of God. It's one of the places in the New Testament that talks about the image of God. When God created Adam and Eve, you remember, He creates the animals and He creates the world, but then he gets to Adam and Eve, and he says, let us make these folks in our likeness. Now, theologians have been talking for a long time about what the heck that means. What does it mean to be in the image and likeness of God? And actually, there's been a lot of fruitful thinking done about it, but one thing, not the only thing, but one thing that most people agree on is that we need the Word. We're like God, unlike the animals, in that we need words, words, we need to hear words, and we need to speak words. We speak. And it gets really, let me, let's keep on going. You know, you hear people saying,

all that matters, all that matters is that you like what you're doing. It shouldn't, you shouldn't need anybody else's approval. You shouldn't need anybody else's. You just have to decide that you like it and that you're doing what you want to do, and that's all that should matter. And that's bunk. That is absolute bunk. Now imagine this. I mean, we have some really talented musicians here. And a lot of you compose or arrange things. I've never heard a musician say, you know what, every person in the last 10 years that have heard this composition of mine have hated it. Everyone. I have done it in concerts. People have listened to it. Musicians and non-musicians, people in this field and that field, everybody has always said, that, I hate it, but it doesn't matter to me. I know it's great. It'll be wonderful. No, you got to have some, you have to have a word from outside. You have to have some word from outside. We get our humanity, we get ourself from the words of others. You don't know who you are unless somebody tells you. If there's a hundred people saying things to you that are contradictory. If 50 of them are saying you're great and 50 of them are saying you're terrible, you will have a contradictory self-image. Why? Because your very self comes from the words of others. We need the word. On the other hand, we need to express in words. Sometimes we want to burst. We've got to talk to people. When we really enjoy something. Now, C.S. Lewis has a great verse, a great chapter on this in his book, Reflections on the Psalms. He says, when you really something. You have to tell somebody about it to enjoy it. You've got to come and grab somebody and say, listen to this. And you praise it and you want the other person to praise with you. You've got to express what's down inside you in words. Why is solitary confinement torture? Well, you say, you know, relationship. Well, yeah, I guess so. But the point is, we need words. We need the Word. That's what makes us human. Now, you know, if you want to get beyond this, this is what James is saying. If you want to get beyond this and say, how does it make us human, and why is it so important to us, and why is it something we need as much as food and water? We need to hear words, and we need to produce them. And why do we need it? Because we're humans. Now, you can go a little deeper, and it's really fun. You know, words are symbols. We are symbol-making creatures. And a lot of people can make a pretty good point that animals can only react if we can act. Why? Animals can't symbolize. Animals do not create. There's no works of art. Why? Because they can't symbolize what they want to do and then do it. Well, you know, you say, wait a minute. Well, those are some articles I read recently. You know, okay. And I'm not totally sure that they're completely right. But what they're doing is they're getting at this. The reason that words have a living power in us, the reason that words are more than words, the reason that words are food, and if they're good words, they nourish us, poison us is because we're made in the image of God and God speaks. God is a speaker. God talks. God sends us his word, the Lord of the word and the word of the Lord. And therefore, that's what makes us human beings. As a result, watch what you say. That's what it's saying, all right? Watch what you say. It has enormous, enormous power over the hearer. And, of course, just before we finish this and get into how it has power over the speaker, the reason it has power over the hearer is with your words you can destroy somebody's self, but with words you can heal them. You can heal them. Your words have enormous penetrating power in a positive way. All of the studies tell you, every study of child behavior has told you over and over and over again, kids drink up compliments,

affirmation like a thirsty sponge. They've got to have it. They're human beings. They've got to have the Word from outside. They've got to have the Word that says, well done, good and faithful. They've got to have the Word that says, you are my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. You've got to have it, and you've got to give it. Now, having said that, let's talk a little bit also about the power of the speaker, because this passage doesn't just say that it curses and poisons others. It says, as I mentioned, the proverb says, it also curses and poisons us. And you see the passage here. It says, and this is really quite striking, in a positive way, it says, if anyone would be never in fault in what he says, he'd be a perfect person. That's the positive. Now, negative, in verse 6, it says, if your tongue is on fire, your whole self is on fire. And therefore, you know what it's saying here? Let's put it positively. It's saying that your tongue is the key to changing your whole self. Wants to have so much power that if you could master your tongue, mastering your tongue is the key to permanent change. Mastering your tongue is the key to changing the core of your being. Well, how? Well, let me put it to you this way. This tells us, first of all, that words reveal who you are. So at the end, it says, my brothers, can a fig tree bear olives, or grapevine bear figs, neither can a salt spring produce fresh water. Now, what it's really saying is, how do you know if the spring is brackish water or fresh water by the issue, what comes out? How do you know if a root is a fig root, whether it has fig fruit? Okay. How do you know if you want to really change yourself? You won't know yourself unless you look at your words. Your words reveal who you are. Centuries before modern psychology, James is telling us, the Bible is telling us something that all therapists and all counselors know, no matter what their point of view, no matter what their school or party is, and that is get people talking. And that will help them understand themselves. And you know, if you get a person talking in a kind of unguarded way, in an honest way, suddenly they'll say, did I say that? I said that. I guess that's it. I guess that's how I am. I guess I really believe that. You see, what you believe is what completely shapes your personality. What you believe about yourself, what you believe about God, what you believe about other people, what you believe, it's your belief structure that really affects you. And you won't know your belief structure unless you listen to your words. Your words will show you. Now, by the way, if you don't use your words, if you don't find trustworthy people to talk to, to talk these things out, to talk your heart out, if you don't find people. And if you don't speak honestly to them, because if you're a loner and you don't speak, you're not going to know who you are. This is telling you that you will not know who you are simply by thinking. You also will learn who you are by speaking. And if you don't positively seek to find out who you are through your words, by having friends, by having fellowship, by having friendship, you see, that's what's so wonderful about this. When he says you'll only really see yourself, the key is your words. That's how you'll know who you are. That's how you'll see

relationships. You're only going to know who you are through relationships. But here's the awful thing. If you don't use your words to find out who you are, I can tell you one thing, everybody else will use your words to find out who you are. One of the worst things, the worst thing that happened to Nixon and all of that Watergate stuff was when the tapes came out. And the tapes did not show so much. His illegalities. That really wasn't why the tapes undermined him. You know what undermined him? Any of you ever hear any of the tapes, transcripts or anything? Because you could see the man's heart and there was a coarseness and there was a meanness of spirit and there was a nastiness there. I mean, I'm not trying to, you know, trash Nixon. I'm also not promoting the film or anything like that. But I'm trying to say, I am trying to say, if you don't use your words to see who you are, everybody else will. Your words show you who you are better than your thoughts. Did he listen to himself? So you see the power of words, they have the power to reveal who you are. But also, the reason words will help you with your heart is that they don't just reveal your heart, but they really also have an affect on your heart. They also direct your heart. and this is the reason why it talks here about reining the tongue in. It talks about controlling the tongue. It talks about taming the tongue. You know, you say, well, what would that do? Why would taming the tongue help? And the answer is, we've already actually kind of, in a sense, we've gotten into it. It says, for example, a bit in the horse's mouth controls the power of the horse, Worse, directs it. A rudder directs the power of the ship and of the wind and the waves. So the tongue, and here's what I mean. It means, for example, your heart. What's in your heart? All sorts of stuff, bad and good things. You're made in the image of God. There's a lot of good things in there. If you're a Christian, there's the Holy Spirit and the grace of God operating in there, but there's also a lot of sin and stupid things in there, and you also have a lot of things that people have told you that are staying in there, the vultures of other people's words, abusive words. Now, don't you want to direct your heart toward the good part of itself and not the cancerous part? Don't you want to cultivate and grow the good part? And don't you want to squeeze out and starve out the bad part? Then watch your words. On the one hand, it means when you clothe evil, stupid, destructive thoughts in words, they have a power over you. For example, if you say you're despicable, you don't deserve to live. And you keep saying that, that thought will now have a power over you it didn't have before. Don't say that if it's not true. In fact, if you say it about yourself, you say, I'm despicable, I don't deserve to live. Nobody loves me. Nobody should love me. What you're doing, you're clothing. You know, if you wake up in the morning and you're naked practically, and you can't get much done in the world that way, you got to put on your clothes to be effective. Same thing with your thoughts. They're not going to be very effective if you don't clothe them with words. So don't take the thoughts that are stupid, that are destructive, that are wrong, and clothe them with words. But on the other hand, make promises and confess. For example, in James 5.16, it says, get together with other people, get together with other Christians, and confess your sins to each other. Some of you say, oh my gosh, I wouldn't want to do that. You know why? That would make

me vulnerable. In other words, if you come and say, you know what, instead of expressing your anger, instead of saying they're despicable, I hate you, I hate them. Instead, if you confess your anger

to somebody else out loud, see, your words, if you confess your anger, then what's going to happen? You're going to be accountable. It's going to strengthen the right part of your heart. You make confessions or talk, or promises. You make promises. When you get married, you say, I promise all sorts of things. Now, those things are in your heart, and there's a lot of other things in your heart. What do you do? You express the parts that you know are the strong, the right, the good, and you express them, and you make yourself accountable, and that strengthens those sides. See, without words, without making promises, without confessing, without relationships, without speaking it out, you won't understand yourself. You won't be able to direct yourself. This is an indictment So, those of us who are loners, who don't trust people, don't want to do these sorts of things, they don't want to talk things out, they don't want to be honest, they don't want to be truthful, they don't want to make promises, look out. Now, here's the other thing. And I said it's very brief here. That's the power of words. Secondly, he tells us a little bit about the use of words. And he says only two things that you shouldn't do. He says you shouldn't boast and you shouldn't curse. You notice in verse 5, it says the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest... And then down further, it says you shouldn't curse. Now, I mentioned this last week, but a lot of you weren't here for various reasons last Sunday night. There's a course taught in Philadelphia and around the country by some friends of ours. It's called a Sonship course. And the Sonship course has a thesis. And the thesis is this. You do not know, even though you say you're Christians and you say you believe in Jesus, basically you don't really function in your heart with the gospel. Sonship says, you may say you believe that you're saved by grace alone and that Jesus has died for you, and now there's no condemnation for you. The Word of God, the verdict of God, has come in. God says, I have punished Jesus Christ in your place, therefore, for you. You are my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. But Sonship says, most Christians do not know, but they don't function that way at all. They say they believe that they're not condemned, but they go out in the world to patch up a righteousness of their own. And you spend all of your time seeking to defend yourself, to show yourself and other people that you are really OK, and tearing other people down. You are out there defending or prosecuting all the time. You are either defending yourself saying, This is OK. I am doing alright. Everything is alright. I am fine. Making excuses, making explanations, or else tearing people down, gossiping about them, criticizing them.

What they do is they give you a tongue assignment because they say, you don't realize that you don't operate on the gospel until you watch your tongue. And the tongue exercise, which I mentioned last week, they said for the next week, just don't do these six things. But now listen, do not complain or grumble. Do not boast about anything. Do not gossip or repeat a matter. Do not run someone down even a little bit. Do not defend or excuse yourself no matter what. Always affirm someone else. And they said, now try that. And the reason they make you do that is they say, if you don't watch how hard it is, you won't see what's really going on in your heart. All those six things boil down to this. You're always boasting or cursing. You're either trying to build yourself up, always make excuses, always putting yourself in a good light. And here's the reason why. You're still in the courtroom. The gospel says, get out of the courtroom. The verdict is in. There's no more need for defense. There's no more need for prosecution. Jesus was condemned for you, and now that you're accepted. And if you really understand that, if you rest in that, you will be able to take criticism without dishing it out. You won't have to attack people. You won't have to gossip people. You won't have to build yourself up all the time. There won't be boasting or cursing. There won't be defense, all this defending, or all this prosecuting. It'll be gone. There'll be nothing out there but listening, a willingness to listen, to tell the truth, but never to attack, never to get yourself on top of other people, boasting and cursing. The tongue assignment shows we don't believe the gospel. Because we don't believe the gospel, boasting and cursing all over the place. Take the gospel in, and that would get me, so now we're getting to our third point. The third point is how do you heal your words? If words are so powerful, if words have this incredible effect, how do you heal it? Now, here's what I love about this passage. It doesn't say, now, well, here's what it does say. Let me read it to you first. It says, with the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Now, look, and then he goes on and says, how can this be? How can we, out of the same mouth? Now, what he's saying is, we, he's talking to us Christians, He says, we are able to praise God and curse other people. This should not be. What is so monstrous about it? They are utterly incompatible. So what he's saying is, we can do both, but we can never do them both at once. We could never do them both at once. They are antithetical to each other. And therefore, it's the praising of God as our Father. It's the recognition of what he did for us in Jesus Christ and the praise of that. And the rejoicing in that, which is the opposite of cursing of other human beings. He didn't say he does not oppose cursing of people to blessing of people. He opposes cursing of people to praising the Father. See, if he said the opposite of cursing of people is blessing of people, then he would be giving you the impression that you could heal your tongue through self-control. But doesn't he say in verse eight, no human being can tame the tongue. Right now on our staff at Redeemer, we're reading a very, very good book, a secular book on communication skills. It's very good. We're reading it together. And basically, it follows, it lays out an awful lot of things that the Bible says, and especially in the book of Proverbs. But because it's a secular book, it gives you exercises. And it says, you can do it. And James says, you can't do it. If he had said the opposite of cursing of people is blessing of people, then he'd be giving the impression that exercise, exercise, exercise, practice, practice, practice, and you'll make Carnegie Hall, and you'll also get your tongue under control. He says nobody has ever been able to do that. You have to be healed. And you know what heals you? Praising of the Father. Seeing that you're out of the courtroom. You know the place, Palm Sunday, the triumphal entry, Jesus is coming in, and all the people are praising him. And you know, remember, some of the religious leaders come up and said, stop it. You know what they're saying about you? This is blasphemy. And what does he say? I say to you, if they are silent, the stones will cry out. And he's saying, in my presence, even the stones are eloquent. What will turn? Now, you know, I have a lot more to say here than I got time, so we're going to have to end up. What will absolutely, you need as a human being to express. The thing we most want to be able to do is to take what's inside us and express it. And also the thing we need is to hear the word from outside. Well, here's the gospel. Jesus Christ is the word that we need. And if Jesus Christ comes and says, you are my beloved child, I died for you. You're my treasure. You're my beauty. You know what that means? That has the power to heal and overturn all the things that have ever been said about you before. It can change yourself. It can heal it completely. It sends all the vultures away. All those things that have been around, what your dad said, what your mom said, what your friend said, what you have said, all those things that are haunting you, the word, the word comes in, the word we need, the word we have to have. And then what's so beautiful is if you see him, the more you see him and you take in his beauty, even if you have a tongue of stone, you will find finally I've got something in my center that I can talk about. I don't have to think about it. I can just blurt it out. More than anything else, we want to be able to spill our guts. When Jesus is in our guts, what we're spilling is beautiful. More than anything else, we want to be able to spill our guts and find that everyone around us is being edified by it. In the book of Acts, we're told a fire came down from heaven and everyone found, who was in that upper room, tongues were touched with heaven, and they were able to praise God, their tongues were healed. This tells us that there's another kind of fire that can infect your tongue. It's the hell fire. Hell is Satan. You remember when Peter says, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God, and Jesus says, heaven has touched your tongue. Heaven has shown you this, Simon Bar-Jonah. Two verses later, Jesus says, by the way, I'm going to die, and I'm going to be rejected, and Peter says, no, he starts to control. He says, you can't do that. And Jesus turns around and says, get thee behind me, Satan. Now hell's on your tongue. You see? What the Spirit of God does is it shows you the beauty of who Jesus is and what he's done for you. It gets you to praise God the Father. And when you're doing that, you will find you've taken the word in that you can give out and that solves everything. It solves what's inside and it will solve the problems of the people to whom you're giving it. So, words of a power. Get out of the courtroom. Praise the Lord. And even if you have a tongue of stone, it'll be an eloquent one. Let's pray. Our Father, to some degree, maybe some of us will just walk out of here just realizing, I've got to be careful with what I say. I have to watch my tongue. But I pray that they would see it takes more than exercises. I pray that the same Spirit that came down the upper room and that showed this is the healing of the tongue. I would come down on some of us tonight. I would give us the power we have now to begin to say words that aren't boastful but humble, that aren't cursing but blessing. Help us not just to give, to wish good, but to give good with it. Father, heal us, and we shall be healed. Save us, and we shall be saved. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
