The scripture reading this morning is from 2 Peter 1, verses 12 through 21.

So I will always remind you of these things, even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have. I think it is right to refresh your memory as long as I live in the tent of this body, because I know that I will soon put it aside as our Lord Jesus Christ has made clear to me. And I will make every effort to see that after my departure, you will always be able to remember these things. For we did not follow cleverly devised stories when we told you about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ in power, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He received honor and glory from God. God the Father, when the voice came to him from the majestic glory, saying, This is my Son, whom I love. With him I am well pleased. We ourselves heard this voice that came from heaven when we were with him on the sacred mountain. We also have the prophetic message as something completely reliable, and you will do well to pay attention to it, as to a light shining in a dark place. Until the day dawns and the morning star rises, and your hearts. Above all, you must understand that no prophecy of Scripture came about by the prophet's own interpretation of things. For prophecy never had its origins in the human will, but prophets, though human, spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. This is the word of the Lord.

Nothing is more foundational to the way, the way in which you live, than how you regard the Bible, how you approach it, how you understand it, has a direct influence on how you actually live. And that's the reason why for three weeks in the very beginning of this ministry year here in September, we're looking at the Bible itself. And last week, looking at the beginning of the Gospel of Luke, we actually talked about the truth of the Bible. So, for example, when the Gospels, say these are accounts of what Jesus said and did in his life, then we talked about the fact that's not legend. It's it was those eyewitness testimony. And so we were last week talking about the idea that you can take the Bible as being reliable, that when it tells you something happened, it happened. But even if you believed everything the Bible taught was true, that doesn't actually answer the question, what role should that have in my life? So we're moving on this Sunday from talking about whether the Bible is true to whether the Bible is authoritative. And what does that mean? What does it mean to talk about the Bible's authority? So this very important text in the second epistle of Peter, the second letter of Peter, talks about the Bible. And we're going to learn three things about authority, why the Bible has authority, why that's a good thing, not a terrible thing, and how that authority works in our lives. So, you know, why it has authority, why that's good, why we need it, and how that works out in our lives. So let's start with why the Bible has authority. Why would we say that? Well, this says this is such an important passage. If you read the entire letter of Peter, you'll see that Peter is basically talking about what he calls false teaching. So he's warning the people who read, or reading his letter about false teachers. And what he says is don't listen to them. You have to listen to what God has said. You need to listen to God's word. You have to listen to what God has spoken to us. Well, how has God spoken to us? That's what he's explaining in these few verses. And what he does is he looks to two sets of sources of God's word and God speaking. Two sources. The first set of sources is in verse 16 to 18, where Peter says, we did not follow cleverly devised stories when we told you about the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ in power, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Now, who's he talking about? Who's we? Well, he's talking about the people who actually, literally saw the Jesus himself, saw him, what he did, saw and heard, heard what he said. He mentioned, he gives one example of it, the transfiguration, which in some ways is one of the more supernatural aspects of, you know, events in the history of Jesus life. But what he's saying here is he's talking about those people who actually saw Jesus. And therefore they're the sources, of course, of what he said and did. And they are what we would, you and I would call new Testament. Authors. These are the people who are writing what we today would call the new Testament. They were, either actual eyewitnesses of the risen Christ. So they actually like Paul or like John or like Peter actually saw Jesus Christ raised from the dead. Or like Luke, they, as if you were here last week, Luke said in the beginning of his gospel that he went and talked to eyewitnesses living, surviving eyewitnesses, and put the accounts of what Jesus said and did together from that. So the new Testament authors were people who, who either were eyewitnesses or talk to the eyewitnesses. And so they tell us what God has said through Jesus Christ.

Notice, by the way, it's interesting that Peter's saying exactly the same thing that Luke said last week. And we saw last week, excuse me, he said it 2000 years ago, but I mean, he, we preached smoke about it last week. And it says, for we did not follow cleverly devised stories, but we were eyewitnesses. What he's saying is what you, when you read the new Testament, these are not legends. This is not fiction. This is not hearsay.

So the one way we find God speaking to us is through the accounts of Jesus himself speaking to us, who was the son of God. And so that's what we call the new Testament. And on the basis of that, it would be natural to assume that, that the new Testament would make the Hebrew scriptures, the writings of the prophets, what we call the old Testament. We would think maybe the new Testament makes it obsolete. Why? Well, because Jesus, of course, we're learning Jesus is the son of God, but the old Testament prophets, they were just human beings. They were just human beings. So at least in the new Testament, we have God speaking directly to us through Jesus. But in the old Testament, that's just human beings. That's just their interpretation. Doesn't Jesus coming make the old Testament obsolete? No, Peter says in no uncertain terms. That's why in verses 19 to 21, he's turning to the prophets, what you and I would call the old Testament. And he says, we also have the prophetic message as something completely reliable, and you will do well to pay attention to it. Um, yes, of course, Christians have always believed that you interpret the old Testament in light of the new Testament. Just like if you're reading a novel, you can't really understand what's happening in the earlier chapters, unless you get to the end. It's only when you get to the end that you really can understand the last chapters and the last chapter usually helps you understand what was going on in the early chapter. So there's a sense in which, yes, the new Testament, um, uh, we interpret the old Testament in light of the new Testament, but here's what he's trying to press. He's trying to say, this is just as reliable. The old Testament is just as reliable as the new Testament. You must pay attention to it. You must not think it's obsolete. And then he goes forward and he says something pretty remarkable. It says, uh, you must not, this is 20 and 21. You must understand that no prophecy of scripture came about by the prophets own interpretation.

For prophecy never had its origin in the human will, but prophets though human. See, it's almost as if Peter is kind of anticipating this question. He says, why do you need the old Testament when you have the new Testament? He says, but the prophets though human spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy spirit. And that's a remarkable spot statement.

See our common, our culture today would say, Oh, the Bible's fine. It's, you know, Shakespeare's fine. Uh, you know, there's lots of great works in history that we can learn from, but in the end, they're all human, uh, documents. And it's always those authors interpretation. I have my interpretation. They have their interpretation. Peter's saying, no, that's not the case. It says though human, they spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy spirit. And here's what this means. God, because he's in complete control of everything, he's totally sovereign of everything. God, God can, can actually produce people who have been prepped by everything in their entire lives to sit down and write exactly what God wants them to write every word. And therefore what Peter is saying is in the end, because God bore on these, uh, these authors in that way, they were human. You can see their humanness. You can see their, their particular dialect. They can see their culture. You can see, you can see their temperament. You can see their, their language and all that. They were human. And yet God so bore on this situation. God was able because God's in control of all things. He could prepare a person to write exactly what he wants to write. Therefore, when you read the Bible, it's not their interpretation of things. Put it this way. Peter's saying what scripture says, God says,

and this is not just Peter's view. It's Jesus's view.

Not only is it, not only does Jesus, for example, say this very thing, he not only believes it, but it's the basis of his entire life. See what I mean by believes it in, um, Matthew 19. There's a very interesting place where Peter, uh, where Jesus, excuse me, is talking about marriage. And he quotes Genesis chapter two. And he quotes the very famous verse in Genesis chapter two, a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife. And the two shall be one flesh. If you've gone to any Christian wedding ever, in his life, in his history, you probably heard that read very famous. Now what's interesting is if you go and read it in Genesis two, it's an editorial comment by the author. Uh, Genesis one, two and three talks about God speaking here and human beings speaking and God answering them. But when you get to that verse, it's actually an, it's actually an editorial comment. It's, it's, it's not God speaking. It's not anybody, any other human figure speaking. It's the author saying that yet when Jesus Christ, Christ, quote, quotes it, he says, God has told you that a man shall leave his father and mother and cleave to his wife and the two shall become one flesh. God has told you that. Well, you go back into the old Testament. You say, wait a minute, God doesn't say that. It's, um, it's the, the author of Genesis that says that. Ah, and that means that Jesus Christ does not believe in red letter Bibles. Now, by the way, I've got a couple of red letter Bibles and I don't want you to say Tim Keller. So we should go home and burn our red letter Bibles. Don't tweet that. It's not true. I'm not saying that, but here's what Jesus is saying. You know what a red letter Bible is. You have the words of God in red and then you have the words of Jesus in red and then everything around it looks like, well, that's Mark or Luke or Paul or Moses or somebody else. But these are God's words. This is Jesus words. Well, let me just tell you what Jesus Christ says in red.

He says, everything in the Bible is God's word. It's not just when in the book of Exodus, Moses says, and God, spoke these words out of Mount Sinai. You shall have no other guys before. And then when Moses goes on and explains what those commandments mean, that's as much God's words as what he's telling what God said out of the, out of the cloud. Jesus didn't have red, didn't believe in red letter Bibles. See, Jesus says, for example, in Matthew five, he says, not a jot or tittle will pass of the scripture will pass away till it's all fulfilled. Not just statements, not just propositions. A jot of course was, well, a jot meant a while. It meant the smallest of all the Hebrew letters and a tittle was a part of a Hebrew letter. And what Jesus is saying is every level letter of the Bible is divinely inspired. It's all true. But see, it's not just that Jesus believed in the complete divine authority of the Bible. Every letter of it, he based his life on it. Every time the devil assaulted him in the wilderness. Do you remember what his first word always was? Every time the devil assaulted him, the first word out of his, in Greek, the first word out of his mouth was Greg, which means it is written. It's in the graph. I it's in the, it's it, it is written. The Bible quotes, the Bible in, uh, you know, when, when they come to arrest him, there's men running around with staves, and knives, and, and spears, and they're coming to arrest him and take him and get, and be killed. He's going to be killed. And Peter takes out his sword. And Jesus says, put your sword down. Jesus, uh, Peter says, Jesus, I could call 12 legions of angels, but then how would the scripture be fulfilled?

Jesus is thinking of scripture at a time like that. And he's saying, I've got to bake everything I'm doing on scripture. When he's dying on the cross, he quotes Psalm 22. My God, my God, why has thou forsaken me? So Jesus didn't just, in the, in the abstract, believe in the divine authority of the scripture. It was the operating principle of his life. He faced everything in life with the scripture. He based everything in his life on the scripture. He had full confidence in every letter of it. It was the, it was, it was, it was the essence of his identity. And it was the secret of his greatness.

Now there's a lot of people. I've talked to so many people in New York city over the years who say this. Well, I'm a Christian, but I don't take the Bible literally.

Now, if I give them the benefit of the doubt, I never do, by the way,

you know, I could say something like this. I'll tell you why I don't give them the benefit of the doubt. Because they don't mean this. I said, well, I don't take the Bible literally. Well, if Jesus is right, that you must always, that what the biblical author says, God says, what the scripture says, God says, what the biblical author says, God says. That's how inspired the Bible, is. If that's the case, then when the biblical author is writing poetry in the wisdom literature or the prophets, then you read it as poetry. And when the biblical author, like Luke is saying, I historically researched this and Jesus rose from the dead, then you take it literally. In other words, if the biblical author says this, you know, read me like this, read me like this. You read it like that. Now, the reason I don't give them the benefit of the doubt is generally speaking, when people say, well, I'm a Christian, but I don't take the Bible literally. They're not talking about that. I could grant that. Of course we can. Anybody could grant that who believes in the authority of the Bible. But here's what they usually mean. Well, I'm a Christian. I follow Christ, but I can't accept everything in the Bible. I feel some parts are obsolete. Some parts are regressive. I, I'm a Christian, but I can't accept everything the Bible teaches. Well, here's the problem. If you're following Jesus and you're rejecting the very core operating principle of his life, you're not going to be able to accept the very core operating principle of his life. How does that work?

If you're following Jesus and you say, I can't take the Bible literally, meaning I can't accept every single part of it. I don't take it as fully authoritative. Well, then you're following a Jesus of your own imagination. That Jesus never existed, by the way. There's not a historian on the planet that would say he existed.

And therefore what you're doing makes no sense.

Why should we believe that the Bible is authority? Because not only the Bible says it and Peter says it, but Jesus said it. And of course, if you say, I don't even believe in Jesus. I don't believe in the son of God. I don't believe he was raised from the dead. Well, that's one thing. But if you say, oh, I follow Jesus, you have to accept the full authority of the Bible. But now, secondly, why is that a good thing? Because I'm talking in New York City. I'm talking, and look, I'm a, I'm a creature of my own culture. And in our culture, we're told, don't let anybody tell you how to live your life. We're all very prickly. I'm as prickly as you, because I'm in, I'm in this culture, and we're always told, look, don't let anybody tell you how to live your life. You should be your own life authority. It's true that in the past, and it's true that even today in many parts of the world,

most, most people over the years have had the center of gravity of their life authority outside of themselves. See, your life, your life authority is what determines your choices, what determines how you live, what determines whether you say, I'm going to live this way or that way. What determines those choices? That's your life authority. And most people, most of the time, have said, well, it's my religion, or it's my family, or it's my tradition, or something outside of me I have to conform to.

But we in modern Western culture, what we're told is, and what we feel is, no, I need to be my own authority. Nobody can tell me, what my choices ought to be. I will determine, my life choices. Now, you know, the text here says, you should pay attention to the Bible, verse 19, as to a light shining in a dark place.

And what this is saying, most commentators say, is, what Peter is trying to say is, that your hearts, and the world, and the cultures, of the world, and everything around, there's a certain darkness, only scripture can show you, the right way to live. Let me show you why, if you are a person from the Western world, like we, most of us are here, that idea, that you can be your own life authority, not the Bible, not God, not anybody, you have to be your own life, you determine how to live, is basically an illusion. Because if you think, you're determining today, how you live your life, if you think you're your own authority, what you're actually doing, is you're being controlled, either by your feelings, and or by your culture, and or by certain, validating human beings out there. Either by your feelings, or by your culture, or validating human beings, but you're not in charge of your own life, you're not your own authority, nobody is.

The reason why it's good, that the Bible be your authority, is because something else will be your authority, it won't be as good as the Bible. So for example, many people who say, well I, I'm my own authority, what that really means is, I'm doing what feels right to me. So you're actually, you're actually, letting your feelings, dictate, how you live your life.

Is there any problem with that? Yeah. Because if you're letting your feelings, dictate your life, you're actually letting your feelings, dictate your life, and your feelings are, both incoherent and unreliable. Let me explain, what I mean by unreliable. I've used this joke so often, I'm not going to make it a joke. The, I'm just going to make the point, and the 15% of you, who've never heard the joke, will probably laugh. But most of you will not. But the point is, is that, your 15 year old self, always thinks your 12 year old self, was embarrassingly stupid. And your 30 year old self, will pretty much look at your, 20 year old self the same way. Really stupid. I can't believe, I believe the stupid things I did, and did the stupid things I did. Okay. And now it slows down a little bit, but I, fully believe, that if you could live, to a hale and hearty, 130 years old, you would think of your 85 year old self, as an absolute jerk.

Which means, of course, that whatever age you are right now, you are, right now, a fool.

You're a fool now. So that was more than 15%. Never mind. I guess I haven't told that joke, over here in a while.

How can you rely, on your intuitions, when your intuitions, of just a few years ago, let you down?

Or also, the incoherency. See, when people say, I have to do, what feels right. The problem is, what feels right, your feelings contradict each other. So for example, you say, I would like to have this great career. I'd also like to have a relationship, with this person. I happen to know, that this relationship, will hurt this career. Well, which do I do? Well, some people say, I have to decide, what I really most want. What I really, what's really the right thing for me. What I really most want. Well, what if, that's an illusion, to imagine, that somehow, one of these feelings, is deeper, than some other feeling. Besides that, they change all the time. They're probably, equally, strong. In which case, you can't follow your feelings, because, because they're incoherent. One, one, Christian writer, wrote about this recently, that I just love. He says, eventually, you will come to see, that you are a being, whose wants, make no sense. They don't harmonize. Your desires, deep down, are discordantly, arranged. So that you, you truly want some things, and truly not want them, at the same time. You're equipped, you will eventually realize, for farce, or tragedy, much more than for happy endings.

So actually, if you really say, well, my authority is me, what that could mean is, I'm basically doing, what most feels right, what my intuitions tell me, and that is sinking sand. Besides that, it's more likely, that's even more an illusion, and that you're much more, a prisoner of your culture, than you think. I'll give you another example. Okay. In other words, a lot of times people say, well, I'm in charge of my own life, you know, I'm my own authority, and I say, well, either your feelings are running with you, and of course, they're going to make, they're going to make a hash of your life, or, you might be more a slave, or prisoner of your culture, than you think. So for example, today, in the Middle East, and in pretty good parts of Africa too, and some others I'm sure, you anthropologists out there, can correct, you know, can correct me later. There are honor cultures, you know what an honor culture is? It's very different than our, modern individualistic Western culture, but in an honor culture, a man walks along, and he looks in his heart, and he sees two very, very different feelings. The one feeling, he feels, is aggression, that when people, wrong him, he pays them back, he goes after them. If they cross him, he makes sure they know it, you know. He doesn't let anybody get away with that. So one feeling, is aggression. And in an honor culture, he looks at that, and he says, that's good. That's a great thing. That's me. You know, which means I'm a man, I'm a person of honor, you know. He also may see, in his heart, some sexual desire, that doesn't fit in with the social norms, so he says, well I'm going to just, control that, suppress that. Okay. But here in Manhattan, a young man walks down the street, and he looks in his heart, and he notices aggression, that when people wrong him, he just wants to smash them. So what does he do with that? He says, that's not me, I need therapy. I need anger management. That's not me. I don't identify with that feeling. But if he sees any sexual desire, or passion at all, he says, that's me, that's who I am. Why? Well, he says, the Manhattan person says, I'm just, I'm being true to myself. No, you're not. You're as much a slave to your culture, as the guy over there, in the Middle East. Here's why. Your culture has given you a grid, and his culture has given him a grid, and when you put that grid down, it says, some feelings, no, bad, therapy, that's me. And over there, it says, great, that's me. Let's ventilate that one. That's, no, no, we have to suppress that. In other words, you're as much a prisoner of your culture, as anybody else. You're not being yourself, because you're looking in your heart, and being true to yourself. You're doing exactly what your culture tells you. You're a puppet. You're a marionette.

See, maybe, you're not your own authority, because your feelings, are your authority, or your culture's your authority, or, lastly, just gotta say this, nobody really can validate themselves. I mean, I hear people, I see it on TV sitcoms, I see it in popular culture. Nobody can tell you, whether you're good or bad. You have to decide yourself, and you have to, you validate yourself. Nobody can do that. Nobody can look out there and say, everybody hates me. It doesn't bother me. Everybody thinks I'm a fool. Everybody's, it doesn't bother me. I don't care. Nobody can say that. You've gotta have some cheerleaders. You've gotta have some people who say, well done, good and faithful. You've gotta have somebody, somebody, that comes to you, and says, you're great. You've got to. And that means, whoever those people are, they're running your life. They may be your peers, they may be your academic peers, they may be popular. It's the reason why one writer, puts it like this.

She says, whatever controls us is our God. God, those who seek power, are controlled by power. Those who seek acceptance, are controlled by the people, he or she wants to please. But you do not control ourselves. We are controlled by the Lord of our lives. And what she's trying to say is, you have to live for something. And you have to get validation from somewhere. And wherever you're doing, wherever you're going, those people control you. You are not your own authority. And therefore, it's good news that the Bibles, can be your authority. If the Bible is your authority, think about this. Here's the good news. Here's why it's good. One reason is because, if you make the Bible your authority, it liberates you emotionally, and intellectually. It liberates you emotionally. Why? It doesn't matter what anybody thinks. The Bible will tell you what God thinks. And that's what matters. Boy, that, emotionally, it's tremendously liberating. And intellectually. Listen. Partly because I am older. In the early part of the time, in the early 20th century, virtually all, virtually all, Western intellectuals were sure communism was the future, capitalism was gonna die. Everybody thought so. In the middle of the 20th century, almost all Western intellectuals felt psychoanalysis, Freudian psychoanalysis, you know, years of Freudian psychoanalysis, that was the wave of the future. Both those things have been exploded. The only authors I know, from the early part of the 30s, 40s, and the early middle, who were critiquing these things, when everybody said, that's the wave of the future, they tend to be Catholic and Protestant Christians.

The culture of your great-grandparents, you find cringeworthy. You need to realize that the culture we're living in right now, we feel so enlightened. The culture we are living in right now will be just as embarrassing to your great-great-grandchildren. And the only way, to base your life on something that will not look obsolete in 10 years, 30 years, or 100 years, is if you go to the Bible. St. Augustine, St. Augustine, who wrote 1,500 years ago, wrote a book called The City of God. You've probably heard of it. Major, important book in Western civilization. Okay. But what's interesting is, when you read St. Augustine, if you're a Christian today, you say, okay, you see the differences. You know, he lived in North Africa. He lived 1,500 years ago. You see the cultural distance. But by and large, you say, this guy believes in the same God I believe in. This guy knows the same God I know. This guy believes the same. I mean, you can see, this is a brother in the faith. But here's what's interesting. All his opponents, all the people who oppose Christianity in his day, they're all, you know, he goes kind of toe-to-toe with them, you know, in the city of God. The only reason we've even heard of most of them are because they're in the city of God. They're so obsolete. The only reason we even know they ever existed was because they're in the city of God. Do you know what that means? All opposing views to what's in the Bible will be obsolete.

Why would that stop now? It's been true 500 years, 1,500 years ago, 1,000 years ago, 500 years ago. Why would it stop now? Have we arrived at the perfect moment? Many of the people in the culture would say, we have it. We haven't. If you want to be intellectually liberated so you can think outside the box and not be a prisoner of your culture, if you want to be emotionally liberated, also, if you simply want consummate wisdom,

the Bible's authority is really good news. So for example, if you buy a car,

do you say, I am a modern Western person. I live in New York City and therefore, I'll decide what kind of fuel to put in that car. And I'll put in the fuel when I want to put it in. And I will maintain it the way I want to maintain it and in a way that is cost effective and convenient for me. You don't do that. You get out the owner's manual and you do whatever it says. And you know, you don't even think of it as being some kind of onerous authority that has come down on your life, do you? No, no. All you know is you didn't build the car. They built the car. And therefore, the owner by definition would know a lot more about the car. Besides that, I don't want to destroy the car. I bought the car. So you follow it. Even though you put yourself under the authority of the owner's manual. You don't even think you're doing it. Why? Because you just see it as consummate wisdom. And that's, look, if, by the way, maintaining your car will often be more expensive than you want it to be and it'll be pretty inconvenient because sometimes it has to happen even when it's very inconvenient to you. If there's a God who created you, and there is, and if he has spoken through the apostles and the prophets of the Old and New Testament and he has, then even though very often what the Bible tells you should do, will also seem expensive and inconvenient and difficult. Nevertheless, in the long run, it will reflect consummate wisdom. And in the beginning, it might hurt. But in the long run, in the end, over the years, it'll just be nothing but wisdom and wonder.

And so, the authority of the Bible is good news because

it's liberating, emotionally and intellectually. It's good news because it's consummate wisdom, but also, it's good news because it's radically personal.

J.I. Packer, at one point, J.I. Packer says, the Bible, the word which God addresses directly to us is an instrument not only of government but of fellowship. He made us with the intention that we might walk together forever in a love relationship, but such a relationship can exist only when the parties know something of each other. God, our maker, knows all about us before we say anything, but we know nothing of him unless he tells us. Therefore, God sends us his word to woo us as well as to instruct us.

The only way we can know God personally is if he speaks to us and says, this is who I am and this is what I want and this is who you are. And it's only when you submit to his authority that you can know him personally. And so, the authority of the Bible is radically intimate and personal. The authority of the Bible is wise, consummate wisdom. The authority of the Bible is profoundly liberating and that's the reason why it's good news. Now, lastly, how does it actually work in our lives? How does the authority actually work? Well, I'll tell you three things. It works, it does work through the will, it does work through the heart, and it does work through practice. Let's be fast here, but let's do it. First of all, it works through the will. At some point, if the Bible's authority, that means you need to obey it when you don't want to. Now, by the way, if you hate that,

don't raise children.

The distance between the parent's wisdom and a three-year-old's wisdom is not infinite. But the point is, you're constantly asking a child to do things that the child hates, finds terrible, doesn't want to do, screams about it. But you know, if they do it, they'll die. So you just don't let them do it anyway. You just, you say, you know, you exercise your authority for their sake. Now look, the distance between a parent's wisdom, you know, a 40-year-old's wisdom and a three-year-old's wisdom is far less than the distance between God's wisdom and yours.

And if you expect children to do what they're told even when they don't understand, how dare you not do what you're told when you don't understand? Once you say, if Jesus is the Son of God, he was raised from the dead, you accept that, the authority of the Bible, because there's no other way to do it and still follow him, then that means there are going to be times in which you say, I don't care what my feelings are, I'm going to do what's right. You know, the most brilliant, brilliant

example of this in fictional literature is the place where Jane Eyre, who's been lonely her entire life, realizes that this man is saying, I want you to come live with me, but I can't marry you because I'm actually still married. I can't legally marry you, but I do want you to, but I want you to come and live with me. And she desperately wants, and at one point she actually says, feeling, in her mind, feeling cried, oh comply, who will care for you? Isn't that interesting? Her feeling said, who's going to care for you? Okay, who's going to care for you? And this is what she says. I replied, I care for myself. The more friendless I am, the more I will keep the law given by God. I will hold to the principles received by me when I was sane and not mad. As I am now. Laws and principles are not for the times when there is no temptation. They are for such moments as this, when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigor. If at my individual convenience, I might break them, what would be their worth? They have a worth. And if I cannot believe it now, it is only because I'm insane. There I plant my foot. I did.

If you can't do that, don't raise children. If you can't do that, don't say, well, I'm following Jesus. So sometimes you just have to do it. And by the way, Plato and Aristotle had a debate about this. Plato said, you know something and then that leads to doing. But Aristotle more wisely, okay, Aristotle more wisely said that when you do it, it leads to knowing. Doing leads to knowing. Plato says, you have to know, then you do. And Aristotle says, well, to some degree, yeah, but to a great degree, it's when you do, you come to know it. Jesus says, anyone who has wills to do my will, he shall know. In other words, I'm saying, as you obey God, even when he doesn't seem real to you, he gets more real to you. And if you disobey God, he'll become less and less real to you.

Secondly, the heart. Oh, the heart.

Hebrews chapter four, verse 12, and we're going to look at this actually next week, says the word of God is alive and active. It's a two-edged sword and it pierces the heart. Now, I've seen the Bible used on people more like a weight just to smash people. This is what the Bible says. It's authoritative. You've got to do it. Archibald Alexander, the first professor of theology at Princeton Seminary in 1812, wrote a book called Thoughts on Religious Experience. And in that book, he had, in the very beginning, the very beginning, he uses an illustration. Back in those days, of course, when you wrote a letter, the way you sealed it was you took your signet ring, usually your family seal, and you took a piece of wax and you brought a little flame to it. And as you soften the wax, you put your seal down on it and the seal molded the wax into the form of the seal and sealed the envelope. And then when you got the envelope, you saw whose seal it was. And he says, well, the truth of the Bible is like the signet ring. And your heart is like the wax. And if you just bring the signet ring to the wax without the flame, without the fire, either it will only superficially create a kind of, it'll create maybe a very superficial facsimile of the ring, but it won't actually shape it. Or if you keep pushing, it'll crack the wax. And he says, if you just bring God's truth, the authoritative biblical truth, into people's connection to their hearts without fire, he says, it will either make them superficial, nominal Christians who say they're Christians on the surface, but underneath they're not shaped by it, or they'll just, they'll be cracked, they'll be crushed by the weight of the fact of the Bible and the authority of the Bible. And they'll run away screaming eventually, saying, I can't be good enough. I can't live up to this. This is just oppressive. You need the fire. What's the fire? Well, the fire's in the Bible. It's the gospel. And here it is. All other religions have a God who speaks and gives you revelation.

But we have the only God, Christianity's the only God who comes to earth in Jesus Christ and goes under authority. We have the only authority, divine authority, whoever went under authority. He obeyed his parents. Luke chapter two. He was born as a child. He obeyed his parents. But then eventually, as we saw, he obeyed the Bible. He followed the Bible. And at the very end of his life, when he said, not my will, but thine be done, he did the father's will and he was crushed. He went under authority and he did it all, even though it destroyed him in the end. Why? For you, for me. Now there's an authority you can trust. Nobody's ever loved you like Jesus Christ because nobody's ever given up what he's given up. Nobody's ever sacrificed what he sacrificed.

It's the only authority that you should really trust. It's the only authority that's ever done anything like that for you.

Why wouldn't you want to trust someone like that? There's the fire. You see it? And then it takes practice because the first part of this whole passage, the whole part, is where Peter says, look, you know these things, you know what the Bible says, but I've got to constantly remind you. That's why you're here, by the way. This is an opportunity. This is an effort to remind you of a lot, probably 80% of the things I've just told many of you, 90% are things you already know, but you need to hear it again. See what he says? I will always remind you of these things even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have. It's right to refresh your memory. I will make every effort to see that after my departure you will always be able to remember these things because our hearts are hard. You may see what the Bible says about God being wise and loving and it gets rid of your anxiety. Three hours later, you're anxious, you're anxious again. You need the sacraments, you need the Lord's Supper, you need the worship, you need the hymns, you need daily Bible reading, you need prayer to work this wonderful, life-giving, trustworthy authority of the Bible in your life until you're liberated emotionally, liberated intellectually, walking in the way of wisdom and having a personal, intimate relationship with God.

Do that.

Bring, accept the authority of the Bible. See it in light of the gospel. Put yourself under that authority day in and day out. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for the ways in which you have spoken to us. We thank you that you're a God who's not silent, that you've talked to us because you love us. You want to be our friend, our Father. And now we thank you for the remarkable way in which you have done this. You've given us your word through the apostles, through the prophets. And we ask that you would teach us to pay attention to it and to the morning star, Jesus Christ. Like the star of Venus that tells us the sun is about to come up, it's Jesus Christ who's coming to our life telling us someday we'll all be resurrected, new heavens and new earth. Meanwhile, during the darkness of this time, we can live in the light of your word. Knowing that someday every tear will be wiped away. We thank you for that hope. We thank you for this truth. We thank you for all this through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.