The passage that we're about to read from the Lord's Word, which is the basis for our teaching this morning, is Matthew 7, verses 15 to 23, but it's printed in your bulletin, but I'm particularly going to be looking this morning at verse 21 to 23.

Matthew 7, 15 to 23. Watch out. for false prophets. They come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves. By their fruit you will recognize them. Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Likewise, every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit. A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, and a bad tree cannot bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus, by their fruit you will recognize them. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your name drive out demons and perform many miracles? Then I will tell them plainly, I never knew you. Away from me, you evildoers. This is God's word.

We're going through week by week, we're looking at the Ten Commandments And today we come to one that's really quite famous but very superficially understood The third commandment You shall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain If you have a Jewish or Christian background almost certainly you've heard that somewhere before in your distant past. You were taught it someplace. The third of the Ten Commandments, you shall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. What does that mean? Most of the time, I'm afraid, people have taught it by saying, well, that means you shouldn't cuss. You see, you shouldn't use God's name frivolously. And of course, that's true. You shouldn't use God's name frivolously. You shouldn't use anything frivolously that's important. And God's the most important of all. But that's really such a superficial understanding. What does it mean to take the name of God in vain? Jesus gives us perhaps the most famous of all the examples. That's what this passage is about. out. Verse 21 to 23, Jesus is talking about a group of people who say, Lord. They say, Lord, Lord. We are doing these things in your name. We are living in your name. We have your name. We've taken your name. And Jesus says, it's one thing to say, Lord. It's one thing to say, you have my name. It's another thing to take my name in reality. Because when it says, you must not take The Word literally means you must not take the name of the Lord in unreality. Okay, what's all this mean? Well, for a minute, let's step back and let's not think about God's name. Let's just think about taking any name in vain. How do you take any name in vain? It's natural and normal for us to use other people's names. In fact, in New York, you need to use other people's names more than most places. Try to get a table at Le Cirque. without using somebody else's name. You've got to have a powerful name. Somebody, you see, you say, ah, yes, Mario came by my office the other day and was asking me some questions about how he should run the state of New York, and I said, see, that's name dropping. You see, I know Mario. I know this person. I know that person. And actually, in New York in particular, it's very important to use other people's names. Why? Because if you use the name of a powerful individual, the power of that name accrues to you. Names open doors. Now, let me give you an example that probably all of you have seen. If you've ever, if you've lived in a family, you've all seen this. Here it goes. A child goes up to a door, tries to get in, and finds out it's locked. And on the inside is another child. So the first child says, open up. And the other inside is a little voice that says, no.

An interchange ensues. There is no progress. Finally, the child on the outside says, says, Daddy says, open up. And the door springs open. Why would that be? And the answer is, constrained by the power of the name. See, the child came not in his or her own name, but the name of the Father. And open comes the door. See, doors, pardon me, names open doors. doors powerful names accrue the power to us. Now, because names are that important and because names are that powerful, our culture, in fact, all societies, are just filled with laws to keep you from misusing names. In other words, if you use a name to open a door, if you use somebody else's name, you must do it with reality. You see, if the child comes and says, Daddy says, that child is actually implying a couple things that may or may not be true, but this is what should be true. First of all, this means that this child has talked to Daddy about this whole issue. That there's been a relationship, there's been a relating going on, and that Daddy is quite pleased with the particular behavior of this child. out. Daddy says means I have a relationship with daddy and daddy also feels that my behavior is right. I represent daddy with my behavior. I'm doing what daddy would do. And you see, if you use somebody else's name, if you say, I'm Elizabeth Taylor's agent, when you're trying to get a client, I know Elizabeth. I know Liz. What you're suggesting is you have a relationship with her that she's pleased with your behavior. And if that person that you're trying to schmooze into a business relationship calls Elizabeth Taylor up and says, do you know so-and-so? And she says, I never knew him. That person is using her name in vain. That person is, by dropping the name, is implying that he has not only a personal relationship, but that his behavior represents her. That she's pleased with his behavior. And if he doesn't back that up, we have all kinds of laws about using names in vain, using names without reality behind it. Copyright laws, slander laws, forgery laws. What do you think those things are? People's lives are continually ruined because people use names in vain. They use a name, but then they don't back it up with a reality, a relationship, a unity of mind with a person whose name you're using, and so on. So that's what it means. and that's how it goes. Names open doors. Very, very serious to use somebody else's name. Powerful names. In fact, if you are Elizabeth Taylor's lawyer or Elizabeth Taylor's representative in some way, you have better continually act in a way that pleases her because her name is bound up with yours now. Her reputation, her substance, her character. Do you see? It's very serious. She won't enter into a relationship with you so that you can use her name unless that relationship stays strong, unless your behavior is... There's a unity of mind between you and she that she likes your behavior. She likes how you deal. She likes the way in which you do things because her name is bound up with yours. That's the reason why it's so serious when you use somebody else's name. In any way. And why you have to back it up with reality. Now, having shown you that to use another human name in vain is so serious that we've got laws everywhere about it, the courts are filled with violations of it, people's lives are wrecked by it. How much more wonderful and yet serious, how much more dangerous, how much more destructive, let's say, it would be to not just use God's name, but to use God's name in vain. Now, what does it mean to use God's name in vain? Clearly it means that we use God's name to open doors, but we do not have a reality to back it up. See, the third commandment is about hypocrisy. The third commandment, generally when people teach the third commandment, they give you the most superficial of all the sins. Usually they say, oh, don't use God's name in swearing or something like that. But frankly, this is one of the most profound of the commandments because it talks about the thoroughness of the gospel. It says, if you have a relationship with God and you use his name to open doors, God's name opens doors in the universe that no other name can. God's name can put you through walls and put you through barriers and put you into places that no other name can. See? The axis mundi. It brings you into the heart of the universe. It brings you into the center of all things. It makes you an heir of salvation, an heir of eternity, an heir of glory. I mean, it opens. But if you say, I'm using this name to open these doors, there has to be the same reality to back it. And Jesus explains that it's possible for people to be in name Christian, Christian, use the name, and look on the outside to be quite, you know, active and diligent Christians. But when you ask Jesus, he says, I don't know who they are. You call Jesus up, do you know this person? I never knew him. How could that be? Let's take a look. He gives us an example, one of the most frightening and most shocking examples in the whole Bible of what it name in vain. These are the people. Now let's describe them for a minute. First of all, notice some things about them. It says on that day, many will come to me on that day. That day is the last day. That day is judgment day. Whenever Jesus uses the word that day, not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only he who does the will of the Father who is in heaven. Many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and in your many miracles, and then I will tell them plainly, I never knew you. Now, here's what we see. First of all, these people are orthodox in their beliefs. They call Jesus Lord. A little bit of background. Give me 20 seconds to give you some background. You know, in the Old Testament, the Hebrew people knew Jesus, a new God as Elohim. That was the, it's a generic Hebrew name for God, Elohim. But in Exodus chapter 3, God comes to Moses and says, I want to enter into a personal relationship with my people. And he gives them a personal name, Yahweh. Now, that's what the word is in Hebrew. When the Greek-speaking Jews translated the Old Testament, the Hebrew Old Testament into Greek so that they could read it and their children could read it and so on, when they got to every place where the name Yahweh shows up, the personal name for God Almighty, they translated kurios, Greek word for Lord. And so Jesus shows us that on the last day, now this is all in Greek, of course, in the New Testament, these people come to Jesus and they're calling him kurios. They're calling him Lord. The word Lord does not just mean Mr. or Sir in this situation. What this means very clearly, Jesus is saying these are people who are orthodox I'm divine. They call me by a divine name. So, in their beliefs, in their doctrine, they have high doctrine. They've got it all together, but there's no spiritual reality yet. This is frightening, is it not? Martin Luther, for many years before he became a Christian, taught in a seminary. Knew the Bible quite well in many ways. Knew theology quite well. Had a lot of doctrines straight in many, many ways. No spiritual reality. They're orthodox, but he doesn't know them. And let me show you another thing. Not only do they have intellectual correctness, they not only have doctrinal correctness, but secondly, they have an emotional engagement. Because they don't just say, Jesus, Lord, what do they call him? Lord, Lord. And you know, in the Semitic language, the way in which you would emphasize something is different than the way we do. In our language, we emphasize things with an exclamation point. Or we emphasize things with an underlining. Or we hit the italics button on our computer. But in the Hebrew, the way you got intensity of emotion across was the doubling of the name. So, you see, when David was mourning grief over his son, Absalom, who had been killed, he didn't just say, Absalom, my son. He says, Absalom, Absalom, my son, my son. Intensity of emotion. When Jesus is talking to Martha, he doesn't just say Martha. He says, Martha, Martha. And he knew what that meant, and she knew what that meant. You see, intensity of emotion. These people do not come to Jesus and just call him Lord. Lord, Lord. They're excited about Jesus. There's emotional engagement. They're enthusiastic. They sing songs to Jesus with tears in their eyes, but there's no spiritual reality. They use his name. Jesus says, I don't even know them.

It gets worse. Let me show you a little further. Not only are these people orthodox in their beliefs and they're emotionally engaged, but they also are very, very active in Christian activities. one of the most startling things you'll ever read in the Bible is this very phrase. Say, now look, Lord, Lord, Lord, we're prophesying in your name. That means they go out and they preach the word of God. We're healing people. We're doing miracles in your name. They're changing people's lives. They're ministering. So they're spiritually tremendously active and yet Jesus says, I don't know them. Now listen. It's possible to have Orthodox doctrine I'm glad you're getting quiet. You ought to get quiet at this point. Emotional engagement. And be extremely busy in Christian activities, helping people everywhere. And there be no spiritual reality backing it up. Now, am I saying that doctrinal orthodoxy, emotional engagement, or that lots of ministry activity is unimportant? Oh, absolutely not. In fact, I'll say that spiritual reality always is accompanied by those three things. Spirituality always is accompanied by those three things. But those three things can be in your life without spiritual reality. Do you hear that? You can't have reality without these three things, but you can have these three things without the reality. Obviously.

So, oh my word. Then what does it mean to take God's name in reality? How can we have this spiritual authenticity? How do we know we have that authenticity? What is that authenticity? What does it consist of? And Jesus tells us right in this text the two things that they really lack.

First of all, and actually, if you want to go all the way back to the original illustration, there's the same two things that are implied whenever you use somebody's name, somebody else's name. The two things are implied by the one child when that one child says, Daddy says, let me in. And the two things that are mentioned here the intimate relationship, and the submission to the will of the one whose name you're using. Jesus, let me show you those two things, because Jesus' name, Jesus' name is Lord and Savior. And to receive Jesus and to take on his name means to take in reality who he says he is. That's what his name is. Who is he? What is his name? It's who he is. Who is he? He's both Lord and Savior. Therefore, anybody who has truly taken the name of Jesus makes Jesus both Master and Lord. There must be, Jesus says, it's one thing to call me Lord, it's another thing to do my will. And then he says, it's one thing to call me Lord, it's another thing to do the will of my Father and have a personal knowledge of me. Now, let's look at those two things. Let me put it to you this way. The two marks of spiritual reality are submission of your will to his and a grasp of the grace of God. You can have a lot of Orthodox theology. You can have emotional engagement. You can have a tremendous amount of Christian activity, ministry activity, helping people, doing good for people, and not submit your will to him or grasp the grace of God in the gospel. Look at these two things. First of all, Jesus says, why do you call me Lord, Lord, and do not do the will? Jesus calls Christianity a kingdom. He says, you're not doing the will, you're not honoring the kingdom. kingdom. When you take on the name of a king, it always means, if you're working in the name of a king, it means you're submitting to a king. Put it to you this way. An awful lot of people, and in fact, I'd go so far as to say an awful lot of you, are very busy doing the things of this, like the people here. They're doing great things. Maybe you haven't done any miracles lately, but you're You're trying to help people, and you see fruit in their lives. You say, I'm a very good person. See, God should be pleased with me because I'm doing so many good things. I'm feeding people. I'm helping people. I'm listening to people. I do for people.

Jesus is not fooled. If what you're actually doing is a lot of good deeds in order to cover up the fact that you will not let go of your life, you will not say, I give up the right to determine what's right and wrong for me. right. I submit to the King. I submit. See, that's what it means to take on the name of a King. A lot of people say this is an awful thing. And of course, modern people hate the idea. You want intellectual stimulation like these folks out of religion. You want emotional engagement like these folks out of religion. You want religion to be emotionally engaging, intellectually credible, and socially redeeming like these people. You want to help people. don't want to give up your independence. You don't want to say, I can't decide what's right or wrong. I have to follow what the word of the Lord says. You don't want to say that. In that case, you're taking the name of God in vain. He's a king. You know, one of the more amazing things I've seen in the last few years was Ted Koppel's commencement address at Duke University back a few years ago. Ted Koppel said this. He says, in the commencement address, he says, we say, quote, shoot up if you must, but use a clean needle. We say, enjoy sex whenever and with whomever you wish, but use a condom. No. This is Ted Koppel, get it? No. The answer is no. Not because it isn't cool. Not because it isn't smart. Not because you might end up in jail. not because you might die, but because it's wrong. Truth in its purest form, he goes on, is not a polite tap on the shoulder, but a howling reproach. What Moses brought down from Mount Sinai was not the Ten Suggestions, but the Ten Commandments. Now, what's he saying? What is he saying? He's simply saying, as long as people hear Christian ethics and they agree with this. It makes sense. Let's do it because if we don't do it, it'll be bad for people. If we don't do it, it'll create problems. If we don't do it, we'll end up in jail. He says don't do it, not for those reasons. He says if this is the Word of the Lord, you do it because it's wrong. You don't follow him because he's exciting, because he's relevant, though he is exciting and relevant. You don't do it because he meets your needs, though he does meet your needs. You do it because he actually exists. He is the King, and you owe him all. That's the reason.

modern people hate it. Modern people say, look, I believe religion should be very engaging and socially redeeming, but you have to look in your own heart to ever decide what's really right and wrong for you. That is such a powerful myth, but a myth it is. Many of you are coming into Christianity and you won't shed the myth. You have to, or you can't come in. Jesus says, otherwise wise, you're taking my name in vain. I don't know you. I'm not fooled by your good deeds. If you won't give up control of your life. I mean, just recently, you know, ever see in the New York Times very often the National Educational Association runs these columns that really are ads and they talk about, there's some of them are very fine, but recently I read, recently I read this wonderful quote. This just shows how powerful the myth is. The quote goes like this. Dr. Martin Luther King, it said, taught us to be guided by faith in America's people and their social conscience. He taught us that the highest principles of justice are not found outside, but within ourselves. That's not at all what Martin Luther King said, or what anybody who ever has ever gotten any moral inspiration from Christian or Jewish tradition. Listen, This is what Martin Luther King said in his 1963 letter from Birmingham jail. He said, quote, A just law is a man-made code that squares with the moral law or the law of God. To put it in terms of St. Thomas Aquinas, he said, an unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law. What did Martin Luther King say? Look inside yourself? He says the only way to know whether a law is right or wrong, whether behavior is just or unjust, is to look at the word of the Lord. It's the only way. You know, the powerful myth that we have to look in ourselves to find out what's right and wrong is so powerful. We have to take our heroes like Martin Luther King and we've got to turn them into the same relativists that we are. You can't.

Because that kind of approach turns nobody into a hero. You don't die because you feel that it's just right for you. You die for a principle which is right under any circumstances. You take the name of the Lord in vain unless you're willing to say I give up my independence. I give up my independence. Show me what the will of the Lord is and I will do it. I don't care how I feel. I don't care what my friends say. I don't care what popular opinion is. I don't care what the experts say.

Otherwise, you're taking God's name in vain. Don't even pick it up. Don't even pick it up because his name is King. But then secondly, you have to submit it to his will. Secondly, if you want to not take the name of the Lord in vain, if you want to take it in reality, you have to see he's Savior. You have to grasp the grace. Put it to you this way. Jesus says, and this is wonderful how he combines these things, they're always intertwined. He says, not everyone who says, Lord, Lord, not everyone who uses my name will enter the kingdom of heaven, but he who does the will of my Father. Friends, here's what a Christian is. a Christian is somebody who obeys because you already know God's your father or put it to you this way there's two ways to obey God's will the one is so that you will be accepted and loved the other is because you have already been conclusively accepted and loved do not make mistakes understand the dividing line between these two things life and eternal destiny completely rest on this and understanding this. You can either obey the will of God, the moral law that Martin Luther King was talking about, so that you'll be accepted and loved, or because you're already conclusively accepted and loved. See, the beautiful thing, John chapter 1 verse 12 always puts it perfectly. To those who received him, who believed on his name. See, they're the same thing. To receive Jesus and to believe into his name, to take his name, the same thing. Those who received him, who believed on his name, he gave authority to become children of God. How does a child get adopted into your family? By works? By efforts? By trying real hard? No, by grace. You adopt a little infant and you put the name on the infant. Your name's on the infant, which means that the infant is now in and accepted and conclusively loved, not because the you know, obviously proved that he or she was going to be a great this or that or had a great record. You're just out of love. How do you actually take upon yourself the name of Jesus as your Savior? You have to renounce being your own Savior. You have to renounce it. You have to say, I no longer will be my own Savior. He's my Savior. Well, somebody says, what do you mean? What do you mean? How am I trying to be my own Savior? Savior, just think with me here. Why is it that if somebody says to you, you're really good 10 times,

makes you feel good. And when somebody says you're really bad, it wipes out all the other 10. Somebody comes along and says, you're terrible at that. Doesn't matter that people have been telling you're good all week. Doesn't matter you've gotten all these other compliments and kudos. wipes it all out. Why? There's something wrong with us. Well, some of you say, yeah, but I came from a bad family where I didn't get a whole lot of, uh, you know, I didn't get a whole lot of, uh, affirmation. That's the reason why I tend to believe the worst about myself. My friends, I can talk to you. Maybe, maybe your family aggravated it, but we've all got something wrong with us because everybody, no matter what kind of family we came from, says the same thing. People can tell us they're good. We can tell us we're good. But that wipes the whole thing out. Because deep down underneath, we know there's something wrong with us. Let me put it to you another way. What are you striving for? Why do you say I'm striving to get into school or get a good job, get somebody to love me? But why are you striving for it? Well, to be happy. Okay, let me ask you this. Why do you need those things to be happy? Why can't you be happy without anybody loving you? Why can't you be happy without anybody ever telling you're good? you be happy without getting a decent job or making any achievements? Why can't you be happy in yourself? I'll tell you why. The Bible says because you're covering something. You're trying to prove something to yourself. You're trying to earn your self-respect. If you don't get those things, you cannot look yourself in the face. Why not? Because the Bible says, the only explanation for this whole phenomenon I'm describing is you're trying to prove yourself to yourself and everybody else. You're trying to cover up the nakedness you feel. You know there's something wrong. You know that you don't. The Bible says it's because at a foundational level, you know that you do not give your creator what you should. And you're trying to earn the sense of self-worth. You're trying to earn and prove to yourself that you're really somebody okay. And therefore, for everybody in this room is trying to be his or her own savior. What is a Christian? This is the prayer that receives the name of Jesus as savior. This is the prayer that makes you a Christian. This is the prayer that renounces that whole approach. When you say, Lord, my intellectual faith, my intellectual doctrine is incomplete. My emotional love for you is cold. My best deeds of service are tainted with selfishness. But I ask because of what Jesus did for me. I ask because of what he died my death. He lived the life I should have lived because he did these things for me. Oh, Lord God, welcome me. Accept me because of what he did, not because of anything I've ever done. And I know that the minute I do that, oh, Lord God, all the value of his life and record will accrue to me. Have you ever prayed anything like that? Have you ever said, I realize that I'm trying to cover my own nakedness, I'm trying to be my own Savior? Unless you see that, you can't renounce it. Unless you renounce it, you can't take the name of the Lord in reality.

Behold, 1 John 3, 1, behold what manner of love the Father hath given unto us, that we should be called the children of God. And that is what we are. What a verse. That's what it says. John says, if you've got a problem of any kind, you're not beholding the love that has made us children. Free grace, free adoption.

Do you take the name of the Lord in vain or in reality? Have you submitted your will to him and have you grasped the grace of God and renounced self-salvation? Let me conclude this way. friends, a lot of you are saying, oh, this is a sermon about hypocrisy. I know what a hypocrite is. Hypocrites are people who say they're Christians, they come to church, they get baptized, but actually they're dealing drugs, they're cheating on their spouse, and they're taking out contracts on their business partners. Now, because this is New York City, there are probably some people in this room who are doing some of those things right now. I have no doubts about I talk to people. I know the people who come here. Some of you are doing that. And Jesus lays down a gauntlet to you. But I want to talk to Christians and I want you to realize that hypocrisy and dishonoring the name of the one whose name you bear doesn't have to be anything like that kind of total. It doesn't have to be a total hypocrisy. There's all kinds of ways to dishonor the name of God. You're a Christian. That means people know you're a Christian. That means God's honor is bound up with you. Now look at yourselves. Look at the so-called little sins. Some of you so much want to be on the inner ring that you're always getting your feelings hurt. You're always touchy. You come here, and because people aren't nice to you or people don't greet you, you go away angry. If people don't let you into their little inner ring, you're always touchy. You're always feeling sorry for yourself. You're always collapsing and angry. agree. Everybody knows that. You're a Christian. You're dishonoring the name of the one whose name you bear because others look and say, is that what Jesus is like? Some of you are, tend to be, you're Christians, but you're kind of condemning of people. You're kind of cold and distant. Everybody feels sort of judged around you. Some of you are the opposite of that. Some of you are really goopy and sweet and loving, and you promise the world and you never follow through on your promises, you're so disorganized. Little sins, huh? Little sins. But the honor of Jesus Christ is leaking out through the little sins like little holes in the bottom of a bucket. It still will empty the bucket. Look at yourselves. Realize that Jesus is being judged. It's a horrible thing. G.K. Chesterton

and he's right and Jesus Christ said if we are inconsistent in our behavior if you say here's the name of Jesus but you don't walk consistently with it they have a right to reject all of the wonderful intellectual arguments look at yourselves but lastly there are people I think in this room who now know what it means to take the name of the Lord and they say if that's what you want forget it. I'm not going to give up my right to decide what's right or wrong for me. I'm not going to surrender the way you're talking about. All I urge you to do is to realize you're not objective.

Drug addicts are not objective when you tell them anything about drugs. They're not objective, right? Okay. The Bible says that we're all self-addicted. We're all self-centered. We want When the gospel gets near you, when the message of Christianity gets near you, as I think it has today, you're no more objective as a self-addict to a message that will destroy the addiction than a drug addict will be to a message that will destroy his drug addiction. Don't you see? Cancer will always fear the surgeon. And self-addiction will always fear the message of the gospel. gospel. Take a look at Jesus coming up to the demoniac, you know, in the book of Mark. Any of the demon-possessed people, Jesus gets near them. What does the demon-possessed person say? You're going to hurt us. Get away. We know who you are, O Son of God. You're going to hurt us. And whenever the message of Jesus gets near the heart of a person who wants to stay in control of his or her own life, you know what your heart starts to do? It says, get away. This is not an abstraction. This is not just a kind of intellectual exercise. This is reality. You will lose control. If you become a Christian, if you get any closer, he will ask us to do things that we don't want to do. Of course, Moses didn't want to go to Pharaoh. Abraham didn't want to take Isaac up the mountain. Jesus didn't want to go to the cross. Of course, he's going to ask you to do things you don't want to do. You don't need a king. You don't need... If you go to a king and the Bible tells you've got to come to a king, it's because you need a king. You don't need a king unless you're imperfect. And of course you're imperfect. Unless you know there's parts of your life that are not going to comply. Friends, the only thing that I would suggest is that you consider what

day. And Jesus Christ says to you, on that day, away. Away. I hope there's nobody in this room who will ever hear Jesus say that. He says there's going to be a lot of people to whom he will. I would rather you took his name in reality so that on that day you could hear him say, say, enter into the joy of your master. Let's pray. Our Father, I'm grateful to you that it's possible for us to see now what it means to take the name of the Lord in reality. Oh, Father, I think everybody in this room to some degree who is naming themselves as Christians, anyone in this room who takes the name of the Lord knows to some degree we're hypocrites. And I pray that all of us will be very convicted as we think about the fact that our name, your name is bound up with our behavior. That's what this third commandment is about. But I also pray for the folks who are listening to this and understanding for the first time what it means to become a Christian. And I pray that you would lead them to see that they need you. And I pray that you'd lead them to you. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
