The reading for today is taken from 2 Samuel, chapter 23, verses 13 through 17.

During harvest time, three of the thirty chief men came down to David at the cave of Adullam, while a band of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. At that time, David was in the stronghold, and the Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. David longed for water and said, Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate at Bethlehem. So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem, and carried it back to David. But he refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out before the Lord. Far be it from me, O Lord, to do this, he said. Is it not the blood of men who went at the risk of their lives? And David would not drink it. Such were the exploits of the three mighty men. This is the word of the Lord.

We're looking at the life of David. And this very interesting incident in David's life, it's very interesting and actually it's very dramatic. It's also a great place for us to reflect on actually a very difficult subject. It's a subject or it's an issue that bothers an awful lot of people. It's actually a very big stumbling block for a lot of people when it comes to the Bible. And that is that in the Bible, especially the Old Testament, but in the Bible,

warriors, warfare, seem to be commended.

bloodshed and warfare have an awfully positive role in the Bible and this bothers a lot of people this is a place for us to take a look at that very difficult subject as we expound and take a look at this really very interesting incident so here's how I'd like us to do this in this incident first of all we see warriors and warfare commended but also inside this passage we have hints of the God, through the gospel, reinvents and transforms the idea of warfare on evil. So first of all, we will see this text commending warriors. Then secondly, we'll see this text transforming warriors. And then lastly, we'll try to apply this to our own situation. Commending warriors, transforming warriors, becoming true warriors. Okay, first, let's take a look at the first part of this passage. three of the 30 chief men came down to David at the cave of Ajalom while a band of Philistines was encamped in the valley of Rephaim. At that time, David was in a stronghold. The Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem. David longed for water, and here's what he said, Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem. So the three mighty men broke through the Philistine lines, drew water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem and carried it back to David. Now, where are we in the story? We've been following David's life over a number of weeks. Saul finally became so intent on killing David, David had to flee into the wilderness to become a fugitive in order to save his life. When he was out there, hundreds of people came to him and gathered around him. And out of those hundreds of people, while David was a fugitive in the wilderness, he chose between 30 and 40 elite hand-picked warrior companions. And they defended their leader until Saul died and the people made David the king. And then these hand-picked mighty men, they're called, all became leaders in David's administration and the military. They're called the mighty men. The Hebrew word is the giborim. They became his mighty men. Now, this incident, though, is not before David became king, but after. Because as soon as David became king, the Philistines came after the Israelites because they were afraid that David would establish a stronger kingdom than Saul had. So they decided they were going to try to nip this in the bud. And they drove right through the center of Israel, trying to create a wedge, trying to bisect the nation, separating the forces in the north from the forces in the south. and they occupied the Valley of Rephaim, which means they took over this middle part of the nation. They were occupying Bethlehem and they were only a few miles from Jerusalem and David, though he was a brand new king, was forced to flee back into the wilderness. David was forced to flee back to the cave of Ajalom where his mighty men, his giborim, again came around him. But you see, this was a terrible time. and it was especially terrible because of what verse 13 says, during harvest time. The Philistines, maybe they were lucky, but more likely they strategically did this. They decided to invade right at harvest time when all the crops were in the field, and what that meant was if they plundered the crops and stole the crops, Israel would starve. There would be widespread starvation that winter, and the nation of Israel, certainly the administration of David, would topple. So that was an incredibly terrible moment, And that you need to understand, all of that you need to understand, if you're going to understand the statement in verse 15. For David says, Oh, that someone would get me a drink of water from the well near the gate of Bethlehem. To understand that statement, you have to realize that David was not thirsty, not physically thirsty for drink. Why? Well, the cave of Ajalem, he'd been in it for years. It was a well-supplied place, lots of water, no trouble. So he couldn't have been physically thirsty.

Why was he thirsty for the water at the gate of Bethlehem? This is what he really means, something much more complex than physical thirst. God had promised to David he'd be king, but God promised even more than that. He gave David a promise like he gave to, something like he gave to Abraham, and we saw this in 2 Samuel chapter 7, that one of David's descendants would be the ultimate king, would have a throne that endured forever, and would heal the world. And David had all these incredible promises about his kingdom and about his kingship. And yet, before he had virtually taken the throne, he's back in the cave. He's a fugitive again. He's a bandit again. What kind of king can't even ask for water from his hometown well? Because Bethlehem was his city. What kind of king can't even get water from his own hometown well? a few miles away, a doomed king, a non-king, a play king, a temporary king. And so when he says, oh, that I could have water from the well of Bethlehem, he's really not longing physically for water. He's got water. He's longing for his lost assurance. He'd lost his assurance that God's promises could be trusted, that God could be trusted, that God was for him. He had lost all of that. He'd lost his confidence that God was going to do something about evil in the world. lost all that. And so what he was saying was, the promise of God is lost to me. The salvation of God is gone. But the three mighty men overheard this and said to themselves, I guess, no, it's not. And here's what we think happened, because as you see, verse 16 is very, very spare in its details. Almost certainly the three mighty men, the giborim, they would have put on their weapons water skin. They almost certainly would have slipped out without fanfare because almost certainly these are the cream of the crop. These are the greatest warriors. And almost certainly if they had told anybody what they were going to do, they would have stopped them. Why waste our best warriors on something as stupid as that? So they put on their weapons. They got the water skin. They went up. And here's what we do know. The gate of Bethlehem was at the top of a hill. And when it says a Philistine garrison was at Bethlehem, we know that there was at least 20 men in a garrison. Probably more. So these three men fought their way uphill, cut their way through overwhelming odds, overwhelming numbers. And probably while two of them were fighting, I'm sure the Philistines were sitting there saying, what is going on? While two of them were fighting, one guy was filling the water skin. And then they turned and cut their way back out And they must have put it in front of him like this and said, My Lord, you wanted water from the well of Bethlehem. Here it is. And what would they have accomplished? You know what they would have accomplished? It wouldn't have just amazed David. It would have electrified all the Israelites. Of course it would have. Because what they would have said was, If three guys can get water from the gate, we can take these guys. We can take them. That's what they would have said. In other words, this was assurance that the city of Bethlehem would be the city of David again. And we know that's exactly the kind of assurance that came into everybody's hearts because David did repel the Philistines. And in spite of how bad it all looked, he did push them back. In other words, this action turned the war around. And that's one of the reasons why we have it, why it came down to us. Now, what is a warrior? of a warrior. There's three things. The warriors go fearlessly, in spite of the odds. They go aggressively taking out the enemy. They take out the opposition. They go fearlessly. They go aggressively taking out the opposition. And they go loyally to their captain. Fearlessly, aggressively, loyally to their captain. Now, let's talk about the problem for a second. these warriors are commended and this is a problem for some people the Bible talks a great deal not only about warriors being commended but not only that but God himself is depicted in the Bible as a warrior so you know Miriam's song after the Pharaoh's army is thrown down in the Red Sea she sings in Exodus chapter 15 verse 1 she sings I will sing unto the Lord for he has triumphed gloriously into the sea. Verse three, Miriam says, our Lord is a warrior. Our Lord is a warrior. You see it because all through the Bible, God sends the Israelites under Joshua against the Canaanites. God sends the Israelites under Gideon against the Midianites. God sends the Israelites under David against the Philistines. We look at all that and we say, look at all that war and look at all that violence and that bloodshed, and God is a warrior general. And a lot of people say, well, here's how we can get out from under that. That's the Old Testament, not in the New Testament. We don't see anything in the New Testament. Well, look at the end of the New Testament, Revelation 19. Listen, I saw heaven standing open, and there before me was a white horse whose rider is faithful and true. With justice he judges and makes war. His eyes are On his head are many crowns. The armies of heaven are following him, riding on white horses. He treads the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty. And on his robe and on his thigh, he has this name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. That's Jesus. End of the Bible. New Testament. Warrior. And not only that. Just to show you, we can't quite get out from under this imagery just by saying, well, that's the Old Testament. It's primitive. affirmative. The New Testament pervasively characterizes Christians as warriors, soldiers. I mean, you know some of them. Of course, the most famous ones are things like this. Be strong in the Lord, Ephesians 6, and in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand and fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, endure difficulties, a good soldier of Jesus Christ, Jesus says, think not that I'm come to send peace on earth. I came not to send peace, but to give you a sword. So you have this pervasive battle imagery and warrior imagery and soldier imagery applied to Christians. And you've got Jesus, and you've got God, and everyone's a warrior, and you say, this is a problem. And I'll tell you why it's a problem. Let me be as vivid as I can be. This is New York. This is where Ground Zero is. And if you live in New York, it's hard not to shudder hear somebody talk about warriors of God fighting against evil. Because the guys that flew the planes into the towers said they were warriors of God fighting against evil. And next thing you know, it's not hard to imagine two sides gnashing their teeth at each other. One side says, we're warriors for good, and you're evil. And the other side says, no, we're warriors for good,

what's the solution you see when you look at history you see an awful lot of evil done in the name of warriors for good against evil well you say so what's the alternative in the modern west in our modern elite universities in our modern western intellectuals here's what they say way to stop that is to realize that evil is socially constructed. Good and evil is relative to the culture. There is no ultimate way to decide right and wrong. Right and wrong are ultimately relative things. Now, let me ask you, do you think that attitude is going to stop Auschwitzes? Do you think that attitude is going to stop killing fields? So we've got a problem, don't we? We've got a problem. If you relativize evil, that certainly is not going to stop the Auschwitzes and the killing fields. But if on the other hand, you say, we're the good, we're the warriors for God, and those are the evil people over there, we know what that leads to. Now what are we going to do? The Bible actually gives us another way. And we begin to see it by looking at how David responded to this incredible warrior culture that he had created around him, especially these three mighty men. Let's take a look and see what David does. And this hints at the way in which God in the gospel reinvents warfare against evil and transforms the very idea of warfare against evil. So first, there's two things that David does in his response that completely contradicts the warrior cultures of the ancient world. In fact, the cultures of the ancient world. Notice it says, so they broke through and they brought the water to David. And in verse 16 it says, but he refused to drink it. Instead, he poured it out before the Lord. Far be it from me, O Lord, to do this, he said. Is it not the blood of men who went into the risk of their lives? And David would not drink it. Now, there's two things he does. First of all, he refuses to give them glory for what they've done. he refuses to give them glory for what they've done. There was, listen, in ancient culture, in the ancient cultures, to go fearlessly against overwhelming odds in obedience and loyalty to your captain and to come back victorious. That was the ultimate glory. But when David pours it out to God, he is turning the water into a drink offering. This is the action of a drink offering. offering meant this. He is saying, this isn't your water. This isn't my water. God accomplished this. You didn't accomplish this. God brought this. You didn't bring this. You went and you came back, but you didn't accomplish this. God did. Now that's nuts in ancient cultures. But do you realize what David's saying? A very important principle. I would like you to see it.

David is saying, all your accomplishments, even the greatest and hardest ones, are, in the final analysis, gifts from God.

All of your accomplishments, even the hardest in the final analysis, are a result of the grace of God. There's a reason with this. Here's what he's really saying to these guys. He says, yes, you were very brave and very bold, and you're really great warriors, but let me ask you a question. The fact that you're all 6'2 and weigh 200 pounds, and that's the reason why you're bigger than all the rest of them, that's why you're such the leading warriors. Did you earn that? Matt, is that a result of your skill? That's just a gift. You have the talent. And he said, I don't care how great your warrior skills are. It only takes one arrow. It only takes one little pebble on the ground in the wrong place, and you slip and fall, and you're all dead.

You didn't get up there and get that water and get back. The only reason you got that water and came back was God. My wife, Kathy, and her father sometime during the Serb-Croatian war used to have a little meditation. Kathy's grandfather, Kathy's father's father, was Croatian from some village near Zagreb. He emigrated to Pittsburgh in the early 20th century and was a poor coal miner. And Kathy's dad, in World War II, only because of World War II, went to college on the GI Bill. and that moved them up into the college-educated middle class. Kathy and all of her siblings went to college, and they were in the middle class. What do you say? He said, look at the house we have. We have a nice life. We worked for it. All that happened. Yeah, but you know what? Kathy's dad and Kathy used to sit around sometimes and say, during the 90s, I got a bunch of second and third cousins who I've never met. who are living in the rubble of their little villages around Zagreb. And they're probably every bit as hardworking as me. They've got nothing to show for it. It doesn't matter how hard you work. It doesn't matter how much elbow grease you... If your village has been put into the ground, it says, so why have I accomplished all this? Because my father emigrated from Zagreb and his brothers didn't? It's all grace. You know? It's all a gift.

We know this. In the 90s, in the mid-90s, there were a lot of studies done on the fact that the rich, rich and well-off people today in America don't give away their money at the same rate that people did 100 years ago. And that's a fact. But the studies speculate why, and I think they're right, even though it's speculation. They say the modern American business economic world has become a warrior culture. Oh, yes, it has. In other words, it is more competitive, more cutthroat, more difficult, more results-oriented than it's ever been. And if you do make your zillions of dollars, you've virtually killed yourself to do it. You have worked incredible hours, you have made incredible risks, you have survived against incredible competition, and so today, if you come up with zillions of dollars, you say, I practically killed myself for this, I'm I'm going to spend it. I'm going to take the glory of it. I virtually killed myself for this. I'm going to spend it. Well, these guys virtually killed themselves for what they brought to David, and David poured it out. He says, this is God's. And you, no matter what you achieve, you have got to pour it out, or it will rot your gut, spiritually speaking. You've got to pour it out. You've got to share it. Because it's not yours. It's not something you earned. you. Just one arrow, just one pebble, you know, just one ancestor who did something different, and you wouldn't be anywhere near where you are. How dare you not pour it out? See? So the first thing he does is he stabs, you know, the warrior culture and says, I'm not going to let you take the glory for this. The second thing David does is he doesn't take the glory for it himself. himself. You see, the second thing he does is not only that he pours, when he pours out, it's not just that he is saying, you didn't accomplish this, this is God's. The second thing he does is he doesn't drink it himself. He says, I am not worthy of this. This isn't water. This is these guys' lifeblood. And he will not drink it himself. Now, that's amazing because, again, in ancient times, it was the glory of a king or the glory of a captain or a general or a leader to have men kill themselves for him. Then you knew you were a leader. But here's what David is saying. Two things, actually. I mean, at the most basic level,

we just said that if you get power, realize it's a gift of God and pour it out. But now we're talking about if you get love, if you get devotion, if you get acclaim, if you get praise, that out too. I had a professor once that put it like this, praise is like perfume. It's wonderful to take a whiff, but you wouldn't want to swallow it. That's exactly what David's doing here. He says, when praise comes to you, you need to pour it out. You need to, in your own heart, say, you know what? This person thinks I'm wonderful. It's not because they only see this part of me. What if they saw this part? What if they saw the other things that I've done? Huh? What if they saw everything else about me? This is a gift of God, that I'm getting this praise, that I'm getting this love. And therefore you pour it out. But David's not just saying, be careful about praise. Be careful about taking it in and letting it rot your gut, spiritually speaking. He's actually saying, your ultimate allegiance can't be to me. You've got to look behind me. You've got to look above me. You've got to look to the one I represent, to. The only ultimate allegiance anyone can have is to the Lord. But you see, when David points behind himself to the Lord, he begins to erode and change the old warrior culture. But he only just begins because he's saying, don't look at me. Look at the one to whom I point. Okay, let's look at the one to whom he points because we know more about that one than he did. And here is what you know. These guys overheard David's longing of his heart, and then at the risk of their lives, they brought him what he needed in order to be filled with assurance that God was for him. There's another one. There's another David, a greater David, who's overheard the longing of your heart. He's overheard the longing of your heart. Now, what is that? Well, you know, when Jesus Christ was talking to the woman of Samaria. He said, I have water. If you drink it, you will never thirst again. And she says, I'd like to have water like that. What are you talking about? What kind of water are you talking about? He says, well, go get your husband. She says, I don't have a husband. He says, no, I realize that. You've had five husbands, and the guy you're living with right now is not your husband. and she says, Why did you bring that up? And he says, I'm trying to show you what you're really thirsty for. You're thirsting for something and you've been trying to quench the deep thirst of your heart with men. It's not working, is it?

I have the thing your heart is really after. It's the presence of God. It's the favor of God. It's the love of God. It's union with God.

that is what he's heard us yearn for. And he has girded himself to go get it for us. And what did he do? How did he get it for us? He went to the cross, and on the cross he said, I thirst. On the cross he quotes Psalm 22, and the words of Psalm 22 include, my strength is dried up, my tongue cleaves to the roof of my mouth, I am poured out like water. on the cross Jesus Christ paid the debt of sin which means on the cross Jesus Christ took the natural consequences of living your own life for yourself and the natural consequence of that is cosmic thirst on the cross Jesus Christ experienced the cosmic thirst so that we could have the water of life in other words he overheard the water we really needed he girded himself and The, not the risk of his life, but the cost of his life. Not his symbolic blood poured out on the ground, but real blood poured out on the ground.

And he got the water we needed. He got what we needed to know that God is for us and to fill our lives and to flood our lives with hope and assurance. But look how he did it. Not the way these guys did it. On the one hand, he was like the old mighty ones. He was like these warriors. He went fearlessly. He went loyally. And he went aggressively. And he devastated evil on the cross. That's what it says in Colossians 2. It says, Paul says, having disarmed the powers and authorities, Jesus Christ made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them on the cross. We'll get back to that in a minute, but the point is, the cross was a victory. The cross was a battle. In the cross, he aggressively devastated evil, but look how he did it.

Not by taking power, but by losing power. Not by taking glory, but by losing all of his glory. not by taking command, but by serving everybody, not by devastating the people in which evil resided, but by devastating evil. And therefore, what we have in Jesus Christ is a revolution. On the one hand, you do not see the Bible saying, oh, evil is relative. Like I said, that's never going to stop the Auschwitzes. It's never going to stop the killing fields. and you also see this basic teaching. God will not let evil go. God will not let evil do its work in peace. God will not just let evil be. He comes against it. He's aggressive against it. He will not abide it. But in Jesus Christ, we see that. He's a warrior against evil, and he calls anyone who believes in him to not be passive, not be indifferent, not be non-involved, but to be just as active against evil but the difference is Jesus Christ separates evil from the evildoer Jesus Christ sees the evil above and beyond the evildoer Jesus Christ destroys the power of evil in our lives by serving those in whom evil resides by loving them, by sacrificing for them, by forgiving them and that completely changes our whole approach to warfare against evil Now, let's apply this to our lives. You're saying, okay, how does that work? Let me give it to you. First of all, Romans chapter 12 is the classic text in which Paul gives you the perfect example of how you should do this. He says in Romans 12, he says, Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud. Do not repay anyone evil for evil.

Now, you know what that says? When he says, do not repay evil with evil, but overcome evil with good, Paul is deliberately being ironic and paradoxical. we're not reading it in Greek. In Greek, Paul is using a military term. The word overcome evil with good, the word overcome is the word to conquer. The word overcome is a word that means to overpower. It means to devastate.

Attack evil with good.

Assertive, relentless love. In such a way that destroys the power of evil. Now, how does that work? Like this. Paul is saying if someone hurts you don't hurt them back if someone ruins your reputation you don't slice their reputation back if someone marginalizes you and pulls you away from influence and power you don't go back and do a political game to go back and marginalize them and turn people against them oh no because the secret of how we do our warfare now is based on the same thing that Jesus Christ did Jesus Christ overcame evil with good secret is you don't over-identify evil with the evildoer. Let me show you why. If someone wrongs you and you're mad at them, you just resent them, you don't forgive them, you're mad at them, you're going to try to get back, evil has won. First of all, it's coming to you. You know how it comes into you? If you can't forgive somebody, the first thing that happens is, sometimes it's subtly, but usually not even subtly. Your own self-regard becomes distorted. There is nothing that makes you feel more self-righteous. There is nothing that more distorts who you really are than to feel hurt, a victim. And so you become self-righteous. It distorts your very understanding of yourself. Secondly, if you stay mad at somebody, it distorts your understanding of them and the people behind them. If a woman hurts you, you think women. If a man hurts If a person of that race hurts you, you say, those people. If an older person, older people don't understand us. If a younger person, young kids, there's idiots.

What's happening? You're becoming hard. You're becoming blind.

Because when evil is done to you, you decide you're going to smite the evildoer. You have become an evildoer.

But here's what happens. What if you forgive? It's really hard to forgive. It hurts to forgive. It takes bravery to forgive. It takes grit to forgive. To say, I'm not going to think about what that person did. I'm going to think of what Jesus did for me. And to do that kind of deep psychological work, if you refuse to hate, if you forgive the person, and if you're warm to the person as much as you can be, as much as they'll let you be, that's what I mean. If you're warm to the person, if you're cordial to the person, and yet you talk to the person about what they've done wrong after you've forgiven them. It's not just that the evil no longer will be spreading to you. But evil won't be spreading to them, perhaps. I'll tell you this. If you talk to somebody who's done something wrong and your heart's filled with anger toward them, they're just going to be worse when you're done. You think you're trying to correct them, but they realize what you're doing. You're trying to punish them. And they're just going to get their back up. And evil will grow and grow and grow and grow. Ray for evil. but if on the other hand you tell somebody after you've forgiven them in your heart and are doing everything you possibly can to be kind to them if you tell somebody who's wronged you after you've forgiven them that they've done something wrong at least there's a chance that they'll listen to you there's a chance that the spread of evil will be checked in the person it's already been checked in you do you get this? do you see this? do you see how revolutionary this is? the gospel tells us that we're saved by grace by works. In other words, the gospel of Jesus Christ, the cross of Jesus Christ, says there's only two kinds of people in the world. Those who know that they're selfish and proud and capable of terrible things, and those who don't. And those are the only two people, that's the only two groups of people that are on the world. People who know that they're selfish and proud and capable of terrible things, and those who don't. But if you know that you are one, if you know that the cross is the only way you could have been saved, you could only be saved by grace, not by your good deeds. That tells you that evil resides in you as well as in the person over there. That Jesus Christ had to gird himself to get us the water of life. And at the cost of his life, get it for us. That changes your attitude toward people in whom evil resides. Because you know that while you were an enemy, Christ died for you. What that enables you to do, and only as far as I know, people who don't know of any other religion, I don't know of any other philosophy that has anything like this at the very heart of it. A man, Jesus Christ, who makes a distinction between evil and those in whom evil resides, and destroys the power of evil by loving the ones who have evil in them. Do you know of any other religion like that? Do you know of any other philosophy like that? And if you take that in the center of your life, it'll turn you into a warrior against evil. You cannot look at people and say, oh, there's somebody whose life is being screwed up. Well, I don't want to get involved. There's two people who are hurting each other. Well, I don't get involved in that sort of thing. Wimps, cowards, you go after that. You must go after that. What if Jesus had just left you go? You go after it, but in love. You destroy the power of evil by loving and forgiving and serving the people in whom it resides. sides. You say, well, now, wait a minute. Let's get back to war and things like that. All I can tell you is this. It's another sermon, actually. But if you're a policeman, if you're a lawyer, if you're a prosecutor, if you're a defender, if you're a victim, if you're a soldier, and you have this at the heart of your life, it's going to change the way. I'm not saying that you don't sometimes need to have force to stop evil, but it's going to change the way you do it. It's going to change the way you do it radically. Here's one last thing. We said that if you bring the gospel into your life, it'll make you fearless. It'll make you aggressive toward evil. But last of all, we said warriors are loyal to their captain. Here's just one thing I want you to think about. David did not command these guys. You notice that? David did not command these guys to go get it. It doesn't say, and David commanded them, get me water. They said, okay, chief. No, that's not what happened. Not only didn't he command, he didn't suggest it. Not only didn't he suggest it, he didn't dare them. He didn't say, who's man enough to go get me water from the gate? Oh, yeah, we're, we're, we're. No, nothing like that. He was just sighing. And his wish was their command.

They loved him so much. His wish was their command. Now, if you want to know the difference between a religious person who comes to God saying, what do I have to do in order to go to heaven and get my prayers answered? Just give me the requirements. Just tell me. And a person who's been changed by the gospel, who's seen what Jesus has done for them, here's the difference. Religious people treat God like a boss. They say, what do I have to do to get my wages? What do I have to do to get my promotion? What do I have to do? But gospel people treat God like somebody you're falling in love with. When you're really falling in love with somebody, really falling in love with somebody, you don't wait around for an order. You just look for size. If you see them eat a dessert and they just sigh, say, oh, I love this. You'll smother them with it for the next three weeks. You'll buy it for them, right? If they're listening to some music and you just hear them sigh, say, oh, I love that. Next thing you know, shower with them with CDs. What are you doing? When you're in love with somebody, their wish is your command. You're not just saying, well, what do I have to do? You love them.

What I love so much here is in verse 15, it says David longed. But in verse 16, it says, and so they broke through. David longed, and so they broke through. He didn't command. He just longed. And so they broke through. If you know what the greater David, Jesus Christ, did for you, if you know what he did for you, if you see him thirsting on the cross for you, You'll break through any lines. You'll do any task. You'll handle any foe. You'll be warriors finally, the kind the world needs.

Because you'll look and you'll say, is this not the blood of the one who gave his life for me? Let us pray.

Father, we hardly know how to begin applying this. We are conformed to the image of this world in so many ways. We are cowardly, not warriors. Or we are aggressive against people who have done wrong to us, which is the old kind of warrior. We go back and forth. Some of us are the old kind of warrior that really just makes the world a worse place. and some of us are just the cowards that makes the world a worse place. But we want to be like Jesus who overcame evil with good. We want to be like Jesus who at the risk of his no, at the cost of his life, got us the water of life. And we ask that you would help us to take what he did into the center of our lives so we might not only be comforted there and strengthened there, but become the kind of people who can walk in his footsteps. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
