We're moving through the book of John and today we come to chapter 8, verse 12. And this is the last section of the worship service. If you've been... Worship is more than thinking, but it's not less. And if you've been thinking, if you've realized where you are by now, we're coming up to this place where you have spent some time thinking about your greatness, his greatness, and then secondly, thinking about your need. Now, thirdly, it said praise, the first part of the service has to do with how great he is, and confession, the second part of the service, has to do with how needy we are. But now, thirdly, we come to the part of the service in which God will challenge you with a vision of what he wants you to be. You know, if you've ever taken a course on management or on planning, they always say, have a good picture of where you want to be and then a good picture of where you are now and then decide how are you going to get from where you are to where you're going to be. And the greatness of God is where we're supposed to be. And the looking reality in the face during confession is where we are now. But this last part of the Worship Service is to give you an idea of how God can get you from A to B. And so during the sermon, think about what God is calling you to do. And during the offering, there'll be a, yes, there'll be an offering plate that'll come around. And a lot of people will put money in. Especially, I want you to know, if you're a guest or a visitor, we don't expect you to feel coerced to give. That's not the reason for the offering, ultimately. The reason for the offering at the end of the service is to get you to offer yourself to God. We have a prayer poem by John Donne there today to help you do that. So now get ready to see how God can move you from A to B. John chapter 8, verses 12 through 30. And when Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. The Pharisees challenged him. Here you are, appearing as your own witness. Your testimony is not valid. Jesus answered, even if I testify on my own behalf, my testimony is valid, for I know where I came from and where I am going. But you have no idea where I come from or where I am going. You judge by human standards. I pass judgment on no one. But if I do judge, my decisions are right because I am not alone. I stand with the Father who sent me. In your own law it is written that the testimony of two men is valid. I am one who testifies for myself. My other witness is the Father who sent me. And then they asked him, Where is your father? You do not know me or my father, Jesus replied. If you knew me, you would know my father also. He spoke these words while teaching in the temple area near the place where the offerings were put. Yet no one seized him because his time had not yet come. more, Jesus said to them, I am going away and you will look for me and you will die in your sin. Where I go, you cannot come. This made the Jews ask, will he kill himself? Is this why he says, where I go, you cannot come? But he continued, you are from below, I am from above. You are of this world, I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins if you do not believe that I am the one I claim to be, you will indeed die in your sins. Who are you, they asked. Just what I've been claiming all along. I have much to say in judgment of you, but he who sent me is reliable, and what I have heard from him I tell the world. They did not understand that he was telling them about the Father. So Jesus said, when you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am the one I claim to be, and that I do nothing on my own but speak what the one who sent me is with me. He has not left me alone, for I always do what pleases him. Even as he spoke, many put their faith in him. This is God's Word. About 13 years ago, I think, maybe 14, maybe 12, about 13, there was an NBC documentary on the NBC network on violence. And at the very end, they focused in on a case study of a young boy who was 13 years old who had premeditatedly and cold-bloodedly and unrepentantly killed a number of his playmates. And at the very end of the documentary, the narrator put this question, if we do not discover what makes a human being capable of this, how can we hope to save our civilization? Now, that was 13 years ago. Things are far worse now when it comes to violence. And what's amazing to me is why we're not more upset and why we're not asking that question. I think, from what I can tell, the way our society deals with questions that can't answer? Is it just after a while shrugs off and says, oh well, the world's still turning? And that's no answer. The question that the narrator was posing was this. If we don't find out what really makes us tick, how will we fix the human heart? And if we don't fix the human heart, what hope is there? Society is a lot like a person's, society is a lot like a guy stumbling around in the dark, in pitch dark. You know what it's like to do that? He's stumbling around in pitch dark he's stumbling and he's stubbing his feet and his hands and he's falling down and he's getting up all bloody. And he says, I know I'm hurt, but I don't even know what hurt me. I know I'm bloody, but I'm not even sure what I'm up against. I can't even tell. And it's not just society that's like that. Individuals, we are like that. We, our lives in a sense, could be looked at as people stumbling around in the pitch dark. We're disoriented, in a moral blind, we don't know what to do, and we make decisions, and somehow we find that it leaves us bloody emotionally and spiritually and morally and relationally, but we're not even sure what we hit or what hit us. We don't even know. All we know is that we're hurt, we're bloodied. And Jesus Christ says, you know your problem is? You need to turn on the light. You say, I know, but I can't. Have you been in a room like that? You're getting hit, you're getting hurt, it's pitch dark, and you can't even and find yourself to the wall. And Jesus says, I can turn the light on because I am the light. He says, I am from another world, verse 24. I'm from above. Therefore, in verse 14, he says, therefore, my testimony, my truth is real truth because I come from another world. And thus, he says in verse 12 in his very famous teaching, I am the light of the world. He who follows me will not walk in darkness, have the light of life. I can turn on the light. I am the light. Now, how do we turn on the light? How do we, I think if we're really honest, not only as a corporate body, as a society, but as individuals, we'd have to say that we're stumbling over things and we're bloody, but we're not even sure what we're hitting. How do we turn the light on? And the answer is by understanding this teaching. And I'd just like to expound it to you today under three headings, three questions. What, what, how, and why. The what means, what does it mean that Jesus is light? What does he mean when he says that? What is the light of the world? The how, secondly, is how do we get that into our lives? How can we walk in that light? And then thirdly, I'd like to talk about why Jesus is the light. He says he's the light because he's from the height. He says he's the light because he's from another world. See, what is he? What is the light? How do we get the light? And why is Jesus Christ the light? Just those three things, I think, will pretty much pull out the meat of what the teaching is here and will enable us all to turn the lights on so we'll see what we're up against. Number one, what does it mean when he says, I am the light of the world? Now, let's remember the context. The context, and this might, some of you, if you've been with us in the series, you'll remember that Jesus is doing all this preaching and teaching at the Feast of the Tabernacles. And the Feast of the Tabernacles was an annual Jewish celebration commemorating and remembering how God took care of them in the wilderness. And that's the reason why they lived out of doors and tabernacles and so on. They remembered what it was like to live in the wilderness. And on every evening in the place where Jesus was actually teaching. Because you see down in verse 20, it says, He spoke these words while teaching in the temple area near the place the offerings were put. Right there, every night, two giant candelabras were lit. And they were so brilliant that they illuminated the entire section of Jerusalem where the temple was. and right in front of those candelabras Jesus was doing this teaching what were those candelabras lit for? to commemorate the fact that God led them in the wilderness with the glory cloud if you go back to the Old Testament one of the strangest and weirdest phenomenon is the glory cloud there was a cloud of God's presence over the people and in the daytime it had the form of a cloud which shaded them from the killer heat And you say, ah, where is it today? And then secondly, we're talking about that, all right? But there's a better kind of shade available even than the one that you so crave right now. In the daytime, there was this cloud which shaded them from the killer heat. But at night, the cloud appeared to be fire. And, you know, the desert is a place of tremendous pitch darkness. But at night, it was a cloud of fire that enabled them to see where they were going. desert at night is dark and cold, and so God was fire. And in daytime, it's glaring and killer heat, and yet he was shade. And what was the cloud? The cloud, the Bible says, was the manifestation of God's presence. It was his Shekinah. It was his glory, we're told in Exodus 13. And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, and by night in a pillar of fire. It was God himself. That was his way of guiding them in the wilderness. And Jesus Christ has the audacity to stand up and say, I am the light of the world. I am the glory cloud. I am the shade by day. I am the glory and light by night. What audacity. Now, what is he saying? He's saying this. First of all, he's saying something we've seen in the last couple of weeks and we'll see again. God himself. I am the glory of God. When you see me, you see God. No other founder of any major religion ever had the audacity to say such a thing. But secondly, what he's saying is, I am both the shade, therefore, and the glory. I am your guiding glory cloud. And what that means is the ramifications of that is vast. For example, Jesus Christ and his truth is the shade From the killer heat. The Bible tells us, a major theme of the Bible is that the world is a wilderness. A wilderness. Now, God didn't design the world to be this way, but that's another story. It's a result of our rebellion. Nevertheless, the world is a wilderness, a place of confusion and darkness and cold at times, and a place of killer heat and pain and exhaustion at other times. And the Bible says you will not survive without the light, without the cloud, without Jesus, the guiding glory cloud. See, for example, how can he be the shade? Jesus Christ is a shade from the killer heat of your conscience. Especially as we get older, we begin to see the things that we've done wrong. We see the regrets. What do we do about them? What do we do? The Bible says Jesus and his truth. If you belong to him, if you belong to him, he's the shade. He's the thing that keeps you. Remember last week, what did Jesus do with the woman caught in adultery? he says to her, you have sinned, and I hold you accountable to change your behavior, but I do not condemn you because I have taken your condemnation upon me. There's a place, remember the George Herbert poem, where he says, our conscience looks at us and says, you wretch be gone, retreat in shame. But Christ comes and says, my love, come here, I bore the blame. That's the shade. The shade that keeps you from the killer heat of the accusations of your conscience. As the hymn goes, Well may the accuser roar of sins that I have done. I know them all and thousands more. Jehovah knoweth none. That's shade. Some of you desperately need that shade more than you need the kind of shade from the physical sun. But on the other hand, at night, the cloud is not a shade cloud. It's a glory cloud. It's a guiding cloud. place, and you will continually get into places where you don't know which end is up, in places of confusion and pain, and you say, what must I do? Which direction do I go? If I go down, you know, it's like so many of those stories where you're in the cave, and you come to the place, and there's three passages, which one will take me to life, and which ones will take me to darkness? And the Bible says, the truth of God is your light. Jesus Christ is your light. You go by what you go by what he, you obey him. You don't go by what the culture tells you is right. You don't go by what your friends say is right. You don't go by what your own impulses and desires say is right because they change all the time. If you've ever seen a mature person in the midst of a dark place, you realize that they're not in the dark. I remember when I've talked to these people, they say, hey, yeah, it looks terrible, but I remember what God did to Peter. I remember what happened to Abraham. I remember what happened to Job. I remember what happened to David. There's a purpose for this. There's a limit to this. I see what's going on. I need to obey him. These people are not in the dark. It says in Romans 8, 13, all those who are sons of God are led by the Spirit of God. It doesn't say some will. It says all are. It means that, yes, you can screw up your life in the short run, but if you belong to him and if you're under God's glory cloud, can't really muck your life up. It means there's no plan B for a person under the cloud of Jesus Christ. He will guide you. He'll get you there. There's no way. Do you think, in spite of your stupidity, do you really think that you can put God over a barrel? Do you think God's up in heaven saying, nuts, I wanted this for that person, I wanted this for her, but now she's done this, so I guess all I can do is this. Can you imagine? The riches of what Jesus Christ is teaching is beyond our ability to fathom. I am the cloud. I am the shade. I am your guiding glory light. Now, you know, you sing about it all the time. Every time that I get that hymn up by John Newton called Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken, do you know what you're singing in this verse? Verse, round each habitation hovering, see the cloud and fire appear. For a glory and a covering, showing that the Lord is near. Thus deriving from their banner, light by night and shade by day, safe they feed upon the manna which he gives them when they pray. Don't you dare, if you're a Christian, don't you dare say, ah yes, the Old Testament, back when God was real and miracles happened. The good old days. Hey, Jesus Christ comes and says, these are the good old days. Jesus says, those were just foretastes of what I can give you now. Hey, I can give you the living manna that feeds your soul to eternal life. I can give you the living water to turn your insides into a laughing, surging river of joy and strength and character. I am the real cloud of glory, and I will shade you, and I will give you light not for 40 years in the wilderness, but for eternity. these are the good old days. That's what he's saying in chapter 8, verse 12. I am the light, I am the glory cloud, I am the shade by day, and your guiding light at night. All right. Second, that's not good enough. That's exciting, you know. I mean, I got excited. I hope you got excited. But how do we connect to that? What good is having this wonderful power source here if there's no way to plug it, plug into it? And Jesus gives you the Word. He tells you exactly how you can plug in. He tells you exactly how that light can come into your life. He says what? I am the light of the world, he who follows me. There we go. Now, what does the Word follow mean? He who follows me will walk in the light of life. Now, the word follow, right away, most people say, ah, it means to emulate him, to try to do, follow his teachings, to follow his example. But Jesus is very careful to show you passage, especially after this teaching, that the word follow has a more specific meaning than that. A lot of people say it just means in a general way to follow him. No. First of all, in order to follow him, number one, listen, you have to see him lifted up. Down in verse 24, over in verse 24, he says, I told you that you would die in your sins if you do not believe I am the one, I blew it. Right in the middle of the sermon, too. Where does he say lifted up? Oh, yeah, pardon me. Down to verse 28. When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am the one I claim to be. When you see me lifted up, when you lift me up. Now, in John chapter 12, we see what this lifting up means. I think it's in John chapter 12, but don't look. That's the place where it says, actually, I have that quoted down here. I've got it written down here somewhere. says, and if I be lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. This, he said, signifying what death he would die. You know what he's saying? He says to these people, he says, you want proof that I'm the light from heaven? Kill me. And that will release such a wave of light and truth into the world as it will sweep you away if you don't believe in me. And you know, he was historically absolutely right. He says, if you want to see it, I'm the light from heaven, kill me. On Friday, after they killed him, they walked away wiping the dirt from their hands saying, there's one revolutionary we won't have to worry about anymore. And on Sunday, as Tom Skinner once said, this revolutionary pulled off the greatest coup in history. And what happened was his murder only began a movement that has truly has surged on forever. Now, but practically what Jesus is you must come and see me lifted up. And you haven't followed me if you don't see me lifted up. You have to come to me crucified. You have to see me and receive me as crucified. Now, what he's doing is he's asking for a self-humbling. Because if you say, well, to follow him means I just have to, you know, live a good life and follow his example. Jesus is saying that's not good enough. You have to see me lifted up. He's asking for a humbling. he's asking you to say, Lord Jesus, if you were just an example, I'm lost. Because all this great teaching doesn't help if my heart's so weak that I can't follow it. It's not good enough for you to be an example. You have to be my Savior. Lord, if you died for me, if you took my requirements and fulfilled them before the Father for me, then there's hope. But if you didn't die for me, then there's no hope. So Jesus is saying, you have to see me lifted up. Now, if there's anybody here who says, oh, this is psychologically unhealthy to talk about being so unworthy. Listen, my friends, self-haters do not yet see him lifted up, or you wouldn't hate yourself. See, he says, if men see me lifted up, I will draw all men to myself. When I'm lifted up, I'll draw all men to myself. You know what he means? He means that anybody who sees Jesus Christ lifted up is infallibly attracted to him. That means this. Have you ever, if you're a self-hater, if you're somebody who says, oh, I'm just too bad for God, God could, nobody can or should love me. You have maybe an intellectual belief in the crucifixion of Christ, but you've never really let it address you at a deep level. Have you seen him lifted up? have you ever really seen God coming to Adam and saying, Son, if you obey me, I'll bless you. And Adam said, No, I won't. And then he comes to Jesus and says, Son, if you obey me, I'll crush you to powder on the cross, but it's the only way to satisfy justice and to save these friends of yours. And Jesus says, All right. Have you ever seen that? Have you ever really seen him dying in the dark for you, utterly abandoned? Oh, I know some of us have been abandoned, you know, at different times and places, and it's hurt us badly, but no one's been abandoned like he has. He had a perfect relationship with the Father, and he was left in the dark. Have you seen him do that? See, if you see him lifted up, you will be attracted to him. And those of you, those of you who are too proud to see that you need more than an example, and those of you who are too full of self-hatred to believe he can love you, if you see him lifted up, your hearts will be softened. inspire you with hope if you hate yourself. It'll humble you if you think too highly of yourself. Jesus says, until you see me lifted up, you haven't really seen who I am, and you can't follow me. But beyond that, he also says, you must see me for who I am. Don't you understand? A lot of people think that following Jesus means, here's this teachings, I'll try to do it. But Jesus says, to follow me means to see me for who I am, to be ravished with my beauty. He says in verse 12, I'm the light of the world. Now, you know, light is the source of all biological. Physical light is the source of all biological life. And because every plant needs light, that's its food. It's photosynthesis. Remember that from ninth grade biology or was it eighth grade biology? The light is turned into food for the plants, and the plants are the basic part of the entire food cycle for the whole planet. And therefore, light, physical light from the sun, is literally the basic food of our entire world. And Jesus comes and says, I am the light of the world, meaning you as much need to drink in my glory as the world needs to drink in the sun's glory. You, unless I indwell you with my spirit, and unless you're continually seeing me for who I am, unless you're drinking in my glory, you will die because you see, I have built you for photosynthesis of the soul and you've got to drink my glory in. A lot of people, it's a very practical issue. A lot of people say, if I become a Christian, you mean I can't do anything I want with my money but I have to use it for radical generosity. You mean I can't do anything I want with my sexuality but I have to give it to somebody for a permanent exclusive marriage. you mean I can't do with my time what I want, but I have to serve people. You mean I can't do with my tongue what I want, but I've got to be honest. You mean that sounds like a drag. In other words, if I get into the light of God's glory, I'm going to wither and die. That's just not true. The Bible says it's only by coming into the light of God's glory, seeing him for who he is, and living as if he is who he is, and obeying and submitting to his will, that's the only way that you will ever become strong. That's the only way you'll experience the photosynthesis of the soul. Number one, what does it mean to see him as he is? It means to obey him. It says in 1 John, walk in the light. If you say, I walk in the light, but you don't obey his commandments, you're a liar. And one of the reasons a lot of us are sick spiritually is because we're obeying here and here and here, but not there. And so you're not walking in the light, and you don't have that poise and confidence that comes from a clear conscience. Without obedience, you don't walk in the light. Or secondly, without fellowship with him, you don't walk in the light. I was reading an old Presbyterian minister named Archibald Alexander. When he was examining people, whether they should join the church, and I promise I won't do this to you, but when he wanted to know if these people were really walking in the light, he would always say this. He would say, do you take delight in prayer finding, that your heart is drawn out to God and strong desires? Do you find that you love to contemplate the characteristics of his excellence? No one but a vital Christian can answer such questions affirmatively. See, he's using the light as a test. He is saying, what does it mean to see Jesus for who he is? It means to see he's gorgeous. The difference between a Christian and a non-Christian is that a non-Christian says his prayers, but a Christian prays. A Christian experiences fellowship. Christian finds that as they contemplate, we talked about it this morning, as you contemplate the truth, the truth begins to shine and you see the beauty of God. And so prayer and fellowship is one of the tests whether you're walking in the light and one of the methods to walk in the light. Obedience, prayer, fellowship with Him. Let me give you a third one. Anyone who's walking in the light goes through this strange cycle of feeling worse and worse about yourself and yet feeling better and better about yourself at the same time. This is a unique thing to the Christian self-image. When I worked in a printing company, I used to sometimes work in the darkroom. And in the darkroom, there's a light, but not much of one, sort of an orange light. And if your hands got dirty, you would look down and you'd say, oh, your hands are dirty. You'd wipe them off with a rag and they looked fine. But then when you got out into the main room, then you could see all the crevices and cracks and fingernail dirt that was still there. So then you went and washed with soap. And it looked perfectly clean. went to somebody's house, especially into some dining room under some chandelier, if you put especially your hands out after a day of working at the print shop on a nice, pristine, perfectly white linen tablecloth, you look down and you realize your hands had just a general film of grime over the whole thing that you hadn't seen before. The more light you get, the dirtier your hands look, and they look just as bad as they did the minute, you know, the last stage when you had wiped them clean. What this means is, for a Christian, is the more light you get, and the godlier you get, the less godly you feel. This is a unique dynamic and a sign that you're walking in the light. You know, for example, I'll give you an example of, I know a couple of guys like this. In fact, I almost should warn people about it. Before you become a Christian, let's just say, I've known a couple of guys that had such negative views of women that they slept with to just exercise power over them. Well, they become Christians and they say, wait a minute, they get into the light and they repent. They say, I should have a higher view of sex and a higher view of women than that. But now his need to have power and dominate is showing itself in more subtle ways in relationships. And after a year or so, people start to come and say, you know, you need to be in charge in every relationship, don't you? You need to be in charge. And now he begins to see in the greater light the same sin showing up again. So he repents of it. But maybe later on he becomes a ministry leader in the church and somebody sits down with him and says, you know, whenever you're leading a Bible study, you're the only one that can ever be right. And now the guy sees his will to power showing up again. Now in every case, you see, he's washed his hands clean. He says, I'm finally, finally free. And it shows up again. The more light you get, the more you see your sin. And yet, here's what's so weird, the light also shows you the gospel. The light also shows you that the more you sin, the more you see your sin, the more you see also that God has been so merciful and so loving and so patient with you that you grow at the same time humbler and happier because your joy and your gratitude to him gets greater and greater all the time. people I know do not feel that they're any better than the criminal or the fool. The most godly people I know are so convicted by the slightest lapses when they're not kind or they're not tactful. And yet the godliest people I know are so happy because they're always saying, God's mercy is so unfailing and so infallible. Look, he loves me. He cares for me. Me, me, with all of this in me. If you're walking in the light, there's obedience. If you're walking in the light, there's, you know, vital prayer. If you're walking in the light, there's a continual experience of growing more aware of your ungodliness and yet more joy in the mercy of God. One more thing. If you're walking in the light, you find that other things that used to drive you become less and less attractive to you. You know, the way to overcome bad habits, the way to overcome fears, is to admit that there are certain things that have been ravishing you, certain things that are so beautiful to you, you can't take your eyes off of them. And when Jesus Christ becomes so real to you through obedience, right, through prayer, right, through repentance, the basics of being Christians, when that is happening to you more and more and more, what happens is that you find that changing bad habits is not so much a matter of willpower as much as the beauty of Christ begins to take over and other things begin to look less attractive. That's the reason why I wrote down for the offering time that great poem by John Donne, which ends this way. This is the Christian saying, take me to you,

Did you see that? Some of you are having trouble with chastity. Of course you are. What is the answer? Some of you are having trouble with not sexual impurity, but other kinds of impurity. how can you become pure how can you get integrity how can you become self-controlled not through willpower not through the negative not through saying I won't do it I won't do what I won't do it that's not what John Donne says he says take me to you imprison me for I except you enthrall me never shall be free nor ever chaste except you ravish me let me conclude with this Jesus Christ says I am the light of the world because of where I come from. I come from another world. Not too long ago, I read a story about an old fairy tale. Now, I haven't found the fairy tale. I found an account about it. It's very old. It was about a man that was born and grew up in a prison. And he was full... In the prison, there was all these other people who were born and raised in prison, and they'd never seen anything but their dungeon. And one of the great debates they used to make world outside of the prison. They used to sit around, and you know, this one young man used to say, I wonder, maybe there is. The jailers always said, this is all there is. The warden, the wicked warden, said, this is all there is. And they would sit around debating, and everybody else in the jail said, all the other inmates, all the other prisoners said, there's nothing but this. This is all there is. One day, somebody came into the prison from another part of the prison, but he said, you know, I didn't come from another part of the prison. what they're saying. I came from the outside. And I know there's another world out there. And he starts scratching on the wall pictures of what that world's like. And he paints a tree for this young man. And he scratches it out. He doesn't paint it. And he shows the sun. And he talks about colors. Oh, not the colors that they had in the prison, which basically, since it was so dark and Jerry, all the colors he knew was brown, black, and grey. But he talked about red and yellow and white. And so what happened was, eventually that prisoner left, and the young man always sat around and said, I wonder if he's right, I wonder if it's true, I wonder if it's real. And one other thing the prisoner had told him, he said, there's a prince out there, there's a prince of that other world, and that prince's job, that prince has said that someday he's going to break into this dungeon take the prisoners and make them free. So one day this young man is sitting in his cell and he hears somebody digging from the other side of the wall. And suddenly in comes light because somebody has pushed a hole, has dug a hole right through the dungeon wall the size of a man's hand. And he looks out and there's the world. There it is. He sees the tree. It's not quite like what he expected, but he can tell from the sketch. He sees the sun and he hears the voice of a prince. And the prince says, now you know that I'm real and now you know that this world is real. And I want you to know that I'm preparing to come in and take you out for good. Meanwhile, live in the hope of what you see through the wall. Now, this young man, his life has changed. He's not out of the dungeon, but now his whole life is lived in light from the outside world. He sees what's going on out there, and he lives inside in a completely different way. He begins to treat the other prisoners and the other cells with dignity. He begins to treat himself and his little cell no longer as just a rat hole. He begins to, because he sees the cell as one little piece of a bigger world. That's how the fairy tale goes. And that's an exact parallel of what it means to be a Christian. Don't you realize that people all around you are looking at you right now, This world is all there is. This is it. When you die, you go to nothing. This is it. But deep inside your heart, you say, no, my conscience and the old tales tell me that I was built for more than that. When I die, I'm not going to go back to slime and ashes. I was built for something greater. I was built for thrones and crowns and great deeds. I was built for light and high beauty. I was built for love and laughter and nobility. And one day, Jesus Christ comes into your life and says, you're right. all of those old tales were like the scratchings on the wall. But look, I have opened a hole through the pitiless walls of the world, and someday I'm coming back. Meanwhile, live in the hope and power of what you can see through this hole. You know who the hole is? It's Jesus. And imagine just how great your life would be if every day you look through that hole, you saw the light of that world and lived in the light of that world. Think of the courage. Think of the horizons. Think of the greatness. Jesus says, I am the light. I am the shape of the things to come. Live by my light or you're lost. And so here's what we are. Number one, if there's anybody here that says, Tim, that's nice for you, but it's not nice for me. Listen, if it's not true for both of us, I'm not interested in it and who the heck would be? Jesus says, I'm from another world. Subjective feeling states this is reality. If you don't live as if I am real, you are lost. Secondly, Christian friends, what this means is you have got, if this is true, if Jesus is the light from the height, then you've got to take the limitations off your expectations of what he can do in your life. Are you living thrilled by that future? Are you living as if it's true? Have your fears become manageable yet? If they haven't, you're not looking at the light. I am the light of the world. He who comes to me, who follows me, will not walk in darkness, but have the light of life. Let's pray. Now, Father, we're going to sit and contemplate what it means that your Son is our light, or your Son is our glory cloud. What we ask, very simply, is this. Some of us really need you as a cloud to shade us from the accusations of others and the accusations of our conscience, and that can only happen if we see you lifted up. Some of us are in dark places. Some of us right now are very confused, but only if we come and live according to your Word and obey you in spite of how dark it is will we be able to get out, will we be able to walk without stumbling and falling and killing ourselves. Father, some of us just simply don't have the hope that comes from realizing that though we're still in confinement, our cell is just a little temporary place and one small piece in a much broader world, and that someday you're going to come take us into the light and we'll live with you as light eternal. Father, we pray that you transform us now because we give ourselves to you and we follow your son who is the light that we might have the light of life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
