Turn with me in the bulletin. You're probably already there. So many of you are so savvy. And we'll read from the passage on which the teaching is based. It's John chapter 20, verses 16 to 23.

Jesus said to her, Mary. She turned toward him and cried out in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. And Jesus said, do not hold on to me, for I have not yet returned to the Father. Go instead to my brothers and tell them, I am returning to my Father and your Father, God. Mary Magdalene went to the disciples with the news. I have seen the Lord. And she told them that he had said these things to her. On the evening of the first day of the week, when the disciples were together, with the doors locked for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. After he said this, he showed them his hands and side. The disciples The disciples were overjoyed when they saw the Lord. Again, Jesus said, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, I am sending you. And with that, he breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive anyone his sins, they are forgiven. If you do not forgive them, they are not forgiven. This is God's word. Now what we're doing in this series, and I'm glad that a lot of you have expressed appreciation for it because it's been very hard for me. I hope somebody's getting something out of it. What we're trying to do is we're looking at basics. Basics. We're looking at the basic words, the basic concepts, the basic building blocks of faith. We've been actually going through the Apostles' Creed, which we often use here in the evening service whenever we do the Lord's Supper. I think we did that last month. And the Apostles' Creed was a very ancient, if not the first, summary that the church put together of what are the basics, the essential teachings of the gospel, of Christianity, of the message of Christianity. And what we've been doing is we've been going through and just picking out basic concepts. Last week, for example, we looked at the fact that Jesus died. He suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified dead, and buried. This week we want to look at the fact that he rises, he rose and ascended. As the Apostles' Creed says, on the third day he rose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven and sits on the right hand of God the Father Almighty. Now, when I say it's kind of, you know, I'm glad you enjoy it. It's not been hard for me. It's pretty tough to sometimes sit down and even looking at it practically, which is what we're doing, looking at passages out of the book of John to get these basic building blocks down and understand what they mean. And so every week to say, what is sin? Or what does it mean that Jesus died for us? Or what does it mean that he rose and has ascended? What does that mean for us? Those are kind of ridiculously big subjects. But you know, there is an advantage to getting up in a helicopter, as it were, and flying over a terrain so you get the big picture. And so that's what we're going to look at again tonight. But let me just give you a little footnote. I could have said any week during this series. People who are trying to explore the Christian faith or people who have just gotten into the Christian faith really love to grasp the clear, basic truths, the basic principles, the basic, you know, pieces of the gospel. Basics. So if you're getting started, you love basics. And if you're really mature in the faith, if you've really grown deep and wise in the faith, Also, love to look at the basics. Why? Because one of the marks of Christian maturity is you come to understand that almost all of your problems do not stem from the lack of new ideas. Almost all of our problems stem from the fact that we don't really functionally believe and grasp and understand and live out the basics. So you see, people who are mature in the faith love to look at the basics of the faith. People who are new in the faith love to look at the basics of the faith. It's the people in between who are neither new nor mature who are always saying, this is boring, let's get on to more advanced stuff. Important safety tip. All right.

But the shoe fits. Try to enjoy this. Now there's two things I think from this very famous passage in the book of John. Matthew, Luke, and John, the three of the four Gospels, tell us a great deal about how when Jesus first met his disciples as the risen and ascending Lord, what difference that made in their lives. The two things I think we see, for them and for us, what the resurrection means is, first, Christianity is a living encounter with a living Savior, a real encounter with a living Savior. Secondly, the resurrection means Christianity is a whole new mission in life, life, a whole new direction for our lives, a whole new agenda for our lives. Okay, we're going to look at the first one and then the second one, but the first one a little bit more. First of all, what the resurrection means here is that if Jesus Christ had just died, he would have been a wonderful teacher, a wonderful example, and we could have known him the way you know any great person. He lives on in his teaching. He lives on in the stories we have of him. He lives on in our hearts. He lives on, you know, the way any great person did. But because he was raised from the dead, the relationship you should have with Jesus Christ is qualitatively different. The first, let me, I think that in some ways the key and pivotal verse here is verse 22. It says, and then he breathed on them and said, receive the Holy Spirit. Now, listen, Why did he do that? Why did he breathe? Clearly Jesus Christ didn't have to breathe to give him the Holy Spirit. He could have waved a hand. He could have just said it. He could have not said a thing. I mean, Jesus Christ didn't need to breathe to give him the Holy Spirit. And that must mean that it's symbolic. The breathing is symbolic to help us understand what he's doing and what he's saying. Now, the first thing we know is this. When you breathe into somebody, why are you doing it? to give them new life. For example, if you pull somebody out of the water, the lifeguard pulls them out of the water, and you look at them, and there they are, and they're not breathing. What do you do? You breathe into them. Why? Well, your lungs are working, and so you breathe your breath into them so that they will breathe too. And their lungs will start to work as well. And in the very, very beginning of time, we're told that God breathed into Adam. him. He made man, the book of Genesis says, from the dust of the ground, and he breathed the breath of life, and he became a living soul. And this is, you know, actually this would be another sermon, so let me just touch on this. This is Jesus Christ's recreation of the world. Jesus Christ shows up, and he now is recreating the world. He breathes the breath of life into the beginning of a new humanity into his disciples. It's marvelous. But here's the point. Where were they before? What was Mary's relationship to Jesus before she met him as the risen Lord? What was the disciples' relationship? What was Moses' relationship with God before he met the burning bush? What was Isaiah's relationship with God before he saw the glory high and lifted up. And here's what I think. All of these people believed. They weren't atheists. They weren't agnostics. They weren't skeptics. They weren't struggling with Christianity. They believed. And they were, I would think in all these cases, they were also very obedient. Mary and the disciples believed in Jesus. They believed he was the Messiah. They didn't understand all that, but they believed. And they believed he was the teacher. See, what does she immediately say? Teacher. he was my teacher, and I believed him, and I followed what he said, and I lived according to his example. These are not skeptics, but they did not, they had a general belief in God, Moses, Isaiah, the disciples, Mary, but they hadn't encountered him. They hadn't really met him. They had not actually received the Holy Spirit so that their hearts were absolutely transformed. They had gone through moral reformation through a general belief and subscription to his doctrines and his practices, but they hadn't had a living, life-changing, heart-changing, heart regeneration. They hadn't actually been transformed by a personal encounter. That's what this means. Because he's resurrected, you can have this absolute personal encounter. Now, I'm going to ask you a question, if you don't mind. You know, I'm an oldest child. I've got all the approval problems. I don't know why I do this job exactly, but maybe it's better to do it to a thousand people than to one. Let me suggest that many of you think you have a personal, had a personal encounter with God through Jesus. Many of you think you're Christians, and maybe you're not. See, I told you, why do I, why did I take this job? I hate doing this. In other words many of you like Mary, like the disciples, like Moses, like Isaiah you may have always believed. You may never really have had any doubts. You may have always lived according to his teaching You may have always been a good person You may have all those wonderful things and never have really encountered him You've never had him breathe into you've never had this personal encounter with a living, risen

I think it's possible. I mean, you should at least think about it. You realize these people could have gotten all kinds of good marks on all of their tests about the teaching of Jesus. I mean, they knew all about it. They'd followed him. And yet they hadn't actually met the risen Christ. They hadn't actually received his life into the middle of their heart. They hadn't been transformed, regenerated. You get that? Is it possible that you may have not encountered him? Now, I'm not sure you're going to be able to make up your mind tonight. I just hope you'll keep coming and you'll be able to assess it. But for your, especially for you, but for all of us, let's notice that there seems to be three elements here, three things that happen, that have to happen if you're going to move from general belief into real personal encounter. Three things. In fact, I want you to see that this is applicable for everybody in the room. It's applicable for people who say, struggle with the faith. I really don't believe a lot of it. And that's for people who are, you know, people who subscribe to it, but maybe have never had that personal encounter. And for those who really have had this regeneration, had this change of life, had this transforming experience. But how do you go deeper in? How do you move down deeper in? How do you move him more and more from being a kind of intellectual concept into being a living, bright reality. How does that happen? These three things have got to happen. Let me show you what they are. First thing that has to happen is there has to be a, I'll say it, then I'll unpack it. There has to be a disrupting event. There has to be a paradigm-busting event. There has to be something to shatter your heart's functional worldviews. jargon, but the only thing is I've made all these words up, so nobody else knows what they are either. So let me just try to explain what I mean. Your mind may have all kinds of beliefs. It may say, I believe in God, I believe in this, I believe in that. But your heart, this is the nature of it, your heart has a functional worldview. Your heart has beliefs that your mind sometimes really denies. Your heart lives as if there is a certain way in which the world is that may not go along with what you believe. Now, the reason I'm bringing this up, I'm trying to be a good pastor to you right here, trying to help you understand that you may have all kinds of good and right theological beliefs, but the reason so few people who go to church have a living encounter with God is because their heart have certain functional paradigmatic views of the world that filter out God as a living reality. What do I mean? Let me give you two examples. Your hearts, for example, believe, no matter what your head tells you, that you're competent to run your own life. That you basically know enough to make the right decisions about who you should marry, about what career you should go into. You basically can make up your own mind right and what's wrong. You basically are competent to run your own life. You really are. And every so often, I guess we would need God to help us with the tough patches. Sometimes we need to pray for some guidance. Sometimes we need some inspiration. Sometimes we need something to pull us through the tough. But basically, you're really competent to run your own life. Your heart believes that. No matter what your head says. Your heart does not believe that you're utterly helpless without him. Your heart does not believe that you are completely, completely dependent on him. Your heart does not believe that you're no way able to make good decisions in any of these ways. That you absolutely and completely depend on Jesus Christ and the Lord for everything. Your heart doesn't believe that. Something has to come in to shatter that. I'll give you another one. Your heart does not believe... Well, pardon me. Your heart believes that this world is what really matters. The popularity is what matters. Physical beauty is what matters. Celebrity is what matters. Money is what matters. I look is what matters. Your head may tell you other things. Your heart believes this world is what's important. This is what's important. And something has to come along to shatter that. Something has to come along and just, and, and, and shatter that. Now that's one of the first things that happens here. Look at verse 19. On the evening of that first day, the disciples were together and the doors were locked. But Jesus came. Wait a minute. Doors locked. Jesus came. a paradigm breaker. In fact, if I had time, I'd go into a little further. The first century Jewish person did believe in a future resurrection of everyone on the last day when the kingdom of God comes. But you have to recognize, this is very important, first century Jewish people did not believe in individual resurrections. They didn't believe anybody could be resurrected as an individual. It wasn't something they would even begun to make up. It's not something they would have hallucinated because it wasn't part of their worldview. Not only that, first century Jews were the last people in the entire world to believe that any human being could be God. People in the East believe that God is very imminent, and that means that God is in everything, that God's basically a life force. And therefore, Eastern religions have no problem with saying that a man could be God because they understand that in a sense we all God. And, you know, somebody might have a lot of God consciousness. In the West, you know, the Greeks and the Romans The Romans believed not in infinite gods. They believed in personal gods like Zeus and Hermes and Aphrodite. And they believed that these gods were personal but not infinite. They made mistakes, but sometimes they would disguise themselves. And they would come down. So in the West, you had a view of God. They believed in the gods that were personal but not infinite. In the East, you had gods that they believed God was infinite, not personal. And therefore, they had no trouble with this idea of maybe a human being sort of God in disguise. eyes, but the Jews, they believed in an absolutely personal yet infinite, utterly transcendent yet completely imminent God. And therefore, they were the last people in the whole world to believe. They absolutely could not. There was nothing about their worldview that could possibly accept the idea that a human being could be God. Yet Jesus Christ comes through the doors, and yet Luke, by the way, now John doesn't tell us, but Luke tells us, they were scared. And he says, you're a ghost. And he said, oh yeah? Give me a fish. And he ate a fish. And he said, ever see a ghost eat a fish? You know, if you were making these things up, this is not fiction. No fiction writer would ever make up something like that. What idiot would make up a story like that? If you're making up a story, you would never write these things down unless you saw it happen. It wouldn't even occur to you. And that's the point. The point is that Jesus Christ comes come through doors, yet he's physical. He says that he's the Lord. He says he's been resurrected from the dead and they can feel him and they can touch him and they can see him. It totally breaks through the paradigm. You will never, ever, ever, ever meet God unless something comes through and breaks through and shatters your paradigms. And here's the reason why. Because you never learn anything spiritually valuable by being told. You have to be shown. own. Very, very, very frustrating to be a parent. Some of you are parents. If you're a Christian, you know this. When they're this little, you say, now kids, you need God. You don't know how much you need God, but you really need him. They get to this big and you say, you need God. They get this big and you really need God. Your kids will never know they need God by being told. You didn't find out, if you have found out, that you need God by being told. You have to be shown to come in to show you're not competent. Something has to come in to show you the world is not enough. Something has to come in to show you to shatter through this paradigm because that is the way in which you stay into this kind of vague belief but not until something comes through and shatters those paradigms disturbs you and shows you do need God and this world is not enough that you actually turn to him and might have the possibility of him becoming a bright reality. Notice that this is not something that they went after. They didn't go out looking for Jesus. Verse 19, Jesus came. These events come to you.

You never learn anything spiritually valuable by being told. These events come to you. You've got to be shown. Now you say, does that mean I can't do anything? I've got to be passive? I just sit here? No, no, no, no, no. Not at all. As a matter of fact, a lot of you have been through these events over and over again, and you didn't recognize them for what they were. where a lot of you have been so mad at God, thinking, Why would you let this and that happen to me? If there is a God, why did this happen? Why did that happen? In other words, all kinds of things have come to you already in your life that were there just to shatter your sense of competence, these false paradigms. These things have already come. And you didn't recognize them for what they were. These were invitations to come and have an encounter with God, and you didn't do it. but... See, these things are going to come. You live in the world. These things are going to come. They're going to come. Lots of success will shatter your paradigm because you thought, when I finally get to this level, then I'll be satisfied. And you're not. Which shows the world is not enough. And lots of trouble will shatter the other paradigm. You think you're competent and then suddenly you realize I can't handle the world. These things have come in and you didn't recognize them for what they were. The first thing you've got to do if you're going to have an encounter with a living God is recognize these things. to have a disturbing event. Secondly, what's the second thing? The second thing you have to do, it's not enough just to have a disturbing event. Now I'm seeking. Now what do I do? You start looking for God, right? You start reading and thinking and reflecting and maybe going to meetings or go to church. But you must be careful. Because the first thing that happens after you start to seek is you start to seek for somebody who will meet your needs. You start to seek for or somebody who meet you and you say, some of you are saying, what's wrong with that? Well, in a way, nothing. But for what we're trying to talk about a lot,

Mary meets Jesus. This is the climax of her life. Look, verse 16, Jesus said to her, Mary, and she turned. Oh my gosh, you're risen. You're here. And he, obviously she grabs him. Now that's But verse 17, that's a very good translation. The New International Version says, Jesus said, do not hold on to me. Now what he's actually saying here is, stop clinging to me. Don't continue to cling to me. So she's grabbed him. But what does he say? He says, do not hold on to me. Go instead. Now this is very interesting. I'll tell you what he's doing. This is the highlight of her life. This is the climax of her life. She's always wanted this kind of love. She's always wanted this kind of grace, this kind of joy. This is astounding. And Jesus does not say, oh Mary, let's just sit down here and sort of hug and embrace and let me just pour all my love. No, this is what he says. He says, that's nice. We've got work to do. In other words, this is what he's saying. Mary, I've given you my joy. I've given you myself. I've given you this wonderful experience. But it's not mainly for you. This is not for your happiness.

He's really saying, Mary, you didn't meet the resurrected Jesus to get me into your life so that we could reach your agenda. You met the resurrected Jesus so that you now come into my life and now you help me reach my agenda. I'm here to save the world. I've got people out to deal with. There's all sorts of stuff out here in the world. I'm here to put down injustice. I'm here to put down oppression. I'm here to wipe away sin. I'm here to deal with suffering. with wrongdoing. I'm here to deal with it. That's my agenda. And what it means to become a Christian is that you don't get God coming into your life to meet your needs so that you can reach your agenda, but rather you're drawn into his agenda. You're not your own anymore. Now, the reason we bring this up, you will never encounter the living God unless you're open to his unmanageability, unless you realize, if I'm going to find a personal God, a real God, he's going to have to that I can't manage, that's going to tell me to do things that I don't want to do. He's going to tell me to believe things that I don't want to believe.

Unless you're open to that, unless you're willing to drop your conditions, unless you're willing to do that, you're never going to have a personal relationship. Now, why do I say this? Because United States, American people, or I should just say Western civilization. In Western civilization, we are taught. We are taught to say, my goal in life is to get my individual needs met. And therefore, what we have a tendency to do is we look at God, and if we're seeking, and we sing, I want a certain kind of God. And Western people, contemporary people, talk like this. I can't believe in a God like this. I can't believe in a God like... I can't believe in a God who would judge people. I can't believe in a God who would say, your sins are not forgiven if you don't believe in me. I can't believe in a God who would teach this. I can't believe in those things. I like to think of God like this. Oh, now look, okay. It's a free country. If that's how you want to seek him, okay. But I want you to realize that whatever you find, if you seek God like that, won't be a personal relationship. Why? You don't have a personal relationship with him unless he can contradict you. Can we give you a perfect example? Remember that movie, The Stepford Wives? It was about a town, Stepford, somewhere. What state was it? Stepford, Ohio? Connecticut. We have some real movie buffs here. Okay, and there's this place called Stepford where the husbands have all gotten together and they've got this great idea. They say, we're going to have the ideal marriages. What they do is they find ways of getting rid of their wives and they replace them with lookalike robots.

And the robots, of course, are exactly what the husbands want. They never contradict the husbands. They never disobey the husbands. husbands. In other words, they never displease the husbands in anything they say, in anything they do, in any way that they look. And so the husbands have wonderful marriages, they say, but I'll tell you one thing. They don't have personal relationships because they have robotic relationships. In a robotic relationship, you have exactly what you designed, but you don't have a personal relationship. Because when you have a personal relationship, a person contradicts you. A person fights with you. A person has conflicts. Now, maybe in Stepford they had wives that did everything they wanted, but those were not loving relationships. They were not personal relationships. They were not fulfilling relationships. When you say, I don't want a God who would teach this or this or this. I believe in a God like this. What you're really saying is, I want a what? what? I want to step for God. I want a God who will not displease me. I want to know something. How will you have a personal relationship with God? You will not have a personal relationship with God unless you're willing to come like this. Lord God, you say, even before you know what his will is, I realize that you might be a person that is different than what I would like you to be. You might call me to do things I don't want to do. You might show me things I don't want to see. You might tell me to believe things I don't want to believe. But unless I'm open to you being a God like that, unless I'm open to that, I'll never have a personal relationship with you. I won't have a real God. Do you understand that? You're never going to really meet him unless you realize you mustn't go after a God you designed for your own needs. You're just not going to meet him. Now, listen, think of the paradox here. There's nothing more fulfilling than a real God. God. A sense that I'm interacting with something out there that's real. There's a love that's not in my imagination. I mean, how in the world can I get any affirmation? How in the world can I feel like the God I designed loves me and that really changes my life? Of course the God you designed loves you. You know, he's a robot. It's a stepford God. And he comes and says, I love you just the way you are. I love you just the way you are because that's the kind of God you want. There's nothing wrong with the way you're living. I love you just the way you are. That'll never change that's not a personal relationship. Never in a million years. Well, you say, well, how am I going to do that? How am I going to get a God? I'll tell you how. Start reading the Bible. And if you're a contemporary person, you won't go very far before you'll find something that'll really make you mad. And you've begun a personal relationship with God. Because you see, unless you have a God who can speak to you in the Bible, I want to know something. How are you going to find a God who can contradict you? do. How are you going to have anything other than a step for God? You're not. So the second thing you've got to do, after you've been made to seek, because something has come into your life to disrupt your life. The second thing you've got to do is you've got to start dropping your conditions. You've got to say, I've got to come to him on my terms. I realize if I find this God, this will be a God who will bring me up into his agenda, not a God who I will bring into mine. A God who will bring me up into what he is doing in the world. Not a God who will simply give me all this just to make me happy. But here's the irony. There is nothing that will make you feel more significant than to have a cause more important than your own little needs. If the most important thing in your life is your needs and your interests, there's nothing more significant than you. There's nothing you would die for. There's nothing that makes you wrestle. There's nothing that makes you change your mind. There's nothing that makes you mad. You see, above you that you're committed to anyway.

If the highest thing in your life is to be comfortable, is to be happy, is to be nice-looking, is to have people like you, is to have money. If that's the thing you're living for, ironically, you're going to feel more and more insignificant. See, if you are... If you're living for nothing more than your own significance, you will feel more and more insignificant. significant. And if you're living for his importance, if he's more important than you, that's what makes you feel like I've been caught up into something grand and big. See, when you stop trying to meet your own needs with God and just simply try to meet the real God, there'll be nothing that'll meet your needs like that. Now, there's a third thing. What if you've gotten past the first two? What if, first of all, there's a disrupting event come into your life, number one. Then secondly, you haven't gone out there to find a God that you design. You started

really can contradict you. But now here's what's going to happen. If you stop here, I know what you're going to do. You're going to say, okay, surrender. I've got to surrender to him. Okay, I'm going to come to church. I'm going to read my Bible. I'm going to clean up my life. I'm going to surrender. I'm going to do all these great things. It won't be long before you'll be in despair. You'll never keep that up. That's not how you have a personal. How do you meet the risen Christ? He walks in, and what does he show you? What does he show them? them. It says in verse 19, he comes, he stood among them, he said, peace be with you. And after he said this, verse 20, what does it say? He said, let's talk about the Sermon on the Mount. Let's have a quiz. Do you remember the Sermon on the Mount? How many Beatitudes are there? What's the fourth Beatitude and what does it mean? Does he get out his teaching? Does he say, now, listen, I really want you to really know the rules. No, what does he do?

you. Look at my hands. Look at my side. Ultimately, ultimately, you actually encounter him when he stops being an example and stops being a teacher and becomes a savior. Oh, oh, oh. See, I've been saying this all along. Your little mind may have said, oh, I believe he's a savior. But actually, what most of us have is we're trying to do our best to live a good life and to follow his teaching. and Jesus Christ is our helper and he's our example and he's all kinds of things, but he's not our savior because essentially most of us have never really looked at his hands inside until they've melted us. You see, take this question.

Lord, did you need to do that for me? And just meditate on it. Just underline one word and then underline the next word. Lord, did you need to do that for me? That's very humbling, but Lord, did you need to do that for me? You did this for me? That's incredibly affirming. And see, ultimately, what changes your life is an experience of His grace, is a recognition of what He had to do for you and what He was willing to do for you. There's nothing that makes you feel the value that He put on you than to see His hands on His side. It's really only until you say, you see, the first step is a disrupting event. The second step is, you know, you drop your conditions. And you say, whatever you want, whatever you are, I will respond to that. I will submit to that. In a sense, you put yourself aside. And only when you put yourself aside will he come in and say, let me tell you that I was willing to lose the universe rather than lose you. I was willing to be cut off from my Father. I was willing to, existentially, we talked about this last week, go to hell for you. And look at this. Now, here's what's so great. This is unconditional love. In other words, there was nothing in you that was attractive to me. There was nothing in you that profited me. There was nothing in you that merited me, but I loved you anyway. way. And what that does is that is the only way in which you can be affirmed and at the same time humbled so that you respond in unconditional obedience to him. Now, I want you to know that even though that is the way to meet him the first time, a disrupting event that you see and accept is a disrupting event. And then secondly, dropping your conditions, an openness to his unmanageability. And then thirdly, meditating on a recognition of being melted by the sight of what he did for you. Resting everything on that. Now, not only is that the way you first become a Christian and receive the Holy Spirit and actually move from general belief into personal encounter, but frankly, my dear friends, in my own life, every time I've ever broken through into a deeper level of experience of God, those same three things have been there.

now some of you are worried I just took 25 minutes on the first heading but the second heading is really just a test a kind of confirmation remember I said the first thing the resurrection does is it gives us an understanding that Christianity is a living relationship with a living reality a real savior I said the second thing that happens is it changes the whole direction of your life Now, I'm not taking another 25 minutes. In fact, I'm just taking a couple of minutes. But the other thing we see in this passage is this. How do you know you're not just religious, but you're really a Christian? How do you know that you aren't just... You don't know Jesus as a teacher, as an example, but as a savior? How do you know whether you're just a moralistic, nice person? Or whether you've actually had an experience of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit and understanding of the gospel of grace? How do you know? The answer is, look, the minute, within minutes of every personal encounter, the direction of the soul is changed outward. The first moment Abraham hears a voice from heaven, God speaking to Abram, this is in Genesis 12, the first time Abram hears God saying, saying, Abram, my gosh, there's a God. He says, what? I'm going to bless you. I'm going to make you to be a blessing. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. I've got big plans for you. All that affirmation, what an experience. And then he says, get out. Get out of your land, get out of your familiar territory, get away from your people, go somewhere where I'll show you. Get out. Immediately, within seconds of the experience of God, sent out. Moses meets God in the burning bush. Within seconds, he's told, go to Pharaoh. Go to the most powerful ruler in the world and demand that he give up his entire slave labor force, which is the basis of his entire economy, without remuneration. Go. Isaiah meets God, and within seconds of his being cleansed by the power of God's altar and the sacrifice there, and God says, I've got, who will go for me? Who will go and preach to people who will never listen? And Isaiah said, here am I. Mary, don't hold on to me any longer. We've got things to do. Go instead. The disciples, filled with joy, and Jesus said, I'm sending you. What does this mean? It doesn't just mean that Jesus, it doesn't mean this. It doesn't mean first you experience God and then you've got to go out and talk to people about Jesus and live lives of sacrifice and help everybody. Oh no. Here's what it means. Here's how you know your heart's been changed. The way the heart operates is centripetal apart from Christ. Centripetal means it's sucking in, it's bringing in. There's a hole in the center. We don't know of our own significance trying desperately to use everybody else. We use other people to feel significant. We use other people to try to get their approval. Try to get power over them. We're sucking in. Everything revolves on us. My needs.

What's familiar to me. What will enhance my image. What will enhance my reputation. What will make me feel good about myself. We do a little arithmetic all the time. Every transaction we say. Is this going to help me? Is this going to profit me? Are these the kind of people I want to be around? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my portfolio? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my emotional capital? Everything is centripetal. We're always thinking inward. We're looking inward. In fact, Martin Luther defines sin as homo incurvitus in se, which means humanity curved in, focused inward on itself. But the minute you actually experience the grace of God, the minute that ego is first of all humbled, there's a one-two punch. is humbled. You see yourself as proud and self-centered. And then it's utterly fulfilled because we see the one person in the whole world, in the whole universe, whose opinion counts. And he died for you. He was scarred for you. He was wounded for you. What that does is it fills your center and it completely changes the whole direction of your life so that the you might say that the direction of the wind of your soul is now outward. Jesus blows on you And it just seems like a little breath here. But when Jesus' Holy Spirit really gets there, when the breath of Jesus Christ really doesn't get there in symbol, but comes in reality, it's in Acts 2. And what do we read? And the place where the disciples, the room where the disciples, the house where the disciples were seated, was filled with the sound of a rushing mighty wind. A violent gale. The Holy Spirit is a hurricane. And what does it do to them? Immediately, the minute the Holy Spirit comes down on them, is they begin to speak. that all the nationalities can understand. It is automatic. The way you know you've moved from religion into an experience of the gospel of grace is that you're interested in other people, you do not feel superior to other races, you don't feel superior to other cultures. You're not always thinking, how is this going to make me look good? Are you the kind of person that will make me feel better? Oh no, oh no. You look at the world and you say, I'm full, I'm rich. I don't need your approval. I don't need power over you. I don't need to feel superior to you. And you suddenly find yourself almost intensely interested in people in a way you never could be before because you're always intensely interested in yourself. Everything changes by the gospel of grace. And you are sent into the world to do what? Yes, to declare how you can have your sins forgiven. And what Jesus is saying in verse 23 is, declare that sins will be forgiven through me. I will forgive them. In other words, he's saying, as you proclaim that you're forgiven if you believe in Christ, you're not forgiven if you reject Christ, I will ratify that. I will make it so. It will be so. There's an object of reality behind that message. Yes, we're supposed to go out that way. But also, look, you're not just told to go out and share your faith verbally. You're told here, what? As the Father sent me. In other words, you're supposed to be like Jesus. You're supposed to be a man or woman. who says, like Jesus, whose whole life said, I came not to be served, but to serve.

Now, what does this mean? It means that every single person who experiences the grace of God becomes a person in mission. You have a whole new purpose. God has not come into your agenda. You've been lifted up into his agenda. It's a whole new agenda. And the agenda is, Jesus Christ came back the first time to break the power of death and the right of death, and he's going to come back a second time to destroy even the existence of death. He's wiping out suffering. He's wiping out oppression and injustice. He's going to wipe out disease and death. He wants to recreate the world and you, if you're a Christian, become part of it. You stop looking at how I can help my own portfolio and you start to become a man or woman for others just like Jesus Christ. Now what does that mean? Here's what it means. It means this. every great story, every great epic, every great legend I've ever read, everything, and even the modern stories, the great, even the fun movies today are always about this. You're an ordinary person. You're walking along. You're not all that special. You don't have, you know, you're having a kind of ordinary, maybe slightly boring life. And suddenly, someone shows up and says, you have got to save the world. And you're lifted up into some adventure, some epic, some quest. You know, aren't they all great? The best kids' books are like that. You know, like, for example, Buffy.

Just a sweet, little, beautiful, sort of preppy princess. She looks like the kind of person that would say, oh, I broke a nail. And suddenly someone appears and says, Buffy, you are the one person in this entire generation with the gift and the ability to fight the vampires. vampire slayer. And there is a demonic forces out there that other people cannot see. And they're here to take over. They're trying to overrun us, but you and you alone can stop them. You are the one. And so she still walks around looking just like Buffy, princess, right? Preppy princess, you know, you know, just always shaking her blonde mane and all that sort of stuff. But who is she really? Who is she really? She's the vampire slayer. What is that? Alex, remember Alex? Alex is a kid, and he's got a dead-end job, a dead-end life. He's a fix-it man at a trailer park, and suddenly down comes Robert Preston and grabs him and says, you are the last starfighter. You are the gift. You are the only one that can save the world against the terror of the Cordon Armada. And he is. Now, listen. Do you believe that Christianity is true? Do you believe that Jesus Christ was the preexistent son of God who broke into the world and he really is on a mission to destroy the demonic forces that are here, the evil forces that are here, to break oppression, to set the captive free, to give sight to the blind, to heal the lepers? Do you believe that? Then if you are taken up in his agenda, you are literally, and only we believe this. If you're a Christian, you are the vampire slayer. You are the last starfighter. You literally are. Really. It's not like we're like it. We are it. It's not like, well, yeah, being a Christian is a little bit like that. We are absolutely like that. Do you believe that? Only Christians who believe that can, with integrity, be radical. With utter integrity, be radical. Do you realize that a million years from now, everybody will know your name? Because you slew dragons. You fought vampires. You were the last starfighter. You really are.

Come in, and he'll send you out. God never, he's a spiritual tornado. He never sucks you in to bless you without sending you out. Don't hold on to me. Go instead. And you see, to the degree that you have had a real encounter with him, to that degree, you understand this. Now, we don't live like we ought to, but we really are. we are the star fighters. We don't look like much on the outside. But a million years, a billion years from now, we will be known. Our names will never die. On the other hand, I need to say this. If you're a graduate of all the best schools and you've got all the best degrees and you're on your way to be partner and if there is no Jesus, if there is no kingdom of God, if when you die you rot, if when the sun dies everything's over, nothing you do makes any and no matter how extraordinary you feel, you're eventually going to just sink into an ooze of ordinariness. And if Jesus is your Savior, and the kingdom of God is really coming, then no matter how ordinary you are, you're going to be lifted up to the pinnacle of extraordinariness. I am sending you. Receive the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would help us to see what difference the resurrection and ascension makes. It means that we can know you personally, It means through a living encounter, we can become part of the movement of your kingdom. The kingdom, the king has landed. The kingdom is coming. And we are part of your army. Ah, oh, Lord. But it's not an army that hurts people. It's not an army that coerces people. It's not an army that makes people feel terrible or brands them and condemns them. it's an army of people who follow in the footsteps of the one who said, I came not to be served, but to serve. I came to put myself under the needs of others. And we pray, Lord, that you'd make us, really make us, people who are in that agenda, part of your kingdom agenda. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Just underline one word, and then underline the next word. Lord, did you need to do that for me? That's very humbling, but. Lord, did you need to do that for me? You did this for me? That's incredibly affirming. And see, ultimately, what changes your life is an experience of his grace, is a recognition of what he had to do for you and what he was willing to do for you. There's nothing that makes you feel the value that he put on you than to see his hands on his side. It's really only until you say, you see, the first step is a disrupting event. you know, you drop your conditions. And you say, whatever you want, whatever you are, I will respond to that. I will submit to that. In a sense, you put yourself aside. And only when you put yourself aside will he come in and say, let me tell you that I was willing to lose the universe rather than lose you. I was willing to be cut off from my father. I was willing to existentially, we talked about this last week, go to hell for you. And look at this. Now, here's what's so great. This is unconditional love. In other words, there was nothing in you that was attractive to me. There was nothing in you that profited me. There was nothing in you that merited me. But I loved you anyway. And what that does is that is the only way in which you can be affirmed and at the same time humbled so that you respond in unconditional obedience to him. Now, I want you to know that even though that is the way to meet him the first time, you see and accept as a disrupting event. And then secondly, dropping your conditions, an openness to his unmanageability, and then thirdly, meditating on a recognition of, of being melted by the sight of what he did for you, resting everything on that. Now, not only is that the way you first become a Christian and receive the Holy Spirit, and actually move from general belief into personal encounter, but frankly, my dear friends, in my own life, Every time I've ever broken through into a deeper level of experience of God, those same three things have been there.

Now, some of you are worried. I just took 25 minutes on the first heading. But the second heading is really just a test, a kind of confirmation. Remember I said, the first thing the resurrection does is it gives us an understanding that Christianity is a living relationship with a living reality. a real savior. I said, the second thing that happens is it changes the whole direction of your life. Now, I'm not taking another 25 minutes. In fact, I'm just taking a couple minutes. But the other thing we see in this passage is this. How do you know you're not just religious, but you're really a Christian? How do you know that you aren't just, you don't just know Jesus as a teacher, as an example, but as a savior? How do you know whether you're just a moralistic, nice person, or whether you've actually had an experience of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit and understanding of the gospel of grace. How do you know? The answer is, look, the minute, within minutes of every personal encounter, the direction of the soul is changed outward. The first moment Abraham hears a voice from heaven, God speaking to Abraham, this is in The first time Abram hears God saying, Abram, my gosh, there's a God, he says,

what? I'm going to bless you. I'm going to make you to be a blessing. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. I've got big plans for you. All that affirmation. What an experience. And then he says, get out. Get out of your land. Get out of your familiar territory. Get away from your people. Go somewhere where I'll show you. Get out. Immediately, within seconds of the experience of God, sent out. Moses meets God in the burning bush. Within seconds, he's told, go to Pharaoh. Go to the most powerful ruler in the world and demand that he give up his entire slave labor force, which is the basis of his entire economy, without remuneration. Go. Isaiah meets God, and within seconds of his being cleansed by the power of God's altar and the sacrifice there, and God says, I've got, who will go for me? Who will go and preach to people who will never listen? And Isaiah said, here am I. Mary, don't hold on to me any longer. We've got things to do. Go instead. The disciples, filled with joy, and Jesus said, I'm sending you. What does this mean? It doesn't just mean that Jesus, it doesn't mean this. It doesn't mean first you experience God and then you've got to go out and talk to people about Jesus and live lives of sacrifice and help everybody. Oh no. Here's what it means. Here's how you know your heart's been changed. The way the heart operates is centripetal apart from Christ. Centripetal means it's sucking in, it's bringing in. There's a hole in the center. We don't know of our own significance trying desperately to use everybody else. We use other people to feel significant. We use other people to try to get their approval. Try to get power over them. We're sucking in. Everything revolves on us. My needs.

What's familiar to me. What will enhance my image. What will enhance my reputation. What will make me feel good about myself. We do a little arithmetic all the time. Every transaction we say. Is this going to help me? Is this going to profit me? Are these the kind of people I want to be around? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my portfolio? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my emotional capital? Everything is centripetal. We're always thinking inward. We're looking inward. In fact, Martin Luther defines sin as homo incurvitus in se, which means humanity curved in, focused inward on itself. But the minute you actually experience the grace of God, the minute that ego is first of all humbled, there's a one-two punch. is humbled. You see yourself as proud and self-centered. And then it's utterly fulfilled because we see the one person in the whole world, in the whole universe, whose opinion counts. And he died for you. He was scarred for you. He was wounded for you. What that does is it fills your center and it completely changes the whole direction of your life so that the you might say that the direction of the wind of your soul is now outward. Jesus blows on you And it just seems like a little breath here. But when Jesus' Holy Spirit really gets there, when the breath of Jesus Christ really doesn't get there in symbol, but comes in reality, it's in Acts 2. And what do we read? And the place where the disciples, the room where the disciples, the house where the disciples were seated, was filled with the sound of a rushing mighty wind. A violent gale. The Holy Spirit is a hurricane. And what does it do to them? Immediately, the minute the Holy Spirit comes down on them, is they begin to speak. that all the nationalities can understand. It is automatic. The way you know you've moved from religion into an experience of the gospel of grace is that you're interested in other people. You do not feel superior to other races. You don't feel superior to other cultures. You're not always thinking, how is this going to make me look good? Are you the kind of person that will make me feel better? Oh, no, oh, no. You look at the world and you say, I'm full, I'm rich. I don't need your approval. I don't need power over you. I don't need to feel superior to you. And you suddenly find yourself almost intensely interested in people in a way you never could be before because you're always intensely interested in yourself. Everything changes by the gospel of grace. And you are sent into the world to do what? Yes, to declare how you can have your sins forgiven. And what Jesus is saying in verse 23 is, declare that sins will be forgiven through me. I will forgive them. In other words, he's saying, as you proclaim that you're forgiven if you believe in Christ, you're not forgiven if you reject Christ, I will ratify that. I will make it so. It will be so. There's an object of reality behind that message. Yes, we're supposed to go out that way. But also, look, you're not just told to go out and share your faith verbally. You're told here, what? As the Father sent me. In other words, you're supposed to be like Jesus. You're supposed to be a man or woman who says, like Jesus, whose whole life said, I came not to be served, but to serve. Now, what does this mean? It means that every single person who experiences the grace of God becomes a person in mission. You have a whole new purpose. God has not come into your agenda. You've been lifted up into his agenda. It's a whole new agenda. The agenda is Jesus Christ came back the first time to break the power of death and the right of death and he's going to come back a second time to destroy even the existence of death. He's wiping out suffering. He's wiping out oppression and injustice. He's going to wipe out disease and death. He wants to recreate the world and you, if you're a Christian, become part of it. You stop looking at how I can help my own portfolio and you start to become a man or woman for others just like Jesus Christ. Now, what does that mean? what it means. It means this. Every great story, every great epic, every great legend I've ever read, everything, and even the modern stories, the great, even the fun movies today are always about this. You're an ordinary person. You're walking along. You're not all that special. You don't have, you know, you're having a kind of ordinary, maybe slightly boring life. And suddenly someone shows up and says, you have got to save the world. And you're lifted up into some adventure, some epic, some quest. You know, aren't they all great? The best kids books are like that. You know, like for example, Buffy. Just a sweet little beautiful sort of preppy princess. She looks like the kind of person that would say, oh, I broke a nail. And suddenly someone appears and says, Buffy, you are the one person in this entire generation with the gift and the ability to fight the vampires. You are the vampire slayer. And there is a demonic forces out there that other people cannot see. And they're here to take over. They're trying to overrun us, but you and you alone can stop them. You are the one. And so she still walks around looking just like Buffy, princess, right? Preppy princess, you know, you know, just always shaking her blonde mane and all that sort of stuff. But who is she really? Who is she really? She's the vampire slayer. What is that? Alex, remember Alex? Alex Rogan? Alex is a kid and he's got a dead-end job, a dead-end life. He's a fix-it man at a, you know, a trailer park. And suddenly, down comes Robert Preston and grabs him and says, you are the last starfighter. You are the gift. You are the only one that can save the world against the terror of the Cordon Armada. And he is. Now, listen. Do you believe that Christianity is true? Do you believe that Jesus Christ was the preexistent Son of God who broke into the world, and he really is on a mission to destroy the demonic forces that are here, the evil forces that are here, to break oppression, to set the captive free, to give sight to the blind, to heal the lepers. Do you believe that? Then if you are taken up into his agenda, you are literally, and only we believe this. If you're a Christian, you are the vampire slayer. You are the last starfighter. You literally are. Really. It's not like we're like it. We are it. It's not like, well, yeah, being a Christian is a little bit like that. We are absolutely like that. Do you believe that? that? Only Christians who believe that can, with integrity, be radical. With utter integrity, be radical. Do you realize that a million years from now, everybody will know your name? Because you slew dragons. You fought vampires. You were the last starfighter. You really are. are. Come in and he'll send you out. God never, he's a spiritual tornado. He never sucks you in to bless you without sending you out. Don't hold on to me. Go instead. And you see to the degree that you have had a real encounter with him, to that degree, you will understand this. Now we, we don't live like we ought to, but we really are. We are the vampire slayers. We are the star our fighters. We don't look like much on the outside. But a million years, a billion years from now, we will be known. Our names will never die. On the other hand, I need to say this. If you're a graduate of all the best schools, and you've got all the best degrees, and you're on your way to be partner, and if there is no Jesus, if there is no kingdom of God, if when you die, you rot, if when the sun dies, everything's over, nothing you do makes any difference. how extraordinary you feel, you're eventually going to just sink into an ooze of ordinariness. And if Jesus is your Savior, and the kingdom of God is really coming, then no matter how ordinary you are, you're going to be lifted up to the pinnacle of extraordinariness. I am sending you. Receive the Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would help us to see what difference the resurrection and ascension makes. It means that we can know you personally. encounter. We can become part of the movement of your kingdom. The kingdom, the king has landed. The kingdom is coming. And we are part of your army. Yeah. Oh, Lord. But the, the, it's not, not an army that hurts people. It's not an army that coerces people. It's not an army that, that makes people feel terrible or brands them and condemns them. It's an army of people who follow in the footsteps of the one who said, I came not to be served, but to serve. I came to put myself under the needs of others. And we pray, Lord, that you'd make us, really make us people who are in that agenda, part of your kingdom agenda. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Just underline one word, and then underline the next word. Lord, did you need to do that for me? That's very humbling, but. But, Lord, did you need to do that for me? You did this for me? That's incredibly affirming. And see, ultimately, what changes your life is an experience of his grace, is a recognition of what he had to do for you and what he was willing to do for you. There's nothing that makes you feel the value that he put on you than to see his hands on his side. It's really only until you say, you see, the first step is a disrupting event. is, you know, you drop your conditions and you say, whatever you want, whatever you are, I will respond to that. I will submit to that. In a sense, you put yourself aside. And only when you put yourself aside will he come in and say, let me tell you that I was willing to lose the universe rather than lose you. I was willing to be cut off from my father. I was willing to existentially, we talked about this last week, go to hell for you. And look at this. Now, here's what's so great. This is unconditional love. In other words, there was nothing in you that was attractive to me. There was nothing in you that profited me. There was nothing in you that merited me. But I loved you anyway. And what that does is that is the only way in which you can be affirmed and at the same time humbled so that you respond in unconditional conditional obedience to him. Now, I want you to know that even though that is the way to meet him the first time, a disrupting event that you see and accept is a disrupting event. And then secondly, dropping your conditions, an openness to his unmanageability, and then thirdly, meditating on a recognition of, of being melted by the sight of what he did for you, resting everything on that. Now, not only is that the way you first become a Christian and receive the Holy Spirit, and actually move from general belief into personal encounter. But frankly, my dear friends, in my own life, every time I've ever broken through into a deeper level of experience of God, those same three things have been there.

Now, some of you are worried. I just took 25 minutes on the first heading. But the second heading is really just a test, a kind of confirmation. Remember I said, the first thing the resurrection does, is it gives us an understanding that Christianity is a living relationship with a living reality, a real savior. I said the second thing that happens is it changes the whole direction of your life. Now, I'm not taking another 25 minutes. In fact, I'm just taking a couple minutes. But the other thing we see in this passage is this. How do you know you're not just religious, but you're really a Christian? How do you know that you aren't just, as a teacher, as an example, but as a savior. How do you know whether you're just a moralistic, nice person or whether you've actually had an experience of Jesus Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit and understanding of the gospel of grace? How do you know? The answer is, look. The minute, within minutes, of every personal encounter, the direction of the soul is changed outward. word. The first moment Abraham hears a voice from heaven, God speaking to Abram. This is in Genesis 12. The first time Abram hears God saying, Abram, my gosh, there's a God. He says, what? I'm going to bless you. I'm going to make you to be a blessing. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. I've got big plans for you. All that affirmation. What an experience. And then he says, get out. Get out of your land. Get out of your familiar territory. somewhere where I'll show you. Get out. Immediately, within seconds of the experience of God, he's sent out. Moses meets God in the burning bush. Within seconds, he's told, go to Pharaoh. Go to the most powerful ruler in the world and demand that he give up his entire slave labor force, which is the basis of his entire economy, without remuneration. Go. Isaiah meets God, and within seconds of his being cleansed by the power of God's altar and the sacrifice there, and God says, I've got, who will go for me? Who will go and preach to people who will never listen? And Isaiah said, here am I. Mary, don't hold on to me any longer. We've got things to do. Go instead. The disciples, filled with joy, and Jesus said, I'm sending you. What does this mean? It doesn't just mean that Jesus, it doesn't mean this. It doesn't mean first you experience God and then you've got to go out and talk to people about Jesus and live lives of sacrifice and help everybody. Oh no. Here's what it means. Here's how you know your heart's been changed. The way the heart operates is centripetal apart from Christ. Centripetal means it's sucking in, it's bringing in. There's a hole in the center. We don't know of our own significance We're trying desperately to use everybody else. We use other people to feel significant. We use other people, try to get their approval, try to get power. We're sucking in. Everything revolves on us. My needs, you see, what's familiar to me, what will enhance my image, what will enhance my reputation, what will make me feel good about myself. We do a little arithmetic all the time. Every transaction we say, is this going to help me? Is this going to profit me? Are these the kind of people I want to be around? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my portfolio? Is this the sort of thing that will enhance my emotional capital? Everything is centripetal. We're always thinking inward. We're looking inward. In fact, Martin Luther defines sin as homo incurvitus in se, which means humanity curved in, focused inward on itself. But the minute you actually experience the grace of God, the minute that ego is first of all humbled, there's a one-two punch. is humbled. You see yourself as proud and self-centered. And then it's utterly fulfilled because we see the one person in the whole world, in the whole universe, whose opinion counts. And he died for you. He was scarred for you. He was wounded for you. What that does is it fills your center and it completely changes the whole direction of your life so that the you might say that the direction of the wind of your soul is now outward. Jesus blows on you And it just seems like a little breath here, but when Jesus' Holy Spirit really gets there, when the breath of Jesus Christ really doesn't get there in symbol, but comes in reality, it's in Acts 2. And what do we read? And the place where the disciples, the room where the disciples, the house where the disciples were seated, was filled with the sound of a rushing mighty wind, a violent gale. The Holy Spirit is a hurricane, and what does it do to them? Immediately, the minute the Holy Spirit comes down on them is they begin to speak, but they speak in ways that all the nationalities can understand. It is automatic. The way you know you've moved from religion into an experience of the gospel of grace is that you're interested in other people. You do not feel superior to other races. You don't feel superior to other cultures. You're not always thinking, how is this going to make me look good? Are you the kind of person that will make me feel better. Oh no, oh no. You look at the world and you say, I'm full, I'm rich. I don't need your approval. I don't need power over you. I don't need to feel superior to you. And you suddenly find yourself almost intensely interested in people in a way you never could be before because you're always intensely interested in yourself. Everything changes by the gospel of grace. And you are sent into the world to do what? yes, to declare how you can have your sins forgiven. And what Jesus is saying in verse 23 is, if you declare that sins will be forgiven through me, I will forgive them. In other words, he's saying, as you proclaim that you're forgiven if you believe in Christ, you're not forgiven if you reject Christ, I will ratify that. I will make it so. It will be so. There's an object of reality behind that message. Yes, we're supposed to go out that way, but also, look, you're not just told to go out and share your faith verbally. You're told here, what? the Father sent me. In other words, you're supposed to be like Jesus. You're supposed to be a man or woman who says, like Jesus, whose whole life said, I came not to be served, but to serve.

Now, what does this mean? It means that every single person who experiences the grace of God becomes a person in mission. You have a whole new purpose. God has not come into your agenda. You've been lifted up into his agenda. It's a whole new agenda. And the agenda is, the first time to break the power of death and the right of death, and he's going to come back a second time to destroy even the existence of death. He's wiping out suffering. He's wiping out oppression and injustice. He's going to wipe out disease and death. He wants to recreate the world and you, if you're a Christian, become part of it. You stop looking at how I can, you know, help my own portfolio and you start to become a man or woman for others, just like Jesus Christ. Now what does that mean? Here's what it means. It means this. Every great story, every great epic, every great legend I've ever read, everything, and even the modern stories, the great, even the fun movies today are always about this. You're an ordinary person. You're walking along. You're not all that special. You don't have, you know, you're having a kind of ordinary, maybe slightly boring life. And suddenly someone shows up and says, you have got to save the world. and you're lifted up into some adventure, some epic, some quest. You know, aren't they all great? The best kids' books are like that. You know, like, for example, Buffy.

Just a sweet, little, beautiful, sort of preppy princess. She looks like the kind of person that would say, oh, I broke a nail. And suddenly someone appears and says, Buffy, you are the one person in this entire generation with the gift and the ability to fight the vampires. You are the vampire slayer. And there is a demonic forces out there that other people cannot see. And they're here to take over. They're trying to overrun us. But you and you alone can stop them. You are the one. And so she still walks around looking just like Buffy. Princess. Right? Preppy princess. You know? Just always shaking her blonde mane and all that sort of stuff. But who is she really? Who is she really? She's the vampire slayer. What is that? Alex, remember Alex? Alex Rogan? Alex is a kid and he's got a dead-end job, a dead-end life. He's a fix-it man at a trailer park and suddenly down comes Robert Preston and grabs him and says, you are the last starfighter. You are the gift. You are the only one that can save the world against the terror of the Cordon Armada. And he is. Now, listen. Do you believe that Christianity is true? Do you believe that Jesus Christ was the preexistent son of God who broke into the world, and he really is on a mission to destroy the demonic forces that are here, the evil forces that are here, to break oppression, to set the captive free, to give sight to the blind, to heal the lepers? Do you believe that? then if you are taken up into his agenda, you are literally, and only we believe this. If you're a Christian, you are the vampire slayer. You are the last starfighter. You literally are. Really. It's not like we're like it. We are it. It's not like, well, yeah, being a Christian is a little bit like that. We are absolutely like that. Do you believe that? Only Christians who believe that can with integrity be radical. integrity be radical. Do you realize that a million years from now, everybody will know your name. Because you slew dragons. You fought vampires. You were the last star fighters. You really are.

Come in, and he'll send you out. God never, he's a spiritual tornado. He never sucks you in to bless you without sending you out. Don't hold on to me. Go instead. dead. And you see, to the degree that you have had a real encounter with him, to that degree, you will understand this. Now, we don't live like we ought to, but we really are. We are the vampire slayers. We are the starfighters. We don't look like much on the outside. But a million years, a billion years from now, we will be known. Our names will never die. On the other hand, I need to say this. If you're a graduate of all the best schools, and you've got all the best and you're on your way to be partner. And if there is no Jesus, if there is no kingdom of God, if when you die you rot, if when the sun dies everything's over, nothing you do makes any difference. And no matter how extraordinary you feel, you're eventually going to just sink into an ooze of ordinariness. And if Jesus is your savior and the kingdom of God is really coming, then no matter how ordinary you are, you're going to be lifted up to the pinnacle of extraordinariness. I am sending you receive the Holy Spirit let's pray Father we ask that you would help us to see what difference the resurrection and ascension makes it means that we can know you personally it means through a living encounter we can become part of the movement of your kingdom the kingdom the king has landed the kingdom is coming and we are part of your army yeah oh lord an army that hurts people. It's not an army that coerces people. It's not an army that makes people feel terrible or brands them and condemns them. It's an army of people who follow in the footsteps of the one who said, I came not to be served, but to serve. I came to put myself under the needs of others. And we pray, Lord, that you'd really make us people who are in that agenda, part of your kingdom agenda. And we pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.
