sent to find out about your faith. I was afraid that in some way the tempter might have tempted you and our efforts might have been useless, but Timothy has just now come to us from you and has brought good news about your faith and love. He has told us that you always have pleasant memories of us and that you long to see us just as we also long to see you. Therefore, brothers, in all our distress and persecution, we were encouraged about you because of your faith. For now we really live since you are standing firm in the Lord. How can we thank God enough for you in return for all the joy we have in the presence of our God because of you? Night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you again and supply what is lacking in your faith. Now may our God and Father himself and our Lord Jesus clear the way for us to come to you. May the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else just as ours does for you. May he strengthen your heart so that you will be blameless and holy in the presence of our God and Father when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones. This is God's word. Now, this week, Time Magazine had an article on the 25 most influential people in America, and inside the article, they made a distinction between influential people and powerful people. It said these are not necessarily the most powerful people, but they're the most influential. Now, I think that's a very helpful distinction. And let me put it in my own words. Let me try to paraphrase what that distinction is. Power changes people from the outside in. Influence changes people from the inside out. Power, when you have power, that means you've got money or you've got government behind you. In power, you bring coercive force are forced to bear on the outside of the person, on their behavior. And so they change because they have to. But in influence, you target the insides, you target the heart, the mind, you change their views. And therefore the people change because they want to, not because they have to. And therefore, we can actually say that power changes from the outside in, influence from the inside out, but actually, only changing people from the inside out really changing people right? One of the most well known facts about why communism failed in the Soviet Union was because though on the outside people mouthed the various sorts of platitudes about communism on the inside they were deeply cynical they didn't believe it. They didn't believe a word of it. They had been changed from the outside in therefore they had really been changed. If you are going to be changed you have to be changed from the inside out. Now, by almost any yardstick, St. Paul, Paul the Apostle, was one of the most influential people in the history of the world, certainly more than the top 25, certainly top 10, maybe top five, who knows. But the point was, he had no power at all. He had no money. He had no military or government or civil or royal clout. Yet he changed people. And here's something else you have to keep in mind. He went into every little town, I mean, every, actually, every town, every city of the metropolitan areas of the Mediterranean, and he went in and he always came in with a message he called the gospel. And this gospel had absolutely no affinity with any particular group or race or culture that he was addressing. He himself said the gospel is an offense to the Jews and it's a laughingstock, it's ludicrous to the Greeks. And what's the gospel? Well the gospel was that a Jewish carpenter was actually the Creator God come to earth and that He died on the cross and rose from the dead for our sins and the only way anyone can be saved is by believing in that historical event of His death and resurrection. Now, the Jews were offended by the idea that any human being could be the divine creator. Now, that offended the Jews. It didn't offend the Greeks. The Greeks had lots of stories about God's becoming human, but the Greeks found it absolutely ludicrous. In fact, they also found it offensive to be told you have to believe in a historical event in order to be saved. The Greeks understood that if there was salvation, it would be an ethic, It would be a philosophy that cultivated the higher sensibilities while subjugating the animal side of human beings. And so their understanding was that if there was a salvation, it would be a philosophy or an ethic. But here comes Paul, and he preaches the gospel, and he says, All of you, even the most cultured, are sinners, and there is no hope for you unless you believe in the death and resurrection of this man, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. So everybody hated it. Everybody hated it. I continually run into people who say, well, you know, Christianity nowadays, we can't believe in the death and resurrection of the literal death and resurrection of Christ. In other words, people say, we can no longer believe it. In other words, the implication is we've outgrown it. Back then, ancient people, they didn't have problems. We have problems. Hey, they had problems. They had enormous problems. The entire setting of the passage I just read you is what? Paul had gone to Thessalonica and he began to preach the gospel and people got converted and the whole town was in such an incredible uproar that Paul had to leave for his life. Every time he tried to come back, he was too dangerous. He was run out of town on a rail. He had to leave under cover of night to save his life and he was continually, in almost in all these towns he'd go, he was always having life. Why? Because ancient people, they could handle this, but we can't anymore. It has always been utterly unpalatable. So Paul goes in to every single town, no power, and with a completely unpalatable message, no matter who you are, whether you're Jew, whether you're sophisticated Greek, whether you're highly religious, whether you're secular, everybody hated the gospel. And yet, the gospel wins. Paul goes into every town, and people's lives are changed. People are changed. So many hundreds of people, so many thousands of people, in so many tens and hundreds of cities that eventually it takes over. How could that be? And the answer is because Paul knew something about changing people. He knew what the basic, and I'm being, you know, of course, you're going to say, here, Paul would say, well, God changed people. Okay, but why was Paul a channel for that? What did Paul do? Paul had in his ministry conditions under which people are changed from the inside out. Now, we all want to know those conditions. We all want that. Every one of us, we've got parents or children, or we've got siblings, or we've got friends, we've got relatives, we've got just people around us who we know need to be changed. miserable, they're in trouble, and we want to change them, and most of us have tried to change from the outside in. We've used power. We've manipulated. We've done all sorts of things to try to wake them, you know, to bring them around and to do the right thing, but we can't do it. So anybody who's got any kind of concern for people, you're going to say, how do I change people from the inside out? Paul knew how to do it, and here's three things he did. You can see them in this very, very, very interesting passage but especially as you read through the whole book of 1 Thessalonians. First of all, the first thing he did was he gave his heart away and he let them know it. The second thing, I won't tell you the third yet, the first thing is he gave his heart away and he let them know it and secondly he kept his head and he let them know it. He gave away his heart to them but he kept his head and he let them know it. Let me show you these two things. First of all, first of all, when I say he gave his heart away, to give your heart away, I'm just using this term kind of in a general way. I mean that you invest so personally in a person that your joy is an irretrievably bound up with that person. I'll say it again. I thought about this sentence, so I want to get good use out of it. To give your heart away is to love someone, to personally invest in them so that your joy is unretrievably bound up with them. You've given so much of yourself to someone, you've personally invested so much, that if they're indifferent or if they're unhappy, if they're miserable, if they're in trouble, you can't be completely happy. There's a cloud over your heart. If you put your money into somebody's startup business and the business goes belly up, you lose your money. Now, in the same way in relationships, and I don't know how to be more specific than this, but I think you know as I describe it, you can be involved with somebody, but you can spend a lot of time with them. You can talk with them, you can instruct them, you can listen to them, and you can keep a coat of Teflon between your heart and theirs. A coat of Teflon. In other words, there are people that you can be very involved with, and yet when you see them in trouble, it doesn't cost you. It just doesn't cost you. Your joy is not bound up with them. You haven't really made the investment. And they know it, and you know it. Paul, however, makes, in his language here, shows that he has made a tremendous personal investment in these people, tremendous. In fact, the words here kind of beggar belief. Look at them. In verse 17, chapter 2, verse 17, for example, he says, we were bereft of you, doesn't he? The trouble is I work on several translations. We were torn away from you, pardon me. It's a word that means grieved when a loved one dies. It's almost always used to mean someone, a family member has died. It means bereaved or grieved, but that's just the beginning. Then he says, it says, out of our intense longing, we made every effort to come to you. Now, those of you who've been around Redeemer for a while will be very surprised, as I was. The word he uses there is epithumia. This is a word, it's a Greek word, which means literally an epi-desire, translation of this word is lust. And almost every other place that Paul uses this word, it's used negatively. And Paul has the audacity to use it here. He says, we lust after your personal presence. We lust after your personal presence. That's not all. Then down here in verse 19 and 20, he says, for what is our hope, our joy? You are our glory and joy. And that's absolutely clearly saying, my joy, I have put so much of my heart into you that my joy is clouded. If your joy is clouded, I am no longer emotionally detached from you. I never will be able to be again. I cannot be emotionally isolated. I'm not emotionally independent from you. And the most, to me, the most astonishing of all the statements is in chapter 3, verse 8. It's sort of half, about two-thirds the way down the page. You see, he didn't know what was going to happen with the Thessalonian Christians. He had to leave before he had spent a lot of time instructing them, and he couldn't get back because of the danger. And he was so concerned about them that finally he sends Timothy back. It was less dangerous, but that meant Paul having to be alone. In verse 1, he says, I finally decided. I was so concerned about you. I was willing to send Timothy back and be alone and risk his life. But he says, Timothy has come back and he's told me that you stand firm in the Lord. And look what it says in verse eight. Now we live because you stand firm in the Lord. What's the opposite of that? What does that mean? What he was saying is when I thought that there was trouble, when I thought you were doubting, when I thought that you were hurting, when I thought that maybe your faith and love was failing, when I thought you were spiritually backsliding, I was dying. I was dying. But now the news from Timothy, he says, now I live. I really live. It's a very strong word. It's like water on a dying fish. I've revived. Now, is this exaggeration? You know how preachers are. You know, hyperbole, you know, a little rhetorical flourish. I mean, is this Paul just exaggerating, or is this the reality? Is his language consonant with the emotional reality? And I would say, yes, and let me give you the evidence. The results of his ministry were so incredible that this must be the case. When I first took a church, when I was 24 years old, I was a pastor in a town in the south, and I was ready to do what I thought a minister was to do, and that was I was ready to preach great sermons, and I was ready to manage and start great programs. and it was an older minister in town. And I was trying to get to know him and one day I met him at the hospital. This is a hospital in town. It was the only hospital in town. 300 beds, not huge. All three of my children were born in that hospital. In the same ward. But the first few months I was in the ministry, one day I met the minister there and I stood in the front door of the hospital and for 15 or 20 minutes, every single person who came in or out of the hospital he knew by name. Every person. This was the town's hospital. Every person. And at one point I expressed a kind of astonishment and he says, well, you know, I've been meaning to tell you something. And he says, I want you to know something. I know you're a young guy out of school and you're ready to preach. I said, I know what you think. You think that you need to preach great sermons and you need to do all these things. He said, let me tell you something. You could preach like Charles Spurgeon, which is a great Baptist preacher. He says, I remember these words very clearly. He says, you could preach like Charles Spurgeon, but if you don't love those people, those people are never going to change their minds about anything. I thought, how am I being so patronized here? Why did I spend thousands of money learning Greek and Hebrew to love people? You know, come on. Okay. You know, I said, all right, maybe. Sure, of course, know, I'll get around to it. He was right. He's absolutely right. Teaching all by itself, even good teaching, even demonstrative good teaching with great illustrations can be a power play, can be coercive, can be changing people from the outside in. The only condition under which people change from the inside out is if they're getting their teaching from somebody who they know loves them. Now, by the way, listen, there's not many of us in here who are ministers. I'm trying to show you these are conditions for you trying to change anybody. The only possible explanation for why Paul was able to go into these towns with an absolutely unpalatable, totally unpalatable message

without any power of his own and change people is because all these words were true. These incredible words. These people, not only did he love these people like this, but they knew it. He had given his heart away to them. He had invested in them. That's why they listened to him, period. It's absolutely the case. You can preach the sermons of Charles Spurgeon. A lot of you say, oh, you know, I wish I was more articulate. A lot of you are just afraid to reach out to people plenty of times even when I was in my first church I would very often find that when somebody had a disaster in their lives, it could have been that someone died in the family, but if there was a real disaster in the church to an individual, very often I found that people stayed away from them. I mean, very often I could see that people actually kind of cut sort of a swath around them. They were courteous, they sent cards, they brought food by, but they kind of stayed away from them. And I would say, you know, you need to spend more time over there. You know, that person's your friend, they say, I wouldn't know what to say. You could preach like Charles Spurgeon, and it wouldn't matter. You see, it's not what you say only. See, truth without love is a power play. And therefore, what you have here is a pretty remarkable point. He not only told people, He not only loved people like this, he let them know it. Now, I could give you a couple of the illustrations. One of the things that I, you know, back in the winter, well, I'll just mention this briefly. Back in the winter when I was doing a series in the morning on 1 Corinthians 13, I got a chance, I read a series of Jonathan Edwards sermons on 1 Corinthians 13 as background for that series. And as a result, I kind of, probably all this year I'll be reading more of Edwards. I got interested in him. I've been reading a biography. Edwards was the greatest theologian America ever produced. Jonathan Edwards, Northampton, Massachusetts, 1740, 1750, his church kicked him out. His church kicked him out. He was an internationally known leader in Christianity in the Western world. His church kicked him out, and I've been trying to figure it out. And you know what? He is a godlier person than anybody I've ever met, reading his letters, reading his journals, reading his diary, reading his personal and a more loving person than I've ever seen but he was a reserved person he was a formal person and the people didn't know there's no way he ever talked like this the people didn't know it the people around you have to know it you can't do this for everybody you have to invest in people and you have to take the Teflon off I don't know why this is the case it could be that in our culture there's two things that have really created a lot of Teflon over our hearts I think it's divorce. A lot of us are the children of divorce. A lot of us have experienced divorce or a lot of us have seen... You know, your sibling marries somebody and you say, I wonder how long that person will be around in my life? And mobility. Mobility. People moving all the time. And therefore I think there's something...our culture is teaching us keep that teflon there. This person won't be around that long. Keep your heart to yourself. Don't invest. Don't you dare. But people don't change unless you do that. He gives his heart away and he lets them know it. But then secondly, he keeps his head, and he does let them know it. Now, what do I mean by keeps his head? What I mean is, even though he's given his heart away, and he's not emotionally independent, he is neither emotionally dependent. If you give your heart and your head away, you're emotionally dependent. You're warming your poor little self-esteem at the fire of their approval. But if you keep your head and your heart, you're emotionally independent. You're emotionally detached. And when you tell the truth, it'll be a power play. There'll be a judgmental spirit. And if you hold on to your head and your heart, or if you give away your head and your heart, in neither situation will you be able to see people changed. Now you say, well, you know, where do you see that in Paul? Well, actually, you have to kind of stand back and read the entire two letters to truly see it. I'll just make a mention of it, and then I'll try to spin it out. For example, down in verse 10, I noticed it's pretty interesting. Day and night we pray more earnestly that we may see you again and supply what is lacking in your faith. Boy, that's a little misleading. You know what he's really saying there? The way that translation, it sounds so nice. What he's saying is, I can't wait to see you and address your shortcomings. That is literally the word. He says, I'm looking forward to seeing you and addressing your shortcomings. How do you like that? How would you like to get a letter like that? I can't wait to see you I long for you and this is sincere stuff these people's lives wouldn't been changed if this wasn't sincere stuff you couldn't write letters like this and maintain a relationship and you couldn't you couldn't write this and maintain a minister you couldn't say stuff like this unless people knew it this would be this would be utterly offensive otherwise and so he says all this on the other hand is as I can't wait to come talk to you about your shortcomings. At the end of 2 Thessalonians, now this is the people, the same people that he talks about like this, about such love. At the end of 2 Thessalonians, he writes this, when we were with you, we gave you this rule, if a man will not work, he shall not eat, but we hear some among you are idle. You're not busy, you're busybodies. We cannot, pardon me, We now command and urge you in the Lord Jesus Christ to settle down and earn the bread you eat. If anyone does not obey the instruction in this letter, do not associate with him until he's ashamed. Yet do not regard him as an enemy, but warn him as a brother. Now, listen. On the one hand, now look. If you give away your heart and your head, or if you keep your heart and your head, no change. See, let me show you. Let me give you some tests briefly. How do you know if you've given away your heart and your head? When you give away your heart and your head, you really don't want that person's joy. You don't really want that person's holiness. You don't really want that person's health. You want that person's approval. You want that person's dependence, maybe. You want that person's needing of you. You see, you want the person's love. You don't want the person. Now here's a couple of signs, very, very simple, read the entire book of 1 Thessalonians, the way you can tell you've given away your heart and your head and you're really not after their joy, but you're really after what they can give you. You're warming your little self-esteem at their approval. First of all, you will not give them criticism. You're afraid to give them criticism because you cannot bear their unhappiness with you. See? Paul can't unbear their unhappiness, but he can certainly unbear their unhappiness with him because look at what he does. Look how he talks to them. See, most of us, we cannot bear the unhappiness with us, but we can bear the unhappiness. To such a great degree, that's true of me. I don't mind if people are unhappy as long as they're not unhappy with me. God help me. That's a sign of a person who's given away their heart and their head, a person who's lost perspective, a person who really no longer is able to be sure about what that person needs. disapproval that you may even convince yourself that they're okay. And not only can you not give criticism, and this is the other sign of having given away your heart and your head, is you can't take it. You're totally devastated. You're ruined. And you know what's so odd? You're no friend. Friends don't need people who can't give criticism or can't take criticism, you're no friend. But on the other hand, how do you know if a person has kept their heart in their head? Well, they're judgmental. They're very judgmental. The Bible says, Matthew 7, chapter 7, verse 1 and 2, Jesus says, don't judge. And James 4, verse 12, who are you to judge your neighbor, says James. So the Bible's against judging. Well, somebody says, wait a minute, What about Paul? Look at Paul. What does Paul say here? He says, I command and urge you in the Lord Jesus Christ to settle down and earn the bread you eat. If anyone doesn't obey our instruction in this letter, don't associate with him. And somebody says, that's just what I hate about you Christians. That's the problem I have with you Christians. If you're a loving Christian and you're not a coward, you're going to hear this a lot. People are going to know you're a Christian and this is what they're going to say. They're going to say, this is what I hate about you Christians. You're always judging people. you're always correcting them. You're always saying this is right or this is wrong about their belief or practice. I don't believe you should judge anybody. I don't believe you should correct anybody. I don't believe you should advise anybody. You should let them find their own way. You must not express moral superiority to them in any way. That's what I don't like about you Christians. You judge people. Well, what do we say about that? Well, the first thing, of course, I can't let it go by without thing you say is that's utterly contradictory. This is the talk show approach to relationships. All the talk shows say this. They believe you should give away your heart, you know, love and invest in people and all that, but they also say you don't tell them the truth. You don't say this is right, this is wrong, I want your holiness. No, no, no, no, no. You must never express moral evaluation. You must never evaluate someone morally. You must never say this is right, this is wrong. That's a contradiction because goes, to say you must never evaluate someone morally is to evaluate morally. To say you must never say that your position is morally superior is to take a morally superior position to the person you're talking to. The talk shows are wrong. There's no way to avoid moral evaluation. There is no way to do it. There's nothing, you know, there's no way to do it. You have to do moral evaluation. You must. Everybody does it. But you mustn't do it judgmentally. Well, what does it mean? A judgmentalism is a place where you're actually keeping your head and your heart. You don't really love the people. And a judgmental spirit is one in which you're, is not what Paul's doing. Paul says, don't you dare regard him as an enemy. Warn him as a brother. What's the purpose? To bring, to make him ashamed. That doesn't mean to humiliate him. What does it mean? What does Paul mean? To wake him up. Let me tell you what the rules are. Here are some signs of judgmentalism. If you are judging somebody, they will notice that you are paying them back when you tell them the truth. They can see it. You are not telling them the truth in order to wake them up. You are telling them the truth to pay them back. Or they may also know sometimes judgmental people love to tell the truth. They enjoy it. They can see that you are kind of enjoying it. They are not going to be changed. Thirdly, judgmental people tend to go beyond that which can be documented. In other words, for example, if you see someone being kind of cowardly, if you have invested your heart in that person but you haven't lost your head, you go to that person and say, I must say I feel like you're being cowardly here. I must say I think that I can understand why you'd be afraid, but you really mustn't shrink back. You really must do it. A judgmental person will say, you have no passion for Christ. So a judgmental person will go beyond that which is documented and will impute motives. A judgmental person will be, you see what I'm talking about? That's not what Paul's doing here. In fact, let me put it to you in a nutshell. A judgmental person tells people the truth to push them away. But a people-changer tells people the truth to bring them closer. That's the motive. That's the style. That's the context. You're telling truth not because you want them to go away, because you want them to come closer, because you want them to wake up. You tell truth to redeem, not to punish. And that's what Paul was able to do. Paul, in fact, that's the only way people change. They have to see that you're utterly invested in them, but that what you really want is their holiness, their health, their joy, not just their approval. And as a result, you give away your heart and you let them know it, but you keep your head and you let them know it too. Now, finally, we come to the last point. I haven't told you because in a way, it's a solution to a problem. I've created a problem for you, haven't I? And the

this? How is it possible? You can see Paul doing it, and I can practically prove that Paul did it. How else do you explain how he changed the history of the world? How else do you explain the fact that every town he went into, people's changed? How else? Of course you say God did it, but how did God do it? He did it because Paul understood the conditions under which people change from the inside out. Gave away his heart, not his head. Okay, how? how? And the answer is the crown. Paul had a goal for the people. See, for almost all of us, our relationship, those of us who are kind of, we give away our heart and our head, our goal for relationship is to get people's approval and have them meet our needs. And those of us who don't give away either our hearts or heads, our goal for relationships is basically a kind of business thing. In other words, I want from you and you want from me and, you know, we can boogie as long as, you know, you don't overdo it and, you know, basically get out of my way. I've got things I want to get to in life and I need other people and I'll be willing to go this far with you and you go this far with me and I owe you this much and you owe me this much and don't ask for anything more. So, most of us, our goals either are to meet our needs with people through, you know, through the relationship or actually meet our needs with people and people are sort of business partners on the way. Paul had a completely different goal. He had a completely different vision. He had a mission in every relationship. And what was it? He says, what is our hope? What is our joy or the crown in which we will glory in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ when he comes? Is it not you? You are our joy and glory. Now, I don't have much time to say this, but I have to told me to say this. You have to understand that at a certain level, this applies particularly to a relationship between a minister and the church. One of the reasons why Paul is able to say to his people, you are our joy and our glory, is this. The word glory originally, the Greek word doxa, originally meant good report, good reputation, a good opinion. And I'm sure that at some level, he's talking very practically. If a minister, if I, stand up here and try to preach a message, And listeners come in and they sit down. They're not just looking up here. They're looking down there. They're not just looking at me. They're looking... They're not just looking up here. They're looking aside. And if they notice looking around, they see people who are very active in this church or are leaders in this church. They're not living pure lives. They're not living honest lives. They're spending a lot of money on themselves. You see? They can't hold their temper at work. In other words, you are, to a certain degree, the minister's glory. Why should a listener listen and honor the message if the community doesn't reflect it? Communication is a very complex thing. People don't just come in and listen to the minister and say, yes, I believe that. They're looking around at the community. And Paul is trying to say, my dear friends, if you don't stand firm in the Lord, I'm dead. We live because you stand firm in the Lord. It's not just there's an emotional tie. There's a terrible emotional tie between ministers and the church members. This is what Kathy said I ought to let you know. I might as well let you know this. There is nothing that kills a minister like a person who's indifferent to the word preached. I don't know. Wives see that in their ministers. If you're married to a minister, wives see that. And ultimately, there's no consolation for it. It's something in the gift mix. I don't get it. But Charles Spurgeon, the guy that I mentioned before, preached a sermon on this text, and he said to his people, I live by your spiritual joy. I suffocate on your spiritual indifference. I choke to death on your spiritual misery. I'm tied to you. I can't help it. And you see, it's not just a personal thing. It's also, why should anyone honor the minister's message? Why should anyone honor the gospel preached when the community is not living it? absolutely right in saying, you are my glory, but in a very limited sense. You see, people look at that and say, well, how in the world could Paul say that? Doesn't he say, in Christ alone I glory? Isn't Christ his hope? Isn't Christ his joy? Isn't Christ his glory? Well, he's talking in a different perspective. In another perspective, he says, why should anyone listen to me if you don't live it out? Why should anyone listen to the message if you don't live it out? and that's the immediate context but Paul's talking about something even broader this is not just about ministers and churches it's not it's about relationships if you want to change somebody's life you've got to have the same vision for their life that Paul had when Paul says you are our crown of rejoicing in the presence of our Lord the word he uses there is parousia And it's a word that means when the presence of God breaks in to human history when Jesus Christ comes back. He says, I'm looking forward to the day when Christ comes back and his presence breaks in, and I want to stand there before the throne and you will be my crown. Well, what does that mean? It's the very same thing that he actually says in the very last verse. He says, may he strengthen your heart so that you will be blameless and holy in the presence of our God when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones. Wait, look, look. May he strengthen your heart so that you'll be blameless and holy in the parousia when our Lord Jesus comes with all of his holy ones. And this word blameless is the same word that Paul uses in Ephesians 5 when he says, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself to do what? To cleanse her, us, the church, to cleanse her and to present her, same word, blameless before the presence of God. Now, this is what's going on. If you see Christianity just as a philosophy of trying your best to live a loving life, you will never be able to do what Paul's doing. Paul is only doing to us, to his people, what Christ has done to him. First of all, Christ comes to us as sinners and works with us sometimes for years before our eyes open. That's the reason Paul knew that. Paul knew that what makes you a Christian is not by trying to live a good life. Paul knows that being a Christian is seeing that you're a sinner and that Christ alone can save you and that Christ has been working with you patiently for years. That's the first thing that makes you patient with people. But then secondly, he knows that Jesus Christ's salvation is not that he just gave us an example. He doesn't appear on earth and say, here's the rules. Do these ten things and you will please God. See you at the finish line. Good luck. That's not what he says. We're told in Isaiah 53, the results of his suffering he shall see and be satisfied. He's the author and finisher of our faith, Hebrews 12. The author and finisher, what does that mean? It means that he has died in our place, paid the debt we owed. He has lived in our place, lived the life we should have lived. And therefore, there's a sense, a very real sense in which he has presented us before the Father. It says, the results of his suffering he shall see and shall be satisfied. And I keep thinking about this. If he looks at us and says, my infinite suffering was worth it if I have them, him, then what he means is we are infinitely valuable to him. That's the reason why Paul can say in Ephesians 1.18 that we actually, he says, I hope that the eyes of your heart will be open so that you will see that you are his inheritance, that we are his wealth, that we are his jewels, that we are his crown. That Jesus Christ considers us so valuable that of all the things in heaven, and earth that belong to him, they're nothing compared to us. We're his crown. We're his wealth. We're his ornaments. There's an infinite number of places where the Bible weaves this in. The Bible says that Jesus is our high priest. But if you go back to the Old Testament and look at the high priest, the high priest wore jewels over his heart. It was called the priest's effort. It was the breastplate. And every jewel had on it the names of the tribes of the people of Israel. We are his jewels. We are his crown. We are the thing that makes him rejoice. Now if you know that if you know that you can give your heart away and not your head. If you know that you can turn to the person next to you and you can say are you on your way to the throne? Oh please come with me. Let's spurn the darkness and the part of the darkness that's within us. I have a vision for what you could be at the throne of God. You see, to love someone Christianly is to look, have vision that looks through the caterpillar and sees the butterfly, looks through all the gunk and sees what God is making that person, and you get committed to his glory. You get committed to her glory. It's the same thing that basically marriage is built on, a Christian fellowship is built on. That's the reason why Paul can say this amazing thing. I keep going over and over and over. He says, verse 9, how can we thank God enough for you in return for all the joy we have in the presence of our God for you, because of you? He's most happy when he's praying for them. He's so excited about what God's making them. His goal isn't to fulfill, they fulfill my needs. His goal isn't that they just has helped me reach my goals. His goal is their glory. He's able to do it because Jesus has done it to him. It's all there in verse 12. May the Lord make your love increase and overflow for each other and for everyone else just as ours does for you. Well, why does his do it for them? Because the Lord makes my love increase and overflow. Do you know how to be a people changer? Look at what he's done for you. Then turn around. You've got to enjoy the people. You've got to take the Teflon off your heart. You've got to pray like crazy for them. You've got to be open-hearted and let them into your life. But then you, friends, have to let others into your life. Just as Paul says, God has given me a shepherd heart to help people. You have to look around in the body of Christ for people who can help you, who can disciple you, who can shepherd you, your soul. You've got to let, we've got to let ourselves into each other's lives. There's no other way that we really change. You can't listen, friends. You can't come here and just listen to me speak. There's got to be somebody else in your life like Paul. Some of you desperately would love to have me come and talk with you about your souls and nobody else. That's easy. Once or twice a year you come in to see me, I can't watch over you. I can't love you like this. I just can't do it. It's you've got to have other people. You have to be in a body. Exhort one another daily, lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. You see? Submit to those who are keeping watch over your souls. Make that easy for them to do. This is all in the Bible. May he strengthen your hearts so that you will be blameless and holy in the presence of our God and Father when our Lord Jesus comes with all his holy ones. Let's pray. Thank you Father for giving us these conditions for people changing. Help us to meet them. We thank you that we already have been changed because your son met them. He gave away his heart but he kept his, he kept the truth and he was true to it. He had a goal. He wanted to present us faultless before the throne own. And as a result, he was satisfied. He was willing to do anything, even infinitely suffer, because when we have each other as crowns before you and jewels before you, it will repay for any suffering on earth at all. So, Father, we pray that you'd help us to live like Jesus, and we pray that in little ways we can redeem people as he has redeemed us in a big way. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
