For the second time, I want to talk to you about prayer, corporate prayer. And at the top of the handout, very briefly, we have - here's a review of what we did last month. If you weren't here last month, this is what we covered. Spiritual renewal or revival is a theme both of the Old Testament and the New Testament. Spiritual renewal or revival has been defined in many ways in church history, but we believe sees it as a work of God in which the church is beautified and empowered because the normal operations of the Holy Spirit, not necessarily miracles, et cetera, the normal operations of the Holy Spirit, conviction of sin, enjoyment of grace, access to the presence of God, creation of deep community, the normal operations of the Holy Spirit are intensified. That's renewal and revival. And we said that there are so many examples of this in the Bible, and they come in so many forms. Some of them are preaching revivals. Some of them are led by central leaders. Some are more grassroots revivals. Some are ceremonial and formal. Some are informal. But we said the one thing that all the revivals and renewals had in common was prayer, and a particular kind of prayer, corporate, intense, prevailing prayer. This is in the middle of the second paragraph. paragraph, especially in the face of a specific challenge, not prayer for personal needs, but for the glory of God, for his beauty, for his palpable presence, his visible reality amongst his people. Corporate prevailing prayer, kingdom-centered prayer, I think we might have called it last time. It's always there. It's always the backbone of every time of spiritual renewal and revival. Now, what I want to talk to you about this month and next month is, let me look at some of the specific characteristics of this kind of prayer. First of all, the kind of prayer that brings renewal and revival is what I'm going to call extraordinary prayer. Exodus 33, 7, there's a place where we read, Now Moses used to take a tent and pitch it outside the camp some distance away, calling it the tent of meeting. And it came to pass that anyone inquiring of the Lord would go to the tent of meeting outside the camp. Now, what's this all about? Well, here's what this is about. This is after the golden calf thing. This is when the relationship between God and the people of Israel had been terribly wounded. And when Moses set up a tent for prayer outside the camp, this is not the tabernacle. This is not the tent or the temple that was put inside the middle of the camp in the midst of the people. This was outside the camp. What was this about? And most commentators think what this means, first of all, was Moses, by putting it outside the camp, the fact that the very relationship of the people with God had been wounded because of their spiritual rebellion and stagnation. And secondly, it meant that if you were going to go and begin to pray to God, to seek his presence, to ask for God's presence in the midst of the people, you had to go out of your way. You had to go out of your normal work patterns. Away from where you lived, you had to go out and do something unusual. And therefore, Moses, from what we can tell, was the only person that started to do this. But it does say that eventually it came to pass that other people began to go out to the tent and begin to pray for revival and renewal. Now, what I'm trying to say to you is, the first principle is, you pray in your small groups. You pray at the end of meetings. You pray in your daily devotions. You pray at church. Fine. you have to do something else on top of that, something extraordinary, something out of the ordinary. Let me give you two examples of this. Here's one from New York City and one from Korea. And since for some of you, that's double since you're Korean Americans in New York, you know. First of all, New York. Downtown, 1857, Jeremiah Calvin Lamphere, a layman at the North Dutch Reformed Church on Fulton Street, decided to hold a prayer meeting at noon on Wednesdays particularly to businessmen who worked in offices in the immediate neighborhood to get them on their lunch hour to get them to pray. By the way, if you want to know where this church was, if you go downtown, it's Fulton Street, Williams Street, and Ann Street where they come together. Actually, if you're looking east, Fulton Street, Ann Street, come away from Broadway over here, and then here's Williams Street. And the old Dutch North Church was filled the block facing Williams Street between Ann and Fulton, and there was a Christian Ed wing next to the church, and that was closer to Ann Street. So if you stand about eight feet from the corner of Ann and William Street, you'll be looking right into the place where this happened. Why? I've been down there to pray with people in that spot for New York. Why? The first person to join Lamphere that day was a half an hour late. However, the meeting quickly grew, and within a few months, probably 10,000, mainly businessmen, meeting every day at lunchtime for prayer all over the city. It created an amazing stir. Now, you know what the historians point out is at this time there was a panic on Wall Street. There was a fear that there was going to be a stock market collapse. And a lot of people say, oh, so that's the reason why the prayer meetings filled up. And that's probably true. True. But on the other hand, it's not an either-or. Either God did that, or there was a panic on Wall Street. No, no. Do you know the story of the two stupid young hoodlums who were walking down the street, and they went by an open window, and they heard some poor old woman saying, Oh, Lord, I don't even know where I'm going to get my daily bread. I don't even know where I'm going to get my daily bread. I don't even know where I'm going to get enough food to eat tomorrow. So they went to the corner store, and they bought some bread, and they bought some other things, and they went by, and they threw it in and ran away, threw it into the window at the woman and ran away. And they said, I'll bet you that old bitty thinks God did that. So by May of 1858, go to the bottom, about 50,000 new people had joined the churches of New York City out of a population of 800,000. Now, what's intriguing to know, of course, is, as you know, plenty of people who get converted don't join those churches. who were joining the churches probably weren't really converted. But that is enormous. In two years, something like, you know, a little under 10% of the population of New York almost certainly was converted. The prayer meetings were an enormous revival. And almost at the very, very same time in Northern Ireland and in Wales, very similar kinds of revival started. In Northern Ireland, I think I mentioned this last time, something like a third of the population was converted within about a year. And I'll be converted. How do you judge that? It means people who were not in the churches rose up, got baptized, and joined the churches. Amazing. Let me give you another case study that happened in the early 1900s in Korea. In 1900, Christianity in Korea was still minuscule, less than four percent, pardon me, less than four-tenths of one percent of the population. But in 1903, tell me if I'm pronouncing this right, somebody. In the city of Wonsan, am I saying that right? Is that close enough? Anybody know? Okay, thank you. There was a Canadian missionary, R.A. Hardy, who was doing some biblical research on the subject of prayer. He came upon Luke 11, 13. If you then, though you are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Interesting. Jonathan Edwards also has a major sermon on this text about revival and prayer, and I'll get to that, not tonight, but some other month. He was deeply convicted that this missionary work had been motivated to prove himself to others in God, that he was not based on grace, prayer, and the Holy Spirit. Instead of faith in Christ's justification, he was trying to justify himself. There was a lack of joy and prayer and power in his life. So he gave a testimony in a Korean congregation, publicly repenting of his pride, hardness of heart, and lack of faith. Evidently, this particular confession, the public repentance, was electrifying because in a Confucian culture where publicly, deliberately losing face was considered pretty cataclysmic. It was unthinkable, and yet it was also very moving. And evidently, the people began to repent and pray and seek the Holy Spirit. And some kind of awakening began in the Wonsan neighborhood. In 1906, in the wake of this growing renewal, a Korean student by the name of Sun Joo-kil organized the very first early morning prayer meeting, which met at 4.30 a.m. This custom, as well as all-night prayer vigil, became vital to the spiritual lives of the Korean churches eventually, but at the time, it was extraordinary prayer. It was a tent outside the camp. And that set up, finally, a Bible conference in Pyongyang in January 17, 1907. Some of you may have heard about this. There was 1,500 people came together for a Bible conference, which was a huge number at the time because the revival fires were beginning in Korea. And by the way, back then, when you had a big conference, the men and women met in completely separate meetings. And so what I'm giving you, this happened at both the meetings, even though we have a report from what happened in the men's meetings. At one point, the whole audience began to pray out loud in unison, which had never happened before at that time. Suddenly there was a burst into a roar of prayers. People were feeling a strong urge to pray. The prayer that sounded like the falling of many waters captivated the whole congregation. creation, William Blair, who was a Presbyterian missionary president, said the whole audience would start to break out into audible prayer. The effect of that was indescribable. After one confession, they'd break into uncontrollable weeping. We'd all weep together. We couldn't help it, so the meeting went on to 2 a.m., and it happened all week. And William Blair said when that Pyongyang conference was over, the people's lives had been so absolutely changed. Look at this next quote. He says, the Christians return to their homes, taking the Pentecostal fire with them. Let me quickly say something about this. Notice I quoted from the Asia Journal of Pentecostal Studies, and I've also quoted from a book called The Korean Pentecost by William Blair and Bruce Hunt. And the Pentecostals do admit that for many, many years in Korea, the tongues and the healings and the prophecy and the specifically Pentecostal phenomenon did not occur, did not happened for years. So what we're talking about here was not a specifically Pentecostal phenomenon, even though William Blair calls it Pentecostal fire, because it was. Let's go back to the quote. It spread practically to every church. Schools canceled classes for days while students wept out their wrongdoings together. We had our hearts torn again and again by the return of little articles and money that had been taken from us over the years. All through the city, people were going from house to house confessing wrongs, returning stolen property not only to Christians but to heathens. A Chinese merchant was astounded to have a Christian walk in and pay him a large sum of money he had obtained unjustly years before. The whole city was stirred. The cry went out over the city until the heathen were in consternation. This began the long march of from being minuscule to today where it comprises about 50% of the population. And look at this note, very important. My old friend Harvey Conant, who was a Korean missionary for many years, used to say this, the revival that came out of extraordinary prayer, it came out of a testimony about prayer, it came out of a prayer meeting, an early morning prayer meeting, an extraordinary prayer meeting. Harvey said, you must not consider this just emotionalism or pietism because what happened in that Korean revival was what he called a culture-changing power encounter of the first order. He said, Confucianism made an idol out of hierarchical authority and therefore it was a deeply self-righteous culture. It created a deeply self-righteous culture that led to the belief that no one of any real stature would ever repent, certainly never publicly. It represented a huge loss of face. But the gospel brought such a power encounter with the self-righteousness of the Confucian worldview faith, that was at the heart of Korean culture, that a new concept of humility and greatness in the gospel brought about an enormous shift in the lives of converts. In the revival, especially males who had next to no ability to deal with shame and failure experienced the love of God in the gospel through the Holy Spirit to such a degree that it freed them to begin to admit their flaws. And Harvey said that was a culture-shaping power encounter, and it mainly happened through prayer. didn't happen through preaching at least not this time it happened through prayer what is extraordinary prayer well I'll get back to that here's what David Martin Lloyd-Jones says, look at this summary he says you have to set up a tent what does that mean you have to do something outside the ordinary you have to go out of your way now this is the question I want to impress upon your minds are you just content to come to services and do routine things Have you felt that you're called to some kind of exceptional prayer? Are you willing to go out, as it were, to take some deliberate action that in a way separates you? No revival that has ever been experienced in the long history of the church has ever been an official movement in the church. Believe me, my friends, when the next revival comes, it will come as a surprise to everybody, especially those who are trying to organize it. What is exceptional prayer? What is extraordinary prayer? It can mean, for example, getting together for 30 minutes before your worship service and praying for the worship service. rumor that poor Ellie Ellsworth did that all by herself before the West Side Morning Service on Sunday. You're going to let poor Ellie do that all by herself? What a horrible burden to hold the whole service up by herself, and she's not very big. Taking a 30-minute prayer walk around your neighborhood by yourself and doing it regularly, regularly. Instead of doing 15 minutes of prayer daily, do 45 minutes and do some of it at night. You've got to do something extraordinary. Okay, now the second principle is repetition. Not only extraordinary prayer, the prayer that brings revival is prevailing prayer. Here's Isaiah chapter 62, verse 6 and 7. And this is very startling. I don't think we're not going to, I don't think I'm preaching on this passage in this particular series this fall. But, I have posted watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem. They will never be silent day or night. You who call on the Lord, give yourselves no rest and give him no rest till he establishes Jerusalem and makes her the praise of the earth. Now, this is talking about prophets who are, you know, watchmen on the walls. It's Isaiah's praying that God will so beautify the people. But what's really startling about this is Isaiah calls ministers and Isaiah calls leaders, you know, leaders of faith to not only call the people, you know, call the people to pray, take no rest, seek for God to really manifest himself in the midst of his people. You know, when it says, till he makes Jerusalem the praise of all the earth, that's talking about the city of God. We talked about that yesterday. yesterday. But he also says, give God no rest. Now, that is really, really, that's kind of over the edge, isn't it? Bother God in prayer until he really shows his glory to the nations. Bother him. Now, do you feel like that's going too far? It's not. Give him no rest. Give yourself no rest. Let's look at the very bottom of page three. David Martin Lloyd-Jones, in expounding on this passage, says this. And I want you to realize this is a very traditional Calvinist David Martin Lloyd-Jones was. He says, give him no rest. Give yourself no rest. Keep on. Bombard God. All right? This is David Martin Lloyd-Jones. Bombard heaven until the answers come. This is very startling when you consider what a Calvinist he is. But he knew the Bible. its spirit. Here's Abraham talking to God about Sodom and Gomorrah. And he says, you won't,

you'll spare the city for 50 righteous people, right? Yes, says God. How about 40? How about 30? He keeps coming back and back. Moses says, you know, I want to see your glory. So, well, I'll tell you what, I'll do this. No, I want more. No, I'll tell you to do this. I'll I'll take your descendants. No, I want the whole. Go back and see how Moses prays. He argues. He pesters God. He bothers God. But the clearest example of this is Jacob. He's wrestling with somebody at night in Genesis 32. And at one point he realizes it's God. And when God says, let me go, Jacob has the audacity to say, not till you bless me. now Jesus in Luke 18 gives an example of a widow who's bothering an unjust judge until finally the judge gives the widow justice and then Jesus says you should pray like this too now when we see Luke 18 we see Abraham we see Moses we see Jacob we see Isaiah 62 all these places that talk about essentially bothering God, arguing with God, repeatedly, repeatedly praying until you get it. Some of us feel like that's just over the top, but no, no, it's not. Jonathan Edwards wrote a sermon, a priest's sermon on Genesis 32, on Jacob wrestling with the angel, with God, and he entitled it, The Way to Obtain the Blessing of God is Not to Let Him Go Unless He Bless Us. I read it this summer. I read it when I was in Scotland, as a matter of fact, and it was very moving to me, that with my wife and we realized he was right. His basic thesis is that it's very dangerous for God to give us much of anything good unless we pray for it. It would be horrible for us. The worst thing you can do is get a blessing that you haven't prayed for. And the best thing for you is to get a blessing after you've prayed a lot for it. And that's the reason why in general, God wants you to pray and pray and pray, not because he's unwilling to give you blessings, but because you need it. And here's the outline of the sermon. He says what this duty is to come all the time. He says, this duty is not to press God repeatedly because we believe we deserve it. Edwards is a good pastor, and he realized there's some people who, in a sustained, prevailing prayer, go after God, but they're motivated by a sense of obligation. That is, they believe they've lived a good life. God owes them. And some people really go after God, really praying hard over and over because they think, you owe me. And other people really pray hard and really press God and pray to God out of inordinate desire, out of a refusal to admit that God might know better, out of a feeling like, if I don't have this, I'm going to die. And Edwards realizes that there is a kind of what, you know, we call importunate prayer that's really motivated by pride or by inordinate desire. And I do know people who I've talked to who have said, I prayed and prayed for something, and God hasn't given it to me, so I've given up on him. And whenever you say, I prayed and prayed and prayed, he didn't give it to me, so I've given up on him, that almost guarantees that it was self-righteous prayer or inordinate prayer. Because you see, whenever you say, I ask God and I've given up on him, what you're really saying is the thing I was praying for is the non-negotiable. God's the negotiable. That's the end. God is the means, right? And so Edwards says, that's not what I'm talking about. Be careful about that kind of prevailing prayer. But here's what he does say. He says that we need to press God in prayer because he calls on us to do it. This is the way he wants us to seek him and his good things. But why does he want us to do it? Three reasons. Number one, without praying a lot before we get blessings, we become proud. So, for example, let me just read you this. Only if we pray in a sustained way do we come to a deep recognition of our dependence on God. If God's blessings come upon us without a lot of prayer, we would be hard-hearted and proud, out assuming that a good and comfortable life is simply the right of all sensible folk. It would blind us to our true condition. And this is why, and I don't know if you've thought of Romans 1 like this before, but for the first time I did when I read Edwards. Romans 1 says, the worst thing God can do to a rebellious heart is give them up to their desires. In other words, the worst thing God can do is give you what you want without prayer. Because that gives you, that just, that confirms what your heart wants to believe, and that is the reason things are your life because you're savvy, because you're good, because you're smart, because you're a good son or daughter or father or mother or something like that. Our heart wants to believe that the reason we have the things we have is because of us. The worst thing God could possibly do is let just confirm you in that. Romans 1 says, when God really wants to give up on somebody who's been rebellious, he lets them have good things without prayer. So, without prayer, we don't deepen in humility and self-knowledge. Secondly, without prayer, we aren't grateful for little

only when God gives you things because you pray for them, only when you pray for all kinds of stuff and then it comes to you, do you have gratitude? You say, thank you, Lord. And it go down to the very, very bottom here. When we don't pray, we're robbing ourselves of joy. Do you know that? We're blinding ourselves to the graciousness and goodness of God. When the blessing comes, we will not be filled with gratitude. Turn over. The only proper stance of the human heart toward God and life itself is gratitude. The prayer-saturated life finds delight in the most mundane things because you've been praying for everything, and when they come in, normal health, income, family life, relationships. You know, one of the things that's kind of scary, and for those of us who are old enough that we're starting to have, you know, physical problems, is that when you are absolutely, oh, I don't know, when you're in pain and you know that and you're just praying for normal bodily functions to be restored. And they are restored. And you walk down and you say, hey, I'm urinating when I want to. You know? Why wasn't I more grateful? What made me think that my body just somehow always is going to operate like this? Because I'm going to go, you know, I'm absolutely dependent on God. What I would say is people who know how to pray and pray for things,

are grateful and joyful every day for the most little mundane things you've got. They're just happy people. Praying people are happy people because they look at even the little things that most people take for granted and we say, God gave me that. And thirdly, when you do prevailing prayer with someone else, it creates a connection, a feeling of support and solidarity that cannot be given in any other way. You know what I'm saying by that? say to somebody, I'm really afraid because my mother's sick, and someone says, oh, I'm really sorry to hear that. Okay, that's good. That's an expression of sympathy. And even when they call up and say, how are you doing? I want to know how your mother's doing. That's good too. But when someone sits down with you, lays hands on you, and prays for your mother, that creates a sense of being one with them that you cannot come any other way. When people pray with you for things, things, that gives you a sense that you are not holding the world up by yourself. And therefore, in the end, if we are people who pray and pray and pray repeatedly for things, and then God gives them to us, we're people who are growing in humility, we're growing in grateful joy, and we're growing in solidarity with one another. Summary, do not leave God alone. Pester him, as it were, with his own promise. Quote the scripture to him, and you know, God delights to hear us doing it, just like a father likes to see this element in his own son, who has obviously been listening to what his father has been saying. You know, when your little son or daughter comes and tells you things that you've been telling them all along, you don't say, I know that. You're so glad that they're really part of the family. They're really with you. They've really been listening. Okay. So extraordinary prayer, repeated prayer over and over and over again. Not because God is hard-hearted, because you need it.