The teaching tonight is based on the passage Exodus 33, and the heart of the passage is printed in your bulletin. But as what we're doing this week, or this month and summertime, is going through the life of Moses, which is found in the Old Testament, the segments and the passages of the Old Testament that we're looking at each evening are very often they're rather long. to give you the sweep of the story is to read you the chapter. Even though what you have printed here, Exodus 33, is the nexus of it, you might say. It's the crux of it, and we'll refer to the things that are said there. I need to read to you the entire story. This is a remarkable chapter and a remarkable story in the life of Moses. And, you know, the great thing about the Old Testament, One thing that's almost more helpful about the Old Testament, the reason you need the Old and the New Testament, is the Old Testament gives us pictures, stories, concrete illustrations of principles and concepts that are expounded and explained in great detail in the New Testament. And what we have here in Exodus 33 is a concrete illustration of something that is expounded in great detail and with great specificity in the book of Acts. But in some ways, the reality of it is made more vivid because of this story, because of this incident in the life of Moses. Let me just read to you what happened to Moses, Exodus 33. Then the Lord said to Moses, Leave this place, you and the people you brought up, out of Egypt, and go up to the land I promised on oath to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, I will give it to your descendants. I will send an angel before you and drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. Go up to the land flowing with milk and honey, but I will not be with you because you are a stiff-necked people and I might destroy you on the way. And when the people heard these distressing words, they began to mourn, and no one put on any ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Tell those Israelites, you are a stiff-necked people. If I were to go with you, even for a moment I might destroy you. Now take off your ornaments, and I will decide what to do with you. So the Israelites stripped off their ornaments at Mount Horeb. Now Moses used to take a tent and pitch it outside the camp some distance away, calling it the tent of meeting. Anyone inquiring of the Lord would go to the tent of meeting outside the camp, and whenever Moses went out stood at the entrances of their tent watching Moses until he entered the tent and as Moses went into the tent the pillar of cloud would come down and stay at the entrance while the Lord spoke with Moses and whenever the people saw the pillar of cloud standing at the entrance of the tent they all stood and worshipped each at the entrance to his tent. The Lord would speak to Moses face to face as a man speaks with his friend and then Moses would return to the camp but his young aide Joshua son of Nun did not leave the tent. Moses said to the Lord you have been telling me lead these people, but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. You've said, I know you by name and you have found favor with me. If you are pleased with me, teach me your way so I may know you and continue to find favor with you. Remember that this nation is your people. And the Lord replied, my presence will go with you and I will give you rest. Then Moses said, if your presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here. How will anyone know that you're You're pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us. What else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? And the Lord said to Moses, I will do the very thing you've asked because I am pleased with you and I know you by name. And then Moses said, Now, show me your glory. And the Lord said, I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you and I will proclaim my name, the Lord, in your presence. I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy

stand on a rock. When my glory passes by, I'll put you in a cleft in the rock and cover you with my hand until I've passed by. Then I will remove my hand and you will see my back, but my face must not be seen. This is God's word. What's this about? This is about something the book of Acts tells us about in detail. This is about the need for revival. In other words, this passage teaches us about the continual fact of spiritual deterioration and the continual need and the way for spiritual revival and rejuvenation. The word revival, you know, up here the word revival means a play or an artistic style that has fallen into disrepute or fallen out of usage, is brought back, and it's a hit again. That's a revival. In the South, if you're from the South, you probably have seen signs out front of little churches out on the country roads saying, one week of revival meetings. There's overlap between what I'm about to tell you and revival is and those words in a sense. But historically, the word revival has been used by Christians to describe a restoration, a rejuvenation out of a condition of spiritual deadness and decay. Now, this passage, first of all, teaches us why we need continual revival. And secondly, what revival is, why we need revival, what revival is, and then how to get revival. in your life, and in the church. What, pardon me, why, what, and how? And we're going to look at it this weekend, next week. Can't do it all tonight. But first of all, this passage teaches us why we continually need revival. You see, it says in verse 1, 2, and 3, God says, you're a stiff-necked people. I can't go up in your midst because of your stiff-neckedness. Now, what is he referring to? He's referring to what happened in Exodus 32, which I couldn't read because it would have been so long. Exodus 32 is a very famous episode. Moses and God bring the children of Israel out of Egypt through many mighty acts, the plagues, the parting of the Red Sea, and so on. And the people are rejoicing that they have such a redemptive God and such a powerful God. But when they get to Mount Sinai in the desert, Moses says, wait here. And he goes up into the mountain to get the law of God, the guidelines by which the people are going to live with God. Now, he's up there for days and days and days. He goes up and he disappears. And on the mountain descends clouds and darkness and thunders and lightning. And so for days upon days upon days, the people of Israel dwell in the shadows under this mountain, you see, burning and smoking and trembling and splintering. And he never comes back. And they begin to get confused. And they begin to get afraid. And finally, we're told in Exodus 32, it says they finally went to Aaron. The brother of Moses. And they said, when the people saw that Moses was so long in coming gathered around Aaron and they said, come, let us make gods who will go before us. As for this fellow Moses, we don't know what has happened to him. And they press Aaron to make a golden calf and they begin to worship the golden calf. And what you have here is one of the most famous examples of spiritual backsliding we ever have. Here's a group of people that have just seen God do great actions and they come through the Red Sea and they rejoice in their God. and within a very short amount of time, suddenly they've rejected God. They've gone from being spiritually hot to being freezing cold. And God says as a result, I can't be with these people anymore. Now, what's the first thing we're taught here? The first thing we're taught here is that we're no different than this. Now, I know if this is the only passage we had in the Bible, we wouldn't know that, but you have the book of the Acts and the New Testament. I'm trying to say this is a vivid picture, but we're told everywhere. the first thing we learn here is that no matter how strong your experience of God is, no matter how close you think you've gotten to him, no matter how spiritually hot you are, you cool off. You lose touch. We have a tendency to deteriorate spiritually. In other words, if you look at the Israelites tonight and you look and say, what idiots? How could anybody forget the Red Sea? I mean, I just saw it in a movie, you know, and there was, Well, if it actually happened to me, how in the world could I have forgotten that? How could they do that? If I had gone through that, if I had seen those things, I would never get doubtful. I would never get spiritually cold. I would never get confused. I would never turn away. If you feel superior to the Israelites tonight,

not only don't you know your own heart, but I go this far. I'll say you are either not a Christian or you're brand new. Because real Christians, have found themselves to be in the same place. They have been in positions where they've said, I can never doubt again. I'll never do that again. I can't imagine doubting. I can't imagine being away from him. I can't imagine disobeying. Sometimes you're so close to him. Sometimes he's so real to you. You say all those things and you find, if you've been a Christian for any length of time at all, you do the same thing. And you can't believe it. now that's what this passage teaches us years ago i read a book written in the 1840s by a british minister guy named octavius winslow believe it or not and the name of the book was even more interesting it was called the personal declension and revival of religion in the soul and he said something right in the beginning which i'm going to read to you now, it's in British, so it needs to be translated. Let me read it to you, and then I'll translate immediately. Now, listen carefully. There is no essential element in divine grace that can secure it from the deepest declension. We tend to deify the graces of the Spirit, thinking of the faith and love in us as though they were essentially omnipotent. And though they are divine in origin, they have no self-supporting power, but they need constant communications of life and nourishment from Jesus. The very moment of their being left to their inherent strength is the very moment of their certain declension and decay. Now here's what he's saying. It struck me then, and this is exactly what's being taught here. When you first meet Christ, when you first have an experience of Christ, you really have no idea about this. Winslow was saying, the minute you rest as if that experience in your life. It's been permanently installed. It's just going to be there. I can turn it on when I want to. The minute you stop giving utmost attention to your relationship with God is the minute it begins to decay. Well, we were fortunate enough in July to go on a vacation and get to the Rocky Mountains, and we were up high enough that every night it got into the 30s. Sorry. And eat your heart out, right? Every night it got into the 30s. And at least two or three mornings, I would get up trying to pray and study the Bible, and I couldn't do it. I had to build a fire in the cabin, and I did. One of the things I noticed is the wood up there is great. It goes up very fast, incredible fires, because the wood isn't green. It's just ready to go up. But in a sense, the higher goes. The better the wood, the faster it needs to be tended. It needs to at least be stirred, and fuel needs to be thrown on there all the time. And we're not used to that. We're used to furnaces with thermostats. We're used to setting a thermostat. Automatically, when it gets cold, the thermostat, the furnace kicks on. That's not the same thing with a fire. Not with a wood fire. You have to constantly take care of it, or else it burns down and you lose it. And you sometimes have to start all over. Listen. Winslow is saying, the Bible is saying, your spiritual experience of God is not like a furnace on a thermostat. It's like a fire. And it is inevitable that when you begin in the Christian life, you have no idea how deep is the spiritual entropy in your heart. You have no idea how fast it's going to burn down. And you're shocked to find yourself almost having to start from scratch. Nobody tends it like they should, see? That's why Winslow is able to say they have no self-supporting power. They need constant communications of life and nourishment from Jesus. And the moment of their being left to their inherent strength is the very moment of their certain declension and decay. The reason I think this is a very important thing to bring up is Redeemer is a fairly new church. We'll celebrate our sixth anniversary, I guess, in a month. And there's an awful lot of people that have been Christians for brief periods of time. One thing I know about kids, kids don't realize how much attention a fire needs. They get the fire up and they're excited about it and they think it's like on a thermostat. It's not. Next thing you know, they've gone off to do their own thing. They haven't watched the fire and it's burned down. They've got to start over. We're the same way. And if you have been a Christian at all for any length of time, you know what this means. William Cowper, who's one of the greatest hymn writers, he wrote in the 18th century. Here's one of his hymns. It was never put to music, as far as I know, and here's why. It's just, it's too honest. Listen, here's how the hymn goes. Where is the blessing I knew when I first saw the Lord? Where is the soul-refreshing view of Jesus and his word? I hear, but seem to hear in vain, insensible as steel. If aught is felt, tis only pain to find I cannot feel. What peaceful hours I once enjoyed, how sweet their memory still, have left an aching void the world can never fill. Now, do you know what he's talking about? If you don't know what he's talking about, that probably means you never had an experience of God. You never felt the love of God really on your heart because when that happens, you're almost always sure that it's got a staying power it doesn't have, almost like it's magic as we deify it. We think of it as having sort of a divinity of its own. No, it's from the divinity, but it's not divinity. And we have a tendency to not realize just how much we have to tend it, and it decays. And that's the way we feel. Where is the blessing I knew when first I saw the Lord? Where is the soul-refreshing view of Jesus and his word? Now, the reason I'm saying this is to try to encourage a number of people. So let me apply this to a couple of groups of folks. First, before we move What then is revival? See, I've just tried to show you. We have to understand this. Spiritual entropy. You need to know about it. You know the second law of thermodynamics? The second law of thermodynamics is what? If you leave something to itself. When things are left to themselves. They go to more and more disorder and randomness. Right? They run down. The second law of thermodynamics. Well, this is the law of pneumodynamics. The law of spiritual dynamics. The same thing. thing. You will burn down so fast unless you're constantly stirring the fire and throwing fuel on. Now, who needs to hear this? Everybody. Number one, some of you come in and you're saying, you know what? I'm sort of a searcher. I don't know if I'm a Christian. Maybe I'm a Christian, but I've never experienced God the way you seem to be talking. So this doesn't seem to have much to do with me. That's not true. Don't you see now? And won't you see as you listen to this week and hopefully next week too. Christianity is not just a round of rules and regulations. It's organic. It's a living thing. Being a Christian is not, oh, now I'm going to adopt a set of doctrines. I'm going to adopt a set of regulations. I'm going to live in a certain way. Christianity is a relationship. Christianity is an organic thing. Christianity is a living thing. I read a sociologist's work. Studied unchurched people. People who didn't like church and didn't want to come to church. And he asked them, give me three reasons that would, if they were true in the church, attract you back. Give me three things that might attract you back to church. And you know what the number one thing was? If a church could show me how to experience God. Number one thing that skeptical people, unchurched people, spiritually agnostic people said, if I knew the church could show me something about experiencing God, I'd be back. the Bible tells us that Christianity is a living thing. So watch, listen. Secondly, those of you who are brand new Christians, I just want you to be warned. You don't know yet the spiritual entropy in your heart, especially if you're brand new. And there's all this joy and all this love. My mother-in-law said she always wanted to write a book called How to Raise the First Kid Like the Fifth. She had five children, your first child you worry about all the time. Why is she crying? Oh my gosh. By the time you get to the fifth child, what do you do? You say, she'll live. And she wanted to read, you know, she wanted to write a book saying, you know, how to raise the first child like the fifth. Because she says, oh, you waste so much time worrying. How you can get over that and never go through all that worry and really be a relaxed parent from the beginning. You know what? That's impossible. possible. You've got to go through the worry. It's going to happen with your first child, no matter how much she writes books about it. But it's nice to know, at least, that everybody goes through it, that it's normal, that it's natural. It helps you navigate it. Same thing here. I don't think you're going to be able to keep the fire from burning down. You will get cold. You will start saying, sometimes the only thing I feel in prayer is the ache that I don't feel. Sometimes the only thing I feel. But when it does, realize the spiritual entropy is there in all of us, that it is there, there are ways out, it is natural, it's normal, don't be afraid. But here's the thing I want to say to those of you who are in this right now. You may be new Christians or you may be very embarrassed. You may have been Christians for a long time and you're spiritually dead. There's just a deadness in you. and as Kalper said, they have left, the experience of God has left an aching void the world can never fill, and you have an ache. Now, here's what I say to you. Keep listening. We're going to go on and do something about this. We're going to say, what did Moses do, what can we do? But let me encourage you. When William Kalper said, in the last line, he says, what peaceful hours I once enjoyed, how sweet their memory still, but they have left an aching void the world can never fill. What's so encouraging to me about Christianity, what's so unique and wonderful about it, look, they have left, the loss of the experience of God is left an aching void the world cannot fill. You can even tell a real Christian by your ache. When you burn down this low, it's natural to ask yourself, am I even a Christian at all? It's natural. In fact, it's probably inevitable. how I want to encourage you. The language of a real Christian heart is, I know what the world can give me. I know the thrills of the world. I know the thrills of sensual pleasure. I know the thrills of achievement. You know, of worldly acclaim. I know those things. And I know this. They can never give me what God gave me. You see? Here's the mark of a real Christian. A backslidden or cold Christian is far more miserable than a non-Christian. I'm not saying non-Christians don't need God, but they've never experienced God. God comes into the soul and he leaves incredible stretch marks. God comes into the soul, it leaves an aching void, it leaves this huge cavity, and you know what it was like to just give yourself to pleasure and just do whatever you wanted, And you know there's no way that those things can ever fill that aching void. And to even have that aching void, it's the aching void of a child of God. It's an aching void of a faithful person. You know, whenever I see somebody who got religious and goes back away from Christianity, goes back into the world, and seems to be living a fairly satisfied life, I know that person never met God. There's no aching void. void. If you're cold, but you ache, you're cold and sometimes you say, why not just throw myself back out in there? But you say, I know that would never satisfy me the way God satisfied me. You're a Christian. You're a miserable Christian. You know, listen, a Christian who is knowing God and a non-Christian who has no concept, they're both happier than you are. and there's only one way to go. Remember, Jesus says to Peter, Peter, will you also go away? And Peter says, Lord, and let me paraphrase. This is in John 6. He says, Lord, you are confusing. You are difficult. Lord, I can't understand a lot of things you do. Lord, right now I'm very, very even upset with you, but where else can we go? You have the words of eternal life. That's what a Christian says. hours, you see. I once knew. They've left an aching void the world can never fill. Now, everybody needs to apply that. Everybody. No matter who you are. But anyway, now next the question is, what is revival? What's revival? We said why we need it, but what is it? Let's get started on that. We've talked about what in the world are we talking about? What have we lost? What is the aching void from? What are we talking about? What does revival mean? And the simple answer, but let me show it to you, the simple answer is revival means getting a conscious sense of the presence of God back into your life, getting a sense of the glory of God. Revival is when the glory of God passes by, comes close. You don't see it all. You only see the back parts of it, but you see it. talking about? Well, take a look at, again, the text. Let me just make a reference here to it. It says in chapter 33, God comes and says, look, you are stiff-necked people, very stiff-necked people, so this is what I'm going to do. He says, leave this place and go to the land I promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I told them that I was going to give the land to your descendants, so I will. I will send an angel before you. I will drive out the Canaanites, go up to the land flowing with Now this is amazing. What a test. You know what God is saying? God says, I'm going to give you incredible success. I'm going to give you a land. I'm going to give you military success. I'll drive out the Canaanites before you. And I will give you economic success. It will be a land flowing with milk and honey. He says, I'm going to give you power and prosperity. I'm going to give you prestige. Your life is going to go great. There's only one thing. You won't have my presence. Don't have me. He says, only I will not. My presence will go before you, but it won't go with you. I will not go with you because you're a stiff-necked people. And you know what their response was? They might have been a stiff-necked people, but they were not spiritually blind. What does it say? When the people heard this, realize what they heard. Military power, economic success, great life. When they heard this, what does it say? They began to mourn. And they took off their ornaments. And they laid them down at Mount Horeb. Why? Here's why. God says, I'll give you my blessing. They were being promised God's support, God's power, God's help, God's succor, God's, you know, aid. But they were not promised God. Now, you want to know why this is such a stringent test? I know this is going to sound a little bit cynical. It's not at all. It's just going to sound that way, all right? This is like God coming to a church. Let's think of this corporately for a minute. Coming to a church and saying, you know what I'm going to do for you? I'm going to give you

fast-growing attendance. I'm going to give you lots of money pouring in. I'm going to give you great numbers. I'm going to give you prestige in the city. Everybody will want to come. You won't even know what to do with all the people. So I'm going to give you great numbers and money and people and activities and all that. There's only one thing. You won't have my presence. Oh, the services will be very exciting. They'll be like a football game. They'll be like a great concert. Excellent music. You know, great rhetoric. All kinds of wonderful stuff. Everybody will get excited, but my presence won't be there. Now, the reason this is such a stringent test is because the average church would not know the difference. And here's why. Because people equate a good life with the presence of God. In other words, if my life is going good, if I'm getting the blessings, if the crops are coming in, if my standard of living is going up, if my prayers are being answered, I must have the presence of God. And these are people who have no concept of revival. Because when it comes to God, what do you want from God, for goodness sakes? You want Him to answer your prayers. You want to be able to have a clear conscience. You want to know how you should be walking. You want a moral code to do it. And you want to sense His protection. And you want to see His prosperity. God says, I'll give you all that. give you me. And the average person equates the two things. They think a life going well is having God with you. But this passage teaches us it's not. And even the Israelites, the stiff-necked Israelites, the jerks who forgot about the Red Sea that quick, they knew. They realized what revival, they needed revival. They realized it. And here's what revival is. God is a living God. God of the Bible is not a God of the rationalists, just a concept. And it's not a God of the mystics, just a kind of vague mystical experience. Our God is a living God. There is a personal presence. And when his personal presence comes down, you know it. And that is what they wanted. That's what Moses asked for. That's what the people mourned after. They recognized that they had to have it. This is what they lacked. This is what they had to get back. And this is what they went after. is. It's a consciousness of the presence of God, the personal presence of a supernatural, transcendent person in the midst. We're told in the Bible that you can be a skeptic, you can be agnostic, and when it happens, you know it. 1 Corinthians 14 says, if a skeptic or an unbeliever comes in and they sense the presence of God, the secrets of their heart will be revealed. They'll fall down on the floor and they will confess that God is truly here. This is not just an intellectual thing. This is a sense of the presence of God. The people of Israel knew it. They wanted it. They said, this is the ultimate. This is the thing I've got to have. This is the thing we've got to have. And as I just said, the average person has no sense of it. The average church person, the average church has no sense of it. But I want you to have a sense of it. I want you to hunger after it like Moses did. I want you to see what is possible. I want you to see what is available. That's what it's teaching. Now, somebody says, this isn't quite specific enough. I want a little more information. What do you mean by the presence of God? I mean, what is it? And I'm glad you asked me that question because the passage tells you. You see, a lot of people, when they think of the presence of God, they think of something, they just think of kind of the creeps. There is Rudolf Otto, of religion studied the experience of people in all sorts of religions, and he describes something called numinous awe. Isn't that a great word? Numinous awe. N-U-M-I-N-O-U-S, awe. In the presence of something that's holy, in the presence of something that's great, it's sort of goose flesh on the back of your neck, in the presence of the supernatural. It's sort of a general kind of feeling of the creeps. And you know, that's not what we're talking about here. When Moses says, your glory. God says, now look, do you remember what he said? That's the part that's actually printed, okay? When Moses said, show me your glory, what God says is, I will cause all my goodness to pass in front of you, and I will proclaim my name, the Lord, in your presence, and I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy. What is he saying? Moses said, I want your glory. God says, I will pass my goodness before you. You know what he's going on? Let me tell you what the presence of God is. To experience the presence of God means it's not just an abstract idea, nor is it a kind of general numinous feeling. It's a revelation of the character of God. Always. To experience the presence of God means something about God. A truth about his character. It could be his goodness. It could be his wisdom. It could be his holiness. It could be his love. It could be his mercy. It passes by. It bears down on you. you. It might have just been a conception, but now it comes down upon you. It bears on your soul and it melts you. Isaiah 64. Here's Isaiah praying and he says, oh Lord, that you would rend the heavens and come down, that the mountains would melt at your presence. Here is how you know that you're in the presence of God, that you're near his face. He comes down and you melt. Look, You have worry. Mountains of worry. And I say to you, well, you know, I talk to you. I'm your pastor, let's say. And I say, well, you know, God is wise. God knows what he's doing. You say, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, I mean, you try to be polite. It doesn't help. But when God comes down, when his wisdom passes by, even when you see the back parts, it means his wisdom becomes a reality. And the mountains of worry, I don't care how high those mountains are. They melt. When God came down on Mount Sinai, melted. My family and I were around a bunch of 14,000 foot mountains. There's nothing more massive, nothing more permanent looking than that. When God came down on a little thing like a huge mountain, the mountain splintered and shook and melted. And that's how you know when the wisdom of God comes down, when the glory of God comes down, the mountains melt. You change. You know you've seen the Lord. It's happened to you. Do you understand that? Do you see that? Now,

there's one more thing we've got to do, but I have to wrap up. This is available. This is possible. Now, somebody says, I can't believe you're going to get me to this place. You're going to show that, you've helped me see that really I have wound down. You're helping me see it. Do you see the spiritual entropy in your life? Christian friends, do you see that your prayer life is fairly barren? There's not a spiritual give and take. The reality of God hasn't been there in a long time. Do you see that? Do you realize how it deteriorates? Do you now see that you've sort of settled for a very little? You've settled for ashes. You've settled for nothing. Do you see what's available to you? Do you see what Moses comes after? I'm trying to get you to see it. And you say, now, you mean next week you're going to talk about how to seek this? That's not quite fair. All right. Then let me just give you a little foretaste. Let me just run it down. Just enough. First of all, notice what they did do. Next week we'll expound on it. Number one. First. They took off their ornaments. When I was sick. I got so sick. During my vacation. That I really. Couldn't do anything. But ordinarily. What happens. When I get sick. Is. I refuse. To stay home. A lot. Of you. Are like that. Too. You go. To work. You do. All your. Things. You don't. Want. To let. A little. Thing. Like. Getting. Sick. And a. Fever. You. Don't. To. Get. In. Your. Way. And. Finally. If. a wise friend. Your friend comes to you and says, you know what? Your number one priority tomorrow should be to get better. Stay home. You're getting worse and worse and worse. It's dragging on forever. Stay home. Don't comb your hair. Don't put on your makeup. Don't even get dressed. Stay in bed. Your number one priority is to get well. Because all the other things you're doing are not being done very well. You've got to get well first. By putting getting well down the line, everything is suffering. You many of you are spiritually barren and dry. You need to not put on your ornaments. That means you need to see that this is the number one priority it should be in my life. This is the thing I've got to do something about. I'm trying to get I'm trying to say well I'll get to it someday. Maybe something will happen. Maybe I need to really work at my quiet times. You need to say I need a fresh touch of God. the presence of God in my life. Mourn. Take off your ornaments. Secondly, Moses refused to give up. The first sign of spiritual deterioration is that you're satisfied with where you are right now. You know, God comes to Moses and says in verses one, two, and three, I, he says, will not go up with you. I'll send my angel. And what does Moses say? not good enough. I want more. I want you to dwell in our midst. So after all this praying, you get up to verse 17 and God says, okay, I hear your prayer. I will dwell in your midst. And you know what Moses says then? Not good enough yet. He says, I want more now. Show me your glory. story. Moses is an indictment on all of us. Moses is the only example I can give you of spiritual health. You know how you know you're spiritually healthy? You're absolutely dissatisfied with your spiritual health. You want more. In other words, you know what? Moses, his fire's all right. His fire's up, but he's unsatisfied with it. You know why? He has a fire that's kind of going along Yes, his prayer life is good enough to keep himself warm, but that's not good enough. He wants to be so spiritually hot that the whole world is warmed by it. He says, I want you to be so real in my life. I want you to have such a strong taste and experience of your glory that the world will know that we are your people. He is absolutely famished for the glory of God. And you need, I'm very convicted that the biggest thing, the greatest sin in my life right now is my faint desires for the glory of God. You need to think about that. You need to say, Lord, I need to repent for my lack of desire for you. One last thing, and that is that Moses built a tabernacle outside the camp. Did you notice that? We'll talk about that next week. God says, I'm not going to dwell in the midst. I can't come in there. My holiness will consume you. can't come into the midst of the tent. So you know what Moses does? He builds a tabernacle outside the camp and he goes to meet God out there. Now, I'll tell you, I don't know how many people have said to me, you know, I don't pray even right now because I'm so spiritually barren. I get nothing out of it. I get nothing. I get so little out of it. Boy, are you a child of your times? I don't feel like it, so I'm not going to do it. My dear friends, if God just gives you a little, you take it. If God says, I won't meet you here, I'll only meet you out there, you go and you sit down. You left the tent. Moses went out to see God. Joshua lived there. You sit down and you say, I'm going to pray. I'm going to get very little out of it until God comes down. I'm going to pray. I'm going to go outside. I'm going to take what God gives me. Take off your ornaments. Ask for the glory of God. Go outside the tabernacle. But boy, let me tell you, don't be too upset. Don't be too discouraged. This morning as I was having a quiet time, Psalm 27, there's a line where David says, O heart, God has said to you, seek my face. Therefore, O Lord, thy face I do seek. If you are seeking, if tonight you're stirred by what I'm saying, if you feel any kind of desire for the glory of God. The Bible tells us that's God seeking you, speaking to your heart. You would not seek his face unless God was speaking to your heart. He is working on you, or you wouldn't even be upset. He'll come down. You can't tell him how much. You can't tell him the degree to which you're going to experience his glory. That's up to him. But he will come. Him who cometh to me, he says, I will in no wise cast out. and that's why William Cowper finally says, and this is what I want you to pray, between now and next week, would you? William Cowper has a great place where he continues, and he says, Return, O holy dove, return, sweet messenger of rest. I hate the sins that made thee mourn and drove thee from my breast. The dearest idol, I have known. What e'er that idol be, help me to tear it from thy throne and worship only thee. Let's pray. Father, first of all, a recognition of where we are spiritually dry. Some of us are even in denial about that. Secondly, help us to see what's available to us. Help us to give up our small ambitions, our small spiritual ambitions. Help us to see what's available. Help us to see what's possible. And then lastly, oh Lord, show us your glory. Oh Father, make us audacious in asking and seeking for that. Because that makes you audacious in coming down into our midst. Oh, Lord God, rend the heavens and come down. May the mountains melt at thy presence. We pray this through Jesus in his name. Amen.