We are, again, really excited to offer this class. We did it last year, and it was a great hit. So really thankful for Tim to be here and give his time. And we're glad you guys can make it, too. So with that, I'll turn it over to him. You will. All right.

Well, let's see. OK.

Hope you like your tea. just remember that English breakfast is richer and Irish breakfast is tangier and Darjeeling is lighter and Earl Grey has oil of bergamot and I forget about Ceylon so you'll want to go back and get the other five after having used the one

let's see how many of you have read the Lord of the Rings, the whole thing, the books I know. Put your hands up higher, please. So I see. How many of you haven't read the books? Okay. There's actually about half. 40%. How many of you have seen the movies? Okay. Put your hands down. Has anybody not seen the movies or read the books? Okay. You haven't seen the movies? But you read the books. Yeah. Well, you have the best.

Actually, somebody's going to ask me about this. in about 30 or 40 minutes, giving you a talk on why Tolkien is important from a Christian perspective. How Tolkien helps us understand Christianity better and how Tolkien helps us understand how to be Christians better. That's what I'm here to talk to you about. On the other hand, there's so much to say that I really do have to be careful to let you get want. And last year, we had twice as much time of discussion and questions and answers than just me talking. And from what I can remember, the discussion was better than the talk, because you got out of me what you wanted instead of me guessing what you want. On the other hand, I've got to give a talk because there's a whole lot of stuff that you probably wouldn't even know to ask.

So let me answer a couple questions right off that you're going to ask me later. First of all, that I liked the movies. I liked each one less. The first movie was truest to the book. The second one was less true. The third one, you know, Peter Jackson is really good, but he loves, he just basically, he makes horror flicks. And so he just let himself get carried away. If people say, how many times have you read The Lord of the Rings? The answer is, I never stop reading them. That is to say, I'm always reading them. And I'm always reading the other books too that he's And even the books that he never wrote, but his son Christopher put together from unpublished writings. I'm always going through the cycle. So if somebody says, well, how many times have you been through it? And I would say 20, 30, 40, I don't know, at least. So I never, and I owe Tolkien and his friend C.S. Lewis a debt I couldn't possibly repay. And actually, it's relatively infrequent, I think, that I say, I use a Tolkien reference in a sermon anymore. I used to use a lot more. Before the movies came out, I used to use it a lot. Afterwards, it just seemed a little bit too pop culture-y. And also, you don't want to bore people. But my wife actually hears Tolkien references in the sermon almost every week. If you're really, really smart, you hear them. I don't mean references. It means echoes of statements, echoes of language, echoes of ideas and concepts. But let me give you some background about how the Lord of the Rings and Tolkien's work developed, and then a series of things that I think, a series of things I owe Tolkien for helping me understand Christianity. So I'm going to give you a series of things that Tolkien sheds light on in Christianity, but first, how the books came about. about. J.R. Tolkien and his friend C.S. Lewis were Oxford faculty members. They were Oxford – he was a professor, Lewis never made professor at Oxford, he made professor at Cambridge later on. And they were very close friends and they got together and they influenced each other. You might want to know that Lewis, when it comes to fiction writing, Lewis was much more influenced by Tolkien than Tolkien by Lewis. Lewis got most of his ideas, I think, for his fiction from Tolkien. Tolkien kind of noticed that, I think, and was grumpy about it. Lewis loved The Lord of the Rings, but you should know Tolkien hated the Narnia Chronicles. Hated them with a passion. You want to know more about that? I'll tell you later. But he didn't like them. He thought they were too obvious. He didn't like allegory. you know the christian truths are deeply embedded in tolkien stuff like a tapestry so that you read it and it baptizes your imagination but doesn't hit you over the head with it really affects you the way fiction literature ought to affect it baptizes your imagination but doesn't sort of argue with you at the appear at the more conscious level see in tolkien in lewis who's aslan he's He's Jesus, of course. It's so easy to see. And all the Christian symbolism is just too overt for Tolkien. And I think he's right about that, basically. The one thing that is most important to know is that Tolkien and Lewis did not like modern literature at all. And they got together and they said, we've got to create a new tradition, a new literary tradition. And Tolkien basically did it. when Tolkien's book, Lord of the Rings, came out in the early 50s, you've got to keep no idea, probably now, how absolutely unique it was. There was nothing like it. Nothing like it had been written about 500 years. There was nothing like it being produced. So you walk into a Barnes & Noble now and you have your modern literature and your classical literature and you have your fantasy literature. But Tolkien and Lewis created that, that whole section of Barnes & Noble. There wasn't anything like that.

literature, which was based on T.S. Eliot and Virginia Woolf and Ezra Pound and people like that, modern literature believed the important thing was the individual and to be authentic. It believed in realism. It believed in the blurring of moral categories. It was considered that's the adult. It hated happy endings. And it had completely dominated the field when Tolkien and Lewis were young scholars coming up in the 20s, 30s, 40s, 50s. And when The Lord of the Rings came out, it was an absolute shock to everybody. Everybody. W.H. Alden, who of course is one of the great poets in history, said it was as great as Paradise Lost. almost everybody else hated it. And the reason was, it was an epic romance. It's the sort of thing that just wasn't written anymore. It was an epic, it wasn't just talking about alienated, unhappy, morally ambiguous people, but instead it was talking about good and evil, it was sweeping. And most of all, people allowed books like this to be written if they were children's books. But The Lord of the Rings by no means was a children's book. It and here's the reasons why. I mean, people still think of it that way. In fact, when Ian McKellen was being interviewed before the first of the movies came out, Ian McKellen, who played Gandalf, he was being interviewed by Deborah Solomon in New York Times Magazine before the first movie came out, and he's a very serious Shakespearean actor type person. And Deborah Solomon says, it's kind of strange for a person of your caliber to be dressing up in costume for a movie for 10-year-old boys. And Ian McKellen said, this is not a children's movie. This is not a children's book. What are you talking about? Because the average sort of modern, sophisticated secular person thinks that as soon as you talk about elves and dragons and all that, that's kids' stuff. That's not realism. And Tolkien said, I'm going to write you an adult book. Now, here's why it was adult. Number one, it's violent. Number two, it's thick, and by thick it means, every fiction writer has to work to create a sense of reality, it's gotta make you believe, the reader, that the world he or she is describing is real, right? You gotta, it's a fiction, but you gotta create the aura of reality. No one had ever done it like Tolkien had done it, no one, do you have any idea the depths to which he goes? Do you know, for him to get ready, for example, you remember in Lord of the Rings, one of the things that Frodo and Sam get the elves waybred to eat on the way, it's called Lembas. Do you know, most of this stuff was never put into print. Do you know, in order to make sure that he had an idea of what Lembas really was, so he was using it consistently inside the book, he wrote an encyclopedia article on it, just for himself. Five pages, just like something you'd read in a dictionary, where it was, what it consisted of, and when it was used, and for what holidays it was used, and how it was wrapped, and all that stuff. stuff. I've never got in the book. He did this for everything. There are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of pages of back stuff. Nobody had ever created such a realistic fictional world before. So it was violent. It was thick. Number three, its plot is very convoluted and complicated. There's several things happening at once. So it's a very, very difficult plot to actually even follow. But number four, all the characters are complex. Modern people don't, they say they don't like things like Tolkien and Lewis. They don't like them because it's all about good and evil. That's right. And therefore you've got good people and you've got bad people. And the good people are really good and the bad people are really bad. And that is not true. Not at all. What is so nuanced about Tolkien is on the one hand you've got what you

You know, live free or die hard. Have you seen it? It's a cartoon. And the bad people are just so awful that you want to see them killed. You want to see, you know, freeways dropped on them. And you cheer. Because it's cartoon. So you have cartoon, melodramatic literature, in which the good people are really good and the bad people are really bad. Then you have modern literature, in which everybody is ambiguous and who's to say what is right or wrong. and the anti-tradition that he created. And what Tolkien was giving you was, on the one hand, good and evil are absolute values, and they are fixed, and they are clear. But no individual is good or evil, but a mixture. And that's the reason why you've got, if you think about this, you've got Boromir, Saruman, Theoden, Denethor, Gollum, and even Sauron, who start off really, really, really, really, really good. They all start off really good. And they go evil. And Gollum kind of comes back at one point, or almost. I'll get to that if you ask me more about that. Boromir does come back, just in time. Theoden just comes back. Saruman doesn't come back. On the other hand, you have Frodo, who's teetering in this direction. Everybody's a mixture of good and evil. All the characters are very, very, very complicated. This is not cartoon. This is not children's stuff. Then, the most important thing about The Lord of the Rings is it is overwhelmed with a melancholy sadness. One of the problems, I think, about the movies that's not completely true to the book is the fact that the book is a sad book. The book is basically saying everything is really sad.

Here's what the book says are the possibilities. possibilities. Lord of the Rings says, on the one hand, evil might triumph and good be destroyed, or good might triumph and be forever diminished, and evil will just regroup to come back again. And that's your only two options. And, you know, early on in the book, Frodo has a conversation with Gildor the Elf, because the Black Riders are after him right in the shire, and he says in the book, I can't believe that in my own shire, my own homeland, I'd be hunted by these evil beings. And Gildor says, the shire is not your own shire. Others were here before hobbits were, and others will be here after hobbits are gone. And he says, you can fence yourself in from the wide world, but you cannot forever fence it out. and when Lewis wrote, when C.S. Lewis wrote his review of Lord of the Rings, this is back in 1954, he said, and I think this is right, almost the central theme of the Lord of the Rings is the hobbits' terrifying discovery that the routine happiness which they had taken for granted as something normal is in reality a sort of local and temporary accident. Even victory is transitory and comes only at enormous cost of things that are lost forever the book in the end leaves a final impression of profound melancholy. And that's true. There's nothing upbeat about the book, really. There are these moments of incredible joy and incredible victory, but overwhelmingly, you lose everything. Everything is being lost, one thing after another. And this isn't a kid's book. It's an epic romance, but it's complicated. And yet it wasn't modern, because there was no real blurring of moral categories. And there wasn't just focus on your navel and the individual and authenticity. It was really a bolt out of the blue, and it's really changed modern literature. Very, very interesting. And actually, Lewis and Tolkien, who were two Christian scholars who sat around and spent years and years talking about how they could do it, and they actually did pull it off.

Let me just say one other thing about how the... You know, like I just said, my talk here is how this developed and then what it teaches us about Christianity. But let me tell you something else about how it developed that you might not know. One of the reasons why Lord of the Rings, as a book, you know, I told you it started another tradition. You go into Barnes & Noble and there's tons and tons of fantasy literature. And some of it's pretty good. Some of it's terrible. But nothing is like Lord of the Rings. Not even Narnia is like Lord of the Rings. None of the rest of it feels as real or as thick. You know, the names always seem made up. But what's weird about Tolkien's names is they don't seem made up. They seem real. And here's the reason why. Right? There's a guy named Tom Shippey, a British professor of Old English, Anglo-Saxon, who now teaches at St. Louis University, wrote a book seven, eight years ago now called J.R.R. Tolkien, Author of the Century, which is really pretty interesting. And in it he actually said that because of the way in which people were educated earlier, he says probably people like Tolkien and Lewis, scholars today are so specialized, in other words, they're so specialized, there's probably nobody in the world today who knows as much about ancient northern European culture, languages, and history as Tolkien. Tolkien was, you can call it fluent. Tolkien knew Old English, which is Anglo-Saxon. He knew Welsh and Gaelic. He knew Finnish.

And he also knew Old Norse, Old Icelandic, Old French, Old German, and Gothic. In other words, he knew not only all the... And of course he knew French and German and Dutch. He knew all northern European languages. very well. But he also knew the forebears. In other words, he was fascinated with how language got to be what it was. He was fascinated with what was this word like 2,000 years ago and where did it come from? And he just knew everything about this stuff. And the thing that bothered him more than anything else was that unlike the Mediterranean cultures, because they were in warmer climates, so much of Egyptian culture and Greek culture, culture has survived. We know what the language was like 2,000 or 3,000 years ago. We know what the myths and the legends and the imaginative world of those cultures were, but we don't have much at all in the North. And it's partly because the climate was such, and of course you could say they were more primitive, and we could argue about what primitive means, but there was more oral tradition as opposed to writing things in stone and that sort of thing. And as a result,

we really don't know what English was like 2,000 years ago, like we know about Greek. And we know very, very, very little about the imaginative worlds. In the 19th century, the Finns went into a kind of archaeological dig and they went back into the oral tradition and they put together the Kaliwala, which was a kind of, in other words, the Germans did the same thing, Hans Christian Andersen, the Grimm brothers, I mean. Hans Christian Andersen did it with the Danish stuff. And in the 19th century, lots of people made an effort to go back at least into the German, into the Scandinavian, into the Finnish background, and try to find, they found old people in the 1830s and 1840s who were just about dead, who still remembered many of the fairy, what we would call fairy tales. And the fairy tales had come down from epics and legends way, way, way back, and it was the last thing we knew of this imaginary world. left of the Anglo-Saxon imaginary world. And that bothered Tolkien very much because the Normans could come in and kind of wiped out. And we don't really know. And so, for example, Tolkien was fascinated because in the English language and in Old English, in the Anglo-Saxon language, there were all kinds of words that nobody knew where they'd come from. There clearly was a history to them. So, for example, elf. This is one of the things he was most fascinated with. The modern idea of elf that had come down to us by the 18th, 19th, 20th century, where elves were little pixies. I remember coming out of the first Lord of the Rings movie with a friend of mine. I won't say who she was. And she was having trouble following the whole movie. She hadn't read the books. And she came out and she said, okay, let me get this straight. Elves aren't small? Somewhere near the end, she suddenly figured out, wait a minute, that can't be elves. and elves make cookies, and elves help Santa. But you know what? Tolkien had this horde of words in Anglo-Saxon, which clearly showed that elves were understood as being beings of great wisdom and beauty. So, for example, you know the word Alfred? Is there anybody here who's named Alfred? No Alfreds? Okay. Alf is the old English word for elf, and read, one's read was one's counsel. and Alfred means elven wise, as wise as an elf, elven wise.

And there are other words we've got that actually mean as beautiful as an elf. In fact, one of the main words in Anglo-Saxon, in Old English, for beauty actually meant as beautiful as an elf. So here comes Tolkien, and he's sitting there, and see, this is not just, the Lord of the Rings was not something he did just in his spare time, because over here was his real work as being a scholar of language and philosophy and culture, and over here he was just writing kids' stories. He sat around and said, well, clearly we have no stories, we have no legends, we have no works that really tell us what elves were understood to be 3,000 years ago, but these words come down to us, and they're evidence that there must have been some marvelous stories and legends about elves that are completely gone. So here's another example. In Snorri Sturluson's, Snorri Sturluson was a Christian, a 13th century Icelandic Christian, who wrote down many of the old Icelandic legends and put it into a book called, it's called The Prose Edda. And it was actually lost until the 19th century and they found it in an Icelandic farmhouse or something like that. and Snorri Sturluson had, he recorded a very, very ancient account, what's called the, it's called the Account of the Elves, I mean of the Dwarves, and it's all about dwarves. And it has the names of dwarves in ancient legend. It doesn't tell us the stories, it just gives us the names. But in the middle of all the, these dwarf names, like Bifer, Bofur, Bomber, things like that, is the word Gandalf. Okay, found in this 13th century, you know, even in the 13th century, these legends were so old that nobody remembered what the stories were behind the names.

The word Gandalf means an elf with a wand or an elf with a staff. It means a staff elf, an elf with a staff. Why would there be a dwarf named an elf with a staff? So obviously, Gandalf wasn't a dwarf. dwarf. Gandalf was a wizard leading a group of dwarfs. Now this is only a very, very, very, very world-class linguistic scholar would be sitting around thinking about these sorts of things. And what he did was, but he was doing archaeology. For example, here's another thing. He was reading an old Anglo-Saxon poem. And one day, he was a young man when it happened, at one point he comes upon a wonderful line that has a proper name in the middle of it that nobody knows how to translate. And here's how the line goes. Hail Arendelle, brightest of angels, high above Middle Earth, sent unto men. This is in this Anglo-Saxon poem. Hail Arendelle, brightest of angels, high above Middle Earth, sent unto men.

around and said, what does that mean? There was a legend behind it. There were stories behind it. There was a whole imaginative world behind it. And it's lost to us. And so what he did was he did two things. He began to imagine what those stories would be. He began to imagine an ancient mythology, a lost ancient mythology for northern European cultures. The Greeks had theirs. The Indians had theirs. The Chinese had theirs. There was all kinds of stuff. But they lost it. So he imagined what it would be like.

loved imagining what language would be like long ago. What would Welsh have looked like? He loved Welsh. What would Welsh have looked like 5,000 years ago? Because he knew something about how words changed. I mean, you can look at Greek from 4,000 years ago, you know, or I guess 3,000, right? And you can look at a word and say, what does that word look like now? So he studied that. He was a philologist. That was his job. So he would sit around and he said he loved Finnish. He loved old English. He loved Welsh. And what he did was he imagined, what would these languages have looked like 5,000, 6,000 years ago? And he was so fascinated, he worked those things out. And guess what? Finnish, 5,000 or 6,000 years ago, became Kenya, which is the high Elven tongue. and Welsh, going back 5 or 6,000 years,

was Sindarin, which is the grey elf talk. In other words, there's two elven languages that he created. And then he created a language for the common speech and he created some dwarvish language and that sort of thing. And then what he did, he created languages based on real languages scrolled back 5 or 6,000 years. And then when he thought of... You and I have a tendency to say, I'm going to write a story, and I think about a beautiful princess, and I think about an evil villain. I have to give them names. That's not how Tolkien did it. Tolkien came up with names and then thought about what would the character look like who had that name. The other way around. He came up with a word, and then he thought out the story. He didn't think out the story and then stick names on it. And that's the reason why, when you read The Lord of the Rings, it's different than any other fiction or any other fantasy that's ever been there. For example, Mordor. It comes from the Anglo-Saxon way, way, way, way, way back. That means to devastate or kill, from which we get our word murder. But it has an impact on you because, you see, it's part of your collective unconsciousness, at least if you know English. But he didn't just work with English. He was working with Finnish. And, by the way, Finnish is related to Korean. Do you all know that? I don't know if you knew that. But no, Finnish is not an Indo-European language. It's not related to English. It's much more related to Asian languages. And he knew all this stuff, and he worked with all this stuff. And out of this comes The Lord of the Rings. And that's the reason why nobody, unless they know as much about... Nobody, unless they're world-class scholars about the structure of language and ancient cultures and ancient languages, nobody will ever write something like The Lord of the Rings again. Isn't that interesting? Because of that knowledge, because of that archaeological project, as it were, because he tried to do it directly in the face of modern literature, Lord of the Rings is an amazing accomplishment. It's an amazing accomplishment. Now, that would be true even if the guy wasn't a Christian. Excuse me, tea, not talking. Tea, not talking, now tea, okay. But the second thing I want to talk to you about is the fact that this is what I get from Tolkien that's helped me understand my own faith. And also helped me communicate my faith because I'm a preacher. I think there's seven of them. And when I get to the end, I'm going to show you that these things are so deeply embedded in The Lord of the Rings. These are Christian ideas. in the Lord of the Rings, that if you read them, as millions of people are, they actually create a kind of imaginative and mental furniture on which you can build a Christian faith. People who have been immersed in this have got the basics for Christian faith, whether they actually overtly believe in Christianity or not. Now, you do have to overtly believe. I don't believe there's such a thing as an unconscious Christian. But what he's actually doing is he's working on your collective unconscious, subconscious, you might say, your imagination. Now, here's the seven things. Number one, if you were here yesterday, or I mean literally here, if you were at a church service at Redeemer yesterday, you heard me say something about this. Number one, Tolkien gets across the fact that evil and sin has an idolatrous form. You might have heard me say this yesterday. Tolkien believed that the ring, the ring of power, operates like an idol.

Do you notice that when Galadriel gets near the ring, she's tempted. The ring says, I'll make you omnipotently beautiful.

When Gollum gets near the ring, he fantasizes about eating fish from the sea every day. When Sam gets near the ring, he fantasizes about being the ultimate gardener, mortar into a garden. When Gandalf gets near it, he talks about finally righting what's wrong with the world, you know, being a finally just ordering things and making things work the way they ought to work. Because what the ring of power is, is an idle magnifier. It takes one of your deepest desires, turns it into an over-mastering, absolutely over-mastering idolatrous desire, and then gives you the power to achieve that desire beyond all law and limits. And that's the essence of evil. The essence of evil is to take a good thing and make it an ultimate thing and even if it is a good thing if you make it an ultimate thing, it makes you evil. That's the whole point. It doesn't matter what you start off with. Over and over and over again. If a good desire is turned into an ultimate desire more important than anything else in the world evil. That's the point. And what's interesting is in his, I mentioned this again in this sermon yesterday, in his letter to Rona Beer, who asked about it, he said, let me show you how the ring of power is like an idol. What Sauron did was he put a big part of his power into the ring so that when it was on his finger, it magnified his power, made him omnipotent, basically, So, I mean, it made him impossible to oppose. But if he lost the ring, then he was diminished. And if the ring was destroyed, he was destroyed. So the gamble is what he did with, by putting his power into the ring, it made him possible to enhance his power. But if he lost the ring, he would lose his power or even be destroyed. And Tolkien says that's what an idol is like. If you say, if you make, if you put most of your hopes and happiness in your job, So that your job is how you know you're a good person. And your job is the source of all your joy. More than God or anybody else. Then when your job is going well, it's a ring of power. When your job is going well, when you've got it on your hand, you're enhanced. But if anything goes wrong with that job, if you start losing money, if you lose your job, you're destroyed. Because you've put yourself into the job. So you've put yourself into an external object. And Tolkien had all that stuff worked out. You see? You might call it symbolism, but the point was the ring of power operates the way the Bible says sin operates.

Very, very important. And by the way, the Silmarillion, I don't know if you know the Silmarillion, but the Silmarillion is the back, you know, it's a legendarium behind Lord of the Rings. It's the earlier stuff that happened when the elves fighting against, you know, whatever. I can't even go into it. The Silmarellian is this. Love not too well. The... The work of thy hands and the devices of thy heart. And remember your true hope comes from over the sea from the west. Love not too well. The work of thy hands and the devices of thy heart. Which is idolatry. Basically all the problems that happen in the entire millions of millennia of all the... If you read all of Tolkien's legends, that's basically where it comes from, idolatry. So number one, he understands idolatry. That's exactly what sin is. Number two, I'll be real brief about this. One of the hardest things to do in literature or in movies or in acting is to depict the good. It is easy to depict the evil. It's easy to depict the ambiguous. It is really hard to depict the good in a way that's not cardboard or sentimental or sappy. Ian McKellen, in that interview with Deborah Solomon, before the first movie came out, when she was interviewing about playing Gandalf, and she was saying, why is somebody of your caliber playing this cartoon character for boys, 10-year-old boys, and he was saying, first of all, it's not a child's movie, but then number two, he says, there's nothing harder than depicting good. good. I think actually does a pretty good job, but not perfect. He says, there's nothing harder than that. Reading The Lord of the Rings made me want to be, especially when I first started reading it when I was a college student and when I was really wrestling and struggling with where I wanted to be and what I wanted to be. And I had a lot of trouble mustering and summonsing up what it took for me to be the person I think I was supposed to be. Reading Lord of the Rings always made me want to be a better person, always. It made me want to be holy. It made me want to be good. It made me, because especially the elves and the hobbits and Gandalf are really well-drawn goodness. And that is really tough. I don't know, if you don't get it, maybe you don't agree with me, but there's no way I can describe it. So number two, there's a depiction of good that's so attractive. Number three, I already mentioned this, but the understanding of evil in the Lord of the Rings is spot on Christian. There is a relativistic view of evil, which is good and evil are all relative. But there's a dualistic view of evil, which is some people are good and some It's a Manichean approach to evil. And I must tell you that whereas in general liberal people tend to be relativistic, conservative people tend to be dualistic. Conservative people tend to divide the world into the good people and the bad people. And relativistic people try to make sure everything is gray. But the Bible actually says that there is a real line between good and evil that goes down the center of every human heart. That's Solzhenitsyn, right? And that is different. That is different. Not only that, but that good and evil are not equal. Christianity believes that basically good, God made the world good and everything has gone bad to some degree. And therefore, good and evil are not equal opposite polarities. But evil is just corrupted good. And by the way, one of the most striking and most Christian things in the entire book is where Elrond says in the Council of Elrond about Sauron, he says, nothing is evil in the beginning, even Sauron was not so. That's an amazing statement. And that completely destroys this idea of dualism, that some things are good and some things are bad, and they're equal and opposite and forever. No, no, no.

Everything's ambiguous. No ambiguity. The Christian understanding is good and evil are not ambiguous, but people are. Very different. Okay, fourth, there's an incredibly Christian understanding of grace. Let me read you this. Okay, this is something I wrote, but I'm afraid I'm going to forget it. Lord of the Rings undermines any belief that salvation can come through self-effort. The movie conveys well the message that evil is overwhelming and inexorable, and so does the book. There's no might or strength or power in the world sufficient to defeat evil. Gandalf says in the book, when Gandalf is resurrected as Gandalf the White, he says, I am no longer Gandalf the Gray, I'm Gandalf the White. But he says, but black is mightier still. That doesn't come out of the movie. Because it seems like such a downer. He says, I am not Gandalf the Gray, I am Gandalf the White. But he says, but white, but black is mightier still. In other words, in this world, evil than the good in the world. He says, Tolkien makes clear that evil can't be handled by force or simple moral effort either, however heroic. That's the reason why the whole idea is you'll never destroy the ring by sending the strong.

Only through the weak. Only through hobbits. And at the very, very end, at the very end, you see, salvation is not a quest to find something but to lose something.

Salvation, this is why Lord of the Rings is a Christianized version of the ancient epics because all the ancient epics, go take a look at the Greek and the Roman and the epics and the sagas, all about these quests. The quests are strong people going after to find something. Isn't that right? They all are. These are weak people going to lose something. That's a Christian understanding of salvation. And, in fact, only the small and the weak have any chance to save the world because they're the only ones that are small enough to be ignored. The only ones small enough to get through. And again, that's very Christian. It's only through weakness, only through suffering, only through death, only through defeat, that Jesus Christ has been able to save us. And here's what's really weird. In the end, salvation comes not through amassing and exerting power, but through the suffering and weakness and the giving up of all power. Even the little hero Frodo is the complete antithesis of all other ancient heroes in the older mythic prehistories. There's nothing like him in Beowulf. There's nothing like him in any of them. deeply wounded that he loses the ability to enjoy or live in the world in order for others to keep and have the world. He loses the world and the ability to enjoy the world so others can have it. That's grace, substitutionary atonement. And at the climactic moment, Frodo doesn't even have the strength to do the final saving deed. There has to be an intervention for the world to be saved. And you know what? Somebody wrote Tolkien years later and said, what happens there at the very end? And may I read this? This is a letter in 1963. He says, at that point, the point where Freddo can't throw the ring in, at that point, he wrote, the other power, capital O, capital P, then took over. The writer of the story, capital W, capital S, by which I do not be myself, the one ever-present person who is never absent and never named, as one critic has said, took over. The point is God had to do it at the very end. Frodo could check it right up to the end, but there's absolutely no... In other words, at the heart of the Lord of the Rings is a suffering servant who triumphs through weakness, who has to fall into the dark so we can live in the light.

So, anyway, I mean, I don't know how much... You know, what's intriguing about it is nobody... Everybody says, well, there's no religion in Tolkien. Tolkien. The Tolkien doesn't beat you over the head with any kind of religion. The understanding of sin, the understanding of evil, the understanding of grace, the understanding of goodness is radically Christian. It's really different than Eastern religions or Western religions or secular. It's really different. The fish will ask you about water. The fish will ask

water. I mean, there's so much of it, he doesn't even know it's there. And if you say, a person reading The Lord of the Rings, tell me about the gospel, about grace. There's nothing in there about that. What are you talking about? There's nothing in there about salvation, about God. God's hardly even mentioned. He's never mentioned. You're like a fish who doesn't know you're swimming in the water. And last of all, this will be the last thing I'll tell I'll tell you. Oh, I'll tell you one other thing. Sorry, I'm going too long, maybe. When do you have to change it?

Oh, okay, whatever, all right.

Not at all in the movie, but only in the book. See, the book is the only thing. The book's so much better than the movie. There is talk of a final hope. What's so interesting about Tolkien was, on the one hand, he was so realistic, realistic, so absolutely realistic about how hard this world is. And that's the reason why the book is so sad. But unlike the ancient Icelandic myths and the ancient Anglo-Saxon myths, he had a Christian hope beyond everything that made it possible to still have a final note that things are going to be okay. So, for example, and some of you have maybe heard me do this in my sermons,

when Sam wakes up after he's been taken from Mount Doom and he and Freda wake up and they see Gandalf there, they thought he was dead. Remember what Sam says? He says, Gandalf, he says, I thought you were dead. But then I thought I was dead. And then he says, is everything sad going to come untrue?

That is a very interesting statement. He doesn't just say, will there be something good happening that will somehow console us for the bad things? No. Will good things console us for the sad things? No. He says, is everything sad going to come untrue? And Gandalf basically says, yes, but not right there. But that has been one of the most important sentences I've ever heard in my life. It has made sense of the Bible. coming in the future so great that even the suffering that we experience here, as bad as it is, that suffering will only serve to make the glory better. And that will be the ultimate triumph of glory over suffering. I don't know how it's going to work. I do not know how it's going to work. But the illustration I use is this. I remember one night I went to bed and I was happy with my family. There's my wife by my side. I love my wife and I love my children. They were in the house. And I fell asleep and I had this nightmare in which everybody was murdered. My wife was murdered. My children were murdered. There they were, their dead bodies and their corpses in blood. And then I woke up. And I saw it was all a dream. You might say I still love my wife and I still love my children. But I felt so much more left than I did before the nightmare. In other words, when I woke up and realized it's come untrue, the nightmare, in a sense, was taken up into my love for them and it made the love better. You know how you'd feel after you thought somebody was dead and then you brought them back. You don't treat them, you know, you're just so excited. You got to realize that's what's going to happen in the new heavens and new earth. We're going to be resurrected. God's going to heal the world.

world, this physical world. And that's going to mean that even the horrible things that happen will make the eventual glory even greater. There's a lot of talk in Tolkien about that. So, for example, Tom Bombadil says to the white, when he's casting the white out, he says, go off into dark places till the world is mended. And Galadriel sees Treebeard the last time in Treebeard says, I don't know that we'll ever see each other again. He says, I can tell things are changing. And Celeborn says, I do not know, eldest. And Galadriel says, if I remember correctly, she says, when the lands that are under sea are raised up again, perhaps we'll meet in the spring. So in other words, there's all this talk about the fact that the world's going to be renewed, and that was not there in the old Icelandic stuff. and an awful lot of that stuff there's a place at the end of the field of Kermalan the coronation when Aragorn is being crowned and it says the minstrel came out remember that? it's a fascinating paragraph where it says the minstrel came out and began to sing and it says they laughed and they wept and they were carried out to regions in which tears are the very wine of blessedness. What does that mean? Tears are the very wine of blessedness. The idea is that there's going to be a future healing of the world come so that even the sadness will just enhance that future glory. I don't know. It gives me a lot of hope. And actually, as inarticulate as I am right now, and I'm not usually terribly inarticulate, but I am about this.

I get it. It makes a great deal of sense to me. It helps me face things. Let me just tell you one last thing. So what I've just gone through is, it gives you the idolatrous nature of evil, a depiction of good that's so attractive, a highly nuanced understanding of Christian evil, a highly nuanced Christian understanding of evil, four, a very Christian understanding of salvation by grace, not works, Very Christian, non-nihilistic or sentimental view of future hope. One last thing.

Well, maybe I won't say this one. Yeah, I'll tell you because we've got to stop.

No, I won't say it. Here's what I'll do. Let me just... I've gone too long. So I'm going to just end with this. Eric Davis wrote... Eric Davis is a cultural critic, and he wrote a huge, long article in Wired Magazine in October 2001, two months before the first movie came out, about why J.R.R. Tolkien has had such an impact. It's a pretty, pretty good article, and it's amazingly long, and you can find it online. Eric with a K. E-R-I-K. And at one point he tells his true story. He says, A Tolkien story of eternal hope in a melancholy world has a spiritual dimension. mention. There was a 27-year-old Russian woman that he interviewed, now living in the United States, who first stumbled across an abridged Russian version of The Fellowship of the Ring in 1988. The book brought her to tears. In 1990, she got her hands on a Samistat translation of the second and third volumes. Photocopiers were scarce in Russia at the time. She was given only four days to read 700 pages, I basically memorized it, and I would close my eyes, call up the page, and read it to my friends. When she applied herself, three years later, she applied herself to learning English just so she could read it in the original. And she explained to me the tremendous appeal that Lord of the Rings had for someone growing up in Russia. Quote, Soviet people were raised as atheists, she says. Tolkien's books offered me hope for our world, The hope that Tolkien's elves call Estelle. Tolkien does not mention God in The Lord of the Rings at all, but you just feel something really wonderful when you read it. Later on, I recognized it as faith. Pretty interesting. Okay, there's plenty more to say, but tell me what you want to know. What I just said, you want me to elaborate? Fine. Or anything at all that has to do with The Lord of the Rings. And if, yeah, you might, you know, because we're trying to record it, I'm afraid you're going to have to talk into the mic. Okay? Let's go. You said he was trying to kind of recreate the myths. But then he brought in these Christian elements that had nothing to do with the myths. Did he feel like he was being slightly untrue to the myths that he was trying to preserve? No. No, because in the end, he still knew he wasn't only recreating the myths. He was creating a story. He actually says, well, that's one of the points I didn't get to. Tolkien believes, like he was way ahead of his time on this that all the good stories that move you let me get this way when Tolkien, who was a bit older than Lewis and like half his size do you ever know that Tolkien was small and Lewis was huge? do you even know that? for example, that Tolkien was like a hobbit And actually, they say, the theory is, that Treebeard was based on Lewis. Because he was tall and had this booming voice. But Tolkien was trying to share his faith with Lewis, who was an atheist. And this is like the late 1920s, early 1930s. And at one point, Tolkien walked with Lewis around Addison's Walk, which actually I finally walked on just three months ago. the Modlin College in Oxford. It's just under willow trees. It's very lovely along the river. And as he walked along, this is what he said. He said to Lewis, he said,

what moves you most? You know, what gives your life meaning? And Lewis says, the stories I love. Nothing. You know, when I'm done with a story I love, you know, I feel like I'm ready to be better or I'm ready to go out there and do things. It really gives me meaning in life, stories. And he says, here's my theory. He says, the reason that stories move you is because they get in touch with some underlying spiritual reality. And so beauty in the beast means that love really can change people. And, you know, that kind of thing. And so you get a story, and even though the story's not true, it gets at some kind of underlying reality. He says, but here's what I want you to know. The gospel story, the story of Jesus Christ being born in a manger and living a life, dying and being resurrected, the gospel story is not one more story pointing to the underlying reality. The gospel story is the underlying reality to which all the other stories point. that's what he said to Lewis on the way around Addison's walk

and therefore he says the gospel story is the one myth that became a fact

and therefore it's not enough just to say oh it makes me think that somehow good will triumph over evil that's not what the gospel story is about look at it what it's trying to say is that the underlying reality so that we could grasp it. It saved us, which is the ultimate story. It's the story that's not just a story.

But he says that all good stories have elements of that underlying story. And if they have none of the elements, it doesn't move you. It's just like, what, so what? And therefore, what Tolkien was doing was he was improving the ancient stories. He was getting them closer to the gospel story. Okay, that's the answer. I'm wondering if you can comment on the Silmarillion and whether you find those books as infused with what you just shared. That's the first question. And then I want to know who your favorite character is. Well, yeah, I think the Silmarillion absolutely is, you know, it's made of the same stuff, but all those principles still fit the Silmarillion. However, number one, The Lord of the Rings is a full story that Tolkien was forced to write. It took him years. I mean, he was a very, very slow and deliberate, perfectionistic person. Whereas The Silmarillion was a series of stories over the years, and as a result, the things I just told you are not quite as overt, but they're there. Like I said, the basic theme of the Silmarillion is love not too well the desires of your heart, the devices of your hands, the desires of your heart. And in the end, the elves think that they can overcome Morgoth without help. But in the end, Erendil, who is descended from both elves and men, so he's half and half, goes back to the West and on behalf of the powers

mediates and basically is a Jesus figure, without a doubt. I mean, in fact, there's much more. I mean, if you say, where is the Jesus figure in the Lord of the Rings? Tolkien didn't like allegory. But, you know, in Frodo you have a suffering servant. In Aragorn you have a returning king. In Gandalf you have a resurrected lord. So the pieces of Jesus are sort of distributed. might say. Whereas in The Silmarillion, Arendelle is a very, very clear mediator. In a sense, he's divine and human. He's both mortal and immortal. He sails back through the terrible peril that no one else has been able to make because of the power of the holiness of the jewel that he has. So it's all there. It really is. My favorite character, Faramir. surprised not in the movie the movie you know i like i have liked the actor david wenham and almost everything else i've seen him do but they just didn't give him you know they drew him as some of you know faramir resists trying to grab the ring in the book and in the movie they let him give into it and then recover later and it just makes him into an absolute wimp In the movie, what the heck does Eowyn see in him? I don't get it. I mean, here's Eowyn, and she's after the king of the world, Aragorn. And I'm sorry, there's nothing about the Faramir in the movie that's going to get your heart off the king of the world. I'm sorry. No, but in the book, he's wonderful. No, he's just about my favorite character, Faramir. Okay. Hey, Tim. Got a question for you. Yeah. And then kind of a follow-up question off of that. Have you had a chance to read the Harry Potter series? Oh, sure. Cool.

That's it. No, I'm just kidding. One thing that really struck me, and actually it came from another one of your lectures on Tolkien, and it really struck me the same way in the Potter series, is similar to a lot of the points you brought up, is how J.K. Rowling, weaves in all these really nuanced Christian themes. Of course. And it's just something that really jumped out at me, and I wanted to get your take on that. Sure. I'm glad you asked me about it. J.K. Rowling is the most spectacularly successful example of the new tradition that Tolkien and Lewis created. There's no doubt about that. And the reason is because it's basically an epic romance. It's not modern literature. And so, for example, as some of you know, the people who hate Lord of the Rings and C.S. Lewis and Narnia because it's not modern also hate J.K. Rowling. So, for example, in the Washington Post, the major book critic, the main book critic, I've forgotten the guy's name, wrote a real nasty article just right before the last Harry Potter book came out and said, this good and evil thing is childish. Everybody's good or everybody's evil, and let's grow up, people. cultural infantilism, and said this idea that there's an absolute good and absolute bad, and some people are good and some people are bad, we've got to get beyond that. Now that's what people hate about these books. The fact is, Rowling is just like Narnia and just like Tolkien, because even though good and evil are clear, there's all kinds of gradations. People are going good, going bad all the time. In other words, she's very true to it. But, you know, I don't know whether she's a born-again Christian. I don't think so. She's a regular attender of the Church of Scotland, which means that her mind has been shaped by the liturgy. She has, it's very clear that the understanding of evil in the books is Christian, the understanding to some degree, I really think the salvation idea that you're saved by grace is a little bit more muted. But, oh, my goodness, you know, his mother's sacrificial love on him is bigger, heaviest magic. And then, of course, as you know, I'm not supposed to tell you, right? But he dies for his friends at the end and that's how he saves them. But listen, here's one of the critics. I hate to tell you this. I read the endings of books before I read the whole book.

I had no problem reading the epilogue first. No problem at all. You say, why? I'm impatient. old. See, I'm a lot older than most of you. Here, listen, here's a person that just hated the Harry Potter movie. It's the same people who hated Lord of the Rings because they want moral ambiguity and they want to blur those things. Here's what she said. This is Jenny Bristow. She's British, writing in a culture. She's a British commentator. She says, Harry Potter is not social commentary at all. These books catapult the reader into a safe moral universe of good versus evil, uncomplicated by the moral dilemmas of the real world. It's not true. I know. And there's been hundreds of these things written, but not just about her, about Lewis and Tolkien too. And it is this that ultimately renders them quite banal. Rowling has to locate her novels in a society that is morally black and white. There are a few dilemmas, only right and wrong choices. It all makes for a rollicking read, but how such values translate to the more complicated real world is anybody's guess. The kind of ideologies and institutions that explicitly preached the same virtues of goodness, nobleness, and moral rectitude are increasingly unpalatable to modern people. Because modern reality is organized around relativism, self-indulgence, and emotional fragility. Potter magically escapes all this. So far as I can see, death is the only really difficult issue the Potter books have dealt with. Life and death fits into their black and white universe. The subtleties of life, the relationships between people, they don't figure in so much. And besides that, none of the kids have sex.

By the way, if you go back and read what people said about Tolkien when it came out in the 50s, and what Lewis about the 90s, it's the same thing. They basically say, and they're extremely angry because, as some of you know, No, at the turn of the century, there were three or four or five polls in Britain of what was the best book ever written in the 20th century. And when they asked academics, you know what the answer was? The best book of the 20th century? Ulysses by James Joyce. And when you asked everybody else, what was it? Lord of the Rings. And it made people like Jermaine Greer furious. In fact, I've got all kinds of really juicy quotes that I'm not going to read you Garfield, where they just were apoplectic because basically these come from a moral universe and essentially a Christian worldview, in spite of the fact that I can understand why there are people who are afraid that Harry Potter will encourage kids to dabble in witchcraft. I got it. I understand that, I guess, to some degree. I just don't think, I think it's a danger of any kind of literature because you always have copycats reading any kind of literature, but I don't some people think. So anyway, Rowling, and she even, by the way, you know, she did say that she's, this is 10 years ago, she said, I'm writing seven books in honor of the Narnia Chronicles. So continue, where's next? I, yeah. Hi, oh, there you are. I wanted to ask what your opinion is on the new book that came out, The Children of Hurin. Oh, yeah, The Children of Hurin. By the way, Gounce, who's an elder at Redeemer, was the editor on that book for Houghton Mifflin. It's good. I mean, two-thirds of it can be found in other places, but it's really quite good. It's very sad, very, very northern European, very, very sad. But it's actually a great read, I think. But, I mean, if you're looking for hobbits, no hobbits. Okay? And, in fact, some people, when you, it's from the Silmarelian. It's a Silmarelian story taken and kind of fleshed out. And some of it's, I think, very, very, very powerful. But when people read the Silmarelian after reading The Lord of the Rings, they say, It's like reading the Old Testament. And, actually, it's true. It's very much like reading the Old Testament. And The Lord of the Rings is the New Testament. No doubt about it. So, anyway. Okay. Right here. There you are. Hi. I have a question regarding C.S. Lewis and Tolkien's friendship. And what really precipitated the dissolution of it in the end? Was it, I guess, Lewis's making fun of Tolkien's Catholicism? Or the strange lifestyle Lewis had for a while? What was the strange lifestyle? His relationship with that woman. What was her name? No. It never really dissolved, even though as soon as Lewis died, Tolkien wrote his children and said he really regretted the fact that there was a ten year, the last ten years of their lives, they didn't see each other very much.

There's minor, it was probably cumulative, but the killer was, Tolkien lived with Tolkien, pardon me C.S. Lewis was in World War I so was Tolkien and when he was in World War I he was with a guy named Paddy Moore, P-A-D-D-Y and they both agreed that if either of them died and the other one came back that he would look after the survivor, the surviving parent and Paddy Moore died and so Lewis felt that he had he was obligated to look after Patty Moore's mother, Mrs. Moore. And so he had a very strange relationship with Mrs. Moore that probably wasn't sexual, at least as far as Tolkien was concerned, it wasn't a problem. There was no problem. Tolkien didn't believe there was anything wrong with that. But Lewis essentially lived with Mrs. Moore and her daughter. And even though he kept his rooms in New College, basically live there, you know, he could bike to it, just to sort of help out. And some people said, gosh, he's living with two women. And so, yeah, there's been questions about that, but Tolkien, that wasn't a problem. Here's the problem was, Lewis got married and didn't tell Tolkien about it at all. And what Lewis did was, Joy Gresham, Joy Davidman Gresham, who was a communist New York college and got converted through Lewis's writings, moved to Britain with her two sons, Doug and David Gresham, and became friends with Lewis. And she was a writer. And at a certain point, her visa, you know, gave out and she wanted to stay and raise her children in Britain. And Lewis married her just to let her stay and wasn't planning on really marrying her, planning on divorcing her, planning on doing whatever he wanted but not being together or anything like that but this is a very interesting story married her and then found within a fairly short period of time that he was falling in love with her and so actually did be married to her she was divorced Tolkien would not have, he was a very strict Catholic and wouldn't have allowed it would have probably been really, really against the idea of marrying her just so she could stay to start with. And because Lewis knew that Tolkien was a very strict Catholic and was very much against it, he just didn't tell him anything about any of it. And that really, that was cowardly, frankly. And it really wounded Tolkien, I think, and that really killed it, really made it hard. The other thing was that Tolkien really didn't like the Narnia Chronicles at all. because they were allegorical, number one. Number two, Tolkien was very disciplined. If you're going to do a northern European background, he did Christianize it, but he was at least taking coherent units because you have elves and you have dwarves and you have dragons and you have wizards. But look at Narnia. We weren't here to talk about Narnia, got fauns and centaurs, which is, you know, Greek. And then you've got dwarves, which is northern. And, you know, they're all thrown together. At one point, Tolkien was saying, but these are from all these different imaginative universes. And Lewis says, well, yes, but, you know, you carry them all around in your mind, you know, in one bucket. Anyway, and Tolkien said, not in my mind, you don't.

So there was little things like that. He really was very unsympathetic. And Narnia took off. And Tolkien was still slaving away. He'd been slaving away on The Lord of the Rings for 20 years. And Lewis was such a good writer that he could sit down, write something, send it off with almost needing no editing, and out it was. So he got very popular. And Tolkien was still in obscurity and working on the great works of his heart. So he was impatient. But I don't think that was the real problem. wrong Tolkien probably. If I'm this good friend, why don't you tell me about it? However, Tolkien tended to be possessive, tended to be sullen, tended to be, as he used to say, I'm a man of narrow sympathies. He almost liked nothing. Whereas Lewis loved everything. And Lewis was ebullient, and he was a hellfellow well-met, and he loved everybody's stuff, and they were so, so different. And as a result, Lewis was much more popular, and Lewis was always loving everything Tolkien would write, and almost everything that Lewis wrote, Tolkien hated. So to some degree, you have to say he was a puddle glum. And by the way, you know how have, those of you who read these, is whereas Treebeard could be Lewis. In other words, Lewis may have showed up in Tolkien's work in the person of Treebeard, but almost surely Tolkien showed up in Lewis's works in the form of Puddle Glum. I don't know if you know what Puddle Glum is. So does that answer some of your question? I've done a lot of thinking about this because it's heartbreaking. It's heartbreaking for the last ten years. But they really gave each other what they really needed because they were with each other in their 20s, 30s, and 40s. I mean, for good. And they met like two or three times a week for 15 years straight. They met to eat at the Eastgate Hotel for lunch. They walked around Addison's Walk. They met in The Eagle and Child, The Bird and the Baby. Have you ever been there? So anyway, it's great. Okay, sorry. Hi. What are some of your favorite books of fiction, and which ones would you recommend? You mean other books of fiction?

Besides everything Tolkien and Lewis did, they're one-off. So, for example, I'm just trying to think of something. In other words, I don't have some author that I just read all that person's stuff.

I really have loved all the Dorothy Sayers, Peter Wimsey detective novels and all the G.K. Chesterton, Father Brown detective novels they're a lot of fun, they're not very deep but they really, really are a lot of fun

actually, I like Charles Dickens I'm sorry I really do and believe it or not, my wife in the last four or five years me to really like Jane Austen. You know? Chiclet for Shakespeare.

You know? If Shakespeare was writing Chiclet on the side, it would have been Jane Austen, I think.

Lewis himself liked Austen, quite a, Jane Austen a lot and liked

Spencer's The Fairy Queen, liked Milton. Not very good, is it? My wife reads fiction like crazy and then tells me what to read. And every year she says, you read that novel and I read it. But they're not, and almost always I get a lot out of it, but I'm not a big fiction reader.

Okay, one and then switch it. Hi, I was just wondering if you could touch on, because you said a little about this before, the importance of fellowship in Tolkien's development of his work. Yeah, this can be short, too. How long do I have? About seven, six minutes. Oh, okay.

After Tolkien, after Lewis died, somebody asked Tolkien what was the influence of Lewis on him, and he said, and this is true, Tolkien was possessive, perfectionistic, and if you read something of his stuff and criticized it, everything you said, or else he would start from the beginning, start all over. He never revised anything. Either he decided, you're right, and he should start all over, or else he said, you're wrong. And that is the mind of a person who doesn't take criticism well. No, it's really true. And he did not take criticism very well. He had very strong views of things. He wasn't just brilliant in the sense of being smart. Obviously, he had a once-in-a-century kind of artistic imagination.

Anyway, however, and therefore, if somebody said, you can see all kinds of Tolkien in Lewis, but you can't see a lot of Lewis in Tolkien, except Tolkien said this after Lewis died. He wrote to somebody. He said, the unpayable debt that I owe to C.S. Lewis was not influence, quote unquote, as it is ordinarily understood, but sheer encouragement. He was for two decades my only audience. Only from him did I ever get the idea that any of my stuff could ever be more than a private hobby. And I understand that when Lewis and Tolkien had a group called the Inklings. And Lewis and Tolkien were by far the most important members of it. But there were a number of other folks, including Lewis's brother, Warnie, who lived with Lewis and who was a writer of, basically, wrote history. And you also had a number of other people. And they met to drink on Tuesdays at the Bird and the Baby. And they met every Thursday night in Lewis's rooms to read one another what they were doing. And everybody was writing stuff, essays and history, and of course Tolkien and Lewis. And nobody liked Tolkien's stuff except Lewis. And so, for example, this is true. Christopher Tolkien tells a story that when they get together and they say, after they had tea and a beer, Lewis would say, okay, who are we going to hear from tonight? And if Tolkien said he wanted to read another piece, they called it The New Hobbit. 1937. Lord of the Rings was a sequel, supposedly. And so when they all, they had no title for it, except they just call it Tolkien's New Hobbit. And whenever Tolkien would say, I have another chapter, Hugo Dyson would say, oh God, not more elves, please. No more elves. This is what Christopher Tolkien said this happened all the time. And he was serious. He wasn't being funny. and Lewis would always say, Hugo, shut up. Tolers, his nickname was Tolers, Tolers, let's have it. And Tolkien, Lewis was just absolutely encouraging. He encouraged a lot of people, but he was just so encouraging to Tolkien and Tolkien was so morose, so perfectionistic, so, you know, you cannot tell you how many times he started and restarted and restarted stories and he never was happy with them. Tons of them never were finished. wasn't for Lewis, we never would have heard of him, ever. And if it wasn't for Tolkien, Lewis wouldn't be a Christian. And not only that, but most of Lewis's imaginative furniture comes from Tolkien. So their friendship has really changed the world.
