This time I'm going to read even more of this great prayer than I usually do. I'm going to read from verse 6 to 24. This is Jesus' great prayer the night before he's about to die to his father. As we've been saying, there's no better way to find out what a person's really made of, what would really be the most important priorities of that person's life and heart, than to listen to someone's last words to someone he loves. And that's why we take this very, very seriously. I'm going to read verses 6 to 24. It's a long section, but the theme we're looking at today lies throughout the whole passage. I have revealed you to those whom you gave me out of the world. They were yours, you gave them to me, and they have obeyed your word. Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you. For I have given them the words you gave me, and they accepted them. They knew with certainty that I came from you, and they believed that you sent me. I pray for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those you have given me, for they are yours. All I have is yours, and all you have is mine, and glory has come to me through them. I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name, the name you gave me, so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction, so that the scripture would be fulfilled. I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world, So that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you take them out of the world, but that you protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I sent them. For them I sanctify myself, so that they too may be truly sanctified. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, that all of them will be one. Father, just as you are in me and I am in you, may they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me, may they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. Father, I want those who are given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. This is God's word. I think, though I want to say it reverently and respectfully, I think we can say it, that this particular prayer reveals that Jesus Christ was an obsessed man. He was obsessed. He was obsessed with one thing. He was obsessed with one passion. You can see it because he's about to die, and this is his last words, in a sense. He's praying to his father. He's obsessed with one thing. And you know what it is? We've been talking about it for a month. Us. He's obsessed with us. And in particular, he says so. He says, I have sanctified myself that they might be sanctified. Now, that's an astonishing statement. By that, he means I've separated myself. I have put everything I have and everything I am, and I focused it all and I brought it to bear on making them great. Everything I am, everything I have is now focused. I'm obsessed with making them great, giving them my glory and joy and love. And this section that we haven't read before till today, verses 22, 23, and 24, is absolutely appalling in its magnitude. first he says I want them to be right where I am I want them to stand before the throne I'm going to give them my glory and I want them to be loved and we'll talk about this next week I want you to love them exactly the way you love me and I want them to see my glory and I want them to have my glory and I want them to have this greatness to stand where I stand

now listen, the structure of this thought, the concepts and statements of this passage are so astounding. And anybody who sees Christianity as a negative religion has failed to come to grips with these things. In fact, if you're really going to be an honest skeptic, you better come to grips with these things. Or you haven't really got the intellectual integrity that comes with saying, I have really seen the strength of this religion and I still reject it. Here it is. Negative. What's negative about this? A lot of people see Christianity as being a very negative religion. Negative about sex. Negative about human nature. Negative about the earth and the environment. And there's an awful lot of folks that not only say that Christianity is in some ways to blame for the general negativity in society and repressed views of sexuality and negative views about the earth and the environment. that Eastern religions and other religious systems from the East are more positive and wholesome, and are really better resources for dealing with the problems of our society and of our environment than Christianity. Now, I want you to know that when you hear someone coming from the Eastern religion, from New Age derivatives and so on, saying that you're God, that everything is God, that you are divine and eternal and beautiful, you've got to realize that what they're saying is they're not talking about the Christian concept of God, but an Eastern concept of God. And that concept is that God is an impersonal, all-pervasive life force. It's an impersonal divine presence over, under, around, and through everything. That's not what Christianity is talking about when it talks about God, nor is that what Jesus is talking about when it talks about God's glory. The God that the Jews and the Christians talk about is a personal God A God that thinks and feels and rejoices and grieves and acts, and yet, though personal, is supremely transcendent over the world, without beginning, does not need the world or is dependent on the world in any way, infinitely exalted above the world. The great stars and the solar systems are like pieces of dust and lint to him, and yet, he has lovingly and wisely created all of them. This is the God. This is the God that Jesus is talking about when we talk about God giving us glory. This God, we're not talking about sort of a general impersonal force. We're talking about a personal, eternal, omnipotent king. And Christianity has said that through Christ, this king can accept you and adopt you into his family. And secondly, he can interpenetrate you with his own divine power and nature and substance. And thirdly, he can incorporate you into his mission. He can incorporate you into his business, his work, which is to heal the brokenness and restore the brokenness of the universe and of the human community. And he can incorporate you into that inevitably successful endeavor until we all stand at his throne and rule and reign with him. That is the glory. That is the person that Jesus is talking about. This is so different than when the Eastern religions talk about the holiness and the wholesomeness and the divinity of all things. Very different. When we get to heaven and get his glory, we will not become him. We will become like him. We will not lose our individual self forever in consciousness, but we will gain and we will retain, but we will gain a glorious self. At this point, the Bible, it talks about glory here. The Bible starts, even the Bible starts to stutter like I am. Even the Bible starts to stammer. It starts to say things like, he will give us the morning star. What's that mean? We don't know, but it sounds great. We will put on the splendor of the sun. We'll put on the splendor of the sun. The glory, the greater glory of which nature is just the first sketch, will pass into us. We will eat and drink truth. We will breathe joy and love. We will be kings and queens. We'll be his sons and daughters. We'll be sitting at his table. No wonder Paul, in Ephesians 3, he prays for the Ephesians. And he says, I pray that you will be strengthened by the spirit in your inner being so you will have power to grasp the height, the width, the breadth, and the depth of the love of Christ and his calling. You know what Paul's saying? He is saying that to even grasp intellectually, to even understand the greatness of the glory that Jesus Christ is obsessed with giving us, to even understand that is going to take a strengthening of might and of power in the inner being. Otherwise, you will crack underneath the strain of just understanding it, let alone appropriating it. That's not the same thing. That's not the same thing as when other religions say, well, you're all part of God. And, you know, when you die, you just go back into the all soul. We're talking about I want them to see my glory. I want them to have my glory. I want them to become radiant sons and daughters of yours, brothers and sisters of mine. I want them to stand before the throne. I want them to cast their crowns before you, lost in love and wonder and praise. I want them to have all the love I have from you. That's utterly different. And that is what Jesus Christ is obsessed to give us. Glory. Now, that glory starts coming now. Now, we've already been talking about that. He wants us to be sanctified. He wants us to be holy. He wants to interpenetrate us with his power, with his nature, so that recreated in us is this wonderful character that you can read when you read the Gospels. And you see this tenderness and yet this strength. You see this wisdom and this sobriety, yet this vision, this ability to be touched and sensitive to other people's grief, and yet a deep fountain of mirth that just can't be put out. and you say, I want to be like that. And Jesus says, great, I'm doing it now. I'll give it to you now. Verse 22 says, I'll give you, I'm giving them my glory. And yet verse 24 says, I want them to receive my glory. And that means that there's a process. He incorporates us now and he will incorporate us completely later. Now the question before us today, how? Today I have a methodological question. We've already looked at the glory, we've already looked at the holiness, we've already looked at the mission, and many of the things that Jesus has said he's going to give to us, that he's obsessed, sanctified to give us. What is his method, though? How does he get it into you? Is it an abstract thing? Do you fall asleep at night, and you wake up every morning, Christian friends, you ever wake up in the morning, and you say, oh, he must have put more glory in me last night because I'm usually not this awake at six in the morning. I can feel myself growing in character. Does he zap you with the glory or is there a method? Is there a modus? Is there a modus operandi? And here we're told all the way through this text that the modus operandi for the glory of God is the truth. It's the word of God. God. Now, do you see how many times he mentions that? In verse 6, 7, and 8, he says, the words you gave me, I gave them, and they have accepted them. And now they know who I am. Down in verse 17, which is really, in a sense, the key verse, he says to the Father, sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. Amazing statement. How do you get that holiness? How do you get that new nature? Through the truth. There it is in black and white. Down in verse 20, Jesus makes it very clear that he's not just praying for the twelve disciples. He's praying for all of those who what? Believe in me through what? Their word, their message. Jesus says, I have received a set of words. He doesn't even say the word. In many places he uses the plural, the words. A doctrine, a body of truth, a body of information. propositions. I have received a group of these things, a body of truth, and he says in verse 7 and 8, I know they're mine because I've given it to them and they've received it. And now, verse 20 says, they're passing it along to other people. And the ones who receive that believe in me, and then they know who I am as well. The scripture teaches throughout that there's a body of truth that is the modus operandi by which you can know if you are a Christian and by which you can know that you know how to grow as a Christian. And what I want to do is just simply lay down two principles that I hope won't insult your intelligence, because when I first, I think, articulate them, they'll seem awfully basic and awfully obvious, but I hope to show you that they are absolutely critical for daily use if you're going to make sure you understand how to relate to God. The first is the truth defines and creates a Christian. You know whether or not you're a Christian by your attitude toward the truth. And secondly, the truth doesn't just create the Christian. The truth recreates the Christian. The truth does not just define the Christian. The truth perfects the Christian. So the reason we have to look at this is because there's so many ways in which you're going to go astray in the Christian faith unless you understand those two things. The main way to know whether you're a Christian is your relationship to the truth. And the main way you grow as a Christian is your relationship to the truth. See? Point one, point two. Jesus Christ creates you through the truth. He recreates you through the truth. He defines you. He grows you. Let me show you those. his modus operandi for glory, sanctify them in the truth. Look, first of all, how do you know whether you're a Christian? It's extremely important to know. In fact, the reason it's so important to know is not what many people think, that I need to know that I'm a Christian in order to die with assurance. Heck, you need to know whether you're a Christian to live. the Bible teaches that nothing earthly satisfies the whole personality nothing earthly satisfies the whole personality it's not that hard to prove never try to debate somebody who's got that position you will lose, no matter how much smarter you are than that person there's too much evidence for it there's too many people that have hit the very top the pinnacle of their field who have written the most dastardly and despairing things I could easily pull out all kinds of quotes of people who've reached the top and said, this isn't worth a candle, I'm still empty, there's got to be more. Who in the world can really doubt? Who's got any experience, has done any kind of reading, has any experience in life? How in the world can you possibly doubt that principle? Nothing earthly satisfies the whole personality. And that's the reason C.S. Lewis has that great, powerful argument where he says, Babies are born hungry. Well, there's such a thing as food. And ducklings are born wanting to swim. There's such a thing as water. And if I find within me desires that nothing on earth can satisfy, it only stands to reason that I was made for another world. And therefore, since Jesus Christ is the only way that whole personality can be satisfied, it's not only important to know that you're a Christian in order to die, but to live. Well, how can you know? You can know through the truth. A lot of people say, well, the way you know a Christian is through their deeds. That's the primary way. Boy, I'll tell you, there's plenty of things in the Bible that seem to indicate that. There's a lot of things in the scripture that indicate that a real Christian will live a holy life and so forth. But for a moment, I would like to talk about an irreducible minimum. I would like to talk about a test you can use on anybody, anytime. You see, when people say, well, a Christian is somebody who's got it together, who's living a life of Christ-likeness, and who's walking after the example of Christ, well, let's for a moment realize Jesus is talking about his 12 disciples, and let's check, let's try that test out on them. How do you know that those people are Christians? These guys were pathetic failures all the way up to the end. There's absolutely, some of them were better than others, there's no doubt about it. I mean, some of them were just cowards. Others were a lot worse. And you look and see there's a great deal of variation, and yet Jesus is able to say, I know that they're mine and I know that they're yours. All but one. See, in this text, he's making distinction between the one, that's Judas, who is not really a believer, and all the rest who are. Well, how does he know? Does he talk about their life? Does he talk about their experiences, their feelings? because they have these wonderful feelings toward me. It doesn't say that. Here, look for a second. Do you see why this is so important? Have you ever watched a Christian? Have you ever been near a Christian, either in church or somewhere else, and you see that person just praying with radiance? It's so obvious that God's real to them, and there's tears maybe flowing down their cheeks, and they're just experiencing the presence of God, and you sit there and you go,

I can't do that. I don't know if I ever will be able to do that. Is that what it means to be a Christian? And you get all these doubts, right? Or maybe you've heard a tremendous testimony of some dramatic change. Somebody whose life was like this, and now they don't do that anymore at all. There's been a dramatic behavioral revolution. And you sit there and you go, nothing like that's really ever happened to me. Maybe I'm not a Christian yet. Is that what it means to be a Christian? or you know maybe you see a group of people who are Christians who have sold everything they have and they've moved off into the black hole of Calcutta to take care of lepers the rest of their lives and you sit there and you go I don't think I'm ever going to do that is that what it means to be a Christian you see the problem is that Christians do have feelings and experiences of God the feelings are engaged in Christianity and Christians do have changes in their behavioral life their behavior does change and Christians do have missions everybody's part of missions but you see the feelings and the missions and the changes vary tremendously they vary in how sudden they are they vary in how dramatic they are you can't use any of these things as an irreducible minimum definition or standard for what it means to be a Christian Jesus doesn't do that He doesn't talk about, I know they're Christians because they're part of my work or because of the changes or any of that. What does he say? He says, these 11, not 12, these 11 I know are mine because they have received, they have accepted the truth about me. The words you gave me, I gave them, and they have accepted it, and therefore they've believed it, and they know that I am from you and that you sent me. Here's the thesis. A Christian is a Christian because he or she is in a certain relationship to the truth about Jesus. A Christian is a Christian. A Christian can be known because he or she is in a particular relationship with the truth about Jesus. People say, well, I thought what makes a Christian a Christian is you're born again. Yes, of course. But how do you know you're born again? So we're looking for a criteria here. We're looking for a test. Jesus gives it to us. He says, go to the truth. If you do not see that this is the irreducible minimum, you are going to have all kinds of problems with your assurance, all kinds of insecurity, unless you see that what makes you a Christian is a relationship to the truth about Jesus. Notice, we're not saying it's merely an intellectual thing. We're talking about a relationship to the truth. An attitude, a stance of the whole person toward the truth, mind, will, and heart. And notice also, we're not talking about truth in general. We're not saying that a Christian is somebody who just likes truth. Look at the Manhattan phone book. As far as I know, there's no errors in it. It's truth. You know, thick, lots of truth, but we're not talking about relationship to just any kind of truth. What makes you a Christian is your attitude, your relationship, your stance, the stance of your whole being toward the truth about Jesus. And he even mentions what that is. You see, the reason this is absolutely critical to make, a critical distinction to make is for these reasons. Now listen carefully. This means that you may be a Christian, and yet at this particular moment may have very, very little, if any, feelings toward God. But what's your attitude toward the truth? On the other hand, a person may not be a Christian and have tremendous feelings of closeness to God. Or, on a given moment, at a given moment, we're not talking about the long run, but in a given moment, you as a Christian, your life might be pretty messed up and you may not have much to give anybody and yet you may be a Christian because of your relationship to the truth. On the other hand, there may be people in this room that are tremendously godly people in the sense of being like what Jesus says you're supposed to be like. You may be a moral person. You may be a decent person. You may be a good person. In fact, you may be a finer person than me. And I mean that. But if you say, I don't know what I believe about Jesus, or I don't believe in Jesus, or I'm not interested in Jesus, then no offense, you're not a Christian. You may be finer than me. You may be of far more value to the human community than me. But if you've got all these things and feelings and everything, but your attitude toward the truth about Jesus, you don't know or you don't believe that he's from God and that God sent him, according to this definition, you're not a Christian. Because this is the way you think about it. Well, what is that truth? For a minute, to make sure we understand, you notice Jesus gives you an outline of the truth. That's your criteria. The outline of the truth is pretty interesting. He says, they have received the words. Now, these words, this truth is in the Bible. But by the way, it was around before the Bible. You notice in verse 20, Jesus says that I'm not only praying for the apostles, but I'm also praying for those who will believe through their message. The idea that Jesus is giving you is that there is a body of truth that has been written down in the scripture, but before that, it was preached, it was passed down, it was memorized, him to them and to their disciples and to their disciples. You have some of it probably in the Apostles' Creed. You have it in the teaching of the church. What is it? Two things. First of all, they believe, he says, that I'm from you. And secondly, they also believe that you sent me. If you look here, especially in the Greek, the word also is between the two phrases. So we're not talking about the same thing. We're talking about two different, in a sense, two different parts to this outline. First of all, Jesus says, the attitude to the truth that we're talking about, the truth is that they believe I'm from you, and secondly, that you sent me, O Father. Now, what are those two things? First of all, the first has to do with who Jesus is. A Christian is somebody who knows that Jesus just wasn't a man. He's from God. He's from heaven. Heaven, divine origin. He's the son of God. He's not just a man. To a Christian, the fulcrum of history is the day Jesus was born and the life that he lived and the day he died. That's the fulcrum of history. Everything else pales in significance compared to it. Both world wars, the fall of Rome, the collapse of communism, nothing compared to this because this is someone from heaven. This is Jesus Christ. He pushed a hole in the roof and deep heaven now has come down King has landed. See, the Christian has an utterly different view toward Christ than others. This is the Son of God, but that's not enough. Secondly, Jesus says, they also believe that you sent me. Now, those have got to be two different thoughts, and I think what it means is it says, not only do they know that I'm of divine origin, but they also know that I'm here on a mission. The Latin word missio is here. Remember what the mission is? It's in verse 18. We've talked about it before in verse 19. Jesus says, I have set myself apart. I've separated myself that they might be made holy. He says, I've come to die. I've come to set myself aside, to set myself apart. I give myself away. That's what it means to be sanctified. Jesus Christ threw himself away. What does that mean? We've talked about it before. Other founders of other religions only came to tell you what to do. Jesus Christ came not only to tell you what to do, but to do what you needed to do. Other founders of other religions came and said, this is the way in which you find God. This is the way you need to live. This is the way. But not Jesus. He not only came to tell you what to do, he came to do it. He came to accomplish. He had a mission. He threw himself away. He came to be our substitute. He came to be our mediator. He came to be our champion, the Bible says in Hebrews. Remember what a champion is? When two armies would get together and they didn't want to actually kill each other and they wanted to know who was going to win the battle, each would put forth their number one warrior. And if that warrior, if their warrior won, even though they didn't lift a finger, the glory of that one warrior's victory would accrue to the whole army. Jesus Christ was our mediator, our brother, our representative. He came not just to tell you what kind of life you had to live, but to live the kind of life you had to live so that if you believe in him, he has lived the perfect life for you, he's died the death and paid your debts for you. Now, do you see, for a second,

why the Bible has always said it's the truth that is a more sure criteria of Christianity than your life? Your attitude toward the truth is a more sure criteria than your life. Why? Don't you see? Because Christianity itself, the Gospel is, not that first of all you have to live a righteous life and give it to God. The Gospel is that first God came to live a righteous life and give it to you. You see, anybody who says it's not important what you believe, it's important how you live, what you've actually done is you've changed the Gospel, you've gutted the Gospel. Christianity says the truth comes first because Christianity says your hope, is that somebody came, Jesus Christ came from heaven on a mission to live a righteous life and then die and give that righteousness to you so that you can be acceptable to God. Other religions say that you have to live a righteous life and give your righteousness to Him. The exact opposite. And therefore, when you say what's important, you know, Thomas Jefferson said, it's not your creed, it's not belief that has anything to do with religion, it's just how you live. In fact, there's a church fairly near our office in Midtown that has it up on the side. I was walking along the street, and there it is up on the side of the church. And it says, we believe that belief is not important, but it's how you live. True religion is not a religion of creed, but deed. That's what it says. But get this. When you say that, you've actually substituted a new creed. You've actually done the very thing you just said you're not allowed to do. and the new creed is, you're on your own, buddy, to live the life that God requires. What you've actually done is you've gutted it out. You've taken away the consolation of the gospel. The consolation of the gospel is Jesus comes and says, come unto me, all ye who are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Why? I bore the blame. I've lived the life for you. Now relax in me, rest in me, believe in me. Make me your righteousness. Make me your goodness. That's the reason why he came. I throw my life away that you could be holy, that you could be acceptable to God. Do you believe that? See, if your attitude toward the truth is this truth, that is the criteria on which you know you're a Christian. If you say, my life sometimes is better, sometimes it's worse, I know it's getting better, but I tell you right now, I believe in what Jesus has done for me. That's my hope. That's where I rest. That's what it means to be a Christian. It's your relationship, your attitude toward the truth. You know, when Jesus says, they accepted it, they believed it, and they kept it. If you look through these verses, he says they accepted your word, they believed your word, and they kept your word. That shows those are wonderful stages. You think about this. All of you need to go through all three stages. To accept the truth means you need to be open to it. I want you to know that it's extremely, well, I'll put it this way. Once I was talking to a man who was very honest with me. We were debating Christianity. He was a skeptic. And in the process, he said, you know, there's a problem here. You've got a great advantage over me. And I said, what's that? He says, well, you know, if I'm really honest, I'm not at all objective. I cannot debate this issue the way I can debate politics or some other thing, I can't debate it objectively. I said, what do you mean? I said, because if you're right, I lose total control of my life. If Christianity is right, I've got to change everything. How in the world can I possibly debate this in an objective way? And I said, finally, you've begun to be objective. Biblically, the Bible says, no one is objective until they know they're not objective. No one is open until they know they're not open. No one can receive the truth until they realize they're not receptive. Until you realize that, until you realize you're threatened by the truth, because the Gospel is a tremendously threatening truth, you'll never be able to really be open to it. You can't be open to it until you admit that you're not open to it. But then once that happens and you begin to see the truth of it, you have to believe it. You have to commit yourself to it. to keep it and look to it because the relationship to the truth is not a relationship that's totally an intellectual one but one of the whole life. Now the last principle that we mentioned you have to understand that truth is the way you define a Christian it's the way a Christian is created but then secondly if you don't understand that you're going to live a life of insecurity and you're going to have a lot of trouble but then secondly truth is the way that God perfects you and recreates you and makes you holy. Sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. Again, this is so practical, and I don't know how many times in a sense I've got to say this in a week to people, and as a result I thought I'd preach on it instead so that I could just say it once. Put it this way. This is so important. On the one hand, many people, when they say, I'm a Christian and I want to grow and become like Christ, they're completely passive about it. They believe that they know what they should be doing and they know how they should live, but they don't have the power to do it. So they sit back and they say, you know, I know how I should be living, I just can't seem to do it. So I just have to pray that God will give me the power, but it just, he hasn't answered my prayer. Now the trouble with that is, Jesus says the sanctification Purification does not come zapped from heaven. It comes through the truth. Some of you are students. You know you're not allowed to be passive when the way in which you're going to graduate is through truth. What's going to make you into a graduate? You must graduate by the truth. You've got to take the truth and you've got to work it in so you pass the tests. You can't be passive. You can't stick the medical textbook under your pillow and say, Oh, Lord, I know what's in here, but I really don't. but you're just going to have to help me. And you sleep on it. That won't be enough. You have to drill it in. You have to reflect on it. You have to discuss it. It's not just something that needs to be at your fingertips. You've got to master the truth. It's got to be at your synapse tips. It's got to be something that, you know, you're going to be a doctor and you study this book on skin disorders and when you see the blotch, you need to be able to have mastered the truth so much. It must be so much a part of you that you know what to do. graduate through the truth. You become a doctor through the truth. And in order to get the truth into you, you can't be passive. If you've got a body of truth, you can't be passive. You can't sit back and just say, gee, Lord, I know what I'm supposed to do as a Christian, but it's just not happening to me. I guess I'll just have to wait on you. On the other hand, now there's some churches in which the passive approach is prominent. In some other churches, I would say the self-assertive approach. The legalistic approach is prominent. And that is, the will is directly assaulted by some churches. The church will come at you and say, this is what's right to do, this is what's right to do, do it, or you're going to get it. And that is a direct approach to the will. My understanding of what this text is saying is that when God deals with the will, he never forces the will, but he engages the will with the truth. Let me show you what actually the Bible really means when it says sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. Look at 1 Corinthians 6, 19 sometime. What a verse. It says flee sexual immorality. This is talking about sexual self-control, right? But then it immediately says, Paul says flee sexual immorality. Know ye not that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit, that you were bought with a price and you're not your own? Look at what he does. On the one hand, he's not passive, is he? He doesn't say, well, you know, these sexual desires are very strong. You just better ask God to take them away. You better go to God and ask Him to take it away. You better keep going because if He just hasn't taken it away, you better ask God to take them away. He does not appeal to the emotions. On the other hand, he does not appeal He'll direct you to the will. He doesn't say, stop being sexually immoral, period, or he's going to get you. Instead, what does he say? He says, flee sexual immorality, know ye not. What does he mean? What Paul is saying is, if you can't flee sexual immorality, if you don't have sexual self-control, you aren't thinking. You don't know who's living in there with you. You have forgotten. You need the truth. Why do you think? is, you want power? Doggone it, the power comes as you see the truth. I've had people say to me, well, I know that God's in control, but I'm still anxious. And the Bible, you know what the Bible's saying? You don't know God is in control or you wouldn't be anxious. So what do you do? It's the beauty of the way the Bible does. You're not passive. You don't sit back and say, well, Lord, you're gonna have to do something to get rid of this anxiety. Nor on the other hand, does the Bible simply say, stop worrying. Never. What does Jesus say? Have no anxiety, but consider, think, reflect on the truth. This is the principle. God gets his glory into you by taking the truth and putting it in front of you and by his Holy Spirit helping you to grasp it, helping you to understand it, making it real to you. Whenever a Christian actually experiences power, you know what he or she says? When a Christian experiences power, you say, saw that before. That's how the truth comes in, and that's how you get power. Sanctify them by the truth. Thy word is truth. When Paul says in Ephesians 1, he says, I pray every day for you that the eyes of your understanding will be enlightened, that you may grasp the hope of your calling and the riches of your inheritance and the great power in you who believe. What is Paul saying? He does not pray for power. He says, if you would only see the truth and realize the truth, you'd have the power. That means a Christian is in this perfect situation, I think. On the one hand, the Christian realizes, I can't force my will. I cannot operate directly on my will. I can't force my will or coerce it. I have to engage it. I have to have it motored by the truth. So a Christian isn't passive either. A Christian says, if I'm worried, if I'm lacking sexual self-control, I've got to get busy. I've got to go to the Word of God. I've got to go to the truth. I've got to meditate on it. I've got to study it. I've got to understand it. I've got to grasp it. And I have to ask the Spirit. I have to say, Spirit, I know that you do not sanctify me apart from the Word. Spirit, I know you don't work apart from the Word. It says right there, sanctify them in the truth. Give them power to grasp the height and the width breath and the depth. So Spirit, this is the way in which you're going to change me. And so I put myself on it. I give myself to it. I bring everything I have to bear on the truth. And that's what you see continually through the scripture. I'll go further. The Bible says that you don't want not one of your problems. There's not one problem that you're suffering from that isn't basically a failure to grasp or to comprehend a particular part of the truth. Matthew 6, have no anxiety, Psalm 73, we read it here today. How did the psalmist get rid of his envy and depression? He began to think about eternity, the truth. Paul says, John says in 1 John 1 and 2, if you've got guilt problems, he says, when your hearts condemn you, God is greater than your heart. We have an advocate with the Father. What does John say? You feel guilty. Does he stuff it? Does he say, you know, just repress your feelings, deny your feelings? Does he say, just sit back and sort of wait until God does something about them? No, go to the truth. Look at the advocate. Meditate. Think. Discuss. Talk to other Christians. Let the truth dwell in you richly. That's why the Psalm 1, in Psalm 1, that's why the psalmist says, Blessed is the man who delights in the law of God, and upon it he meditates day and night. whenever you see an example of somebody who's finally become sanctified in the truth as a habitual way of being the images the Bible uses are very organic it's like a bird in flight it's like a tree the man who delights in the law of God is like a tree by the waters in perfect harmony with his own nature, in perfect harmony with nature and so on sanctify them by the truth Listen, I have to wrap up, and here's how I do it. First of all, Christian friends, I know there's a number of you here who would have to admit that, frankly, you're just as grumpy as you were last year. You can ask somebody who knows you. Frankly, you're no happier. You have no more sense of mission. You're not growing in holiness. You're not seeing the changes we're talking about. Let's admit it. Therefore, what do you do about it? I tell you, you don't just decide to make longer lists and have more behavior modification charts in order to change. Nor do you sit back and say, I just have got to wait for the power of God to come down on me. I keep praying, oh Lord, take away these temptations, take away this laziness, take away these things. A Christian doesn't do either of those things. What does a Christian do? Friends, you've got to make time for the truth. There is nobody I've ever met that really began to move forward unless they went to somebody else who was being regularly sanctified in the truth, somebody who knew how to use the word, somebody who knew how to meditate on it, which isn't the same thing as just studying it, and got mentored. An elderly lady who still lives in New Jersey 20 years ago taught me how to study the Bible in a way that really bored into my life, and I will never, ever, ever be able to pay that back. I don't know of anybody who has ever really made progress here who has not been proactive and willing to go to somebody else and say, I don't know how to do this. I don't know how to meditate or study it. The Word of God does not really seem to light up and change me. It seems like it has that role in your life. Teach me, instruct me, mentor me. If you do not have the willingness to do that, if you don't have the humility to do that, if you don't have the discipline to do that, you'll spin your wheels because this is how God puts power and glory in your life. Look at Jesus. He did not deal with any challenge in his life without the Scripture. Jesus. Heck, if Jesus needed to know the Scripture so well and have it so specifically gripped and incorporated in his life that he knew how to respond. If Jesus needed the Scripture to respond to everything in his life, what in the world makes us think that we don't? How in the world is our life ever going to reflect his greatness if we can't? And surely there are some people here who are saying, Don't believe the Bible. I mean, you might say, admittedly, a lot of the things you say are very compelling, but I don't think I... How can you believe the Bible? Well, by the way, to be a Christian, you don't have to believe the whole Bible and every piece, but I'll tell you this, you've got to believe what the Scripture teaches about Jesus. That's what we've said. So you know what I suggest you do? Since you have... Since you, who say, I don't think I believe the Bible, You have just gambled your entire eternal destiny on that? It seems to me that the smartest thing for you to do is to really read the Bible as an adult. A lot of you think that you've been Christians and you've tried that, but you've given it up. As a child, you learned it. That's not the same thing. Read the New Testament as an adult and say, if this is really the sanctifying truth, if you're really their God, then show me what you've done for me. And he will, because that's how he works. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you speak to us. We thank you for the fact that your Son is obsessed to give us glory and to put it into our lives through the truth. Help us to take these very practical principles. Some people here, I think, are very worried about whether they're Christians or not, and I pray that you would take this principle and help them to see that you do love them and that they can be assured that they are walking with you and that you are theirs. pray that the people who are here who are disturbed would be comforted by this truth, and I pray that the people here who are comfortable might be disturbed by their lack of proactivity toward the Word of God. And I ask that you would move all of us to know what it means to be sanctified by the truth. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
