Now, would you please turn with me to the passage that several of you felt a burden from the Lord last week to come to me and say, I sure hope you're not moving into chapter 5 before you explain all that stuff at the end of chapter 4. And so here we are. We're going through the book of Galatians, and tonight, I will, I'm going to try to get through this last part of the book of Galatians chapter 4. There's a lot of thorny issues here. When you first read it, actually, there's some things that just don't sound right. And we're going to read it. And I am, tonight, I'm going to take a moment to try to explain some of the things that have created difficulties for interpreters of this passage. But what I really want to do is I want to show you the basic message, which is one of the most wonderful messages of grace and hope anywhere in the Bible, and therefore, anywhere in the world. Let me read it for you. So Paul says, who would want to be under the law? Are you not aware of what the law says? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman. His son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way, but his son by the free woman was born as a result of promise. These things may be taken figuratively. For the women represent two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai and bears children who are to be slaves. This is Hagar. Now, Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem because she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem that is above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, Be glad, O barren woman, who bears no children. Break forth and cry aloud, you who have no labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. And at that time, the son born in the ordinary way persecuted the son born by the power of the Spirit. It is the same now. But what does the Scripture say? Get rid of the slave woman and her son, for the slave woman's son will never share in the inheritance with the free woman's son. Therefore, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free. This is God's Word. Now, I know there's some things in there that you say, and some sound kind of harsh, and what is it about? So I look at the clock. I usually, as you know, I tend to, for simplicity's sake, and just for being a steward of time, we can't stop in some of these places and deal with some of the issues that interpreters wrestle with. But I will stop briefly tonight, because it's rather hard to miss some of the things that interpreters wrestle with. Maybe not the ones you think. actually the biggest issue that people wrestle with in the last 20 or 30 years, and there's been an enormous amount of literature written about this passage, and for a conscientious Bible teacher like myself, it frightens me because I feel like I ought to read it all, and it's terrible, and I've skimmed a lot of it. But it's all got a lot to do with this verse 24, where it says, these things may be taken figuratively. In Greek, he actually says, in the Greek he says, I take these things. Now, that's a very free rendering, but it's fair. of the Greek. In the Greek, he says, I will take this allegorically. He uses the word allegorismo, you know, the real, the Greek word allegorically, but this is fair. And the reason people get all upset about this, yeah, I'll take a minute on this. Indulge me, or please, what choice have you got? Try to stop me. Okay. Is people, first of all, people look at this and say, showing us how to interpret the Bible. Paul is showing us how to interpret the Old Testament. He's studying Genesis 16, which is the story of Hagar and Sarah and Abraham, the story of Ishmael and Isaac, Genesis 16, and he's showing us how to interpret it. And look, he doesn't take it literally. Now you see, some people say, look, Paul doesn't take the Bible literally. He takes it figuratively. He takes it symbolically. This is symbolism. And that's great, some people say. And other people say, look, Paul is taking things not literally but symbolically, and that's bad because how will we know what any of these texts mean if you can just see this is a symbol of this and this is a symbol of this? So people get pretty bent out of shape. And there's really two things I think you have to keep in mind. One, very sure. One is not as sure. But the most important thing is this. Right before Paul writes this, right before he says this, he says, my dear children, I am in agony. I'm in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. I wish I could be with you now. We talked about this last week. Paul is upset about the Galatians he's writing to. He's afraid for them. He thinks they're in danger spiritually, and so he's really upset. Then suddenly, that's just 19 and 20, and then suddenly in verse 21, he says, let me tell you about Abraham and Isaac. Now, does it make any sense that here's a man in the heart of a counseling session. And suddenly he says, but now we will have a lesson in Old Testament exegesis and the interpretation of redemptive history. Class, would you please turn to page... No, that's not what he's doing. What he's doing, very, very simply, is he's counseling. And the purpose of this passage is not to teach us how to interpret the Old Testament. The simplest way for me to do this is, if I was talking with you, and you were saying, if you were saying, I don't think there's any hope. I just feel like I'm at the dead end. I feel like there's just no way out. And what if I looked at you as a pastor and I said, there is light after darkness. There is resurrection after death. There is hope even in victory. That's what the resurrection of Jesus means. The resurrection of Jesus means that there's always a way out. There's always a way through that after a death can come resurrection. Now what am I doing? Am I saying, what am I doing? counseling and I'm taking the resurrection of Jesus Christ figuratively. Just because I'm taking the resurrection story of Jesus Christ figuratively doesn't mean I think it's only figurative. You see, just because I'm saying I'm going to take it figuratively, I'm going to use it figuratively doesn't mean I don't take it literally too. You see? So basically, the reason we shouldn't get all bent out of shape is just because Paul says I'm taking this figuratively doesn't mean he doesn't take it literally. Doesn't mean he doesn't think it really happened. So we shouldn't get all bent out of shape. Maybe that's pretty simple. You know, I know there's all these thousands of books have been written. Maybe they should have just asked me. I don't know. But actually, there really is a lot of, it's, I want you to know that when people read this, and this is worth talking about, when people talk to Christians, very often they say, I mean, I just heard Oprah Winfrey do this to some poor woman on, some Christian woman who got up and was disagreeing with her, and she went, and basically, this is what they say, say, well, yeah, you're reading the Bible, and I read the Bible. You like to take it literally. I like to figuratively. And they think that's the end of the conversation. But of course it's not, okay? Listen, if you write a letter, what's the purpose of writing a letter to somebody? The purpose of writing a letter to somebody is to get something across. And what if you wrote me a letter and you said, I went to see your friend, Mr. X. And boy, when I came out, Mr. X just beat me up. And what if I read that and I said, I'm going to have that man arrested. He beat her up. That's incredible. And so you call the police, and the police are over there. And the next thing you know, your friend calls and says, what have you done? And he said, well, you wrote me in the letter and said he beat you up. I said, well, I meant that he really told me that I was wrong, and I was so glad he did. And a good friend, I just meant I felt beat. It was a figurative statement. Well, I said, you know, I like to take things literally. I have a right to take things literally. And what would she say? She would say, how dare you? The purpose of my letter was get across my meaning. If you didn't understand my meaning, you should have asked. Do you see? What do you mean, I just like to take you literally? Who cares what you like? You need to figure out what I'm trying to say. And see, when somebody says, well, you like to take the Bible literally, I take it like the Bible. What you have to ask yourself is, would you dare let anybody else treat your letter the way you're treating God's letter? Would you dare let anybody else treat your communication the way you're treating this communication? You can't just say that. And by the way, the literal figurative thing is a red herring because you see some parts of the Bible you do have to take figuratively, like the poetry. In some parts you have to take literally, pardon me, literally, history, poetry figuratively, and there's some parts that are right? Some parts you're not sure what it means when the Bible says he beat me up. You don't know. And you see, if you get a letter and you're not sure if it's figurative or literal, you ought to ask, or you ought to think, or at least you ought to hold back. But the whole idea is not, the whole, the point is, you may not just decide what you like to do. And therefore, interpretation is very important. My job when I read the Bible is not, I like, I, what is Paul trying to say? what is coming across here? I have to work at it. And there's some places that are hard, but it's my job to figure that out and to do my best, or even to withhold judgment until I can figure it out. But not just to say, I like. Who cares what you like? You wouldn't dare. You shouldn't dare to do with this communication what you would never let anybody else do with yours. And by the way, here's just indulging one more second. Those of you who have been studying In the academic world, if you've been studying literature, if you've been, oh my goodness, the last 20 years, if you have been studying in almost any academic discipline, you know one of the big issues is how do we interpret texts and there's structuralism and there's post-structuralism and there's deconstruction and let's not go into it, but nowadays there is, more and more, there are more and more people who say it doesn't matter what the text, what the author of the text means, all that matters is how it means to me. What if you wrote that down? What if you said to me, what if you said, it doesn't matter what the author means. It doesn't matter what Shakespeare means. It doesn't matter what Paul means. It doesn't matter what the author of the text means. All that matters is what it means to me. And what if you told me that and I said, well, thank you. I will go rob your house. And you would say, what are you talking about? Well, you just said it means to me that I can rob your house. And you see, can't, you would never let me get away with it. As soon as you say, it doesn't matter what the author means, it just matters what it means to me, you actually can't even say that without expecting me to know what you mean. And you'll insist that I take seriously what you mean. All I'm trying to say is when it comes to reading the Bible, it's very easy to spout this. Oh, what really matters is what it means to me. I like to take it figuratively. There's no integrity in that talk. There's no integrity at all. There's no intellectual in it. And most of all, it's just simply breaking the golden rule. You're refusing to do unto God what you would have others do for you. Now, what is Paul saying? That's the issue. What does he mean? And what's great about this, if we understand the context, what he is saying is really very simple, very simple, and not all that complicated in the end. Look, if you take the text, you'll see first of all, he talks about two sons. Then he talks about two covenants. And then he gives two applications. The two sons, right here in verse 22, for it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman. His son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way, but his son by the free woman was born as a result of promise. Now, why does he bring up two sons of Abraham? And here's why. If you read the whole book of Galatians, you realize Paul has continually talked about this, children of Abraham, to be a child of Abraham was a high privilege. You remember when Jesus was talking to the religious leaders in John 8, and they said, who do you think you're talking to? We are children of Abraham. Now, the Galatians were pagans. The Galatians were Greeks. They did not know the law of God. They did not know the word of God. They were not living according to the will of God, and they were living a pagan life. And one of the things that we have trouble remembering because Christianity has had such an incredible impact on Western culture, such an incredible impact that we forget what it was like before Christianity came along with its new ideas. We forget just how incredibly vicious, how incredibly cruel, how incredibly lascivious the pagan world was. We forget what mud it was and how everybody was just rolling around in the mud. getting ready for a sermon that I preached last Sunday morning on something on the pagan world, and we just forget just how lascivious and how cruel it was. What do I mean by lascivious? One of the things that's so interesting about Christianity was one of the reasons it grew in the Greco-Roman world was that women flocked into it. They loved it. And the reason women flocked into it was because Christianity was really one of the very first, essentially got it from the Bible, of course, in Judaism, but it came along and it said you should have no sex outside of marriage. Now you right away think, boy, that's kind of puritanical, but, and it's true, it, it, in a way it was, but it was absolutely liberating to women because in that time, polygamy, which meant men had a lot of women, that was normal, but most of all, there was an absolute double standard when it came to sex in the pagan world. Men could have sex with anyone, anywhere, anytime, and women, and especially married women, could not. There was an utter double standard, but along comes Christianity and says, one man, one woman in marriage, that's the only place for sex. And what that did was immediately meant that first of all, women felt empowered. Women finally felt justice, sexual justice, and families were incredibly strong because we all know polygamy is just devastating to children, devastating to women, just devastating. dating. And so what happened was, you know, the pagan sexual practices were utterly different than the Christian. But not only that, the pagan life was incredibly cruel. We know from history that when epidemics came along and people were starting to die, it was not unusual for pagan families to pick their own family members up who were sick and out of fear of contamination, lay them outside to die on the street just so they, you know, weren't contaminated. Whereas Christians, of course, not only nurse their own sick during those epidemics, but other people's sick. We also know, for example, that there were 140 men for every 100 women in the Greco-Roman world, but it was 100 and 100 inside the Christian world. Do you know why? Do you know why there was that incredible imbalance? And that was because it was normal that when your baby was born, if it was a girl, to kill it. Infanticide was absolutely normal. The census figures show that of 600 families in a particular Greek town, you know, around the time of Christ, there were 600 families. And most of the families had seven, eight, nine children, that kind of thing. But only six of those families had more than one daughter. Because daughters just weren't, you know, they weren't popular. We have a letter from an Alexandrian businessman who was away on business. And he wrote his wife back. And she was pregnant. And he was saying, you know, don't forget this. Don't forget this. I hope we'll be back in three weeks. excessive. And by the way, if the baby is born while I'm away, if it's a girl, throw it out. And they were. Paganism, you see, until Christianity came along and said that every single human life is valuable, until Christianity came along and said that sex is a sacred thing and that there should be no double standards, until Christianity came along and said all these things. Paganism was really astoundingly cruel. And when the Galatians had come to Christ, and when they got the vision, the biblical vision of what human life should be like, and when they saw their own past, they were filled with shame. Now, shame is a big deal. I know it's only a cartoon. And you're going to laugh at me. Go ahead, laugh at me. But whenever that place in Lion King happens, you know, where, I don't even know, the daddy lion is dead. And the little lion is there with his father dead. And the uncle lion, the wicked mean guy, wants to cripple this little lion. He wants to cripple this child. He comes up and he looks and he says, says, what have you done? Now, Jeremy Irons has got a tremendous voice, and he's the actor, and I can't do it like he does. But I'll tell you something, I have nightmares when I hear that voice, because that is the voice that all of us hear when we look at our past. What have you done? He comes up, Simba, right? He says, what have you done? Well, I, it just happened. He wouldn't be alive if it wasn't for you. He'd be alive if it wasn't for you. Remember that? He'd be alive if it wasn't for you. And the kids crippled forever. Shame. Now, it doesn't take much. When I got here in 1989, the codependency dysfunctional movement was just at full height. And everybody, all the books and all the seminars were saying we're We're filled with shame because our parents didn't love us, and so we're victims and we're codependent. And you know, somewhere in the early 90s, there was a backlash from the left. Wendy Kamener, for example, wrote a book called I'm Dysfunctional, You're Dysfunctional. There was a backlash from the left, and everybody started to ridicule the idea that because your parents didn't love you, you're a victim, and blaming your parents for all your problems. And it kind of died down. But I'll tell you, from the Christian point of view, the codependency movement was not wrong, Because it took shame too seriously. It was wrong because it didn't take shame seriously enough. Because see the Bible believes, the Bible teaches that we all have deep, deep, deep down a deep sense of being naked and ashamed. We all know there's something wrong with us. We all do. And of course bad parenting can make it worse and good parenting can make it better but we all have that. It's much deeper than the codependency movement one would acknowledge. And we do try to cover ourselves. We do try to make ourselves. The reason we need to be sexually attractive, the reason we need to be successful, the reason we need to make money, we all choose to, we're trying to cover our shame. And most of us do a pretty good job of it. We take philosophy 101 and we believe in relativism. That's one way of doing it. I mean, we do everything we can to cover the shame. But Jonathan Edwards said, if there were no fires in hell, if there was no fire in hell, but if God takes away the barrier and the shield around your conscience so that you will have to live with what deep in your conscience you really think about yourself, he said there'll be fire enough, it'll still be hell. In other words, if we do everything we can to hide from ourselves what we think of ourselves, the self-loathing, the self-criticism, it's very deep, it's very And if something comes along and triggers it, we're in hell here. And the Galatians came out of this paganism, and their consciences were enlightened by the Holy Spirit and by the Word of God, and they looked at themselves, and Paul said, you are saved not by your record, but by Christ's record. You're saved not because of what you have done, but by what Christ has done. You are, in spite of everything you've done, in spite of all of your shame and guilt, In spite of all of that, you're children of God. You're children of Abraham. And that was great. But Paul didn't stay around that long. And next thing you know, along come these teachers. And they come in and they look at the Galatians and they say, Paul called you children of Abraham. Well, you believe in Christ. That's wonderful. But wait a minute. Wait a minute. You've got a long way to go. What have you done? You know what you've done. There's a lot to do. law you're going to have to you're going to have to pick up those all the ceremonies my for years and years and years we have been purifying our souls through all these ceremonies and these rituals and these washings and the way we eat and the way we dress and the way we live we've been we've been doing everything we can for years to purify ourselves from the pollution of the pagan culture around us you have a long way to go we've been doing this for years what makes you think that you were there already well believing in christ doesn't start but you're you're not children of Abraham. Oh no, think of what you've done. You're not children of Abraham yet. So Paul counterattacks. Incredibly great counterattack. He says, let's talk about who's children of Abraham. There were two children of Abraham. There were two sons. And there were two people who related to Abraham. One was Ishmael, and he was born in the ordinary way. And one was Isaac, and he was born By promise. Now, if you remember the story, you'll know what happened. God had come to Abraham and to Sarah and had said, Abraham, Sarah, I'm going to give you a child. I'm going to give you a child through Sarah. Your child, and from your child you'll have a great family and you'll have many descendants and you will be a great nation. And they'd waited and they'd waited and they waited. And now Abraham was very old and Sarah was very old. And Sarah finally turned to Abraham and said, it'll be a miracle, I'm barren. I'm desolate. I've never had a child. I am therefore marked in my culture. I am ashamed. There's only one thing you can do to remove my shame. In that day, it was possible and legal if the husband slept with the servant, the slave of the wife, then the child of the slave woman was legally the child of the wife. And see though, as we all it would have been a miracle for Sarah at the age of 70, 80, 90 to have a child, but it's not necessarily a miracle for a man of 70, 80, or 90 to father a child. And therefore, Abraham had a choice. He could either get a family through his own human ability or he could wait and get a family through God's miraculous ability. He had a choice. And he decided, he and Sarah decided, we're not going to wait for God. We're not going to get a family through God's work. We're going to get a family through our work. And we're going to do it in a way that we have control over, something that we in our human ability have got still the power to do. Sarah says, I can't have a child, but you can have a child, so let's do it that way. So Abraham and Sarah moved out using their own human ability, and through that human ability, they got Ishmael. But later on, God visited, and in a miracle, through Sarah, they had Isaac. Then Paul says, let's take this figuratively. And you see, now I'm going to defend Paul. This is not that fanciful. not that allegorical. Paul is saying this represents two covenants. This represents two ways of relating to God. And you know what? It's not just a symbol. These two children, these two sons, were literally born, literally born. They were literally the result of two completely different approaches to God. Do I decide to basically earn with my own human ability what I want, or do I wait for God and let it be completely dependent on his ability? And Paul says, when you go the human way, you become a slave. Now, that's not too hard to understand, because when you take a look and see what happened, it's not too hard to understand what happened. There is nothing worse than what Abraham did. Abraham exploited both Sarah and Hagar. Even that was Sarah's idea. Sarah was beautiful and young, and she had this child. She was fertile. And then we're told in the story that she felt self-righteous over her mistress, and her mistress felt absolutely like spit, absolutely like dirt. And Ishmael had a younger brother, Isaac. But Isaac, of course, was the favorite of the father because Ishmael was the slave woman. And of course, poor Ishmael, you know, started to make fun of Isaac and started to persecute Isaac, because, of course, he understood that he wasn't loved. I mean, by following his own human ability, Abraham screwed up his life, and Paul says, when you try to use your own ability to deal with your shame and nakedness, if you say, I will feel, I will get rid of this shame and nakedness by working hard, I'll become a partner, I will deal with the shame of nakedness by becoming a PhD. I will deal with the shame of nakedness by having a wonderful family. I will deal with the shame of nakedness by being a beautiful person, sexually attractive. I can get anybody I want. If you use your human ability, you will become a slave. The results will be slaves. You will be a slave. The whole thing is slavery. The whole thing. You'll have to. You'll need it. You'll have to do it. If anything gets in your way, you'll be filled with anger. If anything gets in your way, you'll be, even if it doesn't get in your way, happens, you'll be driven and driven. You'll be a slave. Or, he says, you can see what it means to rely on what Jesus has done, to be saved by grace. It says, the Jerusalem which is above is our mother. You know what that means? It is our mother. That means he's saying we're already citizens of heaven. You're not, if you're a Christian, you're not hoping by living a long time and really hard, he's not saying at the very end of your life, maybe you'll be led into heaven. You are now citizens of heaven. She is our mother, not she will be our mother. What does that mean? That's not just figurative language. Your mother city was this place where you were a citizen. Your mother city was a place where you had rights. Your mother city was a place where you belong. And he is saying, you Galatians, if you try to listen to what those teachers are saying and dealing with all of your shame, by trying to be moral, by trying to be religious, by doing all this stuff you will be nothing but a slave. But if on the other hand you understand that what Jesus Christ has done is sufficient. There's nothing to add to it. And you'll be free and you'll live a free life. You'll work but you won't have to work. You'll try to succeed but you won't have to succeed. You'll try to build a family but you won't have to have the family. You won't be a slave to anything. And then he finally says and this is the most great part he quotes Isaiah 54 And when he says this, my heart leaps. He says, for it is written, Be glad, O barren woman who bears no children. Break forth and cry aloud, you who have no labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. Sarah, in her culture, she was a woman, and in her culture, by not having a child, she was in shame. That's the reason why Paul used her as an illustration. get this, if you rely on your own human ability, you'll have children. But if you rely on God's ability, no matter who you are, what you've done, no matter what your background is, more will be your children than the children of she who is fertile. Now, some of you may have heard this story, but it always moves me remarkably. And that is, if you ever go to one of the best churches in Harlem, Bethel Gospel, and you listen to Ezra Williams tell you the story of how that He didn't start that church. He's a very old man. He's in his 70s. He didn't start the church. It's older than he is. I think he's like the second pastor. But he tells this incredible story, and the incredible story was pretty simple. And that is, basically, many years ago, there was no church in Harlem. The Bethel Gospel didn't exist. But there was a couple of African-American women who were going to a Bible study in the center city, run by a German woman, and they became Christians. And they asked her to come on up to Harlem and begin a Bible study there and work with more African Americans. And this woman was engaged. And when this woman turned to her fiancé and said, I'm going to be doing this, and I'm going to be involved with these people, this was many years ago, 80, 90 years ago, the fiancé said, if you do that, we're over. If you do that, not only will I marry you, but probably nobody's going to marry you. Nobody in our circles will marry you. And she wrestled over this. Ezra Williams says she wrestled over this So she came to the text, Isaiah 54.1. It said, More are the children of the desolate woman than of she who has a husband. She was facing the possibility of something that is still to some degree, to some degree, it's still an embarrassment in this society, not like it used to be, but to some degree it still is. Back then it really was. She knew that it was very possible that she would be a single woman and never married. That was a mark of great shame. But she realized that she obeyed God, and if, instead of getting her shame and nakedness dealt with, instead of getting her righteousness, instead of getting her worth from having a family, fitting into the white culture, fitting into what everybody said, I'm going to be obedient to the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm going to rely on what He says about me, and what His righteousness is, and she got this promise. You will have more children. You will be more fruitful. faithful. God loves to work through people like you. Tell me, I don't care what you've done. I don't care if you've been a hit man for the mafia. I don't care if you've been in the depths of degradation. I don't care if you've been at the very gates of hell. You come to him, and instead of saying, I will clean my life up, that will just give you more slavery, more slavery than you were in before. If instead you say, nothing in my hands I bring, simply to the cross I cling, more will be your children than the fertile person, you see, the beautiful person, the person that seems to have it all, who instead is through his or her own human ability seeking to cover his or her nakedness. More will be your children. See, Paul, don't forget in verse 20, You don't think there's a connection here? In verse 19 and 20, Paul called these people who? What did he call them? My dear children. They were his children. Paul hardly had a home. Paul was always being beaten. Paul was in disgrace. Paul lost his career. He had been a promising academic career. Paul was a hunted man. Paul died in exile. Paul didn't have any children. Oh, yes, he did. and no matter who you are, you will be fruitful if you put yourself in his hands. Greater, be glad, O barren woman who bears no children. Break forth and cry aloud for you who have no labor pains because greater are the children, more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. I am not ashamed of the gospel for it is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe. Let's pray. We thank you, Father, that the gospel is so radical and so great. We thank you that Paul could come along and say, therefore, throw out the slave woman. Get rid of that slave in my heart. Get rid of trying to get into the earthly Jerusalem and realize that by salvation of grace, by the work of Jesus Christ, I can now be a citizen of Jerusalem who is of above, and she We pray that you would get rid of the slave mentality and you would help us to live with the freedom and the poise and the confidence that is possible through the gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.

