I brought this text out because I think it's such a, it tells us so much about the meaning of Christmas, and yet it's so ill-known. It's not well-known at all. It's about, it's in Luke chapter 2, and I'm going to read verses 25 to 35. It's not printed in your bulletin, sorry. Luke 2, 25 to 35. And it's the account of what happened when Jesus' parents brought him, as all Jewish children at the time were brought to the temple when he was eight days old to be circumcised. Verse 25, chapter 2 of Luke. Now there was a man in Jerusalem called Simeon, who was righteous and devout. He was waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Moved by the Spirit, he went into the temple courts, and when the parents brought in the child, Jesus, to do for him what the custom of the law required, Simeon took him in his arms and praised God, saying, Sovereign Lord, as you have promised, you now dismiss your servant in peace, for my eyes have seen your salvation, which you have prepared in the sight light of all people, a light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people Israel. The child's father and mother marveled at what was said about him, and then Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, this child is destined to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel and to be a sign that will be spoken against so that the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed, and a sword will pierce your own soul as well. This is God's word. Now, this text brings out one of the aspects of the message of Christmas that is very, very seldom seen. It's very seldom articulated. It's very seldom made explicit. But here in this particular text, we see it. You see, Christmas every year, especially in a place like New York, Christmas has got a message that people in New York listen to, and they recite, and they sing every year, and they don't get it. There is a combativeness about Christmas and the doctrine of Christmas. There is something extremely, there's something very, very uncomfortable about And yet it's very interesting how it's in the carols, it's in the hymns, it's in the Christmas text, and people just sort of blandly and sweetly listen to them and let them wash right over them, and they don't see that there's a hardness, there's a combativeness in the message of Christmas. But it comes out so explicitly that you can't ignore it right here in what Simeon says. says, this child is set to cause the falling and rising again of many in Israel, and to be a sign which is spoken against, and the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed, and a sword will pierce your soul as well. To give you an example of how people, in a sense, don't get it, I can only, I could refer you to a review that happened in the New York Times earlier this week, on Tuesday actually was. And it was on the arts page, and the reviewer was just talking about whether it's good or bad that every Christmas, and actually every Easter, we hear the Messiah so often. He was asking the question, is it good that a work like the Messiah is played over and over, performed over and over and over again, so it's become so familiar? Is it good or not? And so what he said answered the question by saying, on the one hand, and on the other. And he said, on the one hand, the thing that is positive is that the Messiah, no matter how poorly it's performed, somehow its power always comes through. He says, and in a sense, just to hear the Messiah perform so many different ways and so often so poorly proves to us what a masterwork it is, proves to us it's an enduring masterwork because the power comes through no matter who and how it's being performed. But on the other hand, and he said something extremely interesting, and it illustrates our point. He says, on the other hand, we've gotten so used to it, he says, that we've lost the meaning of what it really says. He says, we've lost sight of the elemental principles of the Hallelujah Chorus. We have lost the sense of its shocking force. That's his words. And let me just read review. He says, after all, how well do we really know the Hallelujah Chorus? Do we really listen to it? It's so warm and familiar. But at St. Thomas Church, while I was listening to it, I paged through the Bible and came on the passage in Revelation, which the Hallelujah Chorus is taken from. The true Messiah, it turns out, wears a linen cloth drenched in blood, and the words Lord of Lords are written on his thigh. See, the reviewer says, you know, we listen to this wonderful, warm, we always get a warm, wonderful, inspired feeling when we hear the Hallelujah Chorus. But when you actually look at the text on which it's based, here comes this figure in heaven. He's wearing blood-drenched clothes. He's on a horse. He's coming in as a general. And he said, that I'm the King of kings and the Lord of lords, and he is staking out a claim on everybody and demanding supreme lordship over all other kings and all other faiths and all other people. And the reviewer says, maybe we've heard the Hallelujah Chorus so often that we don't hear it anymore. It's got a shocking force to it. Now, even so, what I'm trying to say is, the Bible tells us, and we sing about it in the Christmas carols, and there it is in the Hallelujah Chorus. That Jesus Christ came at Christmas time to stake out a claim. Enormous claim. He has staked out every inch of the physical universe. Every inch of the spiritual universe. Every inch of the mental universe. Every inch of your and my lives. Our lives and hearts. And he has claimed it as his. He stakes it out and he says, mine. Every inch. And therefore, it's very clear that he comes to divide. He comes to cause conflicts. He comes to pick a fight. See, we sing about it or we hear it sung about in the Hallelujah Chorus. But you see, he's coming as king of kings and lord of lords. He comes to pick a fight. Well, somebody says, doesn't he come to bring peace on earth? Yes, of course he comes to bring peace on earth. But you see, here's how he brings peace on earth. Notice in the very beginning of Simeon's prophecy, you have the very familiar part where he says, Now, Lord, lettest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for my eyes have seen thy salvation. And so we see peace. But how does Jesus bring peace? This child is set to cause the falling and rising of many in Israel and to be a sign which is spoken Jesus brings peace on earth, but he brings a sword that goes right through your heart in order to bring that peace. That's the message of Christmas. Jesus brings peace on earth, but how? How did the allies bring peace to occupied France on D-Day? They picked a fight. How does a surgeon bring peace to your body, which has got a tumor in it? The surgeon spills your blood. cuts you wide open. That's the only way for your body to have peace. You know the place in Luke chapter 12 where Jesus says, think not that I come to bring peace on earth, I come to bring a sword. And yet he also, of course, says I do come to bring peace on earth. He comes to bring both. He brings the peace through the sword. He brings the peace through dividing people, through picking a fight. All I want to show you here is this text teaches that Jesus comes as the great divider. He comes to cause conflicts. And I'd just like to show you two principles out of the passage. First of all, Jesus Christ comes at Christmas. He comes to divide people. And then secondly, to divide hearts, or put it another way. First of all, he comes to cause conflicts between people. And secondly, He comes to cause conflicts within people. He comes as the great divider, cause conflicts between people, and He causes conflicts within people. And that's the only way His peace will come. Look, first, He causes conflicts between people. This child is set to be the cause of a rising and falling of many in Israel and to be a sign which is spoken against. That's verse 34. What's he saying? Simeon is saying that Jesus Christ came to polarize people. He causes you to rise or he causes you to fall. The word cause in the verse, controls both of those. He comes to cause you to rise or cause you to fall. Jesus Christ will cause everybody to either rise or fall, but there's no in between. He comes to polarize you. He comes to push you up or push you down. How could that be? Because he is divisive. Simeon predicts it, and the Bible talks about it. Now, why does Jesus create both, does he cause both the rising and the falling? Why does he polarize people? And the answer is because in himself he combined both an overwhelming repulsiveness. You have to see the overwhelming repulsiveness of his claims and yet the overwhelming attractiveness of his life. And if you understand both of those things, the overwhelming repulsiveness of his claims and the overwhelming attractiveness of his life, then you will see why he causes people to either rise or fall. But he leaves nobody alone. He leaves nobody in the middle. Let me show you for a sec. First, look at the overwhelming repulsiveness of his claims. He claimed to be king of kings and lord of lords. And you see, there's no way that you can stay neutral when someone comes and says, you belong to me. If somebody comes up to you and say, I own you. You belong to me. you can't be casual about that. You can't be neutral. You either have to reject that person, you have to fight that person off, or else you have to comply. You have to submit to that person. And that is what Jesus does. Now, plenty of people don't want to believe that. There are many people today who desperately try to find an intellectual way to stay away from having to either rise or fall. They desperately seek to stay away from either having to hate and fear Jesus or throw everything over and submit to him and make him supreme. The average person doesn't want to do either, and we work very hard and very desperately to stay in the middle. Just yesterday, for a quick example, oh no, actually it's today, I got it yesterday, but today in the New York Times book review section, you'll see reviewed a book just called Jesus. It's written by another Bible scholar. And this Bible scholar says, you know, the real Jesus was really a Jewish peasant who was deeply influenced by the school of philosophers known as the cynics, the cynic philosophers. And the cynic philosophers were a school of thought that believed, they were skeptical about social tradition and any kind of social obligations. And the cynics said you should find your own way to live and decide what you want to live. It sounds very modern, I know. And so this particular writer suggests that Jesus Christ was actually very deeply influenced by the cynics, and so he really believed that human beings needed to find their own way to live. Now, the reviewer of the book realized that's stupid, probably. Because the cynics were all, the cynic philosophers were all very urban. They lived in the cities. And Jesus was a rural peasant. And the chances are that there were no cynic philosophers anywhere around Palestine at all. Let alone in the rural sections. And so the reviewer realizes this is very improbable. And yet at the end, the reviewer says, this is still a good book. It's still a good book. It's good. And here's what he says. You know why? He says, this author shows rightly that the challenge of Jesus lies in his vision of human possibilities. And faith should focus on sharing Jesus' vision rather than on holding this or that belief about Jesus' identity or career. Now, you see what he's saying? He says, you know, the important thing is that Jesus believed in great human potential. And to believe, what we should really do is just try to believe in message and not worry about who he is. Who he is, who he claimed to be, that makes really no difference. The important thing is that he was a wonderful teacher that showed us how much potential we have in us. Now, friends, and I'll be very careful about this because I don't myself want to be sarcastic, that is an absolute fantasy. And lots of otherwise very intelligent people desperately cling to that view, which has no logical or intellectual credibility at all. If you want to go read the oldest gospel, two or three hundred people at Redeemer, maybe four hundred, are going through the gospel of Mark in small groups this year. It's the oldest gospel. It's the one written farthest, you know, the earliest probably. Most scholars agree that it was written in the 60s, before the fall of Jerusalem. And so it was written only 30 years after Jesus had died. And there's almost nothing in Mark. There's very little teaching at all. Very little of Jesus' teaching. There's lots of Jesus' teaching in Matthew and Luke and John, but very little. Mark is all about the fact that wherever Jesus went, the big question in front of everybody was not how wonderful his teaching was, but who is this? Who is this that the winds and the sea obey him? Who is this that he forgives sins? Who is this? Nowhere, anywhere in any of the gospels do you have people saying, well, you know, I don't care who he is, but he sure tells me a lot about my potential. That's wonderful. In fact, can you imagine somebody like Jesus going around and calming the storm and raising from the dead and making these statements saying, I can forgive your sins, and people sitting there saying, oh, he's just a wonderful teacher. Heck no, it's not logical. You would say, who does this person think he is? Who is this person? And Jesus himself pushes, look at his teachings. They are repulsive in their self-centeredness. They are relentless. He says at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. On Judgment Day, whether you rise or fall, whether you go to heaven or you're cast down into hell, he says, all depends on whether you know and love me. What a claim. He says, the one who believes in me is not condemned. The one who does not believe in me is condemned already. That's Jesus talking. How in your face is that? When he talks Mark 10. Basically, he says this. He says to the rich young ruler, let's get to the main point here, rich young ruler. He says, I have to be more important to you than your wealth or anything else you have or else you're lost. Do you want to know what Jesus says? Just read his words. Read the Gospels. Read the accounts of his life. He says, I am so important that if your eye or your hand, keep you away from me. Cut the hand off. Pluck the eye out. It's not worth it. He says, eat my body. Drink my life. If you have me, you've got the universe by the tail. If you don't have me, you will be like the chaff that the wind driveth away. You can't get away. He demands adoration. He demands allegiance. The Gospels are dominated by the issue of not what he teaches about human potential, but by who he is. And that is utterly repulsive. And that's the reason why Simeon said he will be a sign that will be spoken against. You will either have to rise or you will have to fall. You will either find that he repulses you or else you embrace him completely. But now here the question is, if it's so repulsive, why did anybody rise? And the answer is, as we mentioned a minute ago, the reason Jesus was not simply because he claimed these incredible things to be God, but also because of the overwhelming attractiveness of his life. You see, people say, well, back then didn't a lot of people walk around claiming to be God? Yeah, but not one of them ever got a religion started, a major religion. Never. None of the major religions were started by people who claimed to be God. No. Lots of people walked around claiming to be the Messiah, claiming to be God, claiming to be some kind of divine creator, but they only got a little tiny group of maladjusted and dysfunctional people around them to believe them. By and large, most people let go of them. They just thought they were crackpots, of course, because such claims are overwhelmingly repulsive. Well, then how did Jesus get away with it? How did he get a religion off the ground? And the answer is this. he must have been every bit as attractive. He must have had every bit as much moral beauty as the Bible says he did. There's no other explanation for it. Nobody but nobody who claims the things he claimed and demands adoration continually and is always talking about himself, self. Nobody combines that with a life of humble, compassionate tenderness, a life of melt-in-your- mouth sweetness and wisdom. There's never been somebody like that. You've got lots of humble, compassionate, tender people who are so attracted, but they never would say the things Jesus says about himself. And then there's other people who say the things that Jesus has said and demands man's adoration, but they're not like that. That's the reason why people were utterly polarized. And, you know, there might be a couple of objections real quickly. Somebody says, well, yes, but the Bible was written many, many, many years later. No, people want to believe that because they do not want to have to rise or fall. They want to believe Jesus was a nice guy. They want to be mildly religious. They don't want to have to believe that they have to choose that He is the Savior of the world and the God and the Lord of lords and King of kings, or else an absolute sham, an absolute lunatic, an absolute liar. They don't want to have to choose. They want to be able to be mild, sort of Christian, kind of moral, kind of religious. So you say, well, it was written many years later, and of course all these stories about Jesus developed. That's not true. The scholars now know that, for example, Mark was written within 30 years saw him and knew him were still alive, making it almost impossible to write on a piece of paper exaggerated fabricated claims. Well, somebody says, yes, but it was his admirers that wrote those books. Of course, that's my point. What could have made monotheistic Jews, who had been trained all of their lives,

to believe that God could never become flesh, to admire and worship him like they do, like they did? What could have done it? Don't you see Jesus will make you rise or fall? Now, let me just conclude this point and move on to the second point. Before I do, let me just ask this question. If Simeon is right, if Jesus came to divide people, why is it that most people are not either rising or falling? Why is it that most people do not hate? There's plenty of people in New York that hate Christianity and Jesus and all of his claims. one thing. But at least they're consistent. And there are also people in New York City who have thrown everything overboard. And with every fiber of their being have decided that Jesus Christ has to be the supreme thing and the central thing in their life. In every decision they make. In every facet of their life. In every aspect of their life. But most people are neither. Most people are moderately happy. Moderately religious. Moderately. moderate. How do you account for that? And the answer is, the only way to account for it is that they don't know who the real Jesus is. Their Jesus is a fabrication. Their Jesus is an idol. There's no evidence for such a person. No evidence at all. Not one shred of historical evidence for it. Is your Jesus Christ the one who says, I did not come to bring peace on earth but a sword. Lord, I came to set the earth on fire. Is your Jesus the one who polarizes? Is your Jesus the one who makes people rise or fall but allows no one in between? Today, do you either hate and despise him or is he the supreme thing in your life so that there is not a decision you make, there is not an aspect of your life that is not in submission to him, king of kings and lord of lords? words. If you're not one or the other, the Jesus that you believe in is a myth. The Jesus you believe in is a fantasy. This child is set to cause the falling or rising of many in Israel and to be a sign which is spoken against. Now, secondly, that's not enough. It's not just that Jesus causes conflicts within people. I mean, pardon me, between people and polarizes people. and divides people. He also causes conflicts within the individual heart. He divides the heart. See, Simeon says, and the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed. And he says to Mary, a sword will pass into your soul as well. Now, I'd like to be briefer here, but I must say that though Simeon is predicting that Mary herself, he's talking to Mary and to Joseph, Joseph. He's talking to, but you know, Joseph, what we can tell, dies early and Mary goes through most of the rest of Jesus, goes through all of Jesus' life. In a way, Simeon is predicting that they, or especially Mary, is going to have a lot of pain in, she's going to have a lot of pain in her life. But she stands there as a representation of everybody who loves Jesus, I think. And let me just say to you that this text, I think, points to, and the Bible teaches, that if you love him, if you stand by him, a sword will pass through your heart as well. That means, as J.C. Ryle, the Bishop of Liverpool back in the late 19th century said, that when a person becomes a Christian, a new peace comes into your life, but at the same time, a new fight comes into your life. New conflict. And the peace doesn't come without the conflict and the conflict without the peace because they're intrinsically related. Let me just show you two, just two very brief examples of this. That God's peace always comes through a sword. That God's peace always comes through conflict. Number one, God's peace comes after the sting of repentance. Repentance is like antiseptic. septic onto a wound, and at first it always stings, but it heals. It stings, it hurts, but it hurts to heal. That's exactly the way repentance works. C.S. Lewis, I think, said, the only way for you to get peace is to pass through the pain of repentance and exposure, and there's no way to get into that peace without going through that pain. That's the case. space. Look, last week I think we said that the great thing about the gospel is that the gospel shows that anybody can come to God no matter what your record is. Remember we said last week that many people think they're so broad-minded when they say, well, I believe that anyone who's good, any good and decent and moral person can find God regardless of what they believe. And that sounds so broad minded. But Christians believe that's very exclusive. Because Christianity is a way of salvation. A way to find God for people who aren't good. For people who aren't disciplined. You see, Christianity is a way. It says if you come to Jesus Christ. Even if you aren't good and decent. Even if you aren't wonderful. And even if you don't have a good record, anybody through Christ can find God. Well, somebody says, how could that be? And let me just put the gospel in a nutshell. Because Jesus Christ lived a perfect life and died a perfect death. Now,

God treats you when you believe in Christ as if you have done everything Jesus has done, and you have suffered everything Jesus has suffered. God treats believing sinners as if done. Everything Jesus has done and suffered. Everything Jesus has suffered. That means when you believe in Christ, you're adopted, not on the basis of your record, but on his record. And you're adopted into the family and treated as if you'd accomplished everything he's accomplished. That's the gospel. Well, somebody says it's too easy. I don't know how many times people have said that's just too easy. You mean you just receive it? Yeah. But you have to receive it through repentance. And that's what's not easy at all. The only way to get to that peace is through the pain of repentance. In other words, all you need is nothing. But most people don't have that. All you need is nothing. But most people don't have that. Do you know what it means to repent? There's the sword. Repentance is a sword in the soul. The only way to get peace is through repentance. Well, what is repentance? Listen. It's to admit that you've done many things wrong. Yes. But more than that, that you have a selfish, sinful heart. But more than that, that you can't change it. And therefore, you need both forgiveness and a power to change. And that your only hope is through the sheer mercy of God. How does that feel to you? See, some of you, I'm sure, are squirming, finding it very uncomfortable. I told you, repentance is hard. Repentance is painful. Repentance is difficult. called, but. It's the only way to get peace. And you know, the sword of repentance is not wielded by a warrior, but by a surgeon. Repentance has a sting to it, like the sting of antiseptic. The only way to get that peace is to let that sword come in, to go through that sting. just talking to people here today who don't believe. Christian friends, listen. Luther said all of life is repentance. And let me remind you what repentance is. Real Christian repentance always brings healing after the sting. Sometimes not immediately, not five minutes after the sting, not even five days sometimes after the sting, but always does. You know why? Because real, Real true Christian repentance, not just self-flagellation. True Christian repentance always gets down to the sin underneath the sin. And the sin underneath the sin is always that Jesus' love and work on the cross is not enough. Let me tell you what the language of a repentant heart is. A repentant heart goes like this. Lord Jesus, I did this thing because I didn't believe you loved me. In this thing, I denied your love. I denied that your death and your love was enough for me. Forgive me. And you see, when you repent like that, which is the only way to repent, as much of a sting as it is, it immediately shows you, I haven't been believing in his love. I haven't believed in the sufficiency of what he did on the cross for me. The reason I did this was I really didn't think that Jesus was enough. That his love would be enough. That it would be satisfying enough. that it would be great enough. And therefore, the minute you really repent, the minute that sword comes in, the peace begins to develop. One more. The sting of repentance, the sword of repentance leads to peace, but also there's the sting of obedience. That's another example. I'm just trying to tell you and trying to show you that anybody who loves Jesus will get a sword in the soul. There's a sting to obedience. What do I mean by that? There'll be many places where you're at a crossroads. And often this direction. Is the road to comfort. And often this direction. Is the road to obedience. And you know. That if you obey. What the word of God. Says. It might. You're going to. Maybe lose some money. It might mean. You may lose some reputation. It might mean. You might lose. Your girlfriend. Or your boyfriend. And it looks. Like the road. To peace. Is the road. To this. Is. The disobedient. Road. And the road. To conflict. Is the obedient. Road. says, listen, because this is a fallen, broken world, in the short run, the road to obedience is a way of the sword. It is the way of conflict because it's a broken world. But because it's my world and because I'm ultimately in charge, the way of obedience is eventually the road to peace. You know, Johnny Erickson, one of the, you know, when she, Christian lady who through a terrible

for a number of years, she was very bitter and very angry. And then one day she said, God, I don't have the right to tell you how to run the universe. And when she figured that out, she developed a radiance about her. You know, once you fought that battle and won, nothing can get you down. Isn't that right? Nothing could get you down. When she fought that battle, when she realized God is in control, I can trust him, even though she had lost

a radiance developed about her. A trust developed in her toward Christ. And she became a radiant person. But look. That radiance cost her limbs. She would admit now. She never ever would have found the kind of joy, the kind of character, the kind of strength, and the kind of power it cost her limbs. The sword came in and it cut her. But then the same sword that cut her healed her. To obey in the short run of conflict, but in the long, it's the way of the sword, but in the long run, it's always the way of peace. Jesus comes with a sword. He divides people from people, and he divides the thoughts and the intentions of the heart. So what should we conclude? Christmas teaches us as Christians not to be crybabies anymore. If the one thing that Simeon is telling us here is this child is the cause of the falling and rising again of many in Israel, and a sorrow will pass through your heart as well. Christians expect trouble. They expect conflict as the way to get to peace. They see it in Jesus. The way Jesus brought peace was he went to the cross. They know, therefore, that conflicts are inevitable. And they also know they're the way to find peace. Only through the sting of repentance do I find peace of conscience. Only through the sting of obedience do I find peace with God. So Christians have to realize that suffering and troubles and difficulties and temptations, these things are going to come. So it doesn't mean they don't hurt. It doesn't mean they don't make us sad. But we're not crybabies about it. We're not shocked that they're happening. We're distressed, right? But we're not distressed that we're distressed. We're surprised, right? But we're not surprised that we're surprised. We're not depressed that we're depressed. rest. We know these things are going to happen. But most of all, the last thing that we learn is that there's a glory. See, where did Simeon get his peace? He says, now I can have peace because mine eyes have seen your salvation, a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory of your people Israel. Johnny Erickson knows that someday she will run and not be weary. She will walk and not faint. We look ahead. That's where we get our peace from. We look out and we say, yes, Jesus Christ was humbled. He became poor. He became a baby. He humbled himself so that he would be exalted. Christians know the same thing. Christian friends, if you can get this down, you'll be able to face anything. And I want that for you more than anything else today. I really do. So don't shrink. When Simeon said to Mary, there'll be a sword through your soul, what if Mary had said, I don't want a sword in my soul? What if Jesus had said, I don't want a sword in my soul? I don't want peace that way. Then where would you be? Where would I be? So don't shrink back. Follow them. Follow him to peace. Let's pray. We thank you that you're a God who gives us. Peace. Through conflict. Peace. Through trouble. Your son came. To set fire on the earth. We thank you that. We don't have to be afraid of that fire. Don't be shocked. When we. Go through those fires. But those fires. Will just refine us. They will. Purify. Us. To our. Faith. Is. Like. Pure. Gold. We. Thank. You. That. You. Are. God. That. Can. Tell. Us. These. Things. And. Assure. Us. Of. These. Things. And. We. We ask that you would help us to live them out and live out of them through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.