The teaching this morning is based on the passage which is printed in your bulletin. Please turn to it and I'll read it with you. It's Acts chapter 9, verses 1 to 8, and it's the account of Paul's conversion. We're going to read Acts 9, 1 to 8, and then that's the beginning of the account, then the end of the account, 17 to 19. Meanwhile, Saul was still breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples. He went to the high priest and asked him for letters to the synagogue in Damascus so that if he found any there who belonged to the way, whether men or women, he might take them as prisoners to Jerusalem. And as he neared Damascus on his journey, suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice say to him,

Saul, why do you persecute me? Who are you, Lord? Saul asked. I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting, he replied. Now get up and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do. The men traveling with Saul stood there speechless. They heard the sound but did not see anyone. Saul got up from the ground, but when he opened his eyes, he could see nothing. So they led him by the hand

and then Ananias went to the house and entered it placing his hands on Saul he said brother Saul the Lord Jesus who appeared to you on the road as you were coming here has sent me so that you may see again and be filled with the Holy Spirit and immediately something like scales fell from Saul's eyes and he could see again he got up and he was baptized. This ends the reading of God's Word. Now, all fall, all during the autumn, we've been looking at the early chapters of the book of Acts which tell us about the history of the early church, the early Christians. And every week, we've actually been asking ourselves this. We've been saying, since the early church, since early Christianity swept the Roman Empire, completely took it over, since the first Christians pulled off a social and spiritual change, unprecedented and unique in history, what were the secrets of their power? What was the secrets of the power of early Christianity? And every week we ask that question and we look at other texts and we've gotten more insights. But finally, we have to ask ourselves today, as we get to the, this is the last time we can look at the book of Acts in this series, and we get to this particular account, we come to probably what is the ultimate secret of the power of original radical Christianity, the ultimate secret. And in some ways, it's not the ultimate secret because it's the last or the biggest. In some In some ways it's the only secret. In some ways all the other things we've been looking at this fall flow out of this one, and that is Christianity converts people. Christianity converts people. The early Christians, they didn't just join the movement. They didn't sign up. They didn't subscribe. They didn't sign. They were converted. And Christian conversion is the most profound change that a human being can experience. It's deeply profound. found. If you go to a church today that talks a lot about Christianity but never talks about conversion, it's sort of a primitive concept, conversion, you're listening to a counterfeit because original radical Christianity converted people. And here we have the classic of all conversions accounts, which is the conversion of Saul of Tarsus who became Saint Paul. And we're Because we have to ask ourselves, how does Christianity and how did Christianity convert people? Now, why should we look at it? There's at least, you know, there's a couple ways to break this down, but there's at least three kinds of people here right now. Some of you are not converted. So you say, why do I need to listen to this? Some of you are converted. You say, I'm already converted. Why do I need to look at this? Some of you think you're converted and you're not. Now, if you are not converted, you may be here saying, you know, I came along to be nice to my friend, and I don't really believe in the conversion stuff. That's not how I look at religion. I'm not here to get converted. But look at Paul. Here's one, if not the, here's one of the most influential figures in the history of humankind. And the reason he was so influential is because he was a person of absolute unflappability, incredible equanimity, unbelievable poise and composure. He's the one who says, I have found the secret of being content in any circumstance. He's the one that could look into the face of the last enemy and say, oh, death, where is thy sting? Oh, grave, where is thy victory? Now, where did he get that? It was because of this change. Surely anybody who's trying to live life in this world wants to at somebody who says, I found the secret. And no matter what happens, it cannot bother me. No matter what happens, it can't knock me down. Nothing can knock me down because I've been knocked down. Where does he get this? That's relevant. Anybody who wants to live life in this world wants to say, maybe this guy's got something I need. Maybe this person has got something that I need to hear about. And if you are converted, if you say, well, I'm a Christian, If you're converted, why aren't you living the life that Paul lived? Why aren't you doing the things that Paul did? What? Christians, brothers and sisters, why aren't you living a life like he did? And the answer is because we don't remember. We don't realize what we got when we got converted. That's why we have to go back and look. And there's a number of you that think you're converted and you're not. And the only way you're ever going to have your eyes open is to look at somebody who really is. And Saul of Tarsus, Paul is one. In fact, he says in first Timothy, in another one of his writings, he says, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the worst. But for that very reason, I was shown mercy so that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his unlimited patience as a pattern for those who would believe and receive eternal life. Paul says he's a pattern, not in the dramatic details, details, but his conversion is a pattern for all conversions. There's something, there's some commonalities you can discern in Paul. Paul says, I'm a pattern for everybody else, whoever believes. You can see the common things that all Christians must experience in his conversion. Now, what are those things? We all need to look at them, everybody. Here's what we learn, at least these, I only have time to go into a few because there's many. Here's what we learn about Christian from Paul. Number one, the first thing we learn, and it's maybe obvious, but it needs to be said, and I won't take long on it. The first thing that Paul teaches us is that Christian conversion is a necessity for everyone. Everyone. Look at it. Verse one, Saul. Who's Saul? He's the most religious and moral person you could get. The most religious and moral person possible, and yet he needed to be converted. If he needed to be converted, everybody needs to be converted. See, See, it's typical for people to say, well, what's really important is just that you live a moral and decent life. That's all that's important, that you live a moral and decent life. Well, nobody lived a more moral and decent life than Paul, Saul of Tarsus. Saul tells us, later on his Christian name Paul tells us, he was part of the party of Judaism that had distilled all of the laws of the Bible down into just 600. He'd broken the Bible down into 600 laws, in Philippians 3 that he kept them flawlessly. I mean, there was never been a more moral and decent person than Paul, and yet he needed to be converted. But not only that, he was very religious, not just moral. He was filled with faith. I've heard, in fact, fairly recently I heard somebody say, it doesn't matter what you believe as long as you believe it with all your might. See, it doesn't matter what you believe as long, you believe with all of your heart. Now, do you realize how silly that is? Do you realize how stupid that is? I mean, you know, Hitler believed something with all his heart, and he was wrong. As a result, lots of people died. Saul believed something with all of his heart, but he was wrong. And so it literally was killing him and killing the people around him. Here's two skaters. And one goes out on a half an inch of ice and she says, I know it will hold me up. And the other one goes off on four inches of ice and she says, oh, I don't know. I'm afraid. I'm scared. I hope it will hold me up. One dies, one lives. Who dies? The one with a lot of faith. Well, the one with a lot of faith is the one who dies. The one who lives is the one with a little faith. Why? Because it's not the faith that saves you, it's the ice. It's not the quality of your faith that saves you. but if it's in the right object. Just to say, well, as long as you really are sincere in your belief, as long as you're filled with faith, as long as you're very moral. Paul was as moral as could be. Paul was as religious as could be. And he needed to be converted, so everybody needs to be converted. Jesus Christ says in Matthew 18, verse 3, Unless you be converted and become as a little child, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. If you tell me I've always been Presbyterian, Presbyterian, and now I'm coming to your church and it's a Presbyterian. I say, so what? Have you been converted? What do you mean converted? I've always been Presbyterian. Jesus says, everybody's got to be converted. Paul shows us that everybody's got to be converted. Have you been? Second thing. Secondly, Paul, as a pattern, not only shows us the Christian conversion is a necessity for everybody, but also that it engages the rationality. It engages the rationality. Now, it's more than that, but not less. You can't be converted unless intellectually you begin to think. Put it this way. Becoming a Christian is not primarily, not first of all, turning over a new leaf, saying, I just need to really change my life and I need to change the way in which I live. That's not primarily what conversion is. Conversion is being confronted with evidence that a certain set of empirical historical events really happened, that God became a human being and died for us and was risen again from the grave physically. Christianity, Christian conversion starts with thinking. You have to think. You have to have your mind engaged. You have to look at that evidence and decide it's true. Now, where do you get that? I mean, that's where it starts, not turning over a new leaf, but being shocked rationally by being engaged intellectually. You say, where do you get that? If you look carefully, we actually have three accounts in the book of Acts of the conversion of Paul. It's here in Acts 9, but you also have Paul recounting it to different people in Acts 22 and Acts 26. And if you really want to have the picture of this conversion, you have to actually read all three, because in every one, he adds a few details that are not in the earlier accounts or the other accounts. Paul tells us here, if you look carefully, Paul tells us that a light flashed, and he saw Jesus. And a voice came and he answered Jesus and he was knocked to the ground. He tells us very carefully in verse 7, the men traveling with Saul stood there speechless for they heard the sound, but they couldn't see anyone. In Acts 22, we're told that they couldn't, that they saw the light. In other words, in Acts 22, we're told that they saw the light, Jesus. In Acts 9, we're told that they heard the sound, but they couldn't make out the speech. Now, where did Luke get his details? Obviously, from Paul. And why did Paul so carefully think all this out? He's thinking, is this a hallucination? You see, what if Paul had fallen to the ground, seen a light flashing, seen a figure, heard a voice, and all the other men, and he was with a whole group of men. And all the other people said, what's with him? I see nothing. I hear nothing. This is a hallucination. This man is having a bad trip of some sort, a psychological problem. He's having an epileptic fit and so on. Paul very carefully records, and Luke very carefully records, that there were all sorts of inexplicable occurrences that happened. They all saw it. They all saw the inexplicable light, lightning, light, glory, thunder, maybe it sounded like, a noise. They were speechless. It was absolutely astonishing. Now, why is Paul giving us all this? Paul was realizing he's a very smart man. He didn't say, oh my gosh, it must be Jesus. He himself worked out, was this a hallucination? Hallucination? Paul didn't want to believe. He was overwhelmed with the evidence. This couldn't be a hallucination. These guys saw it too. These guys heard it too. Not exactly what I saw and heard, but they were speechless. You cannot be a Christian without thinking. You cannot be a Christian without having your mind engaged, because the essence of Christianity is that God really became a human being, really died, and really rose. That's how Christianity starts. That's the basis for everything else. Paul started by thinking. Now, Christianity conversion is more than thinking, but it's not less. And as soon as somebody says, before we move on, somebody's going to say, well, wait a minute. It was easy for him. Now, I mean, I can hear you saying this and say, golly, everybody would. I'd be a Christian. It would have been easy if I'd had that kind of evidence. Good night. Knocked off the horse, Jesus talking right to you, you turning around and have perfect evidence that it wasn't a hallucination, that it was really the risen Christ come to see you. You say, well, heck, I could be a Christian easily with that. Listen, the evidence he had was not overwhelming, and the evidence that we have is not underwhelming. The evidence he had is not overwhelming. Judas saw all kinds of great things, and he turned away. Matthew 28, verse 20, Jesus appears. The risen Christ appears to the disciples, and it says, some doubted. In Luke 16, Jesus tells a story about the rich man who's in hell, and in the parable, and this is Jesus' opinion. He understands this. Even though it's a parable, the rich man who's in hell says, Father Abraham, let's send Lazarus back from heaven to my brothers who are still and tell them about heaven and hell and turn them for the wicked ways. And Abraham says, if they don't believe the scriptures, they're not going to believe somebody if he comes back from the dead. And that's Jesus. A closed mind is not half to open to the strongest evidence in the world. Human beings are not creatures of reason. We are not creatures of reason alone. If you don't want to give up control of your life, you can decide even a vision was just witchcraft or a It must be over in the wings somewhere. I don't know how he did it. If you don't want to believe, you don't have to listen to any evidence, and Paul didn't have to, so don't say, well, sure, if you have evidence, you'd have to believe. Nobody's got to believe, but evidence is definitely, secondly, the evidence that we have is not underwhelming. Don't say, well, you know, nowadays, how could we know if any of this stuff happened? There's plenty of evidence. Now, I can't go into it all right now. Now, we have a class. Now, unfortunately, we don't have classes after some of our holidays like Easter and Christmas and Thanksgiving because so many people are away and we don't have it today but after every morning and evening service ordinarily we have a class called Discovering Christianity and it goes around all the time. It's always there and we say, if you want to be a Christian you've got to look at the evidence. If you want to be a Christian you've got to think. Don't say, well, all I want to know if it's true to me we say that's not good enough. Look at how Paul thought. He thought it out. He looked at the evidence. He wanted to make sure this wasn't a hallucination. You can't be a Christian without thinking, without deciding if this is true, not just if it's true for you. And look, this very thing. Do you want to see some evidence? Let me give you some evidence. Luke wrote this 20 or 30 years after the occasion. He could not have made it up. Paul used his conversion story all through his career. couldn't have made it up. There must really have been witnesses who saw this. Just think, there were tremendous enemies of Christianity in the early days. They would have jumped on any kind of fabrication. When James says, I saw him, when 500 people said, we saw Jesus Christ risen from the dead at once, when Paul makes this claim, this is a historically extremely well-attested, reliable claim. You can't say, well, he probably could have written that. Anybody could have said that. No, you're just not thinking like a historian. Luke could not have made this a public document and said there were lots of eyewitnesses to what happened to Paul unless there really were. Paul couldn't have run around and said it unless there really was. No, listen. All of the people, Paul, Peter, James, all the early Christian leaders, they all said, I've seen him. Now there are so many of those accounts that either this is a deliberate set of lies and Christianity is utterly a sham or else it's the truth and there isn't anything else there's no in between you see oh somebody says I don't like to think of it like that you're not going to be a Christian unless you're willing to think you're not going to be a Christian unless you're willing to let the evidence drive you that's what happened to Paul he thought about it thought about it. Christian conversion entails the intellect. But then thirdly, Paul's pattern also shows us that Christian conversion goes beyond the rational. Christian conversion involves spiritual sight, an awareness of spiritual blindness, and a consciousness of spiritual sight. That's the third thing. Now, that may sound pretty esoteric, but actually this is maybe as concrete a test of whether you're a Christian as I can give you. Look what happened to Saul. The minute Jesus appears, the light flashes and he's blinded. He's blinded. We're told in Acts 26 that Jesus said to Saul, why are you persecuting me? He says, who are you, Lord? And he says, I'm Jesus who you're persecuting. And in Acts 26, Paul tells us that Jesus also said, I am going to send you to the Gentiles to open their eyes and to turn them from darkness to light. Now, what do you have here? If Paul's a pattern, the minute he spiritually begins to see is the minute that he physically becomes blind. Does that mean, oh, that's the way you know you're a Christian? That happened to everybody? No, of course. Let's look beyond the details to the principle. Here's the principle. The way, the asset test that you know that you're spiritually getting sight, you're seeing things you didn't see before, the way you can tell you're getting spiritual sight is your awareness of spiritual blindness. If you don't know that you've been spiritually blind, if you're not conscious of any spiritual blindness, then you don't have any spiritual sight. If you've got sight, you know you're you're blind. If you're blind, you don't know that you're blind. If you're dreaming, you don't know that you're dreaming, you see. If you're awake, you know the difference between a dream and an awakeness. Here's how you know you're a Christian. A Christian is somebody who's saying, I was an idiot. See, Christianity goes beyond the reasoning. It goes beyond saying, well, here's the evidence. Conversion goes beyond, well, here's the evidence, and I guess this is right. Every Christian who has ever become a Christian has also come to realize you've been a fool. If you don't look back at certain parts of your life and say spiritually I was a fool, spiritually I was an idiot, how could I have missed this? You say I didn't see this about God. I didn't see this about my heart. I didn't see this about humanity. I didn't see this about sin. I was an absolute fool. Christian conversion is not just a rational process. I said it's that. less, but it goes beyond that. The way you know you're a Christian is that there's an awareness that you've been blind, that you've been a fool. Has that ever happened to you? You say, well, what is spiritual sight? Well, spiritual sight means that there are certain concepts that you may have heard about all your life that either were nonsense to you or they were just sort of abstractions, but now they've become three-dimensional. I mean for example do you believe in the holiness of God you say well sure I believe in the holiness of God but do you ever remember a time in your life where suddenly the holiness of God became real to you and you said I never saw that where the love of God became real to you and you said I've never saw that where the sinfulness of your sin became real to you and you say I've never saw that don't you see the only way to be sure that your eyes are open is you're aware that you've been blind and that you're still to some degree blind. It's only the people who know they're blind

that are seeing. It's only the people who know that they're blind and feel that they've been blind that have really gotten touched. Has that happened to you? This is an acid test. And if some of you say, well, I don't even know what you're talking about, it's a very bad sign. the minute his eyes began to open, he became aware of an overwhelming blindness. And that's what it means to be a Christian. So thirdly, Christian conversion entails, involves a consciousness of spiritual blindness, an awareness that you've been blind and you're just beginning to see. Fourthly, Christianity, Christian conversion is a necessity, first of all. Secondly, Christian conversion is at least a rational process

Thirdly, Christianity is also a sense of spiritual awareness that comes, a sense that you're emerging from blindness, emerging from sleep into a sense of being awake, emerging from blindness into a sense of being able to see. Fourthly, okay, now, Christian conversion is always the result of a process. That no matter how sudden it seems on the outside, Christian conversion is always part of a process. Somebody's going to look down and say, where do you get that? Because it certainly looks like Paul's conversion is about as sudden and as, you know, unprecedented. There seems to be no precedent. There seems to be no hint. There seems to be no foreshadowing. Look, in verse 1, you see, what does it say? Paul breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples. Breathing out murderous threats against the Lord's disciples, then suddenly knocked flat, humbly saying, who are you, Lord? So someone says, there was no preparation. This is dramatic. And you know, some people might look at this and say, I just, I don't know that I fit the pattern. You know, I've never had any kind of dramatic experience like this, but you're not looking carefully. Remember what I said a minute ago, that Acts 22, Acts 26, and Acts 9 have to be read together, and there's some things in Acts 26 that we don't see here. Look. Look at verse 1. Look at that very thing. Breathing out murderous threats. Of all the skeptics of Christianity, most of them were not as hostile as Paul was. Paul was unbelievably hostile. Paul was murderous. Why? why? Most of the skeptics of Christianity, most of the opponents of Christianity weren't as hostile as Paul. Why? Something was eating him. Something was going on. There was some kind of doubt. There was some kind of problem inside, and he was desperately trying to deal with it. And in Acts 26, we're told by Paul that when Jesus appeared and he says, who are you? Right before he says, who are you? He says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? Paul says that Jesus also said this, it is hard for you to kick against the goads. Have you ever seen that? It's in Acts 26. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me, says Jesus. It's hard for you to kick against the goads. What are the goads? A goad was a tool that shepherds used. It was really a sharp stick. It was really a spear that shepherds used to use to prick, to hurt the sheep, to keep them, to prod them onto safe paths. When a sheep was going some direction, they might fall off a cliff or something, they got the goad, and they went back to safety. And Jesus comes and says, Saul, that's what I've been doing to you. Saul had been prepared. And what this teaches us as a pattern none of our conversions are really that sudden. That what's really going on is God prepares us. Maybe the moment of conversion might be sudden. The moment you cross over the line into faith might be sudden. But there's always a preparation. There's always a process in which, unfortunately, Jesus is goading us, hurting us, bringing pain and doubt and confusion, eating us. Now, how did that happen to Paul? easy to tell. But on the other hand, I think it's not too hard to read in. In Romans 7, we're told by Paul that he had gone through a process before he became a Christian. He used to believe at one time that he was alive apart from the law. He said, I was alive apart from the law, but he says, then the commandment came and I died. And if you read Romans 7, you'll see what Paul's saying is that for a long time he thought he was a very good person because he obeyed the law, but he slowly began to realize what the law demanded. He began to see what the love was that the law demanded and the honesty was that the law demanded and the purity what it was. And he began deep down to start to feel like maybe I'm not that good. He began to come home. He began to feel maybe I'm dead. Maybe I'm not spiritually alive. Maybe I'm not good. And of course when he got near Christianity, very hostile to Christianity because Christianity confirmed his worst fears. The message of the gospel is, no, you can't possibly be good enough for God. You have to come through mercy. You're a sinner. Even the best of you is a sinner. And Paul hated that message. He feared that it was true, so he was very upset. But where was it that Paul really went ballistic with Christianity? Do you know where it was? When did he really go ballistic? When he watched Stephen die. and if you read Acts chapter 7 you'll see that Luke very, very poignantly and very suggestively says at the very end when Stephen has preached this long sermon and in that sermon he says the temple's obsolete. None of you are good enough for God but the righteous one Jesus Christ has come and he has fulfilled the law for us and we can be accepted in him. him. And they all began to stone him, and his face was radiant. And he sat down, and he kneeled down, and he said, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. And he fell asleep calmly. And Luke says, Saul was there. Now, where do you think Luke got his information about that amazing speech by Stephen? Of all the speeches in the book of Acts, the longest and most detailed of any of those speeches is Stephen's. You know why? Paul remembered it. It burned a hole in him, in his heart. Because here's Paul, a man struggling with the idea that maybe I can't be good enough, and Stephen comes and says, there is a way to be sure God is the Father. There is a way to be sure God has accepted you. There is a way to be sure that he loves you. It's through Jesus. this. And Saul hated that, but oh my gosh, he watched him die. And he died with a face like an angel, says Acts 7. And he died talking to God as if he was his father. He died proving that he had what Saul did not have. And Saul looked at Stephen and he says, wait a minute, this man is acting as if he knows that he's loved. He acts as if he knows God is his father. He acts as if he knows that he's accepted by God. No, kill him! But Stephen, as he died, became a goad in Saul's heart. And it was a goad that broke through the stoniness and the ice of Saul's heart eventually. Now, how do we apply this to us? There's some people in this room that need to realize that the hardness of your life of late has been the goads of God. Some of you are saying, why is life so difficult? Why am I feeling the way I am? I've never been more miserable. It could be the goads of God. It could be that God is bringing something into your life to try to get you to go to him. But look, goads are a shepherd's tool. The shepherd loves the sheep. hurts the sheep because the shepherd's concerned about the sheep. Some of you need to know that. Some of you need to stop kicking against the goads. Some of you got to say, why, God, are you doing this to me right now, when actually it's because he's a shepherd. In fact, look at him. Look at what Jesus says, Saul, Saul. Don't you know what that is? In Hebrew idiom, the way you express longing and intensity is by doubling the name. Absalom, Absalom, says David. My son, my son. Jesus says, Saul, Saul, I'm hurting you, but I'm hurting you because I'm your shepherd. I love you. I want you. Some of you need to know that you're kicking against goads, and the goads are the shepherd's tool of love. Here's something else, though. Christian friends, one of the most frightening things to me, the most frightening challenges is Stephen really had an incredible life-changing impact on Saul. How did he do it? Stephen had an incredible impact. Wouldn't you like to change people's lives? Wouldn't you like to help people find Christ? Wouldn't you like to change people into great men and women? You know how you do it? When everything else in your life is falling apart, don't you fall apart, but look at God. That's how Stephen did it. Everything in his life was falling apart, but he didn't. He lived his truth. He lived his theology. He looked at who he was in Christ and saw, saw that. And you know, no, there's no other proof of Christianity that's more valid than that. Are you a Christian? How are you handling it when life falls apart? Are you a Christian? Are you living as if you are loved in God when everything else falls apart? Are you? That's the real evidence. That's the thing that breaks people's hearts. That's the thing that goes them. That's the thing that shows them that Christianity is true. true. How do you do when everything is going wrong? Isn't that frightening? You know, Stephen, for all we know, he had a tragic life. It was a great sermon. It looks like he only had one convert, but he changed the world. Who knows what God could do if you're obedient? Who knows what he could do with that? Now, lastly, the last thing. Paul, as a pattern, shows that God prepares us. But ultimately, Paul shows us that what really converts you, fairly simply, is receiving the gospel. And what is the gospel? The gospel is an assessment of yourself that is far better and far worse than you ever dared believe. See, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Do you realize what's in there? That's the gospel. gospel. And here's what the gospel is. The gospel is that you're far worse than you ever dared believe, but you're far more loved than you ever dared hope at the same time. You've heard us say that before, but it's always there. Why do we keep saying it? Because it's always there. Look, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? On the one hand, here's what a Christian is. Jesus, it says to Saul, you know what? It's not that you're disobeying the law. You're persecuting me. A Christian is a person who has realized that you haven't just been disobeying the rules, but that you've been fighting Jesus. That your sin is far more worse than you thought. That you've been attacking Jesus. That what you've really been trying to do in your disobedience is you're trying to say, Lord, though you died for me, I want to be in charge of my own life. You're not a Christian. you don't get converted until you start to see that you've personally been fighting and attacking the one who died for you. Me. Why are you attacking me? You know, maybe all your life you've been dealing with your conscience and saying, well, I need to be better. I need to obey the Ten Commandments better. You become a Christian when you realize it's a personal thing. It's personal. Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, he preached in the 1800s. He tells a story in one of his sermons that I found that all his hearers knew about it was in the news. It was a true story. It was about a man and his wife who lived in a remote part of Britain, and they were such vicious and nasty people that when they had a little baby boy, relatives came and took the baby boy away, paid them for it basically, and sent him away to be adopted by a decent family. And of course, the family, the father and mother, you know, continued to descend into terrible depravity, and eventually the father became a robber, a highwayman, basically a mugger. And he would watch people along a deserted stretch of road and he would mug them and rob them. And one evening, when it was getting dark, he saw a very rich-looking young man coming down the road and he was particularly mad that day at rich people, blamed this guy for all of his problems, fell on him, was particularly violent, killed him. You know who it was? it was his son, who had heard about his father and made a lot of money as an ambitious and disciplined and, you know, brilliant young man, and had decided he was coming back to his hometown to try to find his father and give him money and appeal to him to reform his life. And when his father realized, after he was arrested, his father realized what had happened. See, his father thought he was just breaking the law, but he was actually killing his redeemer. And that's the difference between a moral person always feeling guilty, and a Christian. A Christian is somebody who hears Jesus say, why have you persecuted me? I died for you. Why are you living for yourself? See, a Christian is somebody who says, my gosh, you did that for me? And you see all of your disobedience and all of your rebellion as a personal fighting against him, wanting to be in charge of your life instead of giving him his due. I mean, that's what it means to be a Christian. you see that you're much worse than you thought, but also you're much better than you thought because you see, when Jesus says, why are you persecuting me, who's he talking about? Paul was persecuting Christians. Paul was killing Christians. Jesus says you're killing me. Paul was persecuting Christians. Jesus says you're persecuting me. Wait a minute. Do you know what it means to be a Christian? It means to be so in Jesus that when God sees you, he sees Jesus. That when Jesus sees you, he sees himself. One of the friends of the Wesleys, John and Charles Wesley, William Holland, became a Christian. He was struggling with trying to be a good person. He says, well, I know what it means to be a Christian is to turn over a new leaf. But one night, someone was reading aloud Martin Luther's commentary on the Galatians, the preface, and this is the account of his conversion. He says, Mr. Charles Wesley read the preface aloud, and I heard the words, what? Have we then nothing to do? No, nothing, but only except of him who of God is made unto us to be wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. redemption. And there came such a power over me as I cannot well describe. My great burden fell off in an instant. My heart was so filled with peace and love, I burst into tears. I almost thought I saw my Savior. My companions perceiving me to be so affected fell on their knees and prayed. And when I afterwards went into the street, I could scarcely feel the ground I trod upon. Do you see what happened to him? He heard Martin Luther say, here's the gospel. Not that you become righteous, you become wise, you become sanctified, you become redeemed, but that in Christ, Christ is made to be your wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Why are you persecuting me? They are me. When God sees my loveliness, it's their loveliness. God treats them as if they've done everything I've done, and I treat them the same way. To be in Christ is to be in me. And that's the reason why Ananias can show up and go into a murderer, go to a murderer of his friends and say, brother Saul. There is no more moving words in the Bible than that. Don't you see what it means to be a Christian? I don't care what you've done. If you're a Christian, you are my brother. You've been adopted. You're in him. You're in the family. Don't you see what gospel is. Saul was much worse than he thought he was when he was living a moralistic life, and now he's far more accepted than he ever dared hope. That's what it means to be a Christian. Has that hit you in the same way? Dear friends, are you converted? Has this happened to you? Have you been pushed to see that it's personal between you and God, and yet have you seen what's available? Have you ever had a sense of spiritual blindness? have you started to think? Have you been willing to come to him and say, who art thou? Instead of what must I do? He doesn't say what must I do. Who are you? I am Jesus, the one that you're persecuting. Has this happened to you? And Christian friends, let me tell you why we don't live like Saul. Because we forget that we're in him. We forget that the reason he was filled with the Spirit and he lived the life he lived was because he saw he was worse and better than he ever thought he should be. I'm asking you, can you live a life like that? If you do, like Stephen, you will change the lives of other people. You will. Since Paul became a Christian, it doesn't matter how good you are, it. Since Paul became a Christian, it doesn't matter how bad you are, whether you're a murderer, you need to be converted, and you can be. Jesus says, why are you persecuting me? That's the best and the worst news you could ever hear. Take it into your heart. It will change you forever. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us that the ultimate secret of original and radical Christianity is conversion. Those of us who are converted and we're not living as if we are, those of us who are converted and we're not Stephen living consonant with it, and therefore we're not spreading the power, we repent. Those of us who are not converted, those of us who knew when we came in here that we weren't, and those of us who now know that we're not, I pray that you would goad them if necessary, but show them that they're the goads of a shepherd and bring them to you so that they this man did. Oh, Lord, I know that Saul of Tarsus, St. Paul, would be so excited to know that somebody today found you because of his pattern. I know he'll be jumping for joy. I pray that he will be jumping for joy over that very thing today. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Obey the Ten Commandments better. You become a Christian when you realize it's a personal thing. It's personal. Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, he preached in the 1800s. He tells a story in one of his sermons that I found that all his hearers knew about. It was in the news. It was a true story. It was about a man and his wife who lived in a remote part of Britain, and they were such vicious and nasty people that when they had a little baby boy, relatives came and took the baby boy away, paid them for it, basically, and sent him away to be adopted by a decent family. And, of course, the family, the father and mother, you know, continued to descend into terrible depravity. And eventually, the father became a robber, a highwayman, basically a mugger. And he would watch people along a deserted stretch of road, and he would mug them and rob them. And one evening, when it was getting dark, he saw a very rich-looking young man coming down the road. And he was particularly mad that day at rich people. people blamed this guy for all of his problems, fell on him, was particularly violent, killed him. You know who it was? It was his son who had heard about his father and made a lot of money as an ambitious and disciplined and, you know, brilliant young man and had decided he was coming back to his hometown to try to find his father and give him money and appeal to him to reform his life. and when his father realized, after he was arrested, his father realized what had happened. See, his father thought he was just breaking the law, but he was actually killing his redeemer. And that's the difference between a moral person who's always feeling guilty and a Christian. A Christian is somebody who hears Jesus say, why have you persecuted me? I died for you. Why are you living for yourself? See, a Christian is somebody who says, my gosh, you did that for me? and you see all of your disobedience and all of your rebellion as a personal fighting against Him, wanting to be in charge of your life instead of giving Him His due. I mean, that's what it means to be a Christian. You see that you're much worse than you thought, but also you're much better than you thought because you see when Jesus says, why are you persecuting me? Who's He talking about? Paul was persecuting Christians. Paul was killing Christians. Jesus says, you're killing me. Paul was persecuting Christians. as you're persecuting me? Wait a minute. Do you know what it means to be a Christian? It means to be so in Jesus that when God sees you, he sees Jesus. That when Jesus sees you, he sees himself. One of the friends of the Wesleys, John and Charles Wesley, William Holland, became a Christian. He was struggling with trying to be a good person. and he says, well, I know what it means to be a Christian is to turn over a new leaf. But one night, someone was reading aloud Martin Luther's commentary on the Galatians, the preface, and this is the account of his conversion. He says, Mr. Charles Wesley read the preface aloud, and I heard the words, what? Have we then nothing to do? No, nothing, but only except of him who of God is made unto us to be wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. And there came such a power over me as I cannot well describe. My great burden fell off in an instant. My heart was so filled with peace and love, I burst into tears. I almost thought I saw my Savior. My companions, perceiving me to be so affected, fell on their knees and prayed. And when I afterwards went into the street, I could scarcely feel the ground I trod upon. Do you see what happened to him? He heard Martin Luther say, here's the gospel. Not that you become righteous or you become wise, you become sanctified, you become redeemed, but that in Christ, Christ is made to be your wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Why are you persecuting me? They are me. When God sees my loveliness, it's their loveliness. God treats them as if they've done everything I've done. And I treat them the same way. To be in Christ is to be in me. And that's the reason why Ananias can show up and go into a murderer,

go to a murderer of his friends and say, Brother Saul, there is no more moving words in the Bible than that. Don't you see what it means to be a Christian? I don't care what you've done. If you're a Christian, you are my brother. You've been adopted. You're in him. You're in the family. Saul was much worse than he thought he was when he was living a moralistic life and now he's far more accepted than he ever dared hope that's what it means to be a Christian has that hit you in the same way dear friends are you converted has this happened to you have you been pushed to see that it's personal between you and God and yet have you seen what's available have you ever had a

have you started to think? Have you been willing to come to him and say, who art thou? Instead of what must I do? He doesn't say what must I do. Who are you? I am Jesus, the one that you're persecuting. Has this happened to you? And Christian friends, let me tell you why we don't live like Saul. because we forget that we're in him. We forget that the reason he was filled with the Spirit and he lived the life he lived was because he saw he was worse and better than he ever thought he should be. I'm asking you, can you live a life like that? If you do, like Stephen, you will change the lives of other people. You will. will. Since Paul became a Christian, it doesn't matter how good you are, you need to be converted. Since Paul became a Christian, it doesn't matter how bad you are, whether you're a murderer, you need to be converted, and you can be. Jesus says, why are you persecuting me? That's the best and the worst news you could ever hear. Take it into your heart. It will change you forever. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for showing us that the ultimate secret of original and radical Christianity is conversion. Those of us who are converted and we're not living as if we are, those of us who are converted and we're not, as Stephen, living consonant with it, and therefore we're not spreading the power, we repent. Those of us who are not converted, those of us who knew when we came in here that we weren't, and those of us who now know, that we're not. I pray that you would goad them if necessary, but show them that they're the goads of a shepherd and bring them to you so that they can have the greatness of life that this man did. Oh Lord, I know that Saul of Tarsus, St. Paul, would be so excited to know that somebody today found you because of his pattern. I know he'll be jumping for joy. I pray that he will be jumping over that very thing today. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.