Be dressed, ready for service, and keep your lamps burning, like men waiting for their master to return from a wedding banquet so that when he comes and knocks, they can immediately open the door for him. It will be good for those servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. I tell you the truth, he will dress himself to serve, will have them recline at the table, and will come and wait on them. It will be good for those servants whose master finds them ready, even if he comes in the second or third watch of the night. But understand this. If the owner of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have let his house be broken into. You also must be ready, because the Son of Man will come at an hour when you do not expect him. Peter asked, Lord, are you telling this parable to us or to everyone? one. The Lord answered, who then is the faithful and wise manager whom the master puts in charge of his servants to give them their food allowance at the proper time? It will be good for that servant whom the master finds doing so when he returns. I tell you the truth. He will put him in charge of all his possessions. But suppose the servant says to himself, my master is taking a long time in coming. And he then begins to beat the men servants and the maid servants and to eat and drink and get drunk. The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and at an hour he is not aware of, he will cut him to pieces and assign him a place with the unbelievers. Here ends the reading of God's Word.

This is Palm Sunday, and on Palm Sunday we celebrate, we observe, Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem. significant because it was the return of the king. It was the return of the king to his kingdom, to his city. But the minute that Jesus Christ gets back on Palm Sunday, that week afterwards between Palm Sunday and his death on the cross and Easter, the resurrection, in that week, we read in the Gospels that he incessantly talked about his second coming. He talked, once he got the first coming over with, he immediately began to talk about the second coming because the one foreshadows the other. In the first one Jesus Christ came to be torn. He came meek and lowly and riding on an ass's colt. But the second time he will come not to be torn but to rend. And he won't be riding on a colt but he'll be riding on the clouds. And he talks about that. And he explains that Palm Sunday is a foreshadowing of that great day. all the people were waving palms, what does that mean? It's a foreshadowing of what Psalm 96 says it's going to be like in the second coming, when the king comes back for good, when the king comes back in his fullness. Because on that day, Psalm 96 says, the trees of the wood will sing for joy before the Lord for he comes to rule us. The trees of the wood will sing. The palms are nothing thing compared to that. The trees of the wood. When Jesus Christ's royal presence touches down with all of its raw, glorious power, everything is going to be changed. We're told, of course, that the trees of the wood will sing for joy. If you think of nature, it's pretty astonishing to make such a claim. If you think of nature, when you think of the Grand Canyon, when you think of the ocean surf pounding on the rocky beach. When you think of majestic mountains crowned with clouds waiting in the sea, and you realize that the Bible says that those things, that nature itself, with all of its grandeur and beauty now, is just a shadow of its own glorious self that it will come into when the king comes back. That's amazing. That's what Palm Sunday means. But beyond that, Romans 8 tells us that nature is standing on tiptoe, craning its neck, trying to get a glimpse of that great day. Why? Because it says in Romans 8, all nature is subject in futility until the great day it yearns for the day in which will be revealed the glorious liberty of the sons of God. And that means this. Nature, if renewed nature is going to be a thousand times more beautiful than it is now, and that's astonishing. Dazzling as nature will be, they will be dazzled by us on that great day. On the day that Jesus Christ comes back. On the day that his power comes over us and we are gloriously liberated from what we are now into becoming our true selves. On that day, nature with all of its beauty is going to be dazzled by us. It yearns to see the glorious liberty of the children of God. If nature is going to look at us, what will we be like? What will we be like? has not seen nor ear heard nor has it entered into the heart of man what will happen to those of us who love him in other words the greatest artist with the greatest imagination in history cannot even get close to the kind of greatness that will, he can't imagine the kind of greatness that will erupt through the souls of all of us who on that day find ourselves coming into the hands of the King when the King lays his hand on us and his royal power

finally, achieve the glorious liberty of the sons and daughters of God. That is what's going to happen at the Second Coming. That's what Palm Sunday foreshadows. Now, can you imagine, if you imagine that, you see why Jesus is incessantly talking about the Second Coming. He's constantly talking about it. Now, one of the frightening things and the distressing things, I think, is that many churches, when they talk about the Second Coming, either spend a lot of time studying the details of the Bible, trying to find out what the political events will have to be in order to predict when he's coming back. Some churches are always concerned with when he's coming back, and many other churches absolutely seem to act as if he's not, and they have no particular interest in it. When you study the Bible, you'll see that on the one hand, the second coming of Christ, which Palm Sunday points to, is one of the most important, if not the chief subject of the New Testament.

on the other hand the Bible gives you almost no details to help you understand when that's happening because the point of the Bible's teaching on the second coming of Christ is not to help us find the great day it's not how we will find the great day but how that great day will find us the point of the teaching of the Bible on the second coming is always ethical in its force

the Bible is saying Don't worry about when it's coming. Just know that it can come any time and consider what kind of lifestyle. Consider what kind of urgency and what kind of joy and what kind of optimism and what kind of energy will be the life characteristics of anyone who lives in the light of the second coming of Jesus Christ. That's how we're supposed to live. The Bible says some amazing things. 1 John 3 says, We do not know what he's like, we know that when he appears we will be like him and anyone who hopes for that purifies himself as he is pure and that means the second coming of Christ that day is going to be so glorious that it says there to hope for it. Not to get there, but just to want it will transform you. It's almost, it's a hilarious thing. You know, Irma Bombeck says, I can just look at certain kind of food and I see my hips growing. She says, why should I even and eat the spaghetti. Why not just apply it to my hips, she said. Just looking at certain chocolate makes your face break out. I've heard those kinds of jokes. In other words, here's a chocolate so powerful you just want it and it gives you zits. Here's spaghetti that's so fattening, just wanting it will make you fat. Actually, the Bible says literally, here's a day so glorious that just yearning for it will transform you into its likeness. It says in Colossians 3, Your life is hid with God in Christ. And when Christ, who is our life, appears, you will appear with him in glory. That is an extremely practical and profound statement. On that last day, when we see Christ, when Christ appears, we will appear. The day that you finally see who Christ is face to face will be the day that you know who you are. And only on that day, and only at that point, and only looking at him will you ever know who you really are. We will appear. Who are you? Why are you spending so much time and money trying to find out who you are? I don't know who I am. I'm one way with my family. I'm one way with you. I'm one way. Sometimes I say, who am I? But I know this, that I'm never going to completely figure that out until the day I see him face to face. and the more I yearn for that day, the more I live in light of that day, the more I order my life toward that day, the more even now I come to find out who I am. And the more my life is filled with purpose and power and peace. You see how practical that is? And that's why Jesus says how critical it is to have your whole life oriented around that. Now this passage tells us what you have to do to live like that. and he basically is telling us in this passage how Christians are to live. We will have a completely different lifestyle, a life of joyful vigor, a life of unbelievable optimism and energy, a life of humility and compassion if we live our life in light of this. The real Palm Sunday, the one that's for the future, not in the past. And Jesus tells us essentially what to do by first of all giving us two instructions for how we should live for how we should live. He tells us, first of all, the quality of our life and the motivations of a life like this. He gives us the how and the why. How to live in light of the second coming and why to live in light of the second coming. So let me just real briefly go through them. They're right here. First of all, how. The qualities of people who live their life in light of the second coming. They're both in verse 36. In verse 36 it says, Be dressed and ready for service and keep your lamps burning. Be dressed and ready for service and keep your lamps burning. First of all, keep your lamps burning. It's interesting that the illustration that Jesus uses here, he uses the illustration of a master who's gone away and he's going to return. But he goes away at night. In all of Jesus' illustrations and parables about the second coming, the master is away at night. What does that mean? Well, nighttime, I don't know about you, unless you've been in New York so long that you've completely reversed it so you stay up all night and you sleep all day. I mean, that's a possibility. But for the average person, at nighttime you get sleepy.

It's late. You tend to get sleepy. You want to go to sleep. And Jesus is pointing out that is the characteristic of this world. The age between the first and second coming of Christ. is a time in which it's dark. And that means it's a time that actually makes it easy for people to sleep spiritually. These servants, who he is saying are a good example, keep their lamps burning. They keep the light on. Now, what does it mean to get sleepy? What does it mean to go to sleep? Well, physically, to sleep means that you are affected by dreams rather than reality. In other words, in dreams, to go to sleep means that you are controlled by phantoms. You're controlled by dreams. You move out of the realm of consciousness of reality and you move into a realm where you're being influenced by dreams. Now, the dreams can be good or bad, but in our cases, the dreams are not real. If you've ever been sitting alongside of somebody who's asleep and they raise their hand like this and they're fending off a blow but there's nobody about to hit them. Or on the other hand, you see, a person may be asleep and smiling at a sunset when actually the car that they're driving is going off the road. You see, in both cases, the dream, one dream is great, one dream is bad. In both cases, the people are responding to the dream, not the reality. Spiritually, what does it mean to be asleep? The Bible is constantly talking about this. Paul is saying, awake, because it's time for you to awake and cast off sleep because our salvation, he says in Romans 13, 11, is closer than the day in which we first believed. What does it mean to be awake spiritually? It means to let eternal realities affect us more than the temporary ones. what really controls you. Now, this is an extremely practical thing. You are sleepy you are sleepy when what your boss tells you is more important than what Jesus tells you. See, what happens look, being sad is not is not a sleepy condition because Jesus was constantly sad. If you're always happy you're in a sleepy condition. Jesus saw the sadness out there and he felt the pain out there. But depression is a non-Christian condition. Because, you see, in depression, what's happening is something is coming along and you are more aware of it than the actual reality of what God is and what God says to you. So here's a boss, and you've got a tyrannical boss, and he's standing in your pathway, maybe, and on the other side is your goals, and you are depressed. Why? Because you see him as being in charge of your history instead of God being in charge of your history. That's reality. That is temporary. God is real. God is permanent. Or people have come to you and said, you're a failure. Or worse yet, you're mediocre.

You know, if you're a failure, you can say, I'll get into another business. But it's when you're mediocre.

And you can't live with yourself. And your self-image is going down. Why? Because the temporary is affecting you more than the reality. And the reality, if you're a Christian, says, you are my beloved son. You are my beloved daughter in whom I'm well pleased. What does it mean to keep your lamps burning?

What's it mean to keep your lamps burning? It means to turn on the light. It means to say, I refuse to be more affected by this phantom than I'm about the reality. It means talking to yourself. Oh, my soul, praise him, for he is thy health and salvation. It means talking to yourself, saying, now listen. Yeah, the only honors that last, my adoption, into the family of God. My heavenly inheritance, the only honors that really count, I cannot lose. Or it might mean coming to yourself when someone's cut you down and someone's stabbed you in the back and someone's called you a name and you're tossing and turning in bed at night. Turn on the light. I don't mean the one at the, you know, by your bedside. I mean this one. You say, who cares what the peasants think when the king loves me?

Am I going to listen to the grumbling of the peasants? Or the verdict of the king? And the king says, I love you. I accept you. He is my worthiness. You turn on the light. If you don't turn on the light, if you don't keep your lamps burning, you're living in a dream world.

Now you begin to understand why the Bible talks about the importance of living in the light. There's a lot of parables, the parables of the ten virgins and all that lamps burning, and the ten virgins who don't keep their lamps burning. There's lots of parables. Can't go into it here. But, now listen, before anybody here says to me, well, that's not true of me. I'm not spiritually sleepy. Thank goodness there's probably a minority of you at this point who believe that, but that's too big.

Don't be too quick to get yourself off the hook. You get more comforted. Do you enjoy more paging through closed catalogs than you do through the Bible? Are you more comforted by the thoughts of vacation than you are by the thoughts of meeting him on that great day? Friends, the mercies of God, the truths of the word, those things are solid. Everything else is a phantom. Those things are reality. And so what it means to keep your lamp burning, it means a continual and constant effort to keep a fresh grasp on the magnificence of Jesus Christ. I can be the first to tell you, I better be, I'm the only one here talking. I'll be the first one to tell you that when Jesus becomes less real to me, I just become a vaguely guilty person. When He's real to me, on the one hand I'm buoyed up by grace, on the other hand I'm constantly convicted by my sin. I'm pierced, but I'm freed. But when He's not real to me, I'm just vaguely anxious.

How do you get this fresh grasp? You work at it. You pray, you read, you reflect, you talk to Christian friends. I don't just mean about anything. to Christian friends about Christianity. You worship. You stay at it. You keep your lamps burning. And the self-pity cannot stand in front of it. And the depression can't stand in front of it. And the resentment can't stand in front of it. Keep your lamps burning. Second thing. The second thing that Jesus tells us to do is be dressed and ready for service. And it even says down in verse 43, it says, Be found doing what he told you to do. Be dressed and ready for service.

What we're talking about here is activity. He's saying, make sure that you are in a condition that you want to be found in if suddenly you found out that tonight was the last act. If tonight was the last act and the curtain was going down and this was it, would you want this to be, Do you want this to be the final thing you said, the final thing you did? Do you want this to be the way in which God finds you? Live in light, in other words, of his throne. Some of you know, because I constantly refer to him, that my, I guess one of my heroes is a man named George Whitefield. George Whitefield is not real well known to the public, but he and John Wesley started the Great Awakening, essentially, which was a great revival on both sides of the Atlantic in the mid-18th century, 1770, and under his preaching, thousands and literally thousands of people were won to Christ. He didn't advertise. His preaching was so powerful. He came to Wall Street and preached on Wall Street. 10,000 people, when the town only had 20,000 in it, came to hear him. He spoke to 60,000 people once in the Moorfields of London, 20,000 people once at Boston Common. He was that incredible as a preacher. And he started the revival that Wesley came along and pretty much organized and consolidated. Whitefield changed the course of history. Historians will now tell you the Great Awakening set up the American Revolution. And secondly, what it did was it prevented a bloody French Revolution because so many masses of the poor in England were converted that they did not pick up and rise up and cast off the aristocracy and the tyranny of the aristocracy the way they did in France. changed the course of history. And when I read his life in his journals, I see a man who would preach, on the average, for 30 years twice a day. He died of asthma. No fooling. He spent himself. And he was constantly vilified in the press. The press made fun of him. People in the pulpits made fun of him. The reason that he was preached outside and got these huge crowds was because nobody would let him preach inside. But the most amazing thing to me as I read about him no bitterness toward anyone. And the thing he would write down in his journals, he would say, I got another attack, there was another book circulated calling me this and calling me that, saying I had five wives, saying that I was an illegitimate child, saying this and that. And all he would do is at the bottom he would say, oh well, in just a few moments, we'll all be standing before the great throne.

Now, he drew comfort and strength and humility from the idea that any day, any minute, any second, we will all be standing before the great throne. You see, he got his comfort like this. He never could be bitter because he would say, look, I got a judge. He's going to appear any minute. He might appear tomorrow. He may appear 10 years from now. He may appear 1,000 years from now, as you know. That won't be long. And he says, because I've got a judge, no one will get away with anything. All accounts will be squared. worry about it. I don't have to sit around and brood and say, I wish that person would get their comeuppance. I wish that person would be brought down. I wish he got total comfort. There was no way you can live dressed and ready for service, ready to have your master come back any minute and be bitter. You can't. He also drew strength from it because he knew he had to win. He knew his master had to come. There's one of the hymns. I forget which hymn it is. One of the hymns goes It goes like this. When the strife is fierce, the warfare long, steals on the ear the distant triumph song, and hearts are brave again and arms are strong. And what it's saying is if you're in the middle of a battle and you're about to go down and you're just so tired, suddenly you hear reinforcements on the way. They're not there yet, but you can hear them singing. They're not there yet. Suddenly you get strong. Why? It's not like you have anybody else around you that you didn't have before. not like you actually have any more physical strength than you had before, but the knowledge, the certainty that overwhelming reinforcements are on their way makes you able to get up and start to fight again. And that's why he got comfort from it. That's why he got strength from it. The Lord's coming. The worst that can happen is we can lose this battle. We have to win the football game. We just might have to punt on this down. You see, we have to win. But more than that, Whitfield got humility from the idea that the throne could appear at any time. Humility. See, friends, listen. If you're in a class of mine, and I tell you that the entire class grade will be based on one test, and it will be three months from now, well, then you can go home and kick back for at least a month. But if I say the entire course grade will depend on one test, and it could be any week, tell you when. Suddenly, there's an urgency about your life. You're dressed and ready for service every week. You're a model, and you want to break in. And you happen to know that somewhere in the neighborhood, you don't know where, is a person that if they see you and like you, can make your career. You don't know where he is. You don't know where she is. I don't know who that person is. So what do you do? How do are you dressed every day? You're dressed and ready for service. You know the old makeup mirror approach? I've never used one, but I understand that if you're sitting down in front of a vanity or something and you're trying to make yourself up for the sunlight, it's very possible, you see, to be in your room, your bedroom, and you're trying to make yourself up and you make yourself up for the light in the bedroom. And it looked fine in the mirror. But if you walk outside in the sunlight, you find that the way in which you made yourself up was not adequate. So the idea behind a makeup mirror is you simulate, don't you? You simulate the daylight so that when you find yourself in that actual daylight, you're ready. My friends, we have got to be living as if the irresistible daylight of the great day could break in through the roof at any time. That's why fulfilled

because you don't know whether that's the last act. You don't know whether the play is over and down comes the curtain and that could be the last act. My friends, Whitefield and all the great people always were able to deal with slights, to deal with hurts. They were able to stop the self-pity. They were able to deal with the bitterness because they said, oh well, in a minute or two we'll all stand before the throne. own. He actually said whenever people used to get upset with him, they said, look, why don't you defend yourself? He said, all I want on my gravestone is, all I want on my gravestone is, here lies GW. The great day will reveal what sort of man he was. And you see, the only garment, Christians know this, the only way to be dressed so that we'll be ready when that irresistible light comes through, he has to be wearing what? Your own good deeds? No. The Bible tells us that only if you receive Christ as Savior does all of his righteousness and all of his goodness and all of his record get transferred to your account. It's like if I have been lazy all of my life and I marry this hard-working, diligent woman who has, through her special work and her great record and through all of her diligence and so on, has amassed a fortune. And I marry her, I'm wealthy. It's immediately part of me, and I'm part of her. The Bible tells us it doesn't matter what you've done, and it doesn't even matter what you try to do, unless you're married to Christ through faith, unless you received him as Savior, you will not be ready for that great day. But if he's your Savior, then you're dressed in the robe of his righteousness. And it doesn't matter when that irresistible light comes breaking on through the roof, you'll be ready. Keep your light burning. Don't be asleep. Be dressed and ready for service, ready for your master to come back, even in the second and third watch of the night. Now, lastly, Jesus gives us the motivation. And he says, here's why you have got to make sure that you're ready. And he gives it to us in a negative and a positive form. First of all, he says, if you're not found ready, I will appear and cut you to pieces.

Again, Jesus doesn't pull any punches. And what he's talking about in verses 41 to 46 is he says, if a servant takes the gifts the master gave him and says, my master isn't coming back yet, or maybe he's never coming back, and begins to use it for himself, the master will come back and destroy him. Everybody in this room, everybody in this room is living off of gifts the master gave you. Your talents, your health, your brain, everything you've got has been given to you by the master. The Master says, when I come back, I want to see you living for me. Not taking these gifts and using it on yourself. And unless you do that, you're going to find that the joy that you get using my gifts and using them for yourself will turn to ashes.

Look, here's somebody who says,

I'm lonely. We talked about this last week. I'm lonely, the person says. says, the only way I'm going to get this, keep this relationship is if I sleep with him, if I sleep with her. I know what the Christian ethics say, but I'm lonely. Or somebody else says, listen, I got to make ends meet. I know I shouldn't be lying to achieve this business goal, but I have to.

And Jesus is saying to you, don't you understand? Don't you understand? You have to, you have to. that's a dream. That's a fantasy. The reality is this. You cannot have a joy that's greater than the joy that comes from obeying him. You cannot be smarter than your master and you can't be smarter than your master's words. And if you take your gifts and use them in a way that is living for yourself instead of for him, what you are doing will turn to ashes. That's what he's saying. But then there's the positive side. Thank goodness. And he says the most important thing The most astonishing thing, I mean. The most astonishing verse to me in the Bible is this verse. And I mean it. Right here where he says, verse 37. It will be good for those servants whose master finds them watching when he comes. I tell you the truth. He will dress himself to serve and will have them recline at the table and will come and wait on them. Now, you know what it means to dress yourself to serve? You know, in those days, you ever notice all these people? You can see them still in Cecil B. DeMille movies. They were wearing all these long robes. And didn't you always say, gosh, how do they ever get anything done? They would trip all over the road. That's right. When they were ready to serve, when they were ready to do something, they would gird up their loins. That means they would pull it all together and stick it in their girder or into their belt. They'd stick it in there and then they were ready for action. They were ready for a fight or they were ready for service or they were ready to move swiftly. This is an astonishing thing. This is saying that if you keep your lamps burning and if you're dressed and ready for service, Jesus Christ himself will focus all of the immensities and infinities of his power to satisfy, to heal, to cleanse, to gladden you. Now, if the omnipotent God who can scatter stars like we scatter sand through our fingers, if he takes all of his power and brings it to bear on making you happy, what kind of job do you think he can do? And this Bible verse is telling us that is what you're in for. nothing less.

When Jesus Christ says, well, look, when I read the journals of the great men like Whitefield, I see an experience that I don't know much about. They say things like, I was praying for two hours last night and your love came in on me with such power that I had to ask you to stop or I thought I would die. And I began to realize the Bible promises those sorts of things even now. It says in Romans 5, it says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Spirit.

from the great table that Jesus Christ himself will serve. The appetizer is the Holy Spirit's power. The appetizer is intimacy with him. The appetizer is a clean conscience and the boldness and freedom that goes with it. We don't have them even as well as those great guys did, like Whitefield or Charles Spurgeon or Martin Luther or John Wesley or people like that. But even the appetizers are so intoxicating and so life-transforming, what must the main course be like? We have to live our lives in light of that. Palm Sunday says, get ready for God's table. That's why we celebrate the Lord's Supper now. Let's do it this way. Number one, some of you might be like this movie star.

You know, I just recently saw Field of Dreams on video. Took me a while to get to it. about a guy who builds a baseball diamond. A lot of people come back from the dead and play on the diamond and kind of get things straight that weren't straight before they died. And in Time Magazine, Costner says, we live in a cynical time. We are jaded. A lot of our heroes have turned out to have clay feet. I don't believe in astrology, crystals, reincarnation, heaven or hell. But it's a primal emotion to want to make the bad good and to help things work out in the end. And the Time Magazine writer said that he thought Field of Dreams addresses the real issues of the day, which is, we need 60s idealism in the cynical 80s, and we need reconciliation beyond the grave. You know what Costner is doing? He is saying, I need a judge. I need a judgment. I need to know that there's somebody who will put things right, but I don't want a personal judge. judge. Somebody who looks at me and says, these gifts I gave you, are you using them for me or for yourself? Now, friends, there's got to be a judgment. Even Costner says so. The world is pointless and the world is pitiless unless someday there's a judgment and everything is squared. Otherwise, what kind of world do we live in? You know what kind of world we live in. The good day die young. Nice guys finish last. The world is a pointless place unless there's a judgment. We know it's coming, but the Bible says unless you're willing to not just say, I wish there was a judgment in general, but to say, I know there's a personal judge and I've received Christ as my Savior, so I'm ready for that day in which I meet him. Unless you say that, you're not ready to meet him. There's only two ways it's going to go. Either on this earth, in this time, you say to God, thy will be done, or someday God will look at you and say, say, you wanted to be rid of me? Alright, thy will be done. See, either you say it to him now or he will say it to you later. And you know the people when they fell down in the Garden of Gethsemane when they were trying to arrest Jesus because he was so great? They fell down. And if they could not bear the sight of him when he was standing here clothed in the rags of his mortality, how are we going to stand before him when he's standing before us with his face shining like 10,000 suns? You must have him as your Savior now or he'll be your judge later. and you have to say the only way I can come before you is in closing your righteousness. I receive you. And all the rest of us, here's this. If you're like me, and I am, I am sleepy this week. I actually got a lot of sleep this week, but I'm not talking about that kind. Some of you are being tempted to impurity. Some of you are being tempted to dishonesty and it's because you're sleepy. It's because certain things look so darn real and solid to you are ephemeral. That's not the way it is. Wake up. Trim your lamps. Come to this table now. And the way you come to the table is by saying, Lord, the reason I've been sleepy is I've been eating from the world's table. I eat from your table now. Your love, your grace, your power, your righteousness is all I want. Anyone can come to the table who, number one, has received Christ as Savior. Number two, you belong to the church. where we're supposed to be members of one another. And I don't mean this church, but I mean some church. It doesn't have to be this church to belong. And number three, you have to be willing to forsake your sins. Now. I know you're going to be sinning again this week. I'm a Presbyterian. I tell you that you'll be sinning again this week. But you have to be willing to forsake them now. And if you are, then Jesus Christ Himself will come even now and gird Himself and come to you.
