I'd like to read to you from 2 Peter, chapter 2, and I'm going to read from verse 1 through 9. We're looking at the book of 2 Peter this month, as we were in July, and we're going to today read 2 Peter 2, verses 1 through 9.

But there were also false prophets among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you. They will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them, bringing swift destruction on themselves. Many will follow their shameful ways and will bring the way of truth into disrepute. In their greed, these teachers will exploit you with stories they have made up. Their condemnation has long been hanging over them, and their destruction has not been sleeping. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but sent them to hell, be held for judgment, if he did not spare the ancient world when he brought the flood on its ungodly people, but protected Noah, a preacher of righteousness, and seven others, if he condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah by burning them to ashes and made them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly, and if he rescued Lot, a righteous man who was distressed by the filthy lives of lawless men, for that righteous man living among them day after day was tormented in his righteous soul by the lawless deeds he saw and heard. If this is so, then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to hold the unrighteous for the day of judgment while continuing their punishment. This is God's word. Now, 2 Peter does sound awfully gloomy and doomy, and as you read through it, it's just full of very intense and dire warnings and constant discussions of destruction and judgment and before you get turned off to parts of the Bible like this, just remember that very often the most loving thing to do is to warn and the most positive thing you can do is be negative. Sometimes the most positive thing you can do is be negative. A great example of this sort of positive negativism driver training films that I saw when I was in high school. When I was a 15, 16-year-old, they all knew, and statistically it's proven, that those of us who were about to drive had no idea what a car could do. And so we were subjected to pictures of dead, burnt cars and dead, burnt bodies, and it struck discretion into our souls. It was good for us. Second Peter is a cosmic driver education film. Here to tell you in a positive negativism what's out there to strike discretion into your souls. Now, last week we saw the book of 2 Peter talked about the danger of the heart. We don't realize how dangerous our heart is, and this is what we mentioned last week because it's linked to what we're looking at this week, that the most dangerous thing about the heart is that it cannot hold on to the truth. The heart has a kind of allergy. We said the heart, in a sense, has a Teflon coating when it comes to the truth. We tend to forget, we can't believe, the heart doesn't want to believe the good and the true. It doesn't want to believe that God loves you. It can't hold on to it. It doesn't want to believe that God should be obeyed. For example, if somebody tells you once you're ugly, you tend to believe it. Somebody tells you 50 times you're beautiful, it's not enough. Why? What is there about the heart? Why would that be true? If a person tells you once God is unfair, you tend to believe it. If God tells you 50 times God is perfectly wise and just, you still don't believe it. Why? Same reason. the heart hates the truth the heart can't even remember the truth the heart resists the truth the truth will not stay immediate to the human heart now we talked about that last week this week we see that peter is shifting from talking about the dangers in here to the dangers out there from the dangers of the heart to the dangers of the world and they're linked because chapter is that the world is full of influences which cooperate with and aggravate the distorted biases of the heart. And he therefore is teaching us, and this is what our subject is today, that the world is full of heresies. Heresies, see? Verse 1, there will be false prophets and false teachers among you. They will secretly introduce destructive heresies. That's what he's here to talk about. Now, to the modern mind, this sounds very quaint, almost ridiculous to the contemporary mind. Heresies? We believed in heresies in the Middle Ages. Right away, you're thinking of people being burned at the stake for teaching the wrong thing. We're contemporary people now. We don't believe in heresies. My purpose here today is to show you that if that's how you feel, that is an irrational and a dangerous position to take. The Apostle Peter says the same thing. Let's give a working definition of heresy and then see what he teaches about it. The working definition is, a heresy is a view of ultimate reality which is wrong and therefore bad for you. Very simple. A heresy is a view of ultimate reality which is wrong and therefore bad for you. When I say ultimate reality, there's a lot of things you can have a false view on. You might think that, for example, the weather in Australia is always terrible. It's always raining in Australia. Now, that's not true. That's probably not bad for you to believe that. It probably is not going to hurt you to believe that. On the other hand, when we talk about heresy, we're talking about ultimate realities. Does God exist, or can you know that he exists? Is human nature good or evil or somewhere in between? How do you decide what is right and wrong? Not even what do you think is right and wrong. How do you decide what is moral and immoral? Where is human history going? What's going to happen to us after death? Those are views of ultimate reality. Heresies are false views of ultimate issues, which are wrong and therefore bad for you. Now, Peter talks about heresy. He says if you want to understand life, you have to understand what heresy is, how it operates. It's extremely important to understand. So today we're talking about heresy. Who to thunk it? What does this passage teach about heresy? These things. The first principle is heresies exist. Let's not go too fast here. Let's just point out that the passage is showing us that heresies exist. He doesn't just say there were false prophets. He says there will be false prophets. It's heresy exists. It doesn't just say like a lot of contemporary people. We used to have heretics, sure, back in the Middle Ages, but Peter is actually saying we will always have them. Heresy exists. Now, let's put this a couple different ways to understand. What we're seeing in this passage, the biblical view of truth is that there is an order of moral principles in the universe that is there whether you believe it or not, and it's the goal of life to discover that order and to conform to it or be dashed to pieces. The Biblical view of truth is that there's an order of moral principles in the universe that exists whether we believe it or not, and therefore it's our goal to find out, to discover it, to conform to it, or be dashed by it. The contemporary view of ultimate truth, the contemporary view of these issues

is that there is no order of moral principles. Now, we don't talk about in contemporary terms about truths. We talk about values, which is already putting a spin on it, but we'll use the terms interchangeably today. The contemporary view is that values are not discovered. They are constructed. You decide what is right for you. view. All values, all morals, all truths are therefore not discovered. They are socially constructed and therefore they're all relative. So there are the two views. The biblical view is the truths are discovered. The contemporary view is that ultimate truth is constructed. Now that second view is the reigning view. And most of us, if we didn't get it before we got and it's liberating at first and it's the reigning view there's no doubt about it and therefore the idea of talking about heresies under the contemporary view is ridiculous even dangerous but there are right now some tremendous strains on this view the contemporary view of ultimate truth is in a lot of trouble it's been the reigning view for a couple hundred years and it's still the reigning view but there are some tremendous structural defects that are appearing hearing in it, and let's just mention them before we move on. The one is that there is a logical contradiction that has been discovered in the heart of this view of truth that people have been trying to ignore for years, but it's starting to come up, and it's very easy to see it. For example, when you go to college in your freshman year somewhere, or probably everywhere, you'll be told no one group can impose their morals or values on another group because all values and all morals are relative, they're socially constructed, so it's wrong for one group to impose their morals on another group. But you see the contradiction? You should always ask your teacher, by the way, those of you who are actually in classes like this, you should always ask your teacher, excuse me,

if all morals and all values are socially constructed, what would be wrong with imposing them on somebody else? As soon as you say it's wrong to impose them on somebody else, you are assuming that freedom of thought, See, individual freedom is a good thing. And as soon as you talk about being a good thing, you're assuming a whole structure of belief that you just said has to be relative. So how can you appeal to it? How can you try to persuade somebody else of it? How can you tell me I'm wrong to disagree with you? Or another way to put it, of course, is if you insist that there's no such thing as heresy, what you're saying is it's a heresy to believe in heresy. You're saying it's wrong and it's bad. There's no way out. There has never been any way out, but it's only in the last couple of decades that people are beginning to realize that there is a tremendous contradiction in the heart of the contemporary view that says that all moral and all religious views have to be relative and socially constructed, because as soon as you say that, as soon as you say that, therefore, we must impose on other people, what you're really doing is you're contradicting yourself. In fact, you're doing something that you don't even have a basis for doing, and the second great problem that this contemporary view of truth, of ultimate truth, this contemporary view that there is no such thing as heresy. I said the first problem is there's a logical contradiction in the center of it. The second great problem is that societies and communities are coming to finally see that view is not a sufficient functional basis for actually having a society. You see, for the last couple hundred years, we've been told in the West is that science is the way in which we are going to form a just society. Everybody can believe what they want to believe religiously. We ought to keep our religious views to ourselves. But through science, we are going to solve our problems of poverty and our problems of crime, our mental health problems, our family breakdown problems, injustice and unhappiness. And you see, for years, we have been getting all these science fiction pictures of the future. Star Trek's just the last of them. There's this beautiful future out there. and all the races and all the genders are getting along harmoniously without any mention of religion. Nobody ever goes to church on the Starship Enterprise. When somebody dies, they have a moment of silence in front of a lectern. There's no talk about religion. And therefore, without God, they've all found meaning in life. They have all sublimated their selfish desires. They're meeting the needs of their neighbors with self-denial and self-sacrifice and all their inner emptiness is gone. And you see, there was a whole, you know, Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union tried that for 70 years and it fell apart. Recently, I was reading a book about an American teacher of theology who was on an exchange program with the religion department of the University of Moscow, Moscow University. And he said what was amazing was in that huge university was only one person who really was pushing atheism anymore. more. And everybody, though they were all agnostics, everybody said, we've got to figure out how religion can help our society because we totally lost our moral fiber. People had no understanding or incentive to deny themselves anything, to be honest, to be loyal, to be diligent. In other words, the modern view of truth is under enormous strain right now, even though it's still the reigning one. And anybody who actually preaches on here, see if it wasn't actually in a church service is just laughed at. But the day is coming.

So the first of the teachings here is heresy exists. Ultimate truth is not constructed. To even insist on it is to deny it. It's discovered. Secondly, the second thing the passage teaches us, heresies don't only exist, but they destroy. You notice, he doesn't just say, false teachers among you will introduce heresies, he says they will introduce destructive heresies. He says later on, the false teachers will be destroyed, but it doesn't say that when it uses the word destructive heresies, it means that whoever believes them are destroyed by them. Now here, let's put this principle in another way. We said the first principle was that moral truth is discovered, not constructed. The second principle is ultimate truth is the basis for everything you do. So if you monkey with your beliefs about ultimate realities, you are monkeying with everything about your life. Because whether you believe it or not, whether you acknowledge it or not, your feelings and behavior, all of your feelings and behavior. Your very life, the way you make decisions, your life is determined by what you believe about ultimate realities. Some of you think, well, I'm not very religious. That's just not true for me. Let me show you that you're wrong. Heresies are destructive. Why? Because how you live is determined by what you believe about those ultimate realities. So, if you're off there, you're off everywhere. Heresies destroy.

Some people say, but I'm not a religious person. I don't know what I believe about God. How long have you not known what you believe about God? Well, for 10 years. In other words, you believe that it's not critical for you to know.

See, we can go to Pascal. I know Jeff White was talking to you about this earlier in the summer. At this point, the great French thinker Pascal really helps us. Pascal was a Christian, and he was constantly hearing his skeptical friends say, you Christians, you have faith, that's wonderful, you have faith in God, but I am a hard-nosed empiricist, I only believe what can be proven to me, I don't base my life on faith, and Pascal would have nothing of it, he said, when somebody would say to him, I'm a hard-nosed empiricist, you have faith, fine, you believe in God, I don't believe in anything, I'm a hard-nosed person, I only believe in what is proven to me, that's the only thing I work on, and Pascal would talk to them and say, that is unjustified self-flattery. He says, look, I base my life and my destiny on a belief that there is a God who can be known and who reveals what is right and wrong through the Bible. I've based my life on that. I can't prove it empirically, though there's evidence for it. I can't prove it. You, on the other hand, are basing your life and your destiny on a belief that there is no God, or that if He is there, it doesn't matter how I worship Him, or how I approach Him, and you can't prove that either, empirically, of course you couldn't, and therefore, what's the difference between us? I'm wagering my entire life on the fact that there is a God who reveals Himself in the Bible, and you are waging your entire life on the idea that there isn't a God, or if He is there, He doesn't reveal Himself through the Bible, and neither of us can empirically and demonstrably prove our positions, and everything we do and everything we decide is predicated on those assumptions. He says, so where the heck do you come across being superior? Now, that's a searing argument, but you see what the point is? I've constantly had people say, look, I don't have faith. That's just not true. If you make a decision about whether to sleep with this girl or not tonight, and you decide you're going to, even though you're not you know what the Bible says about it, you are assuming that there isn't a judgment day.

In other words, everything you do when you make a decision. Look, if you have jettisoned biblical morality in your life, or if you've decided it's okay to accrue wealth and use it on yourself instead of giving it away in eye-popping proportions and giving yourself to the needs of society. If you decide not to go to church, if you decide it doesn't really matter whether I believe the Apostles' Creed or not, in every one of these cases, it affects the way in which Your decisions, your priorities, the way you spend your money, who you spend your time with, are all based on decisions one way or the other about these ultimate issues.

Is there a God or isn't there? Can he be known? Is human nature evil or is it good or somewhere in between? Do you find out what is right and wrong through the revelation that God gives you or through your own feelings? When you die, will there be a judgment? There is nobody in this room that can possibly make practical decisions without assuming one of those things or the other.

And therefore, what you believe about God may be good or may be bad, but it will not be inconsequential. It's not like your belief about the weather in Australia.

Don't you see what the teaching is here? Heresies destroy what you believe about these ultimate issues. Inevitably, it's underneath everything that you do. all your behavior, proceed from them. And so it determines your life. And if your beliefs are wrong, if they're even unexamined, and which is true for most of us, they'll distort and twist your life.

Now, before we leave this point, before we leave this issue, let me just apply this teaching for a minute to Christians. I just really spent some time applying it to skeptics, haven't I? And I've got to be fair here, because the great thing about Redeemer on a Sunday is we have always got people from the most skeptical to the most ardent in belief and everything in between, and that's the glory of the community, I think. So I want to speak to everybody. The second principle, that your belief system about ultimate realities is the determinant of your feelings and your behavior. I just applied it to skeptics. What about to you, Christians? Listen, if this is true, true, take a good look at yourself. It's very, very passable to be cognitively orthodox, cognitively orthodox, and a practicing heretic. Oh, yeah. See, your feelings and behavior are determined by your belief system. Let me give you an example. Let's just say you became a Christian recently, and in the early part of your life, you got a lot of input about what scum you were, maybe from, I don't know who from, but maybe people have been telling you for years you were scum. You were nothing. So then you come into Christianity. You study the evidence for Jesus and you decide he is who he said he is. He's the Lord from heaven. He's the one who came to die for me. And you study Luke 15 that tells us that through Christ, God is now our loving father who grabs you. Remember the prodigal son parable? And he says, you're my child now. Let's kill the fatted calf. Let's have a feast. You're home. It doesn't matter what you've done. I love you. And you look at that and you say, I'm loved. I'm loved. I'm valued. God is now my father. Now, you believe that or not? Look at the week that you just came through. Look at the week you're are about to face? Are any of you depressed because nobody's asking you out?

Are any of you discouraged because you've been getting a lot of criticism and you can hardly take it? Circumstances, you are not a victim of your circumstances. You have to interpret your circumstances through a grid, and that grid is always a belief system. You can either interpret that criticism, or the fact that nobody's asking you out, through the old grid of belief systems grid of belief systems, which is that through your elder brother Jesus, you are now infinitely precious to your father. But don't you dare think, Christian friends, that you're victims of your circumstances. It's up to you whether you're going to operate out of one belief system or another. It's up to you because your feelings and your behavior are being affected by one of those or the other. You're a practicing heretic in many cases, and you've got to get the truth, the real truth functionally back, now this is very close up, we talked about last week, but you see how they connect, back into the center,

do you lack courage, let me tell you, why you lack courage, you need a lively grasp, of the God, of the power of God, looking at God, and his power, do you lack self-control, you need a lively grasp, of the holiness of God, looking at God, and his holiness,

all of your feelings, and behavioral problems, stem from, whether or not, and your heart is engaged in the truth.

Heresies destroy. Why? Because all feelings and all behavior comes from your belief system.

Thirdly and lastly, we just saw that heresies exist. And now secondly, we saw that heresies are absolutely destructive because what we believe about that and how well we believe it and how well we grasp it determines everything about our daily life. But lastly, now, lastly, a question comes up, and the answer's here. The question is, if it's true that there is ultimate truth that has to be discovered, not just constructed, and if secondly, what we believe about that ultimate truth really affects everything in our daily life, thirdly, how then can we hold on to the truth in a world like the world that If you read verses 1 to 9, Peter shows that the world is always assaulting us to keep us away from the truth.

Actually, in more than one way. If you look at the first three verses, you'll see that Peter says one of the ways in which the world assaults you is with false teachers. And there really are. Those are persons, men and women, who teach views of ultimate reality out of accord with the Word of God, out of accord with scriptural and biblical revelation, And if you believe in them, they affect the way in which you do your decisions and think about yourself and relate to everybody. And they're all over the place. In fact, if you have Manhattan Cable, there's at least 90 right on Manhattan Cable television. And I'm not exaggerating. I'm not kidding. No problem. They're there. But you know what's interesting? Peter does not just simply in this passage say that the only assault on the truth and that you will experience it Then in verses 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, he talks about trials. And he gives you examples of Noah and Lot. Very interesting. Noah suffered unjustly. He was told to build an ark. For years, he had to build an ark when there was no rain coming, and he was ridiculed. And here he was trying to obey God, and the harder he tried to obey, the more he became a laughingstock. Lot was different. different. Lot disobeyed God, went to live in a wicked city against God's wishes, and he saw his family get consumed and corrupted by it. And Lot had to live with the self-recrimination and regret of having made a major mistake. But those trials are both different, aren't they? In one case, in the Noah kind of trial, you get mad at God. Why are you letting this happen? In the lot kind of trial, you get mad at yourself. What an idiot I've been. In the Noah kind of temptation, there's a temptation to self-pity. In the lot kind of temptation, there's the temptation of self-hatred. But in both situations, this temptation underneath all the temptations is to let go of the truth. Trials, just as much as false prophets, make you want to just say, why not give up? Why not forget the truth? Live for yourself.

Just read about these. This always happens. You'll read it very often in the paper. Somebody got leukemia. Somebody got run over, and the parents of the children say, it's hard for me to even believe in God anymore. Why would God let something like this happen? Trials. False teachers and trials make you want to lose your grip on the truth. The world is out there assaulting you with heresies, prophets, and through the impersonal influences of trials. How can you hold on? Now, the answer you might think, and it's part of it, is read your Bible. And actually, 2 Peter does talk about that more than most books. In the very beginning and the very end, he's always talking about the fact that only through the Word of God and through the Scripture do you get clear views of reality, of ultimate reality. But the real key, and this is how we will finish,

the key to being not only cognitively but practicing believer, the key to overcoming both cognitive and practical heresy, it's in verse 2. It says, they will secretly introduce destructive heresies, even denying the sovereign Lord who bought them. You see, the thing that makes heretics really bad is not just that they deviate from an abstract set of Christian principles, but that they trample on someone who purchased them. And this is the key. The truth of God will never, ever keep its compelling power in your life unless you knew the Bible. They knew the Bible better than anybody in this room, including me. They knew him extremely well, and they still missed it. They still turned hard. They still turned away. How can you hold on? You have to realize that ultimately the truth is personal. Let me put it both positively and negatively, and then we'll be able to close. But this is really, really critical and very, very practical. Some of you right now are facing suffering and trials in your life and are making you wonder whether you should even hold on to the truth.

are under the influence of false teachers. You're just surrounded in New York with people who just ridicule the biblical understanding of reality. How do you hold on? It's right here. You have to remember that Jesus Christ was the Lord from heaven who came and bought you. Let me give it to you positively and negatively. Positively. People always want to pick a fight with Christians. They want to pick fights with me. They want to say, what do you believe about this or that hot political issue? And if you want to follow the teaching of Peter, the first thing you have to say I don't go to that. I don't say, well, I believe this. What do you believe? Well, you're a heretic. No. I'll say, well, wait a minute. Let me ask you first a question. Do you believe that Jesus Christ is who he said he is? Do you believe Jesus Christ is the Lord from heaven who came to buy us, who purchased us with his own blood? Well, no, they say. I say, well, then it's silly. You want me to talk about belief C when it's, when it's, my belief C is completely based on belief A and B. A and B is based on C. If you don't believe in A and B, why in the world should I even expect you to believe in C? Why should I argue with you about C? Why should you argue with me about C? Don't you understand? Christianity is not just an abstract set of principles, it's a personal revelation of the heart of Jesus Christ. If you don't understand that Jesus Christ bought you, then these other beliefs and positions that the Bible teaches will make no sense to you at all. look at the evidence for whether Jesus is who He said He is. Is He the Son of God from heaven? Did He really buy us? Well, I don't believe that. If you don't believe that, fine, don't argue with me about any of the other C's and D's of the Christian faith. Let's talk about A and B. Nor should you ridicule me for believing C and D, because if A and B is true, of course, if Jesus is who He said He is, well, of course, it all follows.

That's the structure of Christian truth. But let me put it to you negatively. In many cases, this is what happened to us. Many of us had backgrounds in which we believed in basic Christian worldview, and then we got to college, or else, then we got to the city. And in the city, all these ideas, all these ideas like monogamy, you see, like self-sacrifice, like forgiveness, all these things are ridiculed. And so how did you lose? You know how you lost it? You know how you slipped into heresy? you sat around and you said, well, I know my parents will be so upset if they understood that I did this or thought I believed this, but heck, they have double standards too, and they're kind of old-fashioned. That's not the way you should have ever thought about it. Instead, you should have said, if I jettison this view of marriage, if I get rid of this view of reality, this view of God, I am denying that Jesus is who he said he is. I'm denying the Lord who bought me. Now, I don't know whether that's right. I should investigate. I better make absolutely sure that Jesus Christ is not who he said he is. I better check out the evidence, but you didn't. You just didn't want to be laughed at. Or under trials, what do you do? You know, I read in the newspaper about that lady whose daughter was shot a couple years ago and killed on the playing field up there in the Lehman College, and she said, I've lost my faith, because why would God let something like that happen? But don't you see people watching Jesus lost their faith because they would say, now, that guy was just wonderful. He was healing everybody. Why would God let something like that happen? And they lost their faith looking at the most wonderful act of redemption God had ever done in history just because they couldn't fit it into their little minds. Don't you understand? If you think about him dying for you, you suffer and you say, well, if he suffered like this for me, I can suffer for him. Unless you understand he bought ought you, you will not hold on to truth with its compelling power. That's the secret. How will you handle the false teachers? Be melted by the idea of what he did for you. Think about him saying,

remember the father saying, this is my son. Kill the fatted calf. It doesn't matter what you've done. I want you now. Think about that. Think about that and you will no longer be a practicing heretic. And if there's anybody out here who's looking at Christianity this way, you're looking at it and you're saying, hey, I'm interested in Christianity, but will it really meet my needs? That's not the way you come to it. That comes second. Say, I'd like to be interested in Christianity, but does it fit into my political theory? That's not the way you go. You have to decide whether Jesus is who he said he is. Paul in 1 Corinthians 6 says, don't use prostitutes. why does he say because you might get a disease that's true but he doesn't say it that comes second does he say because you're exploiting the women that's true and that's bad but he doesn't say it because that comes second does he say because you're undermining the family and the basis for society that's true but he doesn't say it that comes second what does he say don't use prostitutes because you're not your own you were bought with a price he says that's the only way you will ever have not thinking about the consequences, not thinking about it abstractly, the structure of Christian truth at the bottom of it all, at the heart of it all, at the heart of all this wonderful logic system, somebody came and bought you. That's why you don't use prostitutes. You're not your own. You're bought with a price. Look and see who he is. Christians, you know who he is? Look at him and look at him, look at him, and you won't be a practicing heretic. Come and learn what these things mean. Let's pray. Our Father, as we think about the fact that we're surrounded by both personal heretics and trials and troubles that seek to make us want to lose grip on the truth, we pray that you would help us to be so filled with both, not just the scripture, but a knowledge that your Son, who is Lord of the Word, died for us, that the truth might keep its compelling power in our lives, and that we might truly be conformed more and more into the image of Him who died for us. And we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.
