One of the uniquenesses of Christianity is the demand that if you're a Christian, Jesus Christ is to be Lord of every area of your life. It's a real unique kind of demand, and ordinarily it's a surprise. Ordinarily we do not know what that means until we begin to get to know Him. We may have heard the topic. We may have heard the concept, but we don't know until we actually get there. And this didn't come home to me for a couple of years after I became a Christian. The idea of lordship, the idea of him being lord of everything. And God uses a different way to do it for everybody. In my case, it was a little booklet called My Heart, Christ's Home. I'm going to take a survey. Anybody here? little booklet by Robert Boyd Munger called My Heart Cries Home. Can you raise your hand? Yeah, you see? It's still around. Good. That may be a third of you. Let me tell you the impact it had on me. I'm glad it's still around. Is it still in print? Does anybody know? Yeah. The impact it had on me was, it's awfully simple. It's simply the idea of your, think of your heart as, or your life, your life as a house. Jesus Christ is asked by you to come into the house. Why? Ordinarily, always start by giving Jesus a section of your life that you think needs his help. It could be an area of sin that you want to be dealt with. It could be an area, a problem that you want to be dealt with. And the way the booklet kind of goes is that people, a person maybe asks Jesus into the family room. Why? Well, maybe you're having family problems and you ask Jesus in so you can deal with it. That's fine. Jesus has this funny thing, though. He won't stay in one room. He won't stay there. He doesn't act like a guest because he's not. If you treat him like a guest, you'll always find that he doesn't act like a guest. And there can be a lot of misunderstandings and hurt feelings on your part. A guest is somebody who comes in. You've been a guest in many places. You don't do things without permission of the owner. If you're brought into the living room, you don't say, well, excuse me, I'm going to check out your bedroom. Is that all right? excuse me, I want to see what's in your refrigerator first. I'll be right back. If you'd act like that, you would be offending the host. The host would say, I invited you in here as a guest. Now, when you ask Jesus into your life like that, and we all do at first, we're always miffed because he doesn't act like that. He doesn't act like a guest. He's not polite. Now, he is polite because he's acting in accordance with who he really is. But he's not acting in accordance with who we think he is. So in the little book you all remember some of the things he'll do is he'll go into the workroom. This is our workplace. This is the area of our career. And he looks around and he says so this is how you conduct yourself in your career. You're a Christian but this is how you conduct yourself here in the workroom. And you're starting to go. Then he walks on into the library. You know what the library is? The library, I think in the little book. is a place where it's your thought life. So he looks to see what sort of things that you think about. That's the library. And he notices the pictures on the wall, which are the things that are hanging up on the inside of your mind. And he says, so this is the sort of thing you think about. And you go. And then he goes into the rec room. You know, the recreation room. And he says, so this is how you find relief. And one of the things that always gets everybody. And it was such a little stroke of genius in the book. Anybody remember that? Jesus finds that there's a hall closet. And he comes to you and he says, I want to look at the hall closet. It's locked. There's something really stinking in there. Something that's been hidden away from the light a long time. There's something in there that really stinks. And you say, I don't let anybody in that hall closet. And Jesus said, yeah, that's probably right. It's probably why that it smells so bad. It's probably why that out of this place it's beginning to infect the whole house. You know, it's a little stroke of genius because we never know what's in the hall closet. But everybody who reads it knows what's in their hall closet. And Jesus at a certain point says, I want the key. I'll clean it out for you. Give me the key to the hall closet. And in the end, at a certain point it suddenly dawns on the host of the house. That's you. As Jesus is walking on through, finally at the end, you suddenly say, Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I can't maintain this place. That's why things get stinky. That's why everything needs painting. That's why I can't maintain the place. You could maintain this place. And so it's silly for me to have you in my house as a guest, isn't it? I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to turn the deed over to you. You own it. I will live here just like I did before. I'll have the same room. I'll have the same place. And yet everything will be so different. I will be your house servant and you will know how to run this place in a way that I don't. And you'll keep it up and I'll have more fun and it'll be a more comfortable and wonderful place to live than ever. And Jesus essentially says, now you got the picture. Now that's, you know, that's a paraphrase. Some of you, like me, some of you may have read that book 20 years ago like I did. I don't think I've seen it since, but I've never forgotten it. It's almost memorized. That's the sort of thing that the Bible says throughout. Every single area of your life has got to go to him. You've got to sign the ownership over to him. And really what the book of Ephesians is about, especially 4, 5, and 6. It's looking at every single different area. And every room. That's what's so great about Ephesians 4, 5, and 6. It'll talk about your church life. It'll talk about your ministry and service to others. It talks about your habit life. It talks about your communication and the use of your tongue. It talks about your relationships. It talks about your sex life. It talks about marriage and singleness. It talks about your career and your work life. It talks about spiritual authority and talks about demons and it talks about spiritual struggle and principalities and powers in the high places. What a book. And that's what we're going to be looking at. Now, but Ephesians 1, 2, and 3 set up the need for this. They set up the need for this kind of lordship lifestyle. And what I want to do is kind of give you a catechism in just a few minutes. And it's by a catechism I mean catechisms. Some of you have seen them, some of you haven't. They're ways the churches used to use to put a whole lot of biblical truth into a tiny little space in a way that you can grasp and learn and even memorize and take hold of and use. And I'd like to, in a sense, give you a little catechism of the kingdom because Ephesians 1, 2, and 3 are mainly about that. You see, the purpose of history, the Bible says, is to unite all things under the feet, under the kingship, under the headship of Christ. We read that, didn't we? You see, when we read it there in verse 7, 8, 9, it says, This is the mystery of his will according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ to be put in effect when the times have reached their fulfillment. Everything is heading in this direction, see? To bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one head, even Christ. Everything is split up. Everything is scattered. Everything's going to be united. Everything's going to be brought back into coherence. Everything's going to be brought back together under the lordship and the kingship of Jesus Christ. That's the direction of history. The healing of the nations. Ephesians 22 talks about the healing of the nations. The healing of all things. The bringing everything back. The parallel book to Ephesians is Colossians. and see Paul saying the very same thing to a different group of people using slightly different language. And there he says in Colossians 1.19 that in everything he might have the supremacy. That's the goal of history. Put it this way. Paul is saying here, history is a train and it's on its way to the kingdom of Christ. Get on it or be left in the cosmic dust. That's what he's saying. That's what he's saying in Ephesians 1. All things will be united in him. You'll see, for example, therefore, that Jesus' parables are constantly talking about how the kingdom of God is penetrating everything. There's one very famous section where Jesus likens the kingdom of God in Matthew 13 to yeast, and he likens it also to a mustard seed. And the reason he does that is yeast, as you know, is you put the yeast into the dough, doesnt look like much. But it penetrates the dough. And the yeast, when it rises it brings a dough with it. It transforms the dough into it's likeness. It rises up. And it brings a dough with it. A mustard seed a tiniest thing. My sister used a little amulet. You know. She wore a planted it in any kind of dirt, you immediately lost sight of it. You probably couldn't even find it again. It's not like, you know, planting a tulip bulb or something like that. You plant a mustard seed, you go back to try to find it, you can't even find it. It's that small. Yet it grows into a pretty good-sized tree. It completely transformed the plot of land on which you've planted it. In the same way, the Bible says that the whole purpose of history, the whole place that history going to is the kingdom of God is penetrating, sometimes very silently, sometimes in ways that look laughable, and yet it's transforming everything. Now, let's talk about what that is. He is the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Ephesians 1.23, we just read. The idea is that Jesus' kingdom is coming in like the yeast and filling things up and changing things. It's rising and bringing the world with it. You understand all these great images? They're all pictures trying to get across a central idea. Now, I have down here four questions. And if we can answer the four questions tonight, you have a little catechism of what the Bible teaches about the kingdom of God. And it's extremely important. Friends, I don't want to hammer this too much, but I'm going to. Because if you are newer folks, newer in the faith, If you're new and don't have much in the way of Christian teaching and background, I want to get this into you quickly. A lot of people can be in the church for years, 10, 20, 30 years, and they've heard all kinds of preaching, all kinds of teaching, and they can't tell you what the kingdom of God is. And yet Jesus Christ talks about the kingdom of God incessantly. He never tells people to be saved without telling them to enter the kingdom of God. He doesn't tell them to repent and receive me a savior. He says, repent, be born again, so you may enter the kingdom of God. He's constantly talking about it. It's that critical. And a lot of you who have been believers for a long time, you don't think of it constantly. You don't think of it. When people ask you, what are you about? What is Christianity about? You'll go on a long time before you even mention the kingdom, and many times you won't do it at all. And yet the Bible's about it. Maybe if there is a central thing, it's about the kingdom. Now, what are the four questions? Let's look at them, just these four. First of all, what does a Christian live for? You live for Christ, yes, and that's great. But that is a fairly abstract thing to say. It really is. The Bible, I think, would say to live for Christ means to live a life of kingdom penetration. To live a life of kingdom penetration means it is your job to make sure the kingdom of God, like the east, is penetrating your own life more thoroughly and more constantly. And you also believe that it's your job to be an agent of spreading the kingdom and penetrating every area of the world, every area of life. Boy, wait, let me elaborate. Every human being needs a king. We all need kings. Whenever you find a country that's still got a king or a queen or a royal family, those countries that people are obsessed with the families. It's silly. The families are nothing but figureheads. And yet people are obsessed with them. And watching them. Royalty watching. Magazines all about them. And when you find a country that doesn't have a royalty. Well. We'll adopt somebody else's royalty. Or. We'll create our own. And that. We. You can. Always. The magazines that have to deal with issues. They die. Magazines. They have to deal with personalities, the rich and the famous, celebrities, millionaires, and so on, they continue to sell. Why? Why do we have to have kings and queens? Even if we don't have them, we create them. Why? Now, the Bible says that the reason that we have this need for king and need to crown people is because it's a memory trace. I'll put it this way. C.S. Lewis has a good point when he says that Christians are not monarchists. Christians do not want to bring back monarchy. Christians believe in democracy. Why? Lewis points out that there's really two roots historically for the spread of democracy. I think this is a relevant subject right now. You can't pick up the paper without everybody saying, isn't it amazing that there was such a force in Eastern Europe toward democracy that it's breaking out from underneath the iron grip of communism. What is it? Where did the human desire for democracy come from? A lot of people, well, let me explain this. There's really two roots. Christianity has always been a very important, Protestant Christianity has always been a source of democracy. Protestant Christianity has always undermined monarchs. It's one of the reasons why an awful lot of kings and queens and princes and nobles were quite happy to stick with the Roman Catholic Church, but were always unhappy with the Protestant church because they knew that Protestants tend to be insubordinate. Protestants tend to bring about democracy. Now, why? Let me digress for a minute. There was another source of democracy, and that was the source that came out of the Enlightenment, especially out of a guy named Rousseau, who lived in France, I'm told. And Rousseau believed democracy was important because every human being was so noble and wonderful that every person had the right to take part in government. Because we're all wonderful. We're all good. We're all noble. Lewis says Christians would never, ever, ever grant that. Christians would never base the idea of human rights on the idea that every human being is basically a good, wonderful person. See, Rousseau and the Enlightenment said the reason we have to believe in human rights and democracy is because human beings are great people. They're all wonderful. If that's your basis, what happens when you come up against radical wickedness? You see, you can be fairly naive and come out of school thinking like that. Then you're going to come up against people who are pretty nasty. And they're pretty mean. And they shoot people. And they maim people. And they kill people. And when you meet someone like that, you're going to say, they don't deserve any rights. String them up. And, of course, you hear this a lot in New York. Because the common culture bases the idea of democracy and human rights on the idea of human goodness and that all people are good and wonderful. Therefore, whenever you do come up against people who are evil, it takes a while now in this culture to really believe people are evil. Well, when you find people who are evil, you're ready to string them up. You're ready to lynch them. You are. They don't deserve any rights. They don't deserve these things. That's what's so dangerous about that basis for democracy and human rights. out in his essay, is that Christians have always believed in democracy, but here's the reason why. We believe that all human beings are wicked. Sure we do. The only difference between a kid who stabs somebody in the subway and kills them, and the rest of us, is that he's probably a poor kid, and poor people live in the present, and middle-class people tend to live for the future. In other words, we make sure that our sins are future-oriented. We don't do something that's going to get us in trouble right away. We're smart about our sins. Poor people have a tendency to live for the present, and so maybe they're a little bit more dumb about their sins, but they're still sinful. And the Scripture teaches us that every human being is wicked, but at the same time, every human being is also infinitely exalted. Because every human being is made in the image of God, human rights because of that dignity, not because we're all good. If you do that, you're going to start to pull away human rights from people that you think don't deserve it. The Bible says none of us deserve it because we're all infinitely fallen and infinitely exalted at the same time. And so Lewis says the reason we believe in democracy is different than what Rousseau says. Rousseau says no human being is fit to be a slave. And Christians would say that may be true, but the reason we believe in democracy is no human being is fit to be a master. You see, no human being, because we're all infinitely fallen, should be trusted with too much power. That's the reason why Protestants always were Democrats. I don't mean Democrat and Republican, but they were for democracy as opposed to monarchy. Because they said, because every human being is infinitely exalted, everyone should have human rights. rights, but because every human being is also infinitely fallen, no one should be allowed to be the ultimate ruler. We need to spread the power around to protect ourselves from one another. And see, you see, one says, no human being is worthy of being a slave, and Christianity says, well, that may be so, but the real reason for democracy is no human being is fit to be a master. The reason we bring this up at this point is because Christians therefore, is medicine. It's medicine for something that, because we're ill, because we're sick, because of our sin, because of our selfishness, because of our tendency that power corrupts. And absolute power crops up. Absolutely. That's a biblical notion. But we were not built for democracy. We were built for a king. And that's the reason why, even though we all want democracy, and even though the record of real human kings is absolutely abysmal, we still want to worship kings. We still want to adore them. We want to create them. And the Christian says, we know why. Because that need for kings is a memory trace. All human beings, in some very deep way, you might, you know, Jung would say, in the collective unconsciousness, we all remember that we were built for a king. That there is a king, a once and future king, an ancient and future king, a king whose wisdom and power and love was like the sun shining in full strength. And we were built, we were built to bask in his glory and to sit and serve him. And therefore, because we were built not for democracy, see, democracy is medicine. You can't live on medicine. Democracy is good for what ails us, but it's not the food for our souls. to serve somebody. And we're going to find somebody to serve if we're not serving the true king that we all were built for, the memory trace of which still drives us to find a king. As Bob Dylan said when he was going through his Christian phase, you've got to serve somebody. You remember that song? You've got to serve somebody. We must have a king. Every human being needs a king. And if we don't get the real king, we're going to find something else. Spiritual nature, like physical nature, will be served. Deny it food and it will gobble poison. Ever seen a starving person? Finally gobbling things that they know are bad for them, but they don't care. They got to eat something because they're built to eat. People will have to serve something because they're built to serve. The kingdom of God is what we were built for, and therefore, it's our job when we find the right king and we find ourselves changing in his presence to spread it. Second question, what the heck is the kingdom? You know, you keep saying to me, hey, you keep talking about it. We define it. What is the kingdom of God? And the answer, I know this is kind of a crazy answer in some ways, but I read it in a book somewhere, and for years I've been looking for it again, and I can't find it. And I know that I'm not smart enough to have thought it up, so don't even ask me where it's from. But the kingdom of God is the restoration and renewal of the entire world through the introduction of supernatural forces from the throne of God. The kingdom of God is a kind of power. The kingdom of God is the reign of God. Now, it assumes this. Where Jesus Christ is not Lord, look at yourself. Look at any area of life where Jesus Christ is not Lord. It will be in decay. Where Jesus Christ is Lord, it will be coming together. Just as Paul says, God's job, God's purpose is to unite all things under the feet of Jesus Christ. I call it the rule decay principle. You see, God created the world to be under his management, under his control. Jesus Christ says, just as a seed has to die for it to blossom, so you must die to yourself in order to find yourself. You know what that means? Just like a seed has to go under the ground in order for it actually to explode. So you have got to deny being your own master, and you have to go in under the lordship of Jesus Christ before your own potentialities can really erupt. You are as different right now from what you ought to be and what you can be as an acorn is from an oak tree. The entire oak tree is in that acorn. It's hard to believe. It's all there. When you look at these huge things, it was all in that acorn. And yet the difference between the acorn and the oak tree is pretty vast. They're continuous and yet so far apart. but an acorn at this point in your life until you put yourself under the lordship of Christ. That's why he says, as a seed falls into the ground and dies, so you have got to deny yourself and come in under my lordship, and only then will you erupt. That's the reason why we talk about, we look at Romans 8.18. Romans 8.18 tells us that until Jesus Christ comes back, all of nature is subject to futility. It's a way of saying everything is decayed, everything is falling apart. Why do out there that today is beautiful. Tomorrow it's decaying. It smells. It's putrefying. What is that? What that's saying is even nature, until Jesus Christ comes back and takes the cosmos back completely under his lordship, even nature is subject to decay. Things are beautiful and then they get ugly. Things are bright and then they get dull. Things are together and then they fall into pieces. And our lives are like that until Jesus is master of them. And to the degree that To that degree, there's restoration. Where he's king, where he's exerting his kingship, where the power of his kingship is present, and to the degree it's present, to that degree, you find yourself renewing, restoring, becoming everything that you were meant to be. As different as the acorn is from the tree. As different as you are now from what you can be under his lordship. That's exactly what we mean when we talk about the kingdom. Very, very important. What does a fish out of water, a jogger on Venus, and a very, very big ship in a very, very narrow channel all have in common? Do you have any idea? Every one of them is experiencing alienation. You see, alienation, I know what some of you are saying. It was on the tip of my tongue. I was just about to say it, you know. They're experiencing alienation. A jogger is alien to Venus. When that jogger, you know, opens the door of his space capsule and gets a great big deep gulp of that great Venusian atmosphere, which is full of ammonia gas and all sorts of other poison and lethal gases, he experiences alienation. Why? His lungs are not built for that atmosphere. He's an alien and his lungs begin to fall apart immediately. See? He's not built. His lungs aren't built for that. A fish out of water. It's supposed to be in the water. A great big boat is supposed to be out in the ocean where it has sea room. It's not supposed to be in a tiny little narrow channel. Because all of these people, boats, items, because all of these objects are experiencing because they're out of place, they're not able to do their thing. They're not able to live up to their potential. They're a thing. They're stuff. That's what I mean by experiencing alienation. And in the same way, a soul that is worshiping God, only that soul has sea room. Take one of these ships that's stuck in a harbor. It's too small. It's like a big beached whale. It can't do anything. It's too big. It can't do a thing. But get it out. Get one of these great big sailboats out into the ocean. sea room and it runs like the wind. In the same way, God alone and the kingship of God and the kingship of Jesus Christ is the only sea room that's big enough for your soul. You've got to get into that and then you really begin to swing. You've got to get back in the water and then you begin to flip your tail and begin to really move. That's what we mean when we talk about the kingdom of God. Under God's rule, there is coherence. Away from God's rule, there's decay. The kingdom of God is bringing something, anything, in underneath the lordship of God, and then what happens is coherence. Things start to come together. That's the reason why Psalm 96 is mentioned here. Ephesians 1 says all things come together under Christ. Psalm 96 puts it in a much better way. Let the heavens be glad. Let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar and all that fills it. Let the fields exult and all that's within them. Then shall the trees of the woods sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. What does that mean? To judge means he's coming back to rule. When he comes back to rule, the trees sing for joy. The fields exult. What's going on here? You think nature's pretty now? It's nothing. Nothing like what it's going to be when it comes in underneath the lordship of Christ totally. Things flourish, which is the same word we get the word flower from, only under him. They blossom. They explode. You begin to blossom in places you didn't know you had buds. God's. The same is true for you, because the difference between nature right now, nature hasn't sinned. Nature never really chose to go away from God, and therefore the decay that nature's experiencing right now and the beauty that it's going to experience when Jesus comes back is nothing compared to the difference that will happen in you and me. There's a little place where it says we were made for a little while lower than the angels. And some people surmise, and it could be, that means, you know, right now when an angel appears with all his or her or whatever he or she is, with all of his glory and effulgence, you want to drop down and you want to say, you know, every time anybody ever sees an angel, his wisdom, his nobility, his beauty, his grace, his power is always such that any human being that ever sees an angel wants to get down and worship, and the angel's always saying, get up, get up, I'm a creature just like you, you know, what are you worshiping me for? It's a good possibility that we may be more glorious than that. There's some indications that the angels are our older brothers and sisters. On the other hand, there's also indications that we are going to be at least as glorious as that, For a little while, we were made lower than angels. Maybe we're a higher order for all we know. The point is that under Jesus Christ, you will become a creature that if you saw yourself now, you'd be tempted to worship. That's what we're in for. Do you believe that? Third question. What are those forces? Oh gosh, there's five. I can be quick. What are those forces? The forces that bring the power of the kingdom are the Word and the Spirit. Because the Word of God tells you what the will of the king is, right? The Spirit is the power of God. The Word is the will of God. Now, how do you get the kingdom power in your life? It's relatively simple. Look, right now, you're not forgiving somebody. Isn't that possible? Somebody out here, you're bitter against somebody. You're refusing to forgive. you are experiencing alienation. You're resisting the Lordship of Christ. You're disobeying Him, and there is decay in that part of your life. There's breakdown there. There's misery there. All right? I'm just giving you the smallest case study I possibly can. You come to the Word of God, because every morning you get up and you say, I really want to seek you. I want kingdom penetration in my life today. And you read a place where it says, like Mark 11, or Matthew 18, where it says, even as your father has forgiven you, so you should forgive one another. and it sends it home like a stake through your little vampire heart, and you wake up, and you're free because you say, how in the world could I stay angry at this person when my master has forgiven me so much more than I could ever forgive this person for? How can I do that? At that point, the kingdom is penetrating you. You're willing to go to the word. You're willing to start to obey. The Spirit of God makes it real to you, and you've just had a kingdom penetration experience, and you begin to experience some blossoming where there was decay. The word and the spirit. But that's a small version. What about a large version? What does it mean, for example, to bring a savings and a loan under the Lordship of Christ, under the power of the word and the spirit? There's a man in a somewhat, it used to be a nasty area of Pittsburgh that runs a savings and loan. And what he just decided to do is make low interest loans to poor people in that area so they can rehabilitate their houses, renovate their houses, own their own houses. Now, ordinarily, banks and savings and loan don't do that kind of thing poor people are bad risks. What they do is they're able to do that. And a lot of their loans don't come back. They're able to afford that because the executives there are Christians. They decide not to make as much money as the executives other banks do. Secondly, they work a great deal with the people. They do financial counseling. They put a lot of staff time into making sure the people who are getting the loans are getting a lot of support. And as a result, that particular savings and Loan. It's called, just in case you're interested in it, it's called Dwelling House Savings and Loan Association on a quarter in the Hill District in the inner city area of Pittsburgh. That Savings and Loan is growing. It's getting more and more assets. It's actually taking a very poor neighborhood and building it up. What did they do? They decided we can bring healing, a different kind of healing, because you see poverty and oppression and injustice is also an alienation that comes from sin. Just like your poor little hurt psyche because you can't forgive your mother, that's an area where the kingdom needs to be penetrated. But so does a neighborhood that's blighted by sin. People sinning against one another. Poor people ripping off rich people, which is a sin. And as a result, the neighborhood goes down. One man comes on in and says, He says, I am going to restore, partially at least, the kingdom of God in this place. I'm going to bring the word and the spirit here. I'm going to, as much as I possibly can, bring this institution under the lordship of Christ. And I expect to see some restoration. Not total healing, because that won't happen until the kingdom of God comes back totally in the end. But partial healing. Because the kingdom of God is present. With the word and the spirit. Are you getting the picture? that when you receive Christ as Savior and Lord, that's the beginning of kingdom penetration. But that's the beginning. Jesus says to Nicodemus in John 3.3, You must be born again to receive, to enter the kingdom of God. So it's just a gateway. A lot of Christians say, I'm born again. I'm going to get everybody else born again. And that's very, very important. Extremely important. That is one of the ways, maybe the main way the kingdom of God spreads. But that's not the only way. Kingdom penetration goes way beyond that. Your psychological problems, your social problems, your economic problems, even your physical problems are all the results of sin. And even though we're never going to get rid of all our physical problems before Jesus comes back, we're going to die. Nevertheless, this might be interesting to you, you can get life insurance very cheap through Presbyterian Ministers Fund. Do you know why? They only insure full-time ministers. Now, I don't believe that even maybe the majority of all the ministers or the majority of all the Christian workers that they insure are real believers. I don't believe that. On the other hand, isn't this weird? Most ministers tend in general to be more moral and live more according to the Ten Commandments than probably your average group of people. As a result of that, they can give you wonderful rates because a group of people like that live a heck of a lot longer, health problems, just by simply being more moral and more obedient, the statistics are wonderful for that group of people. And they can give you wonderful rates if you happen to be a minister. There's even, you see, a physical, there's even a physical effect to bringing yourself under the lordship of Jesus Christ. Everything, any heart, any community, any hurt, any relationship, any marriage, any family, to the degree you're brought in underneath his rule, the decay is partially but substantially stopped. Okay? Now listen, let me just, I need to conclude at this point. There's other things on there. You can look up the scriptures. You can read them. When we take a look next week, we're going to look at the prayer right before Ephesians 3, right before Ephesians 4, and we're going to get into looking at what it means to let Jesus Christ life. But let me just, let me start, stop with just two questions. Question number one. Jesus Christ is Lord of the cosmos. Everything comes together when he's Lord. There's only two things your life can be. It can either be a cosmos or a chaos. If Jesus is the Lord of your life and he's the center of your life, if you're obeying him, if you are giving yourself to him, if you are relying on him, if you're treating him as a king, you will see the chaotic part of your life becoming more and more cosmic and less chaotic. Is that happening to you? Some people say, well, if I give my life to him utterly, he might ask me to do things that I might not do. Of course he was going to ask you to do things you don't want to do. What do you think you need a Lord for? Abraham didn't want to sacrifice Isaac. Moses didn't want to go to Pharaoh. Jesus didn't want to go to the cross. And there's going to be a lot of things in your life that if you give yourself to the Lord, he's going to ask you to do that you don't want to do. But he's not safe, but he's good. The people who give themselves to him will spend the rest of their lives praising that he made them do everything he made them do. He's not necessarily safe, but he's good. Give yourself to him, all right? That's the only question to ask. Is your life a cosmos or a chaos? Give yourself to him. Let's pray. Our Father, all we ask now is that you would grant that your kingdom would penetrate our lives and through us would penetrate our city. We thank you for the examples. We thank you for the greatness of your kingdom. We pray that your kingdom would penetrate us like the yeast and turn us into your likeness. We pray that through us, your kingdom would penetrate the poor communities. That it would penetrate the poor parts of our lives and hearts. It would heal us. Lord Jesus, come soon. We give ourselves to you and we ask that you grant these things in your own Son's name. Oh, Father. Amen.
