By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, their starry host by the breath of his mouth. He gathers the waters of the sea into jars, he puts the deep into storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the people of the world revere him, for he spoke and it came to be.

He commanded and it stood firm.

The Lord foils the plans of the nations, he thwarts the purposes of the peoples, The plans of the Lord stand firm forever, his purposes of his heart through all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people he chose for his inheritance. From heaven, the Lord looks down and sees all mankind. From his dwelling place, he watches all who live on earth. He who forms the hearts of all, who considers everything they do. No king is saved by the size of his army. me. No warrior escapes by his great strength. A horse is a vain hope for deliverance, despite all its great strength that cannot save. The eyes of the Lord are on those who fear him, on those whose hope is to deliver them from death and keep them alive in famine. We wait in hope for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. In him our hearts rejoice, for we trust in his holy name. May your unfailing love rests upon us, O Lord, even as we put our hope in you. This is God's word.

Before I moved to New York, I found an article by John Lindsay, the former mayor of New York. And in it he said, New York competes with other cities for the title of various capitals of the world. York competes with LA for the title of media capital, and competes with London for the title of theater capital, and competes with Tokyo for the title of financial capital. But he says, in one area, there's no real competition. He says, New York is the power capital. He says, people come to New York because either they have power or they want on it. One dictionary definition of power was, power is the ability to act. And a magazine article said, the one thing you find about New York is, you don't come to New York to think. You don't come to New York to reflect. You don't come to New York to relate. You have to leave to think and reflect and relate. You come to New York to act. You come to New come to New York for power. Yes, for the possibility of professional success or making money or becoming sophisticated or getting into some inner ring, but it's all about power. Here we're told about a power that makes all of New York look like a pop gun. By a word, his breath, he made the stars. He puts all the oceans in a jar. He puts all the oceans in a jar on his kitchen counter. Fear the Lord, reverence him. This passage is all about a power and majesty that unless you grasp it, you will not have the proper perspective on anything else, any other kind of power. Unless you understand his power, you will either give too little or you will ascribe too little or too much power to other things. This text tells us there is a power that belongs to God and there's a power that belongs to us. There's a power and majesty that belongs to God and there's a power and majesty that belongs to us. Here's what they are. First, there's a power and majesty that belongs to God that's depicted here and that is here for us to grasp. It's an absolute power.

power. You notice it says, he spoke and it came to be. The plans of the Lord stand firm forever. One dictionary definition of power said this, power is the ability to act one's intentions into being. Think of that. Power is the ability to act one's intentions into being. That means if a person wants to build a house and can build it, that person has more power than a person who wants to build a house and cannot. Make sense?

We all experience a disparity between what we want and what is. What we want to happen and what we can affect and bring into reality. Every one of us has a disparity. And some of our intentions and desires we can affect, some we cannot. And the smaller that disparity between your intentions and your ability to act, the greater the power. The smaller the disparity, the greater the power. God's power, though, is absolute. Because we're told here, he is the one being about whom it can be said, there is no disparity between what he wants and what he can do. There is no disparity between his desires and his actions, between his intentions and his plans. You see that? He speaks, and it is. Not just that. He intends, and it is. There's a great book written 300 years ago called The Existence and Attributes of God by a man named Stephen Sharnock. And in it he says, The key word is what? Whatsoever. In Daniel chapter 4 it says, God is in heaven. He does whatsoever pleases him. him. No one can stay his hand or say, what doest thou? Daniel chapter 4. Whatsoever you have absolute power, your power, the amount of power you have has to do with the disparity between what you want and what you can affect. God, there's no disparity. He has total power. And as a result of that, his power is inescapable. Inescapable. It says in verse 11 that his plans stand firm, and therefore it says in verse 10, he foils the plans of the nations. He thwarts the purposes of the peoples. Now, what we mean by inescapable, this man I just quoted a minute ago, he says it perfectly. Stephen Charnock, he says this, as the holiness of God is the beauty of his attributes, His power is the effective realizing of His attributes. Now I'm going to listen carefully. As His holiness is the beauty of His attributes, that's another sermon, remember? So His power is the effective realizing of His attributes. Without His power, His mercy would be but feeble pity, His promises but lovely sentiments, His threatenings a mere scarecrow. God's power is infinite, eternal, incomprehensible. It can neither be checked, restrained, nor limited. His power is the effective realizing of his attributes. There is nothing more practical to you right now. The word realize means to make real. You realize something, the reality of it strikes you. It becomes real to you. That's what it means to realize. I never realized that you were that strong. means he just split your lip with his fist. I never realized you're that strong. Now your reality, I've had a connection. The reality of your fist, the reality of your strength has become real to me. I realize means it's real. The effective realization of his attributes means that God's absolute power determines that every one of his attributes and qualities will be the ruling and reigning reality of the universe. universe. Example, truth. God's a God of truth, not of deception, not of lie. Truth. Now, what does that mean to you and me? It means this. If you lie, because God is not just a God of truth, but a God of power, his power is that by which all of his attributes become ruling realities in the universe, it means if you lie, you are on a collision course with the very fabric of the universe. see how practical this is example two examples three examples here they come you eat something that's very bad for you very fatty how does it feel great for a while but it's because your feelings and your appetites are out of accord with the reality of the fabric of your body as you follow your feelings, and follow your desires, you're on a collision course with the reality, the reigning reality of your body, which is that you can't eat that. You recognize this? In the same way, if you lie, if you cheat, if you deceive, if you misrepresent, how does it feel? Usually, better than if you were honest. All sorts of problems sometimes if you're honest, but you are on a collision course with truth. is the reigning reality. If you're impure, his purity. If you're false, his truth. It's something you're on a collision course with. It means that your character begins to erode. It means there's consequences right now to anyone who lies and deceives. We won't go through it right now. But eventually it means you stand before the judgment seat, the judgment throne of the universe. You cannot avoid it. You may want to deceive. You may hate the truth. the truth, not because there's some kind of abstract thing about the universe that, you know, that good will triumph in some general way. No, because of God's power, which means that his truth and his holiness and his righteousness and his purity and everything that is true of him, all of his attributes are the reigning realities.

Do you get it? Today we have a lot of trouble getting that. After a sermon once somebody said to me, Well, if you believe in God, then for God, for you God is real. But I don't feel a need for God, so for me there is no God. For you, you feel a need, and therefore for you there is a God.

Imagine running into a building that you saw was on fire, and you saw a man sitting there, and you said, Fire! Well, if it's hot for you, then for you there's a fire here. but it's not hot for me and I don't for me therefore there's no fire what would you say? You'd have to say dear friend the fire is real it is more real and therefore it has more power than your feelings and than your sensations you are in a collision course with the fabric of this house

when we say God has power we mean God is the living God it means that God alone is real and only if you are with God, for God, and in God will you be real. Only to the degree that you are, are you real. Otherwise you're ephemeral, otherwise you are temporary, otherwise you're an illusion. This is a God who puts the oceans in the bottle, it says in verse 7. This is a God who created the universe so that megabillion distances between stars. What kind of power would it take to create something like that? All I'm saying is, if there's a God who's created the universe, wake up to the magnitude of his power. To the inescapability of his power. To the comprehensiveness of his power. To the irresistibility of his power. To the absoluteness of his power.

There's a power that belongs to God. But now, secondly, we're told here, there's a power.

And only as you understand God's power will you understand true human power and human greatness. In this text, we're told that there actually are two approaches to human power. In verse 16, 17, it says, A king is not saved by the size of his army. A warrior is not saved by the strength of his arm. but those who hope in the Lord in his unfailing love, he is their shield. That is a clear contrast and a very, very strong statement. It's saying on the one hand, there is a sense in which people, on the one hand, there's a way in which people seek power that will not save them. And there's another way to seek power that is good. You know, because God's a God of power, and we're made in his image, it is natural and right for us to aspire to power. We want to have impact on our world. We want to count. We don't want to think that we're just another life, just a statistic, that we are just a wave upon the sand. That's natural and right. We were created by a man, a God of power, and therefore we are also reaching after power. but there's two ways to go. You can have faith in the size of your army, in the strength of your arm, but that will not lead you home. It says. It will not save you. Or, you can have faith in God's unfailing love, and you get... Who needs a shield? Cowards don't need shields. Wimps don't need shields. Shields are for people who take on things. Big things. Shields are for people with courage. Shields are for people who fight. Being a Christian and eschewing the normal human will to power, and putting your hope in God's unfailing love creates a different and a new kind of power, the Bible says. A clean and godly kind of power. Let's just contrast those for the remainder of our time. On the one hand, a king is not saved by the size of his army. A warrior is not saved by the strength of his arm. The Bible tells us that all human beings, because of sin, was originally good, but has now run amok.

In the Garden of Eden, it's pretty easy to see that we are related to Adam and Eve. God comes and says, I'm going to give you paradise. Paradise. Minus one. See, they didn't get paradise. They got paradise minus one. You may have everything here. You may touch everything. You may eat of everything. You may enjoy everything. you must not eat of that one tree.

And, you know, the reason I know Adam and Eve are related to me was just as it turned out, that one tree was the one thing they couldn't do without. The one thing God said no, that's the one thing that galled them. They had to have that tree and they ate of that tree. And you know what? The issue was not the tree. The issue was power.

They didn't need a tree. We wanted power. In other words, the issue was, does God's say or my say? Does God's will or my will, does God's word or my desires

define the ruling reality of the world and the universe? See, there is no disparity between what God wants and what he can have. There is a disparity between what we want and we can have. And we hate that. The ultimate problem that all of us have is we want what God alone has and can have. No disparity between what he wants and what he can affect. We want the absolute power. Therefore, in the Bible, you have not understood the message of the scripture unless you understand that sin is not just falling short of this or that standard. always, always a power play against God.

That at root, when we get mad at God, which happens often, when we get frustrated and upset with ourselves, it's not the job. It's not the career. It's not the money. It's not the sickness. It's not the relationship. It's not the thing that we're so upset about. Underneath it's power. Who really has the power over my world? final say? See, who has the effect of realizing of their attributes, God or me? Underneath, Friedrich Nietzsche believed, underneath everything, the German philosopher saw underneath everything that we do, the ultimate drive, he said, was the will to power. He says underneath artistic endeavor, underneath professional endeavor, underneath sexual endeavor, even underneath religious endeavor, he says ultimately what you're after is power. And biblically, unless the Holy Spirit changes your heart, he's right. Because deep in the heart is the original lie that came in and was embedded in our heart during the garden, at the Garden of Eden, and has never ever left us. And that lie is this. I cannot be happy unless I have the power of the Creator. I cannot be happy. If it's, I have Paradise. Even Paradise, minus one. The minus one is not the problem. It's the lack of power. I gotta have what he has. If I don't have power, I cannot be happy. And as long as that is embedded in there, Nietzsche is right. Underneath everything. The marriage problems are power problems. The work problems are power problems. The relationship are power problems. Now, In some people, it's easy to see. You look at some people and it's just written all over them. And everybody despises them because in every group, they have to be the one that everyone revolves around. Either they do all the talking or they find ways of making sure everybody talks about them. In every relationship, it centers on them. In every organization, they've got to be in charge one way or the other. They suck up to... You look at those people and you say, I know what that person's problem is. If we're reading the Bible correctly, they just are more obvious, more crass.

They're more crass about it, and yet every one of us underneath it all is ravenously insecure and desirous of power. the reason we hide it from ourselves for such a long time is because we live under the illusion that we really do have a pretty good amount of control of our lives i believe that this is something that is especially an illusion of the young you see you're you're raised up on books that say if you think it and if you work hard enough for your own reality if you want enough, if you discipline yourself, you can do anything. We're raised on books like that. They're all over the place. Not only that, but you see, if you can win the early games of life, which aren't that hard, like the grades game, and the dating game, and the physique game, and the money game, in the early stages of life, if you win some of those games, you can really hide from yourself just how ravenously insecure you are about power because you think you're in control. The other day I heard about some, there was some quarterback of a nationally ranked college football team that has won three very close games. They got great breaks, you know, the ball just happened to bounce in the right direction. They fumbled, but they recovered their own fumble, things like that. And somebody said, boy, you've had a lot of breaks these three weeks. And I heard him on the radio say, well, if you play hard, you make your own breaks.

Assumption. The other team didn't play as hard. maybe not, but not necessarily. The other team may have played their hearts out. The other team may have put everything into it, and yet they just fail. Why? Because you're not in control. Dear friends, as time goes on, if you don't find out in your job, you'll find out in your relationships. And if you don't find out in your relationships, you'll find out by your children. And if you don't find out by your children, eventually you'll find out through your body. You're not in control. You are dependent on power that transcends you. You do not have control. The things that you have in your life were given to you. They can be taken away like that.

And it's only as time goes on that we begin to realize that, that our anger and our insecurity and our total power grubbiness becomes obvious to us. You know why?

Imagine that though you're not a state trooper, you have dressed yourself up as a state trooper. You've put on the uniform. You've got the car. And of course, think of the power you have in that small town in South Carolina where everybody thinks you're a state trooper. A tremendous amount of power. And you're very happy about that. Nobody gives you a ticket. You drive as fast as you want. So you have all this power. You're always going to be a little nervous, aren't you? Just a bit. until one day you actually see a real estate trooper. Suddenly, the existence of that real estate trooper threatens you. He gets closer. He's going to come up. He's starting to ask you a question. And what happens, of course, is you get more and more traumatized, more and more upset, more and more radically insecure. And the illegality and the fictional nature, and you might say the smuggled hijacked nature of your power and authority, becomes obvious and it falls apart. Now, friends, as you get older, the universe gets closer and God gets closer and you begin to realize that the fiction on which you've based your life, and that is that I don't really need God or I don't need to submit to him totally because if I work hard enough, and if I'm smart enough, and if I'm wise enough, and if I'm skillful enough, I really can take charge here. I really have the power.

The fiction of that becomes obvious. It closes in on you. Eventually you will see that underneath everything, you're tremendously insecure, you're tremendously afraid, you need power, you want power. power. When something major happens and something that you thought you have to have is taken away from you, or something you thought you have to have is never given to you, why do you see the tidal wave of anger and terror at the thought that there is somebody who's got absolute power over me? Even if you don't believe in God and you're just sort of mad at the universe in a sense, you'll see this tremendous lust after power. Nietzsche was right. The will to power is the main drive. But it does not save. Even if you get a modicum of it, a king is not saved by the power, the size of his army. You know, the well-known author John Cheever has a great little quote. The well-known author John Cheever says, the main emotion of the adult American who has had all the advantages of wealth, education, and culture is disappointment. The main emotion of the American adult is disappointment. I read recently a very, very interesting article about a big meeting that happened in 1923. It was a meeting at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, which seven men came together to talk about the future of America. And because of the situation of the time, and it never happened before, it will never happen again, these seven men were so wealthy that they had personally, amongst the seven of them, more money than the entire United States Treasury. Wealth at that time in history and power at that time in history had become that focused and concentrated in a few. The story, the article I read said what was interesting was within 15 years three of those men had committed suicide two of those men were in prison, two others were about to die broke and penniless virtually a king is not saved by the size of his army getting power grabbing power does not save instead it says here those hope in your unfailing love, you are a shield for them. Let me explain the difference. There's a power that comes from grabbing power from God, from saying, I want control of my life. And there's a power that comes through ascribing power to God, submitting to it, admitting it, rejoicing in it, praising him for it. There's a power that comes from grabbing power from God and there's a power that comes from ascribing and giving power to God. The first kind actually makes you more and more afraid as life goes on. The second kind makes you less and less afraid as life goes on. It says, if you want a perfect illustration of it, if you want a perfect statement of it, it says in 2 Timothy, where Paul says, God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power. What's that mean?

Be afraid or have power. Think of it this way.

What is a coward? A coward is somebody who, when there's a crisis, suddenly thinks about him or herself. you're absorbed in your own needs, and you can't do the brave thing. Because the brave thing always means put someone or something else ahead of yourself. How do you develop power the way the Bible talks about power? The Bible doesn't talk about power in terms of accumulated wealth or accumulated influence over other people. The Bible talks about power as courage and vision.

able to empty a shopping mall, the money changers, you see, just with his indignation. Look at Moses going into Pharaoh, the greatest, most powerful human being on the face of the earth, and demanding his entire free labor force on which he built a civilization. Look at Esther, who knows that if she goes in and asks for an audience with the king, uninvited, in order to argue with him and try to save her. The danger is to do that. Look at Esther who says, if I perish, I perish. Where do those people get that kind of power? That's power.

If you have all the money in the world, and you're a coward, the Bible says, you've got no power at all.

How do you get power like that? How do you get courage? In tiny, daily, little choices. excuses. Humility takes courage. To admit why you really were late takes courage. To admit how upset you really were. Honesty takes courage. How easy it would be to say, the shipment will be there on Monday when you know it's not even going out until Wednesday. In dozens of situations every day, you can either choose to be self-forgetful or self-centered. You can either choose power or fear. You can either choose to give God power and obey him, or get power and disobey him. You see, when you know that to tell the truth is going to make you lose face, but you know what God demands, what can you do at that point? You can either do the courageous thing or the easy thing. either do the powerful thing or the fearful thing. You can either give God power or grab his power away from him and say, no, my desires right now are the things that are going to be the ruling reality in my life. And you know what that does to you? Every day that you honor him and give him power, I mean, every time, every single time it creates in you power, courage, vision, I will never yet. I am completely haunted by an interview I once read in a magazine about a man who was in jail for years and years because he had killed a youngster. And he'd run away. He'd killed a youngster with his car in an accident, a complete accident. But he had left the scene of the crime and hit and run. And in that interview, he simply said, for years and years and years, I always learned how to do the selfish thing and the easy thing rather than the right thing. I learned how to cheat on my taxes. I learned how to deceive people. I learned how to always, in other words, he didn't use these words, like every little opportunity I had either to give God power or grab power from God and be my own God, I always went the selfish way. And at the moment that I had to do something courageous, at the moment I had to do something right, I couldn't do it. In other words, his heart and his character was like a hidden termite colony inside the beam supporting the floor. And from the outside, everything looked fine. But one day, there was a weight put on it and a test put on it, and it crumpled. Do you want to develop power? Then you give God power rather than grabbing it from him. And if you give God power, your slowly subsides. You know why? And here's the final thing we have to say. The text says, God becomes your shield. You get a joy if you trust in his unfailing love. Here's a hermeneutical principle. Here's an interpretive principle. If you want to understand the Old Testament, here it goes. The word unfailing love is a special word that means God's covenant love. And what it really means, whenever you see, we trust in your unfailing love, love, whenever you see that in the Old Testament, they are saying, we trust in the gospel. You know what the gospel is? The gospel is a message of the Bible that says that while men and women have put themselves in God's place and try to take prerogatives that only God deserves, God in his infinite love has put himself in our place and taken upon himself that which only we deserve. We tried to be God, and we have failed. God sought to become human, and he succeeded. He became human. He was incarnated. He was born here. He was Jesus Christ. And he died on the cross to pay the penalty for our power grabbing. And I will tell you what it really means to become a Christian. A Christian is not just somebody who says, Oh, how I wish I could be a better person. I'm a sinner. Maybe Jesus will forgive me in some way. A Christian is somebody who begins to realize that the root of all his or her problems has been your power grabbing against God for years.

A Christian is somebody who looks into the heart of God through the gospel. The gospel is that he died for you, that he's committed to you, that he puts his life on the line. He's cut off from the land of the living we saw last week. That's his unfailing love. A Christian looks into the heart of God through that and realizes that all of your life, you really have expected that he's an enemy. You really expected that he has got his power over you in order to make you miserable. You really believe that all on. And in the gospel, you look into the heart of God expecting to see the frown of an enemy and instead you see the tears and the smiles of a friend and you can't believe it. And you say, is it possible that I have treated you I have treated you all these years this way? And at that minute, you find that you can finally say, I want to give you the power over me. And when you give him power, how ironic. You'll find in marriage that when you're finally willing to become a servant instead of a ruler, you start to rule. Well, not exactly, but you get everything you wanted if you're both doing that. You see, away power in a relationship, you get it. As you give, you know, one of the most interesting things, I had a talk with a number of ministers not long ago about it, and we said, in all of our history, some of us have been pastors for 20 years, so you've always got people in churches who are upset about the fact that they're not being respected, that no one is listening to them, that people are not giving them honor, that people are not following their lead, that nobody listens to what they say. Now, you see, don't you see what that is? Can't you see? It's the insecurity. It's the sin that says, I've got to have power. And the irony, I remember talking to my pastor friends about this. The irony was, it was the people in the church who were not after the power. The people in the church who weren't afraid of failure, weren't afraid of repentance, were not defensive, were not after it, that the power flowed to. They were the people that people, they're the people who came, who were sought after. Jesus understood that because in the wilderness, Satan came and said, don't go die on the cross. I can give you the power directly. Here are all the kingdoms of the world. You see, Jesus, you can get power by grabbing it. And what did Jesus say? It is written. thou shalt serve the Lord thy God and him alone shalt thou serve what Jesus said is I am going to get power godly power the way it's meant to come I am going to give him I am going to submit to him I am going to give him power and look at what a great heart he became no matter who you are here today Christian friends look at his power I say this to you Is there a trouble in your life? Is there someone or something looming over you that you're afraid of? This is a God of power. His promises are not mere pity. His mercy is not mere sentiment. This is a God of power. Look at his arm, you see. You're not saved by the size of your army. Hope in his unfailing love. It doesn't matter what you're afraid of. and maybe there's some people here who really don't know where they stand when it comes to Christ you're not sure if you're a Christian or not or maybe you're sure you're not would you please treat him with some respect would you recognize today

that the power that you're using to disobey him to complain against him and to question him is power that he gave you That everything you have today has been hijacked from him. That your mind and your will and your intelligence and all your accomplishments have been gifts from him.

That you are in his hand, even as the oceans are in his hand. You do not have a voice that can thunder like his voice. You do not have an arm as strong as his arm. I say to you, if there is a God who created the universe, you cannot trifle with him. You can't ask somebody like that into your life To be your assistant or your secretary Or your consultant or even a partner The only way to receive The power That in your heart of hearts You were created for as a human being Is to give him the power And ascribe to him the power That in your heart of hearts you know he deserves Let's pray Our father we thank you That you're a God who we can rely on. We thank you that you're a God of unfailing love. And therefore, Father, if it's true that your power makes ruling realities in the universe, we thank you that not only is your truth something that will triumph, but so is your love. Oh Lord, let the loving power and the powerful love of your heart have its way in us now. And I pray for those of us who are here, though we're Christians, we've been taking cowardly paths lately, and we've been turning ourselves into cowards, and we've been losing power because we have been thinking of ourselves and we have been giving in to that power lust. I pray that you bring us back onto the proper path so we might grow and might not have a spirit of fear anymore, self-control. And Father, if there's anyone here who has not bowed the knee to you at all and has never even looked at you as the powerful God that you reveal yourself to be in this text, may they realize you. May they realize who they are. As your son, in whose name we pray. Amen.
