The scripture is 1st John chapter 2 verse 1 to 6 on which the teaching is to be based and it's in your bulletin. 1st John chapter 2 verses 1 to 6.

My dear children, I write this to you so that you will not sin, but if anybody does sin, sin. We have one who speaks to the Father in our defense, Jesus Christ the righteous one. He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the whole world. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But if anyone one obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus walked. This is God's word.

We're going to be starting a series, a new series, in these services for the next two or three months on the Ten Commandments. Now, if you remember, we had a series on the Ten Commandments when the church first started. It was the very first morning sermon series. It was about five years ago almost now. It was when we had 140 people coming to church, and now we have more than 140 people coming just to the four o'clock service. And so it was, you see, since we just spent time studying the cross of Christ and the resurrection of Christ as we have just celebrated Easter, it's always valid after thinking about the cross and thinking about the resurrection and thinking about what Jesus has done for us to ask, how should we then live? How should we live then? And the answer is to go and look at the guidelines that God has given us in His Word. Specifically, we're going to be looking in more detail than we did the last time. looking at each commandment with more, spending a little more time on it, we look at the law of God, the commandments of God. Now, today I want to introduce the whole series by talking about, then, the whole idea of obedience. Every religion gives you a set of standards to obey, but if we want to understand the Ten Commandments, we have to understand the very nature of obedience, how it fits into the Christian schema, how we have to get a Christian perspective on obedience, what it is. Now, there's some claims for obedience in this passage that are astonishing. Some years ago, there was a famous Time magazine interview with Eugene O'Neill, the great playwright, and he was at the height of his career. I mean, he's, you know, he's reached the pinnacle of the profession. And in that famous interview, he said at one point, if I got any real spiritual satisfaction out of success in the theater, it might compensate, but I don't. Success is as flat, spiritually speaking, as failure. failure. Now, think of the ramifications of that. If Eugene O'Neill, who has achieved more fame, more fortune, and more success than hardly, well, he's only a very small, small, tiny percentage of people have achieved what he's achieved. If he says that what he's achieved is absolutely as flat spiritually as failure. What does that say? Put it this way. If I told you that there was a bucket, and if you poured all of the Atlantic Ocean into that bucket, it wouldn't even cover quite the bottom of the bucket with water, what would you say? You would say, that's a very, very big bucket. And if you see, because it's not just Eugene O'Neill who says this. You can go into the biographies of all kinds of successful people. If Eugene O'Neill says that the success of that degree, success of that magnitude, when I pour it into my soul, it doesn't even cover the bottom. It's as flat as failure. What is the human soul built for then? It must be a very great thing, see? It must be a very great thing. And you have to ask yourself, what in the world will complete it. If that won't complete it, if that kind of success won't complete it, almost all the rest of us, almost all of us experience tremendous frustration. We never can realize our goals. We can never realize our dreams. We can never be as successful as we'd like to be. We can never be as good at what we're trying to do as we'd like to be. We can never be as recognized as we'd like to be. Here's a man who's gotten all the way to the top, and he says, it's flat. What in the world can complete the human soul then? And you know what the answer is? It's here. Verse 5 says, what? It says, you obey. If anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly complete. Obedience will complete you. Obedience is the thing. Obedience will fill the bucket of the great human heart. Now, some people say, obedience? Obedience? You know, most of us are going to say, obedience just makes me feel terrible. Obedience just swamps me. The Ten Commandments I've tried, says somebody, the Ten Commandments. I've tried them at various times in my life, and all they do is swamp me. They just make me feel worse. And so we have to ask ourselves, what in the world is John talking about? What is the nature of obedience? What is What does it do? Well, how do we understand it? So let's take a look. This passage tells us all about obedience. First, let's notice the biblical call to obedience. That's the first thing, the call to obedience. We are called to have a spirit of obedience. It mentions it again and again. If you obey his commands, if you obey his word, if you walk as Jesus walked. Now, Now, for a moment, because we're modern people, the very concept of obedience is unfamiliar to us. So what is it? What is obedience? Let's define it. Obedience is the same thing as discipline. Obedience is a willingness to have your will crossed.

Obedience is a willingness to have your will crossed. Now, let me give you some example. Let which modern people at least understand discipline and obedience, and that is physical discipline. In the realm of physical discipline, we understand discipline, obedience. In the physical realm is willingness to have your will crossed. For example, in physical discipline, there are certain things that you want to do. That's your will. Things that feel absolutely right. For example, if you want to have physical discipline, you sort of semi-wake up in the morning and it feels to stay in bed. It feels right. Everything about you, everything about your intellect, your emotions, it just feels absolutely like what you will, what you want, what is right for you at this moment is to stay in bed. But if you have exercise…if you are under physical discipline, what do you do? You cross your physical will and you say, no, I will arise. I will exercise. I will swim. I will jog. I will bicycle. What are you doing? You're crossing your will. You feel absolutely the right thing is to stay in bed, but you don't. Or another aspect of physical discipline. In front of you, you can see it. You can smell it, this great plate of food. And everything that you feel at the moment says, this is the right thing for me at the time. You say, I feel that this is right. I want to eat this plate of food. I want it. But if you're under physical discipline, you say, no, I will cross my will. I cannot eat this food. This is not good food for me, and therefore I won't. Instead, I will go to the salad bar and chew all of the salad dressings and eat nothing but alfalfa sprouts and garbanzo beans. And, well, what are you doing? there are things that you want that feel right, but you know that way leads on to death. There are ways that feel right to you, but you are willing to have your will crossed. Now, by who? Almost always. Now, this is what's so strange about it. If you're really serious about physical discipline, there's some person that you sort of put over you, and you go and you work out under him or her, and this person is there saying, one more time around the track, one more curl, girl, one more. Now, usually, astonishingly enough, you actually sometimes pay this person to do this to you. And this person often has a body that you would like to have. Because you know that freedom, physical freedom, comes from crossing your will. Physical freedom comes by finding the right restrictions. Freedom is not the lack of restrictions. Freedom is knowing the right restrictions, setting boundaries, saying no to yourself at particular times. And that will give you good physique. That will give you stamina. That will give you strength. That will give you physical freedom. Only by crossing what your body wants will you ever have freedom in the physical area. And so what is physical discipline? It's a willingness to say no to what the physique, seek what the physical wants. It's a willingness to have your will crossed. That's obedience. Ah, but now let's get to the moral realm. And here modern people have a tremendous problem. They understand physical discipline, but they have no understanding of moral discipline at all. When I got to New York and I tried to figure out what people really believed, I mean, people went to church, some of them. And yet to find out what people really believed, worldviews that were vying in New York for ascendancy, and they looked like completely different things. On the one hand, I guess you'd call it the old-fashioned scientific secularism that said there is no supernatural, there is no God, there are no miracles. And on the other hand, you had a kind of, I guess I'll call it a sort of a New Ageism, not secular scientism, but New Ageism, a kind of view that seems like the opposite, because the New Age derivatives, there's just hundreds and thousands of varieties on this, but the New Age derivatives all say the opposite. They say everything is God. You know, not there is no God. Everything is God. We're all part of God. Everything is supernatural. You can project out of your body. You can understand other people's thoughts. We can have miracles every day. It seems like the opposite, does it not? You tap into God. You tap into the creative reality that you are part of. And yet, I came to realize one thing that they both had in common, absolutely in common, and it's why they're so popular. In both cases, there's only one real sin. The sin is not finding out what you most want to do, what feels right for you, and doing it. As different as they look, they have no concept of moral discipline. There is no place in either worldview where you say, I am willing to have my moral will crossed. Remember, I said in the physical realm, you want to stay in bed, but you say no. It feels right to stay in bed, but you say no. It feels right to eat this food, but you say no. However, in the moral realm, modern people say only you can decide what is right and wrong for you. You have to find out what you want, what is right for you, and do it. In which case, there is no ability to have any moral discipline at all.

Why? Because there is no standard above you that can cross your will. There is nothing that you give the right to cross your will. You yourself are your own author. You alone know what's right for you. Now, do you know if you apply that to the physical realm, you'd die a young age.

And yet we apply it to the moral realm. you're scientistic or New Ageistic. That's the modern idea. No one has the right to say to me what is right or wrong for me, in which case there is no moral discipline. And as a result, there won't be any freedom. Look, in the physical realm, we know what makes a fish free is not that a fish is not free when it's beached, but when it's in the water. A canoe is free when it's in the rapids, a big… whereas a great big ocean liner is not free if it's in the rapids. You see, it's got to be out in the deep water. In the physical realm, we know that real freedom always comes from honoring the right restrictions, honoring your design, honoring what you're built for. And that's the reason why we say no to eating certain things, and we say no to staying in bed, and we say no to all these things. things. Doesn't it make sense that in the moral realm there would be some hard truth that we need to submit to? Unless you're an accident, you're created by someone who knows what you're built for, and therefore moral discipline, the Bible says, is the willingness to have God cross your will. Moral discipline, obedience, is the willingness to say, God, this feels like it's right for me. You say it's wrong. I will let you cross my will. I don't see any reason why this is wrong. I don't feel that it's wrong, but it must be because you say so, and therefore, you can cross my will. That's obedience. My dear friends, agreement is not obedience. I talk about this to my kids all the time. My kids are very modern kids. They look like they're… they say, say, we usually obey you. No, you usually agree with me. I say, do this, and you agree, hey, it's a good idea, and so you do it. Obedience doesn't happen until you think it's a lousy idea, and then you do it. Because obedience is the willingness to have your will crossed.

Do you understand that? Modern people do not. All the various modern worldviews have no, for moral discipline because we never go against what feels right, what we think is right, what appears right. We pay that guy with a great body, we pay that woman with a great body to stand over us and to tell us what to do in spite of what feels right, but we won't even accept a free

set of moral coaching from the Lord who comes and says, if you would like to have the spirit I have, If you would like to have the love I have, the honesty I have, if you'd like to have the nobility I have, the wisdom I have, the greatness I have, let me cross your will. But we won't.

And if you won't, God's love will never be completed in you. You will stay empty. Success will be as spiritually flat as failure. That's the first thing. That's the definition of obedience. The call to obedience. That's what you're called to be. You're called to be willing to let him cross your will. But now, let's move on. What else are we told here? This is very important. Frankly, every religion does this. Every religion gives you a set of standards, says God says this, now obey. But Christian obedience is still different. Let's move on. Then the second thing we learn besides the call to obedience, we learn the reason for obedience. Now, the reason for obedience is relationship. You know, look carefully. Obedience is not the end. Obedience is the means to an end. Look at both verse 4 and 5. In verse 4 it says, why are we so concerned to obey? We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. And if anyone obeys his Word, God's love is complete in Him. Obedience is a means to an end. It's not an end in itself. And the goal of obedience, the purpose of obedience, the reason we obey is intimacy with God. Friends, there's nothing more fundamental. There's nothing more important than this. Think.

Let me give you some background. In Exodus chapter 20, what comes before Exodus chapter 20? 20, Exodus chapter 19. And Exodus chapter 20 is where the…this is why you come to church, is it not, to hear the great wisdom of the great Bible teacher. Exodus chapter 20 is where you have the Ten Commandments. But Exodus 19 is the introduction of the Ten Commandments, and it is absolutely critical. If you don't read Exodus 19, Exodus 20 could kill you. And Exodus 19 says children of Israel, before he gives them the law, he says, you have seen what I did and how I carried you on eagle's wings and brought you here to myself. Now, if you obey me fully and keep my covenant, then out of all nations, you will be my treasured possession. There. You saw what I did, how I brought you on eagle's wings. I brought you out of Egypt. I delivered you from slavery. slavery. Now, if you obey me, you will be my treasured possession. Look at the order. Look at the cause effect. It's absolutely critical. Why does he ask them to obey? I saved you, and I brought you out. Now obey why? So we can have a relationship. relationship. The text does not say, God does not say, obey me and I will bring you out. No. He says, I brought you out, now obey me. He doesn't say, if you obey all these laws, I will save you. He says, I have saved you and now obey these laws. And therefore, if the reason God gives us the law is not to save us, what is the reason? It's to turn us into someone like him, and it's to give us an intimate relationship with him. If you look carefully, you'll see what saved the children of Israel. Not their obedience to the law. God didn't even give them the law until they were saved. It was their faith in the message from Moses. Moses came and said, follow me. God's going to take us out of here. They were saved by faith. Faith saves them. Obedience perfects them and brings them to God. And you have to see that there are two utterly different approaches to obedience. And I'm going to go so far as to say every other religion says, every other religion says, here is what to obey. Obey it, and you'll be saved. And Christianity has said, Old and New Testament has said, I will save you, now you obey. Not obey and I'll save you. I save you, now obey. Put it another way. You can either say, I'm adopted, I'm accepted because I've obeyed, or I obey so I can be, you see, you can either say I'm adopted because I obey, or you can say I obey because I'm adopted. I'm accepted by God because I obey, or you can say I obey because I'm accepted. Two completely different statements, and listen, those two statements represent two completely different religions.

And they also are two different seeds deeds, which, if planted in a heart, they create two whole different kinds of human beings, two different kinds of characters. If you say, I'm accepted because I obey, and you obey under that understanding, at the very best, you'll be a smug, self-righteous person. At the very worst, you'll be broken and bitter because you can never live up. But if you say, I obey because I'm accepted, and you plant that in there, it leaves a transformation. Why? Because the purpose of obedience in the first religion is salvation. That will crush you. The purpose of obedience in the second kind of religion is relationship. This is how we know we know Him. This is how God's love is completed in you. Now, let me just… let me descend into the most concrete situation possible. Don't you know what's so frightening about being in love with somebody? Because the more you love somebody and the more intimate your relationship gets, the less you have control of your own life. You know why? It's very simple. An object, this is an object, it's impersonal. It's a thing. It makes no claims on me. It never asks me for a thing. It has no loves, it has no hates, it has no needs. And as a result, I use it any way I want. It's just a tool for me to use to reach my goals. That's an object, but a subject, not an object, but a subject, a person,

has needs, has loves, has hates, has horrors. And the more you love somebody, The more, in order to Keep on getting in and getting more Intimate, the more you have To see those needs And those loves and those hates as Obligations. Now the other person has To do it to you too That's the great thing about love But the scary thing is that you have Got to feel the Authority of love, feel the Bonds of love Obligations More and more, the deeper you get, why? Because love and obedience of the loved person, love and obedience to the will of the loved person increase together. Love, obedience, they grow together always. Why? If you want to relate to an impersonal object, you can use it without feeling any obligation. Now, you can use people as objects, and you've been used, haven't you? Don't you hate it? That's when people come to you and they want love, but they say, I got to be me. See, don't fence me in. I don't want to have, you know, I know what's right for me and I don't want to have anybody to cramp my style. It won't take long before you feel used because that person is using you like a microphone, like a shovel, like a hammer, like a screwdriver. But if you want a personal relationship, there has to be a willingness more and more, to obey the will of the other. If you do not let the will of the other cross your will, you can't keep getting closer. Now, the other person has to let your will cross them, and that's the way it goes. See, that's the way it goes in a human relationship. Well, somebody says it doesn't make much sense. Let me apply this. If you want a personal relationship with God, you've got to let his will cross your will. See? That's the reason why God said, now that I've saved you, I want to love you. I want a relationship. I want to be intimate with you. Here's my will. There is no personal relationship unless you let His will cross your will. Well, somebody says, yeah, that's okay in a human relationship, but in God, it seems all one way. It's not one way. Oh, no. Not a bit. My friends, the more you grow in your relationship with God, the more and more vulnerable you'll become, the less control you'll have over your life, the more and more you will have to obey his will and have his will crossed by yours. But the greatest Christian on the face of the earth will never be as vulnerable to God as he made himself to us. Hey, there's no problem with this deal. Let me tell you something. We're getting a bargain here. None of us will ever make ourselves as vulnerable to him as he made himself to us when he became came here and let himself be torn apart by us. He will never do to us what we did to him. Don't say that this isn't a two-way street. Ah, the purpose of obedience is relationship. The purpose of obedience, obedience is always in the Christian understanding that obedience is unto the personal, unto the relational, unto intimacy. I want his love complete in me, and that's why I obey. Not out of fear, not to get out of Egypt, but because he's taken me out of Egypt, and now he wants me to become a treasure. Do you understand that? Do you see that? And do you realize unless you let him cross your will, you can't be in a personal relationship with him at all? Don't you realize it's one of the reasons why many of us don't have personal relationships? We won't let anybody cross our will. That's hell. George MacDonald put it, the theme of hell is, I am my own. There is nothing that will make you as lonely as living on the basis of that principle. Only I can tell what is right for me. I will not be willing to let anyone cross my will. You treat everybody as objects. You will be utterly alone because you cannot have a personal relationship unless you're willing to have your lost. Now, thirdly, we've seen the call to obedience, and we've seen the reason to obedience. It's unto the personal. Thirdly, the content of obedience. Now, what I mean by that is, I think the average thoughtful person by now is saying, how do I know what God's will is? I mean, you know, if you're out on a… if you're dating somebody and you want to find out what that person's will is, you say… you find out. You ask them, what makes you happy? What makes what makes you scared? What makes you mad? Well, how do I know God's will? In order to have a personal relationship with Him, I need to know His will. How do I know? Where do I find His will? Now, this text actually, you know, tells us three different ways, and it's all the same answer, but it's very, very complete. It says, here's how you know you know Him, if you obey His commands. commands. And then down in verse 5, it says, if anyone obeys his word. And then down in verse 6, it says, whoever claims to live in him must walk as Jesus did. Now, there are three different ways of saying the same thing. His commands, his example, and his word. It's the Bible.

Now, you're lucky in a way because you're the four o'clock service, and if you want to ask cover completely downstairs in the East Lounge after the service. We have questions and answers, and some of you are going to raise some questions because I certainly can't handle all of the kinds of qualifications and objections and side issues that this raises, but I'll just say it, all right? Unless you see the Bible as God's Word, that's certainly how Jesus saw it. That's certainly how John saw it. Unless you see the Bible as the place where you can find God's will, you can't actually have a personal relationship with God. What do you mean? You say, well, let me put it to you this way. Plenty of people say, I believe in God. I believe in Jesus. I do. But I believe in much of what the Bible says, but there are many things in the Bible that, you know, you just can't believe anymore. There's things in the Bible that we just can't follow anymore. It's, you know, we realize that there's contradictions and there's some things that are primitive. So, I believe in most of the general principles of the Bible, and I believe in Jesus, and I have a personal relationship with Jesus, but I can't believe everything in the Bible. Now, let me show you what you've just done. First of all, there is nothing between the two positions I'm about to outline. When you say some things in the Bible are right and some things are wrong, the only way you can say that is if you have faith at the moment you're saying that in some other source of authority by which you can sift through the Bible. In other words, as soon as you say the Bible is only partially right and partially wrong, the only way you can say that is on the basis of faith in some authority which is completely and always right. You can't doubt everything at once. You can only doubt something from a platform of faith and something else. And here's what's going on. If you say even one verse in the Bible is not true, but the rest are, what you're actually saying, my discernment, my experience, my reason, my feelings are a more sure authority for deciding what God's will is in the Bible. So either, either, and there's no two, there's nothing in between. Even if you say there's one verse that's wrong, either your experience and your judgment can sit in evaluation of the Bible, or the Bible sits in evaluation of your judgment. Either your feelings are judged by the Bible or the Bible is judged by your feelings. Or put it another way, either your understanding is judged by the Bible or the Bible is judged by your understanding. And there's nothing in the middle. Now, I'm not going to try to prove which one is right to you right now. You certainly have the right to believe that your judgment is valid, more valid than the Bible. You know, be careful. In the 1890s, there were people who were saying, these are things that modern people can't believe anymore in the Bible, and they're very different than the 1990s, and they'll be very different than in the 2090s. But I'm not going to try to prove which is right and which is wrong. Let me just show you the implications and ramifications of what you've just done. There is never a place now where you can see a standard that can cross your moral will. Do you know what's happened to you? Now that you say, this doesn't seem right to me. Yes, the Bible says it's wrong, but I can't believe that. Yes, the Bible says this is wrong, but I can't believe that. In other words, now, if something doesn't feel right to you, and the Bible says it is right, or if something feels right, and the Bible says it's wrong, now there is no possibility of moral discipline. There is no possibility of a higher standard than your own feelings and your own experience and your own judgment. And what that means is you can't have a personal relationship with God. You're treating God like a microphone now. If it feels right to you, that must be God's will. How will you ever know a God who can say, even though it feels right, it's wrong? Because now what feels right is right.

where can you give God the same power that you give your gym coach? Your gym coach has a right to say, this feels right, but it's wrong. It feels wrong, but it's right. And now you're saying, yes, I see what the Bible says, but it feels right. So where does God say, even though it feels absolutely right, it's wrong, and even though it feels absolutely right to you, wrong to you, it's right? Where does that happen? The minute you have decided, put yourself as an authority, over the Bible so that you can pick and choose what is right and wrong. You have lost your ability to have God cross your will, and therefore you've lost your ability to treat God as a subject, and therefore you've lost your ability to have a personal relationship with him. You're just going to be vaguely guessing by looking at your own heart what he wants. You'd never know what your gym coach wants by looking at what you want. How do you think you're going to know what God wants by looking at your heart? Your heart's not always right. Now, let me tell you something. A lot of people say, now this is what we can get into maybe downstairs, but give me a minute here on it. A lot of people say, but come on. There are lots of things in the Bible that you don't believe in anymore. Look at all those strange Old Testament laws, you know, where it says you can't have flax and wool those strange Old Testament laws where it says if you eat this or if you touch a dead body, you're not allowed to, you know, come out into the temple for a number of weeks and so on. We don't believe these things anymore, so come on, how can you say the whole Bible, every part of it? Now look. Now listen. First of all, in the Old Testament, those laws were ceremonial cleanliness laws. Those laws all had to do with God trying to show the people of Israel that you cannot approach the holiness of God any old way. You have to be clean. And you see, in the New Testament, all those laws are abrogated because they're fulfilled in Christ. Now we see that we were unholy, but we've been made holy in Christ. And so all of those laws are abrogated. We don't have to follow them anymore. So the Bible tells us what to do about those laws. The laws from the Old Testament that are confirmed in the New Testament are still abiding, and the laws in the Old Testament that are shown to be fulfilled in Christ because they're ceremonial laws, they're abrogated. But here's the point I'm going to try to make. Back in those days, in the Old Testament, those people had a lot of rules that made no sense. God had said it, that's all. And just imagine, here's the Old Testament Israelites saying, okay, here's Leviticus 19.18. It says, love thy neighbor as thyself. Well, that makes sense. Yeah, I'll agree with that. I believe that. I'll obey that. But look at this thing about the wool and the flax and all these strange things you can eat and you can't eat. That makes no sense at all. And so what if that person decided, I'm only going to obey those things that make sense. I'm only going to obey those rules of God that I can see the purpose of them.

The Karate Kid remember the first movie he wants to learn to be a great karate master and so he comes to the great master Mr. Miyagi and he says show me how to be a great karate expert I want to be able to knock the blocks off of everybody I want to be a great master of karate so Mr. Miyagi says fine come tomorrow do you remember this? this is great and this tells you everything you need subject of Christian obedience at this point. Mr. Miyagi says, come tomorrow. So he shows up and he says, what are we going to do first? And he says, we're going to paint the house. He says, what do you mean we're going to paint the house? Yes. He says, take the brush in your hand, put it in and do this. Do you remember that? And he says, okay, when are we going to learn, you know, karate? He says, we paint the house. And so all that day, and maybe the next day,

doing. Back and forth. So finally, they're done with the house, and he says, Mr. Miyagi, now, when are we going to learn karate? Mr. Miyagi says, today, we're going to wax the car

like this. You put it in here. Let me see you do it. So for, you know, the car, and then the next car, and then the next car, and so for, I don't know how long, here's the karate kid doing this all day. He says, what is the matter with this karate master? I came here to learn karate. What is all this crap? He says. And then after a couple of days like that, he says, now, Mr. Miyagi, are we going to learn karate? Mr. Miyagi says, yes, today. We're going to sweep the floor, this and this, whole floor, this and this. So after days of this, the karate kid's ready to quit because the great master is giving him rule after rule after rule, telling him to obey thing after thing after thing that makes no sense. But you can tell probably already if you've seen the movie, all of those things that he was asking the karate kid to do was to learn reflexes, which he then wove in to teaching him karate. They were reflexes, you see. And after he had done this for hours and hours and days and days, and after he'd done this for hours and hours, and after this for hours and hours, the master showed how they all fit together into real karate. But if at any point the kid had said, I've had it,

he never would have discovered the great deep secrets that the master had in store for him. Those people in the Old Testament, what is God doing? He's saying, in fact, it's not just the people in the Old Testament. about the things that you know the Bible says. The Bible says it's wrong, but it feels so right. The Bible says it's wrong, but if you do it, you'll be lonely. If you do it, you may lose your job. There's so many things in the Bible that don't make sense. What is God saying? What is God doing to you? He's saying he wants the reflex of obedience. He says, unless you obey me, if you think you're so smart, quit. Unless you obey me in everything I say, you will never find out the secrets that I have in store for you. You know, at the end of the movie The Bible, Abraham is told to sacrifice his son, Isaac. And even though this isn't a line in the Bible, oh, it fits. John Houston, the director, rector puts it down, it fits. Isaac is there, and Abraham's about to sacrifice him, and he looks up and he says, Father, is there nothing he cannot ask of thee? And the father says, Abraham says, nothing. Why? He said, oh, oh, we're horrified at that. You mean, you mean that we have to do even things that looked strange and crazy like Abraham did just because God said so? You're horrified at that? Let me show you something more horrifying. When you say, no, I won't obey what the Bible says, you are saying, I'm smarter than you, God. I am wiser than you, God. I'm more loving than you, God. That's horrifying. That's astonishing.

here's how you know God's love will be completed in you. The master wants to complete his love in you. And what is he trying to say to do? Obey. That's how you know his will, the Word of God. Otherwise, you don't know his will. Otherwise, there's no possibility of personal relationship. Otherwise, there's no way that you can ever have your will crossed by the master. A lot of people have a doctrine of the Bible that means that what Mr. Miyagi did to the karate kid, it would be impossible for you. Absolutely impossible. There's no situation in which you would obey simply because he says so, even though it doesn't make sense, even though it's against your feelings. But he's the master. Here's how we know that God's love can be complete in us if we obey his word. Now, lastly, I'll be real brief on this. We're done. already said it. The context, we've talked about the call to obedience, and we've talked about the reason for obedience. We've talked about the content of obedience. But now, lastly, the context of obedience is that Jesus Christ is in heaven as our advocate. See verse 1 and 2? Here's the great thing. All the other religions say, obey, and if you sin, you're sunk. monk. And Christianity says, obey, and if you sin, we have an advocate with the Father. You know what that means? Jesus stands before the Father as our defense attorney. If you are taken into court and you're charged with something, what do you look like to the judge? You know what you look like to the judge? You look like your attorney. If your attorney is smart, you're smart. You look smart. If your attorney is eloquent, you look eloquent. If your attorney is a klutz, you look like a klutz. Why? Because you're lost in your attorney. You're lost in your advocate. Everything your advocate does is imputed to you.

When you sin, for years and years, I thought, when I read about this, I thought Jesus is up there pleading with the Father. And every time Tim Keller sinned, Jesus was saying, Oh, Father, please don't throw him off yet. One more time for my sake. And I used to often wonder, how long can Jesus keep this up? But you see what it says? Jesus is not a lawyer pleading for mercy. He is not. You know what? Lawyers only plead and beg the judge and the jury when they don't have a case. Jesus is saying, he's pointing to what? The atoning sacrifice. In other words, Jesus Christ, the advocate, is standing before the Father right now, and when you sin, Jesus is saying, saying, Father, this sin deserves death, but I have paid that debt. Here's my atoning sacrifice. Therefore, Father, I ask that you continue to love and accept and welcome my brother, my sister, these people, not out of mercy. I don't ask you to accept them out of mercy, but out of justice. Now, there is a case. Out of justice, I have paid the sin. I have paid the debt. You cannot take two debts, two payments for one debt, can you, Father? And therefore, Jesus actually has the audacity to say, God, it would be unjust to not forgive and continue to love my client. And a Christian has that kind of confidence. Therefore, you see, you don't obey to be saved. You obey to love. If Jesus has done that for you, and if Jesus is doing that for you, then there is nothing he cannot ask of thee. Your obedience is fueled by gratitude and a desire to know him, not out of and a fear of losing your salvation, don't you see? And it means that every time God asks you to do something that looks stupid, on the other side of the apparent death that obedience will bring is a tremendous resurrection that you cannot yet know of, because God is no man's creditor. He's everyone's debtor. See, everybody, everybody will love what God gives you if you give up your him do to you what he wants to do. He wants to make you a treasure.

Here's how you know your heart and your soul can be completed. Here's how you know it can be filled with his love. Here's how you can realize that. Obey his word. Let's pray. Father, we have seen the call, the reason, the content, and the context for obedience. This is a major, major subject. This is a huge theme. It's so critical we understand it. I pray that part that we don't understand today, if there's anything that we have said here that's still unclear, that anyone in this room might not rest until they get it clear. Help us all to see the beauty of the gospel. Help us to see the wonder of the gospel. Help us to see what it means to obey you and become your treasured possession. Father, help us to walk as Jesus walked, because that is our true liberty. Your service is perfect freedom. Help us find it. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
