Samuel, chapter 16, verses 1 to 13. Now, what we're starting to do, what we're going to, about to do, is we're going to start looking at the life of David in the evening service, because from now through the summer, now, you know, it doesn't feel much like summer out there, but we actually are, you know, heading on into the warmer months, and as a result, people come and go in the summer months. And so what we do is take a series, and we develop. Last year, what we did was we talked about the life of Moses. We went on through, and all the different preachers on our staff will take turns working on that. And you may be here sometimes, you may not be here sometimes, but what we're going to find is that it gives us continuity during these months. And so we're going to be looking at the life of David together, and I'm going to introduce you to not just the first event that we have in the Bible and the life of David, but also how we're going to be looking at him, in fact, how you can study a figure from the Old Testament. So let me read this passage to you. First Samuel, you thought there was more than, there's only, it says just Samuel, I know, but it's the first of the Samuels, 16, 1 to 13. The Lord said to Samuel, how long will you mourn for Saul since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and be on your way. I am sending you to Jesse of Bethlehem. I have chosen one of his sons to be king, but Samuel said, how can I go? Saul will hear about it and kill me. The Lord said, take a heifer with you and say, I have come to sacrifice to the Lord. Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what to do. You are to anoint for me the one I indicate. Samuel did what the Lord said. When he arrived at Bethlehem, the elders of the town trembled when they met him. They asked, Do you come in peace? Samuel replied, Yes, in peace. I've come to sacrifice to the Lord. Consecrate yourselves and come to the sacrifice with me. Then he consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice. And when they arrived, and thought, surely the Lord's anointed stands here before the Lord. The Lord said to Samuel, do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things man looks at. Man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. And then Jesse saw, I called a Minadab and had him pass in front of Samuel. But Samuel said, the Lord has not chosen this one either. Jesse then had Shema pass by, but Samuel said, nor has the Lord chosen this one. Jesse had seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to him, the Lord has not chosen these. So he asked Jesse, are these all the sons you have? And they're still the youngest, Jesse answered, but he's tending the sheep. Samuel said, send for him and we will not sit down until he arrives. So he sent and had him brought in. He was ruddy, with a fine appearance and handsome features. And then the Lord said, Rise and anoint him. He is the one. So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers. And from that day on, the Spirit of the Lord came upon David in power. Samuel then went to Ramah. This is God's Word.

Now, tonight an introduction, sometimes introductory studies, introductions, you know, very often are important, not necessarily the heart of things. I'd like to give you some introductory ideas, not just about David and not just about that, but actually how you go about studying. If you're reading the Old Testament, you have these great stories. How do you go about, why should we today? Study these figures. Why should we study Moses? Why should we study David? Why should we study Abraham? Why should we study these people? Why should we study them at all? Now it's typical to say that there's two reasons, and I'm going to try to put it this way. It's true, but I'm going to put it this way. You study one of these people because first of all, David tells us something about us. When we see him fail, which he often does, it tells us about us. It poignantly points out our own flaws. When you see him succeed, it tells us about us. It shows us how we should live our lives. But primarily, we shouldn't study this to learn about us. Primarily, we need to study David and the life of David to learn about Jesus. Because the book, the Old Testament, and the history of David is primarily about Jesus before it's about us, and if you see it as about Jesus primarily, then when you turn and look to see what practical relevance is to you, there'll be far more. If you read the Old Testament moralistically, if you read it like a set of Aesop's fables, if you read it and say, well, now what does this teach me? I need to be like this. If you go right from David to you, you will find, I think, and I certainly can say that I've read the Bible this way in the past, and I've certainly heard it preached this way many, many times, and you probably have as well. If you go right from David to you, you're not going to get that much out of it. You might feel kind of guilty, frankly. The lessons you get will be rather shallow. But when you go from David to Jesus, to you. There's far more wisdom. And the story will actually have a transforming power instead of just simply beating you over the head. Now, that's my thesis. And I'd like to spend some time showing you here tonight, really as an introduction. Let me tell you a little bit about the thesis, and then I'll start to look at the passage and just give you some ideas about it. See, it occurred to me when I was studying in another venue, Luke chapter 24. After Jesus is raised from the dead, he shows up in Luke 24, and he speaks to two disciples on the road to Emmaus. And these two disciples say this. Jesus, they don't recognize Jesus. And Jesus says, what are you talking about? What's upsetting you? And they say, well, you know, it's this Jesus. we thought he was going to redeem Israel. We thought he was the Messiah that the Old Testament spoke of. We thought he was going to redeem Israel, but instead he suffered and died.

We thought he was going to redeem us, but instead he suffered and died. And we're told that Jesus began, it says, and I quote, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he instructed them and explained to them, what all the Scriptures had to say concerning Him. He instructed them on what all the Scriptures had to say concerning Him. Now, you know what this means? Jesus realized, Jesus knew, that these two men knew the Bible very, very well. And of course, at that point, the Bible meant the Old Testament. All of His disciples did. Later on in the same chapter, in Luke 24, He shows up with the disciples. And what does he do? He takes them on a very long Bible study. It says again, he starts with Moses and goes through the prophets and the Psalms and he explains to them how all of the Scripture is really about him because they're not in any condition to understand who he is and they're in no condition to go out into the world as witnesses. They don't know which end is up until they see that the Bible is not primarily a series of moral fables, but it's primarily about him, about Jesus. Now, you might say, how could that possibly be? And the answer is, it goes like this. Let me just give you a couple of examples. Somebody says, well, sure, there's prophecies in the Old Testament about Jesus. There's places where Isaiah talks about one to come, and there's places where Moses talks about one to come, and those are about Jesus. But not just that. No, no, no. First of all, look at the law. Look at the law. You read the law. How do you read it? The law tells us not just about you, but about Jesus. The law shows us the righteousness that Jesus Christ personally embodied. But more than that, there's a place in the book of Hosea where God says, out of Egypt I called my son." And it says, it's talking about Israel, and He called Israel out of Egypt through the Exodus, remember, the parting of the Red Sea and Moses and so on? And in Hosea, God says, yes, in the Exodus, I called My Son, and He calls Israel His son. Israel, who's Israel? Israel are all the people who obey the law, all the people who are in covenant with God, all the people who obey the law. And he brings them out and he calls them his son. Matthew, in chapter 2, as many of you know, in Matthew chapter 2, Matthew applies that text, which is really about Israel, just to Jesus himself and says when Jesus and his parents went to Egypt to get away from Herod, then of course he came back out of Egypt and Matthew says, yes. That's really what the Bible was talking about when he said, out of Egypt I have called my son. Now, when you see what Matthew does, I mean, probably you haven't done this, but I remember at one point I had to do it. I forget what made me do it. But over the years, you read Matthew and you see that place probably in Matthew. It's a very, very common scripture passage that's read at Christmas time, so it's very, very well known. And every year, every Christmas, you might see Joseph and Mary went into Egypt to get away from Herod, and later on they came back to Nazareth. As it is written, out of Egypt I have called my son. But when you go back to the Old Testament and see where it's quoted, go look at the little reference at the bottom of your Bible's page, and it'll say this is a quote from Hosea. You go back to Hosea, and it's not talking about an individual. It's talking about Israel. But Matthew is able to apply it to Jesus. Why? Because Jesus Christ is a remnant of one. Jesus Christ is the only true Israelite, Jesus Christ is the only person who ever actually obeyed the law, loved the Lord his God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and loved his neighbor as himself. And therefore, all of the law, read the law. You know what it's all about in the Old Testament? It says, do this and you will be blessed. Do this and you will have the blessing. Obey these things, do these things, and you will live and have a blessing. Jesus Christ is the only, only person who has ever done that. He's the only one that's ever fulfilled the law. He's the only one that has the blessing that the law promises to the obedient. And as a result, only he and those who believe in him get that blessing. When you read the law, it's about Jesus. When you read the ceremony, it's about Jesus. You know all those strange rules in Leviticus and Numbers? You know, it's talking about the priestly vestments and it's talking about the sacrifices and it's talking about the altar and it's talking about the showbread and the lampstand and it's talking about all the clean laws. You can eat this, but you can't eat this. If this happens to you, you can't go in. What's all that about? What does Jesus say? Him. Jesus is the sacrifice. Jesus is the priest. Jesus is the bread. He's the lampstand. He's the light of the world. He's the temple. He's the way to God. He's the one who, He's the sacrifice that opens the way. The ceremony is all about Jesus. The law is all about Jesus. The history of the Old Testament is all about Jesus. Every prophet is just pointing to the great prophet. Here's a place where Jesus says, Jonah knew this, and a greater than Jonah is here. Solomon knew this, and a greater than Solomon is here. You know there's a couple of places where he says that? What is he saying? Solomon is about me. Solomon points to me. I'm the true Solomon. I'm the true Jonah. I'm the true David. I'm the real David. Even David wasn't the real David. I'm the real David. Read about David and see what happens to him and how he lives, and you will be learning about me because, as he said, in the Bible, everything in the Scripture is about me, everything. Now, why do I put this way? If you read the Old Testament and you read these stories, you can read them like Aesop's fables. What's the moral? What's the moral of David and Goliath? Somebody's going to say, now, I'm not going to take away Jeff's thunder because he's speaking on that next week. But if you read it moralistically, what are you going to say? You're going to say, well, what's the moral of the story I guess the bigger they are, the harder they fall. That's what that Bible passage is teaching. Or maybe you should say, you know, I don't know, you could say, see, if you really try hard, you can do anything. You can be anything you want to be. No matter who you are, you can bring down the great giant. And you could, you know, you could read the Bible saying, ah, yes, if I really try and if I trust God somehow, the great giants in my life will be knocked down. And I've heard it preached that way, and I've read it that way. That's not what it's about. In a sense, it is about that, but it's not what it's about. It's about Jesus. I'll let Jeff tell you about that. But see, I won't go any further. I'm not going to go any further. But what's this story about? Well, you say, what's the moral of this story? Well, I guess the moral of the story is you can't judge a book by its cover. See, that's what it says there in verse, you see, the Lord has said the same, you do not consider his appearance or his height for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things man looks at. Man looks at the outward appearance, the Lord looks on the heart. Well, it's true. You can't judge a book by its cover. But that's not primarily what it's about.

Let me show you what it's about. But here's the point. You can either read the Bible as if it's primarily about you or if it's primarily about God. You can either read the Bible as if it's nothing but examples and things that you have to do

In other words, you can read the Bible as if it's primarily about what we have to do, or you can read the Bible as if it's primarily about what God has done.

Because if you think salvation is primarily what you give to God and that's what connects you, you're going to read the Bible that way. But if you read the Bible basically saying primarily it's about what God has done and what He gives us that connects us, you're going to read the Bible in a whole different way. You're going to see Jesus everywhere. You're going to say this is about Jesus, not just about David, not just about the bigger they are, the harder they fall, not just about you can't judge a book by its cover. Yes, I need to do a better job at that. You'll just walk out with a little inspiration or just feeling kind of crushed. Boy, I could never do that. I could never face down those Goliaths in my life. You'll just be crushed by it. The Bible is not primarily about you. It's not primarily about me. It's primarily about Jesus always. Now, let me give you an example. Let's just take a look at this. the story itself. The Lord said to Samuel, how long will you mourn for Saul since I have rejected him as king over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and be on your way. Well, Saul had been rejected. Samuel had anointed Saul as king, but Saul had turned out to be a king like all other kings. He was a worldly king. Back in the early part of the winter, there was a sermon that I did here in the morning, and it was about 1 Samuel 15, it's the chapter before. And there we see that God had said to Saul, through Samuel, God had given Saul a prophecy and said, go wipe out the Amalekites. And God specifically said to Saul, don't leave a single survivor, kill all the Amalekites and kill all their livestock, all their sheep, all their cattle, everything. And when you first read think, oh no, how terrible. This is what I don't like about the Old Testament. Thank goodness in the New Testament we have a God of love. This is terrible. But you see, that's to miss the point. The Amalekites were a vicious, wicked people, horribly oppressive, terribly brutal, guilty of all sorts of atrocities. God comes to Saul and says, Saul, I want you to wage war against them, but I want this to be an act of justice, not imperialism. I don't want you to be a king like all other kings. Other kings say they go to war for justice, but actually they always go to war to accrue power and wealth. I don't want you to be like that. So when he said, I want you to take no prisoners, you see the reason you would take prisoners is to ransom them. And he says the reason I want you to kill all the livestock is because the livestock in a culture like that was their wealth. And so what God was saying is I want you to wage war against these brutal people who need to be stopped. You know, it's very much like going to war against the Nazis. They need to be stopped. It's a matter of justice. But I will not have you, I will not have this be an act of imperialism. You must not in any way, in any way, accrue power or wealth. No prisoners, no taking the livestock, none at all. And Saul didn't do it. He went, he won the battle, but he kept the king, Agag, as a prisoner, and he kept the livestock. which, believe it or not, means that he was being exactly the same kind of king as Agag, and he was doing the very thing the Amalekites were being punished for.

God wanted and Samuel wanted Saul to be a king after God's own heart. What does that mean?

Saul was supposed to be a king with God's heart. God's use of power is different than the world's use. And, you know, when Hannah, who was Samuel's mother, went to the Lord very upset because she was barren, and she went to God, and she said, give me a son, and God gave her a son. And when she had gotten that son, the Spirit of the Lord came upon her, and she prophesied. And she began to say, this is in 1 Samuel 2, she says, My heart rejoices in the Lord, and the Lord my horn is lifted high. no one holy like the Lord. There is no one besides you. There is no rock like our God. The Lord brings death and makes alive. He brings down to the grave and raises up. He raises the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap. He seats them with princes and has them inherit a throne of honor. For the foundations of the earth are the Lord's. Upon them he has set the world. It is not by strength that one prevails. He will give strength to his king and will exalt the horn of his anointed. Hannah got this prophecy from God, and she got a vision of a king. And this word anointed, you see, there was no king in Israel when Hannah did this. Therefore, it was a prophecy. But the word anointed in Hebrew is Messiah. And the word anointed in Greek, in the Greek Old Testament, the Septuagint, is the word Christ. And so she gets a vision of a king with the heart of God, a king that uses power the way God uses power. In other words, she gets a vision of a king who lifts the poor up, a king who condescends, in the best sense of that term, a king who serves in order to lead and attracts our allegiance by serving us. A king with God's heart, a king after God's own heart, which is the same thing. Saul has turned out not to be that king. And the reason that Samuel is weeping the way he is because Samuel almost must have gotten from his mother

this vision of a true king, a king on earth that reflects the heart of God, who uses power like God does to save, not himself, not to accrue power, to lift the poor up, to lift up the needy, and to put them on his own throne. There's no king like this in the world. And Samuel had this hunger for a king like that, a king who humbled himself, a king who served, and therefore a king who had complete allegiance and incredible strength with his people, The ultimate leader. A leader that people would utterly die for because they knew that their leader would die for them. The leader wasn't into leadership for himself. A servant leader. A leader they would die for because they knew he would die for them. A real king. And therefore, when Samuel went and anointed Saul, he thought this was the one. And Saul had turned out to be like all the rest of the kings of the world. And we're told in chapter 15, verse 10, verse 11, that when God comes to Samuel, tells him what Saul has done, and says, I have rejected Saul as king over Israel. And we're told that Samuel was up all night crying. He was up all night crying. He was in utter grief. And here in verse 1 we see he's still in utter grief. He's in such grief that God has to come and shake him out of it. Now that must mean it has been a while. The grief he experienced is the grief of a loss of the king he really wanted, but he found he really didn't have. He had this passion for a king he'd gotten from his mother, and he was in absolute and utter grief. Now, God wakes him up. And by the way, it's pretty interesting. God is not rebuking him for grief. You should never rebuke somebody for grief. If somebody's lost a loved one, or if somebody's lost somebody in this way, somebody who you thought was going to be this to you and turns out is not. I mean, that's grief, too. You've lost that person. God doesn't rebuke Samuel for his grief. He rebukes him for the length of his grief. It's hard to know when you cross the line, but when you're sad, you should cry, you should weep. God never comes and says, don't cry. Look at Jesus. He was always crying. But what God says is there's a limit. How long will you cry? Come, be on your way. There's a point at which good friends come to people who are grieving and saying, you've grieved for a long time now. It's time to be on your way. Okay. So he comes to Samuel and he says, be on your way. I'm going to give you somebody else. He goes to, and somebody's going to say, wait a minute, what's this? I might want to make a comment. It says, Samuel said, how can I go? Saul will hear about it and kill me. The Lord says, take a heifer with you and say, I've come to sacrifice to the Lord. Is that a white lie? No, he really is going to sacrifice to the Lord. He says, invite Jesse to the sacrifice. I'll show you what to do. It's interesting that God doesn't say to Samuel, oh, it shouldn't bother you. Safety? Who cares about safety? I've sent you on a mission. Let safety, you know, throw safety to the wind. God doesn't say that. He says, huh, that's a problem. I love God. He says, oh, that's a problem. Yeah, you're right. Well, here's a great way to do it. And of course, Samuel had a ministry because when he goes to Bethlehem, they come out and say, do you come in peace? Which means as a prophet, he would go to places and he would either warn them, he'd come in judgment and warn them about their sin, or he would go and he'd offer sacrifice. He would hold a worship service. so it was this was something he did and he comes in and at Bethlehem they say are you coming in peace and he says yes in peace I'm going to offer sacrifice and I'm going to do it with Jesse and in his home so he says consecrate yourselves which simply means just the way you get ready for the Lord's supper in many ways you look at yourself you examine yourself you pray you confess your sins you get ready but finally obviously Jesse and Samuel know what's going on because Jesse calls them in front of Samuel. So Jesse knows that Samuel is going to anoint a new king. It's tremendously risky. Not only is Samuel's life at stake because you have Saul still on the throne, but so is Jesse and any of his children. So they obviously know what's going on and Jesse starts to send his sons by him. And the first one that Samuel sees is Eliab who was very, very tall. Now, I just noticed the other day that there was actually a special on some, one of these news, news magazines, I think it was Barbara Walters. I can't, and I don't even know the name of it, but there was a special on why, uh, uh, short people are discriminated against. Did you see that short men? Did you see that? And they showed all these studies that the shorter man is less believed than the tall man. The shorter man is less desired by women than the tall man. It was a very discouraging, I mean, for some people, a very discouraging program. But I thought about this passage right away. Here's Samuel, and he sees the tallest guy and says, this has got to be God's anointed. And you know what? Here he is in grief over Saul, all upset,

and he's making the same mistake. Saul was a giant. Saul was huge. And actually, one of the reasons why a person could command respect in those days. You know William Wallace, the Braveheart guy? You know Mel Gibson's character? A real guy. Battle of Stirling Bridge, the 1300s. He was a warrior leader of the Scots against the English, and that movie's about him. William Wallace, I understand, was six and a half feet tall. He could take a big broadsword, and he could beat anybody. And the strength and the towering stature of a man in those days it easier for him to command and to gain respect and so on. And Saul was a giant. Saul was huge. And when Samuel had anointed Saul, he said, surely this is the Lord's anointed. And he anointed Saul. And even though he's in grief and he says, oh my word, you know, Saul turned out to be such a disappointment, Eliab goes by and Samuel's making the same mistake. He's looking at the outside. Now this is very, very New York, by the way. There's no place I've ever been in the world are more important, where people make snap judgments. And there's also no place where you just get barraged every day, walk down the street with images of absolute beauty. Not only are they on, you know, in the pictures, not only are they in the ads and so on. I was just looking at them on my way over here. You know, they just, they come at you from every place, in all the ads, in all the windows and all that. But there's a lot of them are alive and walking around on the streets in New York. The people whose pictures were taken are walking around. People put enormous amounts of time and incredible amounts of effort, a tremendous amount of money, certainly, and in many cases, really, practices that, as you know, can destroy your health for this incredible appearance. And God comes to Samuel, and he says, Samuel, when are you going to learn? the outside doesn't matter a bit. Money, beauty, power, stature, you see, size, it doesn't matter a bit. It's character, it's substance, it's the spirit, it's the heart. So he looks through all of them and finds out none of them are there. And he turns to Jesse and it's astonishing, is it not? Jesse knows that one of his children is going to be anointed king, one of his sons. Jesse brings all of his sons and doesn't even think to bring David, the little one, the youngest one. And so Samuel turns around and says, what, what, Jesse, is this it? How could this be? And oh, there is one more. But I mean, Davy, you know, the little one. See? And of course, Jesse's made the same mistake. Samuel says, call him in here. By process of elimination, he's got this figured out. And in comes David and the Lord says, he's the one. God anoints him. The spirit of God comes on him. Now, what do you get? In the Bible, when you see the anointed. There's a number of anointeds. A lot of the judges are anointed, the prophets are anointed, but in general, here's what you get. First of all, the anointed tends to not be the world's choice. And before you go from David to you, let's go to Jesus. See, Jesus, nobody believed this could be the Messiah. Just read the Gospels. They couldn't believe it. He wasn't beautiful. He wasn't political. He wasn't military. He wasn't rich. He wasn't intellectual. He didn't come through channels. You see? The anointing of the Lord is not the world's choice. The world doesn't understand it. The world doesn't get it. You see? Because the world looks on outward appearances. Jesus was missed by the world because the Lord's anointed is someone who, from the world's point of view, is weak, but from God's point of view, is invincible. Secondly, the Lord's anointed is given a message, and the message is, God can deliver by the few or by the one.

You see, again and again, and you're going to see this throughout the life of David, when everybody thinks that it's lost, God will show. I mean, you see this throughout the, look at Gideon. He was anointed. He was a judge. Gideon is going to go out and deal with the Midianites. And what does God continually do to Gideon? He says, Gideon, I want to show that I'm the Savior. And therefore, I don't want you to have hardly anybody in your band. I want you to go up against the Midianites with just a few people.

how God eliminates all but the most stout-hearted and true-hearted people. There are only 300 of them with Gideon to go up against the Midianites, an incredible force. Why? God says, I am going to show that I am the real Savior, and therefore I am going to deliver through the weak. I am going to deliver through the unexpected. I am going to deliver through the few. I am going to deliver through the one.

And that is the message. God is your salvation, not your might, not your strength. in the story of Hannah. Thirdly, the anointed always suffer. The anointed are not who the world think, and the anointed are given a message, and that is God. Salvation is of the Lord. That's the message. But thirdly, the anointed always suffer, and David is anointed as a kid when Saul is on the throne, and his son Jonathan is a very, very clear heir and really a great guy. And as a result, David has got to wait patiently for years and is persecuted terribly as an outlaw. And in this you see the Lord. Because you see the anointed is always redeemed through suffering. David becomes a king with God's heart. Because you see Saul never went through what David went through. Saul came right into power and it seduced his heart. But David had to depend on God. had a trust in God, and David became like David's greater son, mature through suffering, perfect through obedience. And then lastly, what is the anointed given? The anointed, in order to suffer, in order to take the message, in spite of what the world thinks, the anointed of the Lord is given a promise. I will make you king. God's presence, you see that? The Spirit and a job. A job to do. Go and prepare to be king. Now, you see, whenever God anoints somebody, anoints them, he's anointing this person for a job, giving them a job, giving them the presence of God, giving them a promise, sending them out, but sent out to suffer, sent out with a message that the world isn't going to understand. Now, in David, you see the Lord. Jesus Christ, above all, was one who was misunderstood, and nobody said, this can't be the Messiah. How can this be the Messiah? Secondly, Jesus Christ as the anointed was persecuted by his own people, and he redeemed us through suffering. This is the reason why on the road to Emmaus, the disciples on the road to Emmaus said, we thought he was going to redeem us, but he suffered.

And Jesus says, you don't understand.

You've been reading the Bible as if it's about you. It's about me. You've been reading the Bible as if salvation comes through power and might, through accomplishment, through performance. And so every book, every story of the Bible you've read as an example, and you said, I can do it. I'm going to be like that. You misunderstand. The Bible is about me. The Bible is not about how you're redeemed without suffering. You're redeemed through, No, no, no. You'll be redeemed through suffering. I will redeem you through suffering. I have redeemed you through suffering. That's the reason why you're so upset on Easter Sunday. You're upset on Easter Sunday because you don't see that. And then, of course, if you understand that, now we can turn to ourselves and realize, as Christians, do you see what this means? First of all, it means you and I are anointed. The Bible says 2 Corinthians 1.22, every Christian is anointed.

We're anointed with the Holy Spirit. We're given a promise. All things work together for good. We're given a promise. You will rule and reign with me. We're given a promise. I will be with you to the ends of the earth. We're given a promise. Never, never will I forsake you. We're given a promise. You're now righteous in my sight. We're given all these promises. We're given the Spirit. but we're sent out. And because we are anointed like the Lord, because of his messiahship, because of his career as the anointed, we have a kind of mini career as anointed. We too will very often be chosen by God, even though the world looks at us as rather unimportant people. You can't let the world's standards influence your understanding of who you are, nor can you let the world's standards influence your understanding of other people. You can't look at other people in the same way the world has because they miss Jesus. And therefore, you've got to change that. And also, you have to realize that if you're anointed, there's going to be suffering. And that suffering will be redemptive. Be very careful. I'm not saying that you redeem yourself through suffering. Just remember this. When you become a Christian, you are saved from the penalty of sin. That redemption is over. God has saved you from the penalty of sin. There is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. But when you become a Christian, you will find that you still need to be saved from the power of sin, don't you? You still need to be redeemed in that sense. Only through your hurts in general, only through your problems in general, only through the wisdom that comes from a heart that suffered not only being redeemed from the power of sin, but that you're of use to other people. In tiny ways, you will find that the persons that you can help most, you're only able to help because of the troubles you've had. Isn't that true? Why? Because the Lord's great anointed, to which David points, now you look at your life and you will see that you are little teeny anointed who also point to the Lord. So we have to recognize that the Bible is about him first. And if you go from David to Jesus, then you come to yourself and you'll say, oh my, I've been anointed. And what really matters is my heart, not my outside. Therefore, I have to be very careful about keeping my heart. And I may be called like David to be patient for a long time before these promises seem like they're coming true, but I will. And if I have to suffer as he did, I will realize that God's going to work redemptively through it. David is telling us about Jesus, then it tells you so much about us. But if you go from David to you, you'll just get these little drippy Aesop's fables. The bigger they are, the harder they fall. And you'll go out a little inspired, but not redeemed. Jesus says, it's all about me. And the more you see it about Jesus, the more you'll understand what it has to do with you. Let's pray. Now, Father, we thank you that you've given us some guidance here. We thank you that your son was the anointed one. And we pray that as we read about David and study about David, we will come to see more and more the face of our Lord in the face of David, and that we will find ourselves becoming transformed more and more into the likeness of your son. In his name we pray. Amen.