My job today is to get you to start talking about what we've been calling Christ-centered application. Christ-centered application, you know, one of the things that we're looking at is Christ-centered exposition. Christ-centered exposition means how do I preach Christ from this text and continue during the question and answer time. pretty substantial. I'm wondering why some of you guys don't start to just shoot, especially Ed, more Ed than me. Start shooting Ed saying, well, how would you preach Christ from this passage, this passage, this story, this text? Just shoot him. How would you do that? Like somebody was saying, well, how do you preach Christ from wisdom literature where you don't have characters? And he says, well, I'm going to be talking about that. And he will. But don't let them off the hook. I mean, give them some examples. So one of the questions is Christ in an exposition. The other question that keeps coming up, and it came up yesterday, and I'm glad for the question, with Joseph. I think you asked the question. The story of Joseph seems to be about, is it about sexual immorality and is it about how we need to exercise sexual purity? Or is it about Joseph as a type of Christ? Or do we have to make sure we get to both? this to what we're trying to get across here is how to integrate those. You have to base the moral principle on faith in trust in Christ, and especially in a saving work, especially as it's revealed by the text. Now, that's what I want to get started on today, because a lot of people are basically saying, well, how do you do that? How do you integrate moral

exhortation with Christocentric preaching? There is some danger, and I don't know that Some people who are really dedicated traditionally to this idea of preaching Christ and not moralism, sometimes the charge is that it's not a practical application of kind of preaching. For the very reason you pointed out, it's very easy to get to Christ through Joseph and say nothing about the idea of fleeing sexual temptation. I don't believe you have to choose at all. That's one of the things I'm here to do, and that's partly my contribution to this conversation. So, now let's get started when we talk about how. Let us begin by turning to chapter 4, and I'm hoping to do chapter 4 and one piece of chapter 5 this morning, and if I do this right, I can actually even give you a sermon example. I'm going to start today, and every day, giving you sort of case examples of sermons. It's a little weird to preach a sermon in here. You saw how Ed did it, you know, he just sort of moved right into it, and he, in a sense, didn't give you the whole sermon as much as he gave you the outline of the sermon, and he waxed a little bit, you know, because you're preaching, and yet we all know that you're just a bunch of demon students. You know, that's something of a damper on the anointing, as we all know. So it's a sermon and it's not a sermon, but I'll try to do a couple of examples as the time goes on. But anyway, Chapter 4, Introduction to Christ-Centered Application. Just like, by the way, Ed Clowney taught me how to do Christ-centered exposition when I was a seminary student, and yet it took me years to figure out what that really meant. teachers in seminary, because I went to Gordon Conwell where I got a kind of a generally reformed theological education, always talked about the fact, and look at the intro, that you're not just justified by faith in Christ's work, not ours, but you're sanctified by faith in Christ's work, not ours. I mean the Protestants have been saying that since the Reformation. You're not just justified by faith, you're sanctified by faith. But now look at me here. Let's be honest. In our preaching and our pastoral work, we have no idea what in the world that means. Because what we do is we say to people who are coming to faith, we say, now you have to trust in Christ, not in your works, and then he'll save you. But when it comes to talking to our Christians about how to grow in Christ, basically we exhort them to try really, really hard to live like Jesus. We may say you're justified by faith and sanctified by faith, theoretically, but in our practice what we tell people is, you're justified by faith and you're sanctified by trying very, very, very, very hard to live up to what Jesus says you should live up to. It's not reflected in our preaching, our pastoring, and I'm not being unsympathetic at all, because I really don't know that there's much talk about the real method of that, so I'd like to talk to you about it. First of all, we're all in different places, we all come from different schools and backgrounds and so on, therefore, let me just tell you little bit about the fact that the Protestantism has said, I mean, Wesley deviated from it, but basically Protestantism, Lutheran reform, the Protestant reformers said that we're not just sanctified by faith, justified by faith, we're sanctified by faith. Just to give you an example, here's a classic text, G.C. Berkouwer, Faith and Sanctification, unfortunately out of print. I sort of see why. I was looking at my old copy, and it's interacting with a lot of continental theologians of the 1950s who nobody had heard of. Just to give you an example of this, look down under number two. Here's some excerpts. These are classic. Genuine sanctification, let it be repeated, stands or falls with this continued orientation toward justification and remission of sins. The bond between sanctification and faith alone justification has been neglected, and the impression created today successor to the divinely worked justification. Now I know that's a nice, fancy way of saying what I just said. Which is, when it comes right down to it, we tell people you're justified by faith, but when it comes to sanctification, we essentially say, now you've got to get to work. And we really don't know what it means to be sanctified by faith. Here's another interesting place where he talks about, the first place, he talks about how sanctification is an orientation to your justification. Secondly, holiness, he says, is never

the

He says, you know, justification, sanctification is orienting yourself to your justification. It's feeding off of your justification. And then thirdly, it's having commerce with your justification, which I think is a kind of neat and interesting metaphor. The believer's constant commerce with the forgiveness of sins and its continued dependence on it must in both pastoral counseling and in teaching be laid bare, emphasized, kept in sight. Faith preserves us from autonomous self-sanctification and moralism. Now, turn over. Here's a little summary.

it's a mistake this is my summary of what he's saying it's a mistake to ask oh we know we have imputed righteousness we know we're righteous legally but now how do we move on to actual righteousness what he's actually saying is you don't move on in a way any particular flaw in our actual righteousness stems from a corresponding failure to orient yourselves toward our imputed righteousness I know that's a little bit of a radical statement I've been saying this for about eight years now and I nothing seemed to be me off of it, so I guess I'll keep saying it. I think that what he's saying, and I think what Luther says, and what I'm going to try to point out to you, is rather than saying, okay, I know I'm legally righteous, now I have to roll up my sleeves to become actually righteous, what the Reformers were saying is you get actually righteous by continually orienting yourself, feeding off of, and doing in commerce with your legal righteousness, which means it's a failure to live a holy life is not just due to a lack of commitment and a lack of hard work. That doesn't mean that commitment and hard work is not part of it. But the most fundamental route is I'm not living as if, I'm not living in faith that Christ is my Savior. That's what it's saying. That's the reason why Ed kept on saying, well, yes, you do morally exhort, but you have to primarily exhort people to faith in the particular aspect that this text is showing it to us. How does that really work? Maybe I took too long. I spent five, six minutes on showing you that there's the principle. But how does it work? Now, this began to open up to me when I read a treatise by Martin Luther. It's not the famous treatise. Though I get a lot out of Luther's commentary on Galatians and his famous preface, and probably John Wesley was converted listening to it, even though he says they were reading Romans, but he probably was wrong. And he's wrong about a few other things, too. But anyway, he's very famous. But this is the place where... And by the way, I haven't even found this actually in print. I got this off of the Dubuque Theological Seminary website, which is Martin Luther's treatise concerning good works, which is actually a fairly hard thing to find. and somebody needs to translate it right. I'm giving it to you right off the website and it's in some archaic English translation, but boy, it blew my mind. And here's, I'm going to try to at least breeze into yours. Look at the second paragraph. He says, now, all those who... By the way, he's essentially expounding the Ten Commandments here. He says, all those who do not at all times trust God and do not in all their works or sufferings, favor, grace, and goodwill, but seek his favor and other things are in themselves. Now, you hear what he's saying? In other words, anybody who is failing to trust in God's grace for their relationship with him, but instead is looking to their good works, is breaking the first commandment. Now, this is pretty interesting to me. You know, when I say the first commandment, I have no other guys before me. He says that the first commandment, among other things, let's say, but at least the when you fail to believe in justification by faith? And here's why he does that. Maybe you don't think that the first commandment is make sure you have to believe that you're saved through faith and grace, not through your good works. Maybe you don't think the first commandment teaches that, but let me show you what he means. He says, you're practicing real idolatry because if you're not trusting in Christ, you're trusting in something else and whatever that is then becomes the Savior. He says, even if you were to do all the works of the other commandments and in addition had all the prayers, fasting, obedience, patience, chastity, and innocence mind. Now, he's giving us, by the way, the perfect picture of the elder brother, which Ed and I will talk to you about in the prodigal son parable. What he's trying to say is if you would actually be completely keeping all the other rules, but you were doing it, justifying yourself through your good deeds, you're breaking the first commandment. Now, I know everybody in this room certainly knows, of course, that would make you a Pharisee. If you obey the Ten Commandments perfectly, but you trusted in them for your salvation, you'd be lost. But he's saying, well, yeah, that's right. But you can't keep all the Ten Commandments. The Pharisee is breaking the First Commandment because idolatry is, he calls, works righteousness. And let me look at the next part of that paragraph. If we doubt or do not believe that God is gracious to us and is pleased with us, or if we presumptuously expect to please him only through and after our works, then it's all pure deception, outwardly honoring God, but inwardly setting up self as a false savior.

is the God-given and keeping it with inward trust. The last makes true living children of God. The other only makes worse idolatry than the most mischievous hypocrites on earth. Now read this next paragraph, which is my summary of what he just said. All people sin in general because they're sinners. But why do we sin in any particular instance? Luther is saying that any sin versus commandments, say, 2 through 10, is rooted in inordinate lust for something which comes because we are trusting in that thing rather than Christ for our righteousness or salvation. You never break Commandments 2 through 10 without breaking 1st Commandment 1 in a particular regard. Something you're making your functional trust and your functional salvation, which therefore is an idol, or you wouldn't be breaking the other commandments. Luther says, If you fail to believe God accepts us fully in Christ is the failure to keep the first commandment, love God with all the heart. And therefore, beneath any particular sin is the general sin of rejecting Christ's salvation, indulging in self-salvation. Therefore, the root of any sin, whether it's, say, sexual immorality or sexual license, at the root of any sin has to be, functionally, a lack of trust in Christ as your Savior. Now, you're going to say, how does that work? I'll keep on going. Let me just show you, though, how strong, I think, this principle can be said. The Belgic Confession has chapter 24, which has a fascinating spot, in which it talks about the very same thing Luther's talking about. I wouldn't have known unless I put them side by side. That's why I'm doing it to you. We believe, it says, that this true faith, being wrought in man by the hearing of the word of God and the operation of the Holy Spirit, regenerates him and makes him a new man, causing him to live a new life and freeing him from the bondage of sin. Well, nothing unusual there. Therefore, it is so far from being true that this justifying faith makes men remiss in a pious and holy life. Stop. Look, right away, right away, people say, if I tell my constituents that they are completely justified by faith, there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, no matter what in the world they do, they are still accepted in the Beloved because they're accepted on the basis of Christ's record, Christ's past, not your past. Christ's righteousness and performance, not yours. Won't that lead them to say, well, then I can do anything I want? Not if you preach it right. Here's what they say. Listen to this. On the contrary, not only is it so far as from being true that justifying faith makes men remiss, on the contrary, without it, they would never do anything out of love to God, but only out of self-love or fear of damnation. Therefore, it's impossible that His holy faith can be unfruitful in man, for we do not speak of a vain faith, but of such a faith that is called in Scripture through love, which excites man to the practice of those works which God has commanded in his word. We would always be in doubt, tossed to and fro without any certainty, and our poor consciences would be continually vexed if they relied on the merits of our Savior. Here's my summary. Unless you believe the gospel, we will be driven in all we do, whether obeying or disobeying, by pride or fear. See, it said self-love. In other words, if I... Well, let me just tell you this great story. And I use it, I'd say, at least every other year in the sermons, until there's enough turnover that I know there's enough people out there who haven't heard it. But nevertheless, it's good to hear it a couple of times. Charles Spurgeon tells a story, and I'll tell you how he... He says, one day there was a gardener, and he grew the biggest carrot he ever would have grown. You know, the biggest carrot he ever grew. And he brought it to the king. And he says, oh, sovereign, the greatest carrot I have ever grown or ever will grow, I just want to give it to you as a token of my esteem and affection because you are a great king and I have always loved you. I just want you to have it." And the king discerned his heart and was just touched, and as the man turned to go away, he says, wait a minute, wait a minute, he says, I own the land next to your garden and I want you to have that land, I want you to have twice the land you had before because you are an excellent man and an excellent gardener and I want you to be twice the gardener you were before, I'm rejoicing. But there was a nobleman in court, and he overheard this. And he says, My gosh, if you get five acres for a carrot, hmm. So the next day, he brings the king a horse. And he says, Oh, oh, sovereign Lord. He says, I raise horses. You know, I have a stable, and this is the greatest horse I've ever raised and ever will raise, and I want to give it to you as a token of my esteem and affection. I've always loved you. And the king discerned his heart, read him, Says, thank you very much. Picks up the horse, just starts to walk away with it. And the nobleman sitting there kind of dumbfounded and the king turns around and says, let me explain. He says, you know that gardener? He says, he gave me the carrot, but you were giving yourself the horse. And then here's what Spurgeon says. He says, if you are feeding the hungry and clothing the naked in order to get into heaven, you're feeding yourself. You're not feeding them. You're clothing yourself. He says, you're not doing it for God and you're not doing it for them. You're doing it out of pride and out of fear. And that's the reason the Belgic Confession is right in saying, unless you know that your good works cannot do a thing to get you into heaven, unless you know that you're utterly accepted right now, you can't do a good work. In other words, here's a great dialectical tension, until you know your works aren't any good, they're not any good. As soon as you realize they're not any good, they actually begin to have at least a germ of something real, which is, you're doing it for God's sake. You're doing it out of faith. You see? You're not doing it out of fear that I'm going to lose something or out of pride. Now I know that I'm better than other people. And therefore, moral effort, hoping that God will bless me and answer my prayers and give me happy children and bless my life. Moral effort in which people say, if I really live a good life and get it all together, then God will come into my life and bless me and give me a good life. That actually restrains the heart. See, fear and pride, works righteousness, restrains the heart from doing bad things, but doesn't actually change the heart. Moral effort is merely jury-rigging the evil pride and fear and selfishness of the heart to produce moral behavior out of self-interest. It's only a matter of time before that very thin tissue will collapse. Now let me go one step further. So I tell you something from Berkouwer, I tell you something from Luther. Now let's talk about Edwards. Jonathan Edwards is not doing anything that you don't see in the Belgic Confession or you don't see in Martin Luther. And I'm not going to read you, just watching my time here, I don't want to read you quotes, and I didn't even really give you very long quotes out of his stuff. He has written a book called The Nature of True Virtue, which is unbelievably hard to read. And I've only read sections of it, and they've been very, very kind of paradigm-busting for me. And yet every summer I say, I'm going to read this thing all the way through, hard. If you want the gist of what I'm about to tell you, you get it better by reading his sermons on 1 Corinthians 13, charity and its fruit. It's wonderful, wonderful. However, let's go down to the third paragraph from the bottom where it says, what makes people honest? Generous. Edwards tackles this over the years in his book, in his miscellanies and his other works. And here's the following summary of what he says. There are two kinds of moral behavior, common virtue and true Let's take one virtue, for example, honesty. Common virtue honesty is developed two ways. First, it can be inspired by fear. There's the secular version. Be honest, it pays. That's the Harvard Business School ethics class. That's what it'll tell you, be honest, it pays. If you're not honest, all these awful things could happen to your business. Or, another way to inspire honesty through fear is if you're not honest, society won't work. That's sort of a liberal version. version. If you're not honest, God will punish you. So these are all versions of the same motive. Namely, it's impractical to be honest. You won't make out well if you're honest. Fear. Okay. The second way you can inspire honesty through sort of selfishness, self-interest, is it can be inspired by pride. There's the secular conservative version. Don't be like those terrible dishonest people who hurt others and have no virtue. There's the secular liberal version. Don't be like these greedy people who don't work for the common good. There's the religious version. Don't be like these sinners, these bad people. Be a godly, good person who doesn't lie. These are all versions of the same motive, namely, I'm better than these people. And that's why I'm honest. Edwards is by no means squirmful of common virtue. In fact, the Yale edition of his moral, his ethical writings, Yale puts out most of these things in Volume 8 of their series. And they have charity and its fruits, nature of true virtue, in there and for only $80 it can be yours. But it has this very, very long extended philosophical intro by Paul Ramsey and one part of it is called the splendor of common morality. And Edwards makes a major point about the fact that most people are virtuous. It's a common virtue. It's out of self-interest. In other words, it's out of sin. And he says it's a

Edward is saying, How does God keep the world from being as bad a place as it ought to be? How does he continue to take us canes, who have refused to repent, and still be a protector of them? And still, in sort of common grace, keep the world from being as bad a place as it ought to be? Why is there so much honesty? And why is there so much charity? And why is there so much compliance, outwardly, with the laws of God? And Edward says, grace of God. That God is taking, you know, in a sense, the sinful, selfish human heart and jury-raging it up. And yet it's real, it's really, it is morality, it is virtue. When you're honest like that, you're still being honest. And he says this is a great way that God restrains evil in the world. He does call it virtue. It's not sham. Nevertheless, there's a profound tension at the heart of all non-gospel-based virtue. We just said the main reason people are honest is due to fear and pride. But what's the main reason we're dishonest? Now, here's what you as the preacher need to think about. Why does a person lie? Now, by the way, I shouldn't be doing this on tape, but she's not here, so she'll probably never hear it. Anyway, Kathy never quite likes this illustration, but she knows it's true. You know, when you're married to somebody for years and years and years, you hear the other person lie. I mean, in other words, you're with a person so long that you let your guard down, and after a while your spouse becomes just like part of the woodwork, and you become part of the way we work for her, you start to hear the other person twisting the truth. I mean, you know, you just forget there's somebody here. You know what I'm saying? In other words, they get off the phone and they put down the phone and she turns to you and said, that's not really true. Hasn't that happened to you? Oh, it's just me. You're just trying to make me feel bad, but you can't do it. it. Kathy and I discovered that we lie in different situations. Or how should I say, shade the truth. I will never shade the truth in order to keep from being inconvenienced. I will shade the truth to keep from having somebody unhappy. So I'll say, oh, yes, I was just on that and it'll be done by tomorrow. When actually I'd forgotten completely all to think that they are unimportant to me but they are but I don't want them to think that Kathy will never tell a lie to somebody who will then be unhappy with her She will tell a lie to somebody if it inconveniences her And if she says well that will put me out then she will say well I can't do that because I have got the wedding rehearsal that night and she will put down the phone, I'll say, you know you don't have to be at that wedding rehearsal. I would never lie like that. On the other hand, I would lie to somebody who says, you know, did you remember to get to the, oh yes, I certainly did, absolutely. And then I put down the phone, she said, you've forgotten totally about that. Well now, what's going on here? Why is our sin happening at different times? And I'm hoping that what I've shown you up to now is that you don't just sin simply because you're a sinner, but you sin because something else, something besides Jesus Christ at that moment is functioning as your real trust. There's something else you're looking to. You're breaking the first commandment somehow, or you wouldn't be breaking the eighth, or what is it? Depends on whether you're Lutheran or Reformed, right? Look at the top of page 26. Almost always it's our fear or pride. So in common virtue, you have not done anything to root out the fundamental cause of evil. In common honesty, you have restrained the heart, but you haven't changed the heart. In my case, I'm not going until I stop needing so badly people's approval. And Kathy's situation, she's not going to stop lying until she's willing to really develop a servant heart. The thing that most scares her is a lack of independence. She needs to be free to do with her life what she wants to do. In other words, she has a kind of independence idolatry. I have an approval idolatry. She has something that, you know, I say I'll know that I'm an all right person if everybody thinks I never forget anything

and I'm not going to deal with my, I'm never going to deal with the lie, the behavior, unless I deal underneath with basically an unbelief, a lack of orientation, a lack of commerce at that moment with the fact that it's Christ's approval is all that I have and all that I really need. Fundamentally, that's what will save me, not the dares. There's a great place in Colossians 3 where Paul says, set your heart on things which are above, above not things which are below and he says, It says, your life is hid with God in Christ. And when Christ, who is your life, appears, then you'll appear with him in glory. I never, I wasn't really, I haven't bucked this at all. But I'll never forget after reading that one morning and meditating on it, I suddenly realized for the next six months I went into the pulpit and I looked out at the congregation. And in silence, of course, I looked out at them and I said, you are not my life. My life is hid with God in Christ. What you think of me, whether you bring your friends back next week, is not what makes me. It's not my life. You're not my identity. You're not my salvation. And I've just got to stop acting like you are. And if I do, then I won't overwork and I won't underwork and I won't throw up at Saturday because my sermon's no good. You know, it all comes from a lack of faith. That's the idea. And see, so what Edwards would say, now here's, let me just show you how bad this is. I mean, how bad? what consequences it has for us as preachers, go back to the center of that paragraph at the top of page 26. In common honesty, you're restraining the heart but not changing the heart. If you tell people, if you tell your people, you better tell the truth or God's going to get you, that's actually true. That is not biblically wrong. But as I was saying the other day, that might not be necessarily a moralistic statement. The people are going to hear it moralistically. What they're going to do is, out of fear, the heart. It's not going to change the heart. You are doing an ingenious form of judo. Judo depends on using the enemy's forward motion against him. You've jury-rigged the heart, so the basic causes of dishonesty are being used to make yourself honest. But it's a very fragile condition. At some point, you'll find that honesty is not practical or not humiliating. See? And you'll be dishonest. Then you'll be shocked, and you'll say, I was not raised to do such a thing. So the reason you did was that in all your life, this is how most of us are raised, all your life, your sermons and moral training, you were nurturing the roots of sin within your moral life. The roots of sin, the pride, self-righteousness. This is true whether you grew up in a liberal moral environment or a conservative moral environment. The roots of evil are alive and well and protected underneath your moral behavior program. So, basically, that's my point. Yeah, look at the second paragraph under number two, sort of the middle of page 26. Edward says, when you're honest, not because it profits you or makes you feel better, but only when you're smitten with the beauty of the God who is truth and sincerity and faithfulness. It's when you come to love truth, telling not for your sake, but for God's sake and for its own sake. But it particularly grows by a faith sight of the glory of Christ and his salvation. You know, how does true honesty grow? It grows when I see him dying for me, keeping a promise he made. I want people to see Jesus Christ, you know, being faithful, keeping His promises, being a person of integrity, being a person of truth, but doing it as He's dying for me, so that on the one hand, it says, in a sense, in Christ, I'm a truth-teller. In Christ, I'm accepted. And if you're having trouble being a truth-teller, it's because you're not really believing in what He has done for you. That's at the root of it all. True honesty grows when I see Jesus dying for me. That's what destroys pride on the one hand, because He had to do this for me. That destroys pride, so I'm lost, that root of common virtue, but it also destroys fear on the other because he'd do this for me, though I was an enemy. Then he must value me infinitely. There's nothing I can do that will wear out his love for me. Then my heart's not restrained, but it's changed because the pride and the fear that are the root of common virtue are withered and replaced by the gospel of what Jesus did for me. If you want to see a perfect example of this, Thomas Chalmers, who was, by the way, steeped in Jonathan Edwards, has a very famous sermon called The Expulsive Power of a New Affection. And if you turn over to page 27, this is a long passage out of it. Look to the middle of the page. This is very important for preachers. He's talking about the importance of being motivated by gratitude for grace, not moral self-effort. In other words, being motivated by faith in what Christ has done. And then he says, why is this so important? Look at the middle of the page. It is seldom that any of our bad habits or flaws is disappear by a mere process of natural extinction. At least, it's very seldom that this is done through the instrumentality of reasoning or by the force of mental determination. But what cannot be destroyed can be dispossessed, may be dispossessed, and one taste may be made to give way to another and to lose its power entirely as the reigning affection of the mind. It is thus that the boy ceases at length to be a slave of his appetite, but it's always because a more mature taste has always brought it into subordination. centralized sensual pleasure because the isle of wealth has gotten the ascendancy. In other words, you just can't party all the time because you've got to go to work so you can make tons of money in Wall Street. The love of money can cease to have mastery over the heart because it's drawn into a world of ideology and politics, and he is now lorded over by a love of power. But there's not one of these transformations in which the heart is left without an object. Its desire for one particular object is conquered, but its desire to have some object is unconquerable. The only way to dispossess the heart of an old affection is by the expulsive power of a new one. It is only when admitted into the number of God's children through faith in Jesus Christ that the spirit of adoption is poured out on us. It is then that the heart, brought under the mastery of one great and predominant affection, is delivered from the tyranny of its former desires and the only way that deliverance is possible. Therefore, it is not enough. He wasn't speaking to preachers, but this he might as well have been. It is not enough to hold out to the world

it is not enough to come forth with a demonstration of the evanescent character of your enjoyments it's not enough to speak to the conscience of its follies rather try every legitimate method of finding access to for your to your hearts for the love of him who is greater than the world you know so he's really saying moralistic exhortation is never going to change you've got to find christ beautiful that's the reason by the way why the sermon can't just be information. Now let's apply that to David and Goliath. Turn over to the top of page 28. We talked about it several times, but now let me put some feet on it. What's the meaning of the narrative for us? Without reference to Christ, the story is usually preached like this. The bigger they come, the harder they fall. So if you go into your battles with faith in the Lord, you may not be real big and powerful in yourself. With God on your side, you can overcome giants. Again, I'm not being cruel that's that's why Chuck Swindoll preaches that's the way the average person will preach that text as soon as we ask how is David foreshadowing the work of his greater son we begin to see the same features of the story in a different light the story is telling us that the Israelites cannot go up against Goliath they can't do it they need a substitute when David goes in on their behalf he is not a full-grown man but a vulnerable and weak figure in other words by the way in Christ eccentric preaching in some ways rather than identifying you with David, where does it put you? It's putting you in the crowd behind David, saying you cannot go up against Goliath. See, the Chuck Swindoll approach to the text, which is maybe a little unfair to keep using his name in a negative way, his approach to the text is to say, you're David. You can get out there with faith and you can take it on. But actually, I think probably more fair to say, no, you're going to get slaughtered out there. You need somebody to go out there for you. They need a substitute. When David goes in on their behalf, he's not a full grown man. He's a vulnerable and weak figure. We talked about that. Now, if it's about Jesus, look to the second paragraph. If I read David and Goliath as basically giving me an example, the story is about me, I summons up the faith. We talked about this yesterday. If I read David and Goliath as basically showing me salvation through Christ, the story is about him. Until I see Jesus fought the real giant, sin, law, and death for me, I'll never have the courage to be able to fight ordinary giants in life like suffering disappointment. Now, how does that work? For example, how can I fight the giant of failure? Let's say

God is the giant of failure God will not abandon me.

persecution, People are stabbing you in the back and they're assassinating your character. Unless I can see him forgiving me on the cross, I won't be able to forgive others. Unless I see him forgiving me for falling asleep on him, I won't be able to stay awake for him. Unless I see that in Christ, because David went out there and was successful for me, I'm accepted by Christ, I can't deal with the lack of acceptance from other people. You're not going to be able to face the giants of your life until you see that Christ faced the real giants that can kill you for you. it and that's how you actually move from as I've said you integrate the moral example like Joseph running from sexual temptation by asking a few questions during the sermon well why can't we give it I mean a good example of this I mean if good friend of mine who was a pastor who gave into sexual temptation and had an affair and you know brought down you know it's just It's terrible. It always is for a pastor. But he told me it was interesting. People are always saying, why did you do it? And in his case, what he said was he didn't realize that as long as his children were home and he was going to all their soccer games and he was spending time walking with them, he got a tremendous amount of affirmation from his children. When his children went away to college, he felt he lost that affirmation and he couldn't handle it. He just felt empty, and he hadn't been getting it from his wife. He got into a relationship with a woman in counseling and she was giving him what he was missing and he went down. The sexual temptation almost never is just, I'm horny.

There are reasons actually for your sin. And the reasons at the bottom have to do with a lack of faith, a lack of commerce, orientation, feeding with your salvation. and therefore in the sermon you've got to take people to the saving work of Christ always get there now just to close with this little an example you know I pulled out some sermon notes this is not a very obviously full sermon I'm just going to give you about a seven minute sermon but I talked to some of you yesterday about this you know the place where Jesus he delays Jairus let me give you a kind of synopsis of a way to preach this yeah verse 35 me just read it read this to you this is not going to take long while Jesus was still speaking some men came from the house of Jairus the synagogue ruler your daughter is dead they said why bother the teacher anymore ignoring what they said Jesus told the synagogue ruler don't be afraid just believe he did not let anyone follow him except Peter James and John the brother James when they When they came to the home of the synagogue ruler, Jesus saw the commotion, with people crying and wailing loudly. He went in and said to them, Why all this commotion and wailing? The child is not dead, but asleep? And they laughed at him. After he put them out, he took the child's father and mother, and the disciples who were with him, and they went in where the child was. And he took her by the hand, and said to her, Talitha koum, which means, Little girl, I say to you, get up. And immediately, the girl stood up and walked around, she was twelve years old, and at this they were completely astonished, let anyone know about this and told them to give her something to eat now let's let's look at the moral issue Jesus timetable is not like ours one of the biggest problems we've got living in this world is that the Lord's the Lord delays you know Jairus comes to Jesus and says my little girl is dying and Jesus says okay I'll come with you I have to imagine this it's sort of like they're in the EMS truck, and the lights are flashing, and the sirens are going, and the disciples are really excited, because they say, this is going to be great, our Master is going to heal the little girl of a very prominent, wealthy family, everybody is going to know about that, there is definitely going to be probably some very, very good, economical and political fall-out for us, and this is going to be so exciting, so they're in the truck, and they're on their way, and this is the sort of thing books are written about, and suddenly Jesus says, stop the truck, in a sense. And he gets out and has this long conversation with this woman. I mean, it's like that. Because the woman, as you know, you know the story, you're demon students. I know you're not a congregation. The woman has touched him. He feels power go out from him. She's healed, but he gets her out and he starts to ask her questions and makes her talk to him and basically leads her into a public discipleship and public faith, a profession of faith in Christ. Meanwhile, Jairus is sitting there saying, I don't believe this. I don't believe this. And next thing you know, up comes the messengers from his home saying, don't trouble the teacher anymore, she's dead. And Jesus turns around and says, don't be afraid, just believe. Now what's going on here? Here's what's going on. And you're going to be surprised, Presbyterian ministers never do this. Presbyterian ministers are always saying to you, things are not relative. Things are not relative. Truth is not relative. Morality is not relative. Good and bad is not relative. But I'm going to tell you something that is really almost completely relative. You know, this is great, isn't it? That Presbyterian minister telling you there's something that's almost completely relative. What does it mean to be on time? What is late? I was reading a book that told me, cultural anthropologists said, that in Northern Europe, the question is, how late do you have to be before you owe an apology? When do you have to say, I'm sorry I'm late? if you're supposed to meet somebody at 10 o'clock, when do you get there and have to say, I'm sorry I'm late? And the cultural anthropologists say that probably 10 to 15 minutes in northern European cultures defines late. If you get there 10, 15 minutes, you have to say, I'm sorry I'm late. However, in Latin American countries, it's 30 to 45 minutes. You have to be 30 to 45 minutes late before you really feel like whether the person who's waiting feels that they have an apology coming, the person who made the person wait feels that they owe an apology. And this is the reason, by the way, in New York, there are lots and lots and lots and lots of situations in which Northern Europeans sit there, waiting for Latin Americans to do something that they never ever do.

You wait for a Latin American to come up, he comes up 30 minutes late, and if you're from the Northern European approach, he sits there waiting for something, he acts like nothing ever happened. However, the cultural anthropologists also say on the island of Yap in the South Sea, you have to be two to four hours late before you're considered late. Now, what's going on here is the messengers are coming up to Jairus and they're saying, it's too late.

And Jesus is turning to them and saying, no, it's not. You can't impose your time frames and your schedules on me. Now, here's the problem. If you get into a relationship with God, you're going to constantly find His agenda is not your agenda. You're going to constantly feel like he's putting you off, he's stiff-arming you. Things that you deserve, he's not giving you. Prayers that you are asking for, they're perfectly reasonable. He's just delaying and delaying and delaying and delaying, and it's too late. You cannot have a relationship with God without this constantly happening. You're going to constantly feel like his delays are unreasonable, inexplicable, and inexcusable. You're going to constantly be feeling like Jairus.

God is God

I will keep my promises, but I will not keep them hardly ever, hardly ever, in a way that seems timely to you. But now that's a big problem. That means that if you're a Christian, or if you even want to become a Christian, you have to realize that you can't work with this Lord without finding yourself constantly being delayed and constantly being told no, at least seemingly, to your prayers. How are you going to deal with that? How are you going to deal with the questionable delays of Jesus? How are you going to deal with the apparently unreasonable, inexplicable, what we would feel like, inexcusable delays, where you ask for prayer, you pray for someone, and horrible things happen, terrible things happen, and God certainly could have stopped it, just like Jerusalem, you could have easily gotten there in time, what are you doing? Why are you talking with her? She has a blood flow for 12 years, she's gonna be fine, leave her another couple hours, she hasn't died in 12 years, heal her later, my little girl's dying, and it just makes no sense. Now, what are we going to do? Now, as preachers, I'm coming out of my character for a minute. What are you going to say? You're going to say, but you have to see that Jairus did trust Jesus, and it all came out all right, so you just have to trust Jesus. Yeah, I guess so, but here's what I would suggest. I would suggest, in a way, if the Bible just said, you just have to trust me, just shut up and trust me. You know, it's almost like Jesus is saying that to Jairus. I'm not going to explain anything to you, you just have to trust me. But what's beautiful about the text is, in spite of the fact that Jesus, in a sense, says, I'm not going to explain anything to you, just trust me, the text bristles with insights and perspectives and helps for us. But they all have to do with His grace. Look at three things that will help you deal with the questionable delays of Jesus. Number one, the first thing is, look at the wisdom of Jesus. The nice thing about this text is that it shows us, as readers, something that the people inside the story couldn't possibly see. There are two things we see that the people inside the story can't see. Number one is we know that Jesus Christ can deal with the dead girl just as easily as he can deal with the sick girl. There is really no issue for that. In other words, time is not the essence with this little girl. Jairus doesn't know that, nobody else does, having seen the thing but on the inside they don't know that and what's intriguing is from our standpoint here's a chronically ill woman and here's a deathly ill girl you go to the deathly ill girl but the fact of the matter is the opportunity to turn a superstitious person who just had a physical healing into a woman who becomes a disciple who has a personal relationship with Christ that lasts for all eternity that was actually the acute need not the little

And if right now you're in a situation where you're being asked to wait or where you're in a situation where it seems like God is turning down your prayers, you are lacking some information. Jesus will always give you what you would have prayed for if you knew everything he knows. So the first thing is remember the wisdom of Jesus, but that won't be enough. That won't be enough. You're not going to be able to handle the delays. You're not going to be able to handle the unanswered prayers just simply by saying, yes, I've really got to try, I've really got to try like Jairus. I've got to remember that I don't know everything. Look at the grace of Jesus. Look at it on the surface and look at it down deep. On the surface, one of the things that's so interesting, Dick Lucas, in his exposition of this part of Mark, he says, you know, there's something really amazing happening here. Contrast the synagogue ruler with the woman. The woman believes poorly. Remember? Do you remember enough about it? She just touches him. She's sort of like superstitious. She just wants to touch the hem of his garment. She doesn't realize that you need faith. sees him as a miracle worker. She believes poorly and she instantly gets attention. Jairus believes very well. He comes and he bows to Jesus. He's not like Nicodemus, who's also a kind of prominent person who comes at night and is afraid to let anybody see him dealing with it and he doesn't want the social ramifications of what will happen if everybody in his social class sees him coming to Jesus. I mean, Jairus, in a sense, believes very well and his little girl dies. The woman is a woman. Here's a man. The woman is unclean, you know, blood flow. The man is a synagogue ruler. And here's what Dick Lucas says. He says, he says, Jesus takes the time to comfort and teach an unclean woman with a chronic problem, causing a male church leader in urgent need to wait. And here's what Lucas says. And here's what I'm going to tell you. You have a picture of the gospel right here.

And he reverses, you know, the disciples say, you should be going after the prominent people and healing the little girl. Instead, he sits down with an unclean woman who's destitute, you know, who's superstitious, and he deals with her. You're actually getting a picture of how God always does salvation and how he always does grace. He's not just wise, he's also gracious. But here's what I really want you to see. He goes into the little girl. Bill Lane, in his commentary, says something that really has touched my heart. And he says to the little girl, Talitha come- the word Talitha is a diminutive for girl, which in Aramaic, it means little girl, but what Bill Lane says, the thing we don't seem to realize when we do our translations is, this was a pet name- this is not- when you say, little girl is the name that I could say to somebody I don't know, right? I see an eight-year-old come out saying, little girl, little girl- he says well, that's literally- Talitha means little girl- but it was actually- it was the diminutive- it was the pet name- honey. And get up is simply what you would say to a child in the morning. And what Jesus Christ is doing here is he's sitting down next to her and he's grabbing her by the hand. And he's saying, honey, it's time to get up. As if he was her father. Waking her up in the morning. And what do we learn here? We learn two things. First thing we learn is, look at the power. You don't see Jesus Christ saying, stand back. Death is a big thing, but I can handle it. No. He just, he like, he like reaches down and he just pulls her right up through death. Death itself, there's no greater enemy in the world. There's no greater power. Just reaches down and pulls her right up and says, up, see Daisy, honey, it's time to get up. So look at the power, but also look at the tenderness. But here's what's so intriguing. Why can he just lift her up through that? He's really saying, He is saying that if I have you by my hand, then even death itself is nothing but a good night's sleep. If you're with me, nothing can hold you back. Well, here's what I want you to see. Why was he able to hold her by the hand and just bring her up right through death? Because you see, when he was on the cross, he lost his father's hand. In the garden, he asked for something, and he was turned down. He said, let this cup pass from me, and he was turned down. On the cross, nobody, his father did not reach down and say, I'm just going to, you know, take you away from all this. The reason Jesus Christ can be this gracious and this kind, the reason that he can go to the weak and he can go to the marginal and he can go to the outsider, the reason he's able to just lift her up right out of death and hold on to her like that, is simply because he actually lost his father's hand. That's why we have his hand. Now he's the true parent we all need. Honey, time to get up. But it's because he lost the true parent on the cross. And I don't think until... Here's the final question that this story, I think, gives me to deal with my heart when I can't handle the delays of God. Why would you want to hurry somebody like this? He's absolutely wise. He's unbelievably tender. He's incredibly gracious. And he actually lost his father's hand We have his hand He's the true parent we need Honey, it's time to get up We have the father's hand Because he lost the father's hand Why would you want to hurry Somebody who loves you like that? Why would you want to do that? Until I see him loving me like that.

Love God with, you know, see, what Dick Lucas does, tie in how he deals with this woman and Jairus to the cross and the way in which he brings salvation. Tie in how he's able to overcome death of this little girl because he himself experienced the ultimate death on the cross. And look at that until your heart is melted into saying, why would I want to hurry somebody like this? If he loves me like that, if he loves me that wisely and that completely, I can trust him. and that will deal with the questionable delays. That will deal with the heart. Now what did I just do there? I tried to go not just and say, look at Jairus, look at what Jesus says, just believe, realize that Jesus is wise, hold on, be committed to him. That's all right to preach it that way and in the past I have preached it that way. But what I did was by analogy, by what Sidney Greidanus would call analogy, I tried to tie in what he did what he did for us salvifically and go after the heart reasons that we have a tendency to not, you know, not be able to handle delays? You know why we can't handle delays? I'll tell you why we can't handle delays. Because of works righteousness. We believe God owes us. We can't handle delays because we believe I've worked hard, I've been going to church, I've been doing the right thing, and therefore God owes me. And unless you take that sense of self-righteousness out, you're never going to be able

Jairus believes well and is delayed. The woman believes poorly and gets an instant gratification. Why? Because Jesus Christ is a Lord of grace. His favor is sheerly based on grace. It has nothing to do with pedigree or merit. And until you comb out self-righteousness, you're not going to be able to handle delays. Why are we so mad? Because God is not doing what I know He needs to be doing. That's It's pride that tells me, I know how the universe ought to go, and I'm afraid he's not going to get it right. And it's pride saying, he owes me. I've worked very hard. Until you get rid of pride, you are going to be decimated, decimated by the misery of the fact that your time schedule and his time schedule is not right. At the bottom, what you need to handle the delays of God is, you know, believe the gospel. Do you see how that works? So, I mean, that was, that's your first introduction. What I'm going to do this afternoon, after the last session of the day, I'm going to get into specific strategies for writing application based on the principles I laid out here.
