Read with me the passage on which the teaching is based. It's Mark 11, 1 to 11, and a part of John chapter 2, verse 19 to 21. As they approached Jerusalem and came to Bethphage and Bethany at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples, saying to them, Go to the village ahead of you. Just as you enter it, you will find a colt tied there, which no one has ever ridden. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you, why are you doing this? Tell him, the Lord needs it, and will send it back here shortly. They went and found a colt outside in the street, tied at a doorway, and as they untied it, some people standing there asked, what are you doing untying that colt? They answered as Jesus had told them to, and the people let them go. When they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks over it, he sat on it. Many people spread their cloaks on the road, while others spread branches they had cut in the fields. Those who went ahead and those who followed shouted, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David. Hosanna in the highest. Jesus entered Jerusalem and went to the temple. He looked around at everything, but since it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelve. And later he does go to the temple, and after he has thrown the money changers out of the temple, he is asked, By what authority have you done this? And Jesus answered them, Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days. The Jews replied, It has taken forty-six years to build this temple, were going to raise it in three days, but the temple he had spoken of was his body. This is God's word. Now, there's two basic ways to approach the Easter issue, the resurrection. One of the things you can do is talk about or press that it happened. You can discuss, us, how do we know it happened? What are the evidences that it happened? And the other approach is to talk about why it happened. What does it mean? One of the things that satisfied me, although it still kind of surprises me, is that over the years, this is, I realize, is the 26th year I've been a minister preaching Easter sermons, and there's been a change. It's difficult to know quite what these words modern and postmodern mean. You know, nobody can quite define them, but everybody's using them. And you get the gist of them. The modern age, modern people, were much more concerned about science, had much more of a mechanistic view of the universe. And modern people's problem with the resurrection went like this. Impossible. Against the laws of nature. Impossible. Postmodern people don't have as mechanistic a view of the universe. fluid view of the universe. And so the idea of someone being raised from the dead, post-modern people, that doesn't seem to bend them out of shape. They say, resurrection? Whatever. But what does that mean to me? So what? So the modern person says, resurrection impossible. And the post-modern person says, resurrection? So what? So what's that mean? What difference does that make to me? And I think it probably, it's better to talk about the second one. And I think more valid each year, is to ask the question, what does it mean? So what? If there was a resurrection, what does it mean? What are the results? What difference does it make? Now, the passage we've got in front of us tells us, even though it's not about the resurrection, though it is, this is, of course, the famous triumphal entry. Somebody's going to say, you know, on Palm Sunday, you preached on a Good Friday text, and on Easter, you preached on a Palm Sunday text. Well, I'm Presbyterian. We've never really been comfortable with a church liturgical but what you have here is you have a foreshadowing of three themes, foreshadowing of three themes in this text in a very vivid and kind of fun ways that are themes of the Resurrection. The Resurrection means three things. It means the redemption of all history. It means the renewal of all nature. And it means the removal of all temples. Their healing and redemption of all history, the renewal of all nature Now, I know those topic headings are rather opaque, so let me explain them. First of all, though, the redemption of all history. In verse 7, it says, When they brought him the colt, he sat on it and rode in. Now, this is Jesus Christ riding in to Jerusalem on a little young donkey is a deeply ironic statement. Actually, quite postmodern in many ways. here's why it was so ironic and paradoxical. You know, for the weeks up to this moment, Jesus has been upsetting his disciples because his disciples say, you're the Messiah. You're the king. You're going to bring the kingdom, are you not? And Jesus says yes. And then he says, yes, I'm going to suffer. I'm going to be mocked. I'm going to be tortured. I'm going to be killed. And the disciples are saying, how in this world are you talking about? How can this be? kingdom and suffer and die and be weak? How can you do this? So then Jesus says, tomorrow we're going into Jerusalem and I'm going to ride in. I'm not going to walk in. He's going to ride in. And the disciples are saying, all right, this is more like it. You ride in because you're a dignitary, at least, or you ride in because you're a conquering king, you see. But then he chooses Moses, to ride in on a little ass on the most unlikely possible steed. You know, in other words, who rides on the little ass? The comic relief, you know? Not the knight Sancho Panza rides in, you see. And so what is Jesus saying? He's saying, for anyone who's really listening, not that anybody back at that moment was, he is saying, I am going to bring the kingdom, but the vehicle for my kingdom the vehicle for my victory is my suffering and my weakness and my death just as this little ass is going to take me to Jerusalem so the vehicle for my kingdom is my weakness and my suffering now this is the resurrection theme and this is the first thing the first thing the resurrection means is the resurrection doesn't just get you away from weakness and suffering it subsumes it your weakness and suffering and takes it up into the great thing that God's making you. Let's look at Jesus for a minute. For example, Hebrews 4.14. Let us hold firmly to the faith, says the writer, for we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us in our weakness, but we have one who has been tempted and tried in every way as we, yet without sin. Therefore, let us approach the throne of grace with confidence, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. Now listen. What does it mean that Jesus is resurrected? The resurrection does not deal with evil and suffering like a time machine. Remember Back to the Future? How do you deal with evil and suffering? You go back and you change things so it's as if it never happened. Ah, but here's the genius now. The resurrection does not make the death of Jesus happen. But rather, what's that saying? Because of his suffering, and because of his weakness, and because of his temptations, and because of his excruciating pain, he is infinitely more to us than he would have been otherwise. He's infinitely greater to us. When Jesus shows up after his resurrection, and he shows himself to his disciples in his glorified resurrection body, has it ever amazed you, like it's been amazing me all this week, that in his glorified resurrected body his wounds are still there. You can still put your fingers through them. What is this? You know, as C.S. Lewis once said, the reason Christianity must be true is nobody would have made this up. When you think, if you were inventing a religion, you wipe out all that. You wipe it out. You say, I want to fix things so it never happened. And yet, the wounds make Jesus more glorious and more wonderful than if he'd never had them. Isn't that right? His wounds and his suffering have been taken up into the greater glory. The greater glory that he has because he suffered. Now, let's, what this means. Now, we have to apply this. Let's apply it. First of all, let's apply it cosmically. I don't want to spend too much time on it, but it's important. It's the kind of thing that comes up in our questions and answers all the time. Where did evil come from? And the Bible says it's a mystery. The Bible says God is not the author of evil. God does not ordain evil. It was not his will for there to be injustice. Not his will to be death and disease. Not his will to be oppression and violence in the world. It wasn't his will. He didn't ordain that. And everybody says, oh, okay, all right. accept that, there's a great danger. And the danger is now you look at God as if evil has handcuffed him. Poor God. You know, he built this world and it's never going to be as great as he wanted it to be. It's sort of second best. We're very grateful that somehow through the cross and the resurrection he salvaged part of it. You know, but it's never going to be everything he wanted it to be. But here's the greatness of God. You know, in Matthew 19, 28, Jesus talks about the restoration of all things. Remember the palingenesia, if you were here back in the, whenever it was, we talked about that. He says, someday, Jesus, God said, is not going to just resurrect our bodies, but resurrect the universe. Someday, the whole world will be restored to perfection. But, now think with me. A restored to perfect world is going to be infinitely greater than a perfect world that was never anything but perfect. A restored-to-perfection world is going to be infinitely greater than a world that was always perfect and never anything but perfect. Why? I'll tell you why. In a world that had never been anything but perfect, there would never have been such a thing as bravery. There would never have been such a thing as sacrifice, nobility, faithfulness to a friend in spite of death, love in spite of death. There would never have been cross. There would never have been resurrection. Resurrection would never have been healing. There would never have been joy beyond hope. and here's the greatness of God. God says, Evil, every evil act against your joy, against my people, against my world, and against my glory, in the end will accomplish nothing but make your joy, my people, my world, and my glory more high and more beautiful and more rich and more deep than it would have been otherwise. But let's get personal. This is what it means. Look at the stuff that's been done to you. Look at your wounds. Look at the stuff that you've done that have inflicted wounds on you. Here's the greatness of what this promise is. The Bible is not simply saying that someday God's going to snap his fingers and it's going to be as if none of it ever happened. Yes, it's true that everything about your life that was sad is going to come untrue. And yet it will be greater for having once been sad. Your wounds will be taken up into the greatness of what God's making you. And it will make you greater than if it had never happened. Even the things you've done wrong. I mean, I can even see it... I mean, Kathy and I talk about this all the time, and it's in a sense our little secret how it works out, but I can just tell you the fact of it. And that is I've done some awful things to myself, just like you have. I've done some very bad things to myself. I've put some terrible scars in myself. And I never should have done it, and I wish I hadn't done it. and the scars are never really going to go away, it seems like, at least in this life, and yet they've already been taken up because I couldn't possibly be a minister in New York City if those things hadn't happened. You know there's that famous line in the hymn Let Live On, Let Live On, O King Eternal. There's a hymn called that and it has a line in it where it talks about Jesus Christ and it says, Rich wounds yet visible above. in beauty glorified. You know, even in this life some of you can see this. Can't you see it? That your wounds are being taken up into the glory of what God's making you? Can't you see it? Can't you see that he's not getting rid of your hurt but he's turning the hurt into wisdom? He's not getting rid of your sin but he's turning the sin into humility? He's not getting rid of these things. He's spinning them into gold. He's weaving them into something greater. When it says in Revelation 7 In Revelation 21, he's going to wipe away every tear from your eyes. What does that mean? Oh, it sounds great, doesn't it? But it doesn't just mean he's going to stop you crying at the moment. It means he's going to wipe away every tear you've ever, ever wept. And you say, how can he do that? It's too late. No, it's not. I mean, I'm struggling for images, but every tear that you've ever wept, every hurt, it's going to be like a diamond on your life or on somebody else's life or in the universe in some way. Jesus' resurrection does not mean that we will not suffer. It means that when we suffer, thinking of Him, looking to Him, relying on Him, being melted and rejoicing in what He's done, when we... Resurrection doesn't mean we're not going to suffer, but that when we suffer like that, we're going to become like Him. We're going to become something infinitely greater than if we never had it. The resurrection means the redemption of all your history, all of your history, everything, That's why we already sang it tonight, didn't you? I don't know. I missed the very beginning. Didn't you sing, Ours the cross, the graves, the skies, right? Isn't that in Christ the Lord is risen? What does that mean? Ours the cross, the grave. Yes, every cross, every grave, every hurt, every tear, it's ours. It's working for us. It will. That's what the resurrection means. So the first thing redeems all of history. The second thing the resurrection means is it renews all of nature. There's a couple of really fun references in here. One of the things is you notice that when they say, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, and blessed is the coming kingdom of our father David, and they're waving branches, right? Palms. Why? Is it, you know, sort of an ancient form of air conditioning? After all, this is an arid climate. No. When they say, I wonder whether you're the Messiah, bringing the kingdom of our father David, what they're saying is that when the true king comes back, the divine king comes back, he's going to make everything right. There's going to be a golden age like unto but infinitely greater than the golden age when our father David was ruling. Everything is going to be healed. Everything is going to be healed, not just spiritually, not just politically, not just socially, but physically, everything. Because the Bible says in Psalm 96, the trees of the wood will sing for joy before the Lord, for he comes to judge the earth. And Isaiah 55 says, the mountains and hills will burst into song before him and all the trees of the field will clap their hands. The trees will dance, which means nature will be healed. And here's another little reference. Notice that Jesus Christ deliberately picks a little donkey never been ridden. See that in verse 2? No one has ever ridden. Now, you know, we're real city slickers. I'll tell you, we are city slickers. You know why? We read by that, and nobody went, gee, you know why? Because, you know, we don't ride. Let me ask you a question. If you know anything about animals, if you live on a farm or on a ranch or something like that, what happens the very first time you jump onto a horse or a donkey or an ass or anything that's never been ridden before? What happens the very first time you jump on? What does the animal do? Does the animal say, which way? No, of course, the animal bucks you off. Because there's this terrible term we use, but the term is, an animal has to be broken before it'll take a human rider. Well, And the reason for that is because nature is already broken. And yet the Bible tells us that when the true king comes back, the wolf will lie down with the lamb, the leopard will lie down with the goat, the calf and the lion and the yearling together, and a little child will lead them all. And they will neither harm nor destroy on all my holy mountain, for the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Hmm. Jesus Christ is showing himself to be the Lord of nature, the Lord of the ocean. Remember the Lord of the storm who says, Peace be still? The little animal immediately knows its master. You know, the gap between man and beast is instantly bridged. And what we have here with the palms and what we have here with the little donkey and so on is just simply this. The resurrection is not just about, at all, cleansing the soul. The resurrection is the deepest affirmation that any religion makes to the physical world, the human body, and material reality. The resurrection says God cares about the body. God loves the body. Look, the son of God gets a body, and then he dies not just to save our souls, but to resurrect and renew our bodies. and he's going to... That means that God is against poverty, he's against injustice, he's against sickness, he's against death. He's against it. He hates it. Because he loves creation, because he loves matter and there has never ever been a religion that I know of and I've thought about this a lot. I mean, you say, well, yeah, it's easy for you to say as a Christian, well, let's just go and compare because Eastern religions say

real. It's an illusion. And Western religions have always said physical reality is not important. The important thing is the soul. And the Bible says God invented this body and the soul, and he's redeeming both the body and the soul. And as Christians, what does the resurrection mean? Two things. Practically, then move on to the last point here. The resurrection means, since God is renewing all of nature, on the one hand, hate what's wrong with nature. where did the idea come from that we should fight poverty we should fight slavery we should fight oppression we should fight injustice we should fight violence we should fight hunger where did the idea come from that we should eliminate it you know for centuries and centuries everybody said who's going to eliminate that's ridiculous we'll never overcome you just make your way the best you can where did it come from I personally believe and this is an opinion honest you say isn't everything Well, I try to give you pretty much what I would die for. But I give you an opinion here. I won't die for this. But, you know, where did the idea of what we call today liberalism come from? That we need to do something about disease and suffering and injustice. Where did it come from? It came out of the Christian West. And it is fueled by the hope of the resurrection. Why else would you tackle these things? Unless you believed in the resurrection, that you believe that eventually you're going to win. and I really wonder how long the optimism and the joy of what I just, you know, of liberal social action, I wonder how long can live without a hope for the resurrection. So on the one hand, Christians, the resurrection means Christians, you should be so engaged in what Hope for New York does, for example. You should be so engaged. I'm not saying this just because you're about to take an offering. It just was there, you know, it just came to my mind. I realized it was supposed to be so engaged in those needs. We don't see the soul as more important than the body. The resurrection means it's not, necessarily. Because they're going to go together. Boy, is there any religion that can say that? There are philosophies that say that there is no soul, that the body is all you've got, this world is all there is. And you've got religions that say, oh no, no, no, the soul and the spirit are more important. The resurrection gives you a kind of balance. So on the one hand, Christians should be deeply engaged in the needs of the world. On the other hand, Christians ought to be the first ones to throw a party. You know why? You know, Jesus' first miracle was to create an incredible amount of really great wine to keep a party going longer. And you can say, huh, why not your first miracle, like raise somebody from the dead, you know, feed somebody who's hungry, heal a leper. No, he kept the party going. And I'll tell you why. The resurrection means God's love matters. matter. God loves this creation. Jesus ate a fish. Think about this. Jesus, after the resurrection, walks into the room. His disciples say, oh my word, you know, who are you? Are you a ghost? He says, I'm not a ghost. Give me something to eat. And he gave them something to eat. Now here's what I want to know. You and I eat because we have to. Why did he eat? Because he wanted to. Why would he want to eat? He loves matter. Listen, if you believe in the resurrection, go out tonight and eat something

drinks something really fine, hugs someone really well. The trees are going to dance when he comes back. They're going to dance. Our feet aren't going to float six feet over the pavement. We're going to dance in the kingdom of God. We're going to sing in the kingdom of God. And therefore Christians should be of all people most festive. And yet Christians should be of all people most serious about the suffering and the brokenness of this world. Lastly, but look what the resurrection means. What? The resurrection? First of all, it's the healing of all your history. Secondly, it's the renewal of all of nature. But thirdly, it's the removal of all temples. Jesus Christ comes into the city, and look at verse 11. Where does he go when he does Palm Sunday? Where does he go? He goes to the temple. His death and resurrection is supremely about the temple. And later on, he makes this incredible statement, which gets him killed. Because Matthew 26, 61 tells us that at his trial, This is the charge that stuck. They said, he says that he will destroy the temple and build it back in three days. He says he's going to do away with the temple. But the temple he spoke of was his body. This was a radical statement, and here's why. Every country, every culture in the world at that time had temples. They all had temples. Why? Because every culture and every society believed two things. Every temple has two premises, two presuppositions. First of all, temple means there's a God. There's a divine. There's something out there behind nature that we need to be in touch with. There's the ultimate, the transcendent. But the second thing the temple means is that you can't just talk to it. You can't just say, hey, ultimate. You can't just connect. There's a gap between us that needs to be mediated. or a chasm that needs to be bridged. And every temple was different, of course, because every religion was different. And you had different mediatorial systems. You had priests, and you had sacrifices, and you had offerings. Buddha, when he died, the very last thing he said was, strive without ceasing. And he was talking about enlightenment, nirvana. That's how Buddhism, you know, gets across the gap. But everybody has agreed. Everyone has agreed. You can't just talk and say, hey, ultimate out there. Hey, divine transcendent. That there was something, there's something separating us. You know, Lewis, C.S. Lewis put it in a very famous sermon that he preached to Oxford undergraduates in the 40s. I mean, these aren't primitive ancient people going to temples, and yet, you see, this was a universal, the way he puts it you can see why all of us understand this at some level. In this famous sermon he says this, our lifelong nostalgia, our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off to be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside. This is not a neurotic fantasy. It's the truest index of the human condition. The sense that in this universe we are estranged, the longing to be acknowledged, to meet with some response, to bridge some chasm that yawns between us and that reality. This is the inconsolable secret of every soul. the temple meant we know there's something out there and there's something keeping us away and there needs to be someone or something to bridge the gap and when Jesus Christ says tear down this temple you don't need it anymore because after three days I'll give you a new temple and that temple is my body my resurrected body what does he mean? well he means this to say he's replacing the temple number one he's saying I am the God you're trying to reach What was in the temple? The presence of God. Read the Old Testament. Read the Hebrew Scriptures. Whenever the temple was built, down comes the Shekinah glory of God. When the glory of God, when the Godhead comes down into the temple, the presence of God, nobody can even stand on their two feet. They jump out. When the presence of God comes down on Mount Sinai, it's like a hurricane and a tornado and an earthquake all wrapped up in one,

When Moses says, can I see you? Can I see your royal Shekinah glory presence? God says, no, it'll kill you. And that means, number one, when Jesus says, I am the temple, my body's the temple, what he is saying is, the Godhead fills my body the way the Shekinah glory fills the temple. I am the God. I am the God you're seeking. But that's not all. Because he doesn't just say, I'm God. He says, I'm the temple. which means he's saying, number one, I'm the God you seek, but number two, I am the bridge across the gap. What he is saying is, look, every other religion says, you provide the bridge, you provide the priests, you provide the sacrifices, you provide the striving, you provide the mediatorial system. But he says, I've got good news. The gospel is the real God is providing the sacrifice. Tear down my body, and you'll see that my death is the ultimate sacrifice. Raise up my body and you'll see that I am the ultimate priest that opens the door into the presence of God. I am the sacrifice to end all sacrifices, the priest to end all priests, the mediatorial system to end all mediatorial systems, the temple to end all temples. And what he's saying is through me, you can come right into the presence of the infinite. The resurrection means intimacy from which we feel estranged, from which we feel, you see, cut off. Now, there's somebody out there saying, well, you know, I'm not a primitive person. Primitive people believe in temples and incense and hocus-pocus. But I'm a modern person. And I believe you can just talk to God. You can just go right to God. That is not a modern idea. That is a Christian idea. That never would have occurred to the world. It came into the world through Christianity. Christianity was so radical. It was the first religion. It had no sacrifices. It had no temples. They met in homes. What kind of religion is this? The most radical religion possible. Jesus Christ has lived the life you should have lived, died the death you should have died. He's the sacrifice. He is the high priest. He has striven. He strived without ceasing. And now Jesus says, because of what I have done for you, you can go right in. That's a Christian idea. And if you are a modern person saying, well, I just like to talk to God. I don't believe the You know the reason why your chatting with God has not changed you, hasn't revolutionized your life, hasn't turned you inside out, hasn't filled you with this incredible love that you can't stop thinking about? You know why it hasn't? Because you have, from Christianity, you have smuggled out, you have grasped, with all due respect, you have grasped the idea of not needing a temple. But you haven't accepted the gospel story of the temple replacement. And as a result, you're not moved and amazed by who he is and what he has done for you, and therefore your life is not turned inside out. What the resurrection means is you can go right in. Christian friends, I got this out of the diary or a journal of George Whitefield. He's a great Anglican. He was a preacher and a pastor in the 18th century, and he wrote this in his diary one night, and what he said was this. He says, last night I was praying and I felt the love of God poured out into my soul with such immediacy that I couldn't get to sleep. I had to ask him to shield me so I could get some rest. When's the last time that happened to you? Why doesn't it happen to you? It's not Jesus' fault. He opened the way in. The resurrection means that can happen to you. take hold of it. What does the resurrection mean? It means all, even the bad things in your life and history are being redeemed into something great. It means all of nature, even the most broken parts, there's hope for them. And it means you can go right in, intimacy with the infinite. So, so what? The resurrection, so what? So there, he is risen. Let us pray. We thank you, Father, for giving us a time to consider the greatness of what your son did when he rose from the dead. Death in vain forbids him rise. And therefore, we can say, ours the cross, the grave, the skies. We bless your name for the resurrection. We ask that you would let it fill us with the greatness that it can fill us with. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.