I'd like to read to you our text on which the teaching is based this morning. It's Jeremiah chapter 2. We began looking at this chapter last week. This is the first of Jeremiah's sermons to the people of Judah. It's on the subject of sin, and we looked at the first part of the chapter and the sermon last week, and we'll look at the rest this week. Jeremiah 2, verses 19 to 32.

Indeed, on every high hill and under every spreading tree you lay down as a prostitute, I had planted you like a choice vine of sound and reliable stock. How then did you turn against me into a corrupt wild vine? Although you wash yourself with soda and use an abundance of soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord, the sovereign Lord. How can you say, I am not defiled, I have not run after the bales? See how you behaved in the valley. Consider what you have done. You are a swift she-camel running here and there, a wild donkey accustomed to the desert, sniffing the wind in her craving, in her heat who can restrain her. Any males that pursue her need not tire themselves. At mating time they will find her. Do not run until your feet are bare and your throat is dry. But you said, It's no use. I love foreign gods, and I must go after them. As a thief is disgraced when he is caught,

They, their kings and their officials, their priests and their prophets, they say to wood, you are my father, and to stone, you gave me birth. They have turned their backs to me and not their faces, yet when they are in trouble they say, come and save us. Where then are the gods you made for yourselves? Let them come if they can save you when you are in trouble. For you have as many gods as you have towns, O Judah. Why do you bring charges against me? You have all rebelled against me, declares the Lord. Your people. They did not respond to correction. Your sword has devoured your prophets like a ravening lion. You of this generation consider the word of the Lord. Have I been a desert to Israel or a land of great darkness? Why do my people say we are free to roam? We will come to you no more. Does a maiden forget her jewelry, a bride her wedding ornaments? Yet my people have forgotten me. Days without number. This is God's word.

Now, we started looking at this last week. This is a very modern situation into which Jeremiah is speaking because his country, his society was literally falling apart. It was falling apart politically and it was falling apart psychologically and socially and culturally. And everybody was asking, what's wrong? And the answer of the sermon, the answer of God through Jeremiah was, it's not the economy's stupid, it's sin. And he began, we looked at this last week, first talking about the character of sin. And the character of sin that we saw last week is beautifully summed up in a little statement by Dorothy Sayers, in which she defines sin as a deep interior dislocation of the soul. A deep interior dislocation of the soul. It's a wonderful little phrase. When a hip or a bone of any sort is dislocated, what is that? What's the problem? It's off-center. It's not centered at the spot it should be. And as a result, it wreaks tremendous havoc. The muscles, the tissue, there's all this cutting and grinding, you see, and there's tremendous damage being done. And it's in pain. Your hip doesn't work. You can't walk. You can't move your arm.

Sin is a dislocation of the soul. The soul should be centered on God. If there is a God, we saw last week, if there is a God, then he'd be the great creator and everything in our life should revolve around him, should center on him. But we said sin is the demand of the heart that everything, including God, revolve around me, my happiness, my goals, my agenda, what makes me comfortable. That's sin, a dislocation of the soul. And all of our problems come from our unwillingness to center on him because we do not want to lose control. And whatever we center on controls us. So we say we have no awe of him, we don't center on him. Now, that was last week, the character sin. Today we're going to look at the consequences. What actually happens? What are the effects? What are the things that actually happen when we do that? And the effects, of course, are terribly drastic. You see, right here in the beginning of this marvelous passage, God says, your wickedness will punish you. Your backsliding will rebuke you. You see that? Look. He says, I won't have to do it. Your wickedness will punish you. Your backsliding will rebuke you. When you tell a child, don't play with the toy that way or it'll break. You know the child loves the toy. Dear, don't do that. You're breaking the rules and you'll break the toy. What if the child continues to sin against what you said? What the child continues to do differently than what he was told and the toy breaks and he's in tears. What does the parent do? You don't have anything else you have to do. He brought the punishment. His wickedness punished him. His backsliding rebuked him, you see. It already happened. There's not much else you have to do because, you see, he is saying in verse 19, sin brings its own consequences.

If you disobey the word of God, the Bible says, that will be enough. You'll break your heart. Life you'll break your relationships you'll break your soul terrible consequences now what are those consequences how do we break things how does everything fall apart things fall apart says the novel that's right because of sin now what are the consequences and there are actually two in this particular passage there's two that are mentioned and they're mentioned under a wonderful image, a wonderful new metaphor, and that metaphor is this. God, in a penetrating way, says that sin leads us to fall in love with other gods. In other words, we have lover gods.

We have gods, we have idols with whom we fall in love with. We have lover gods, and those lover Lover gods will always do two things. They'll always have two effects on us. They will enslave us and they will leave us empty. They will enslave us and they will leave us empty. Now let's take a look at that. They will enslave us and leave us empty. Your lover gods, on the one hand, they bring about a bondage and on the other hand, they bring about radical disappointment, complete emptiness. First of all, verse 23, 24, and 25, how can you say I am not defiled. I have not run after the bales. See, the bales are idols. See how you behaved in the valley. Consider what you've done. You're a swift she-camel running here and there, a wild donkey accustomed to the desert, sniffing the wind in her craving, in her heat who can restrain her. Any males that pursue her need not tire themselves. At mating times they will find her. Do not run until your feet are bare and your throat is dry. But you said, it's no use. I love foreign gods. I must go after them. What do we learn here? There's an image that God uses to these desert dwellers who understood animals very well. They lived with the animals. Their livelihood depended on their animals. Their lives depended on the animals. And here's one thing they knew, that when an animal got into the mating season, there was no stopping that animal. The picture is of an animal in the grip of craving, in the grip of a foundational instinct. What are we learning here? The first thing we learn is sort of a general thing under this subject of slavery. First of all, sin has a power to enslave that we hide from ourselves. You notice? God says, in the beginning, you say, I am not defiled. There's nothing wrong with me, but in the end of that two verses, do you see what he says? It's no use. I must go after them. And the first thing we're being taught here is that sin brings a slavery, sin has a power over you that you will, in the beginning, you'll say, it's not true, I'm not defiled, this isn't a problem, this isn't a problem, but in the end you'll say, it's no use. If you deny the power of sin in your life, eventually you'll be brought to despair. See, take a look, it says, how can you say I am not defiled? There was a Time magazine article back in August. I think it was the August 15th edition. And it was on adultery and fidelity. And here was the point of the magazine article. The point of the article was to say, you know what? Marriage doesn't fit us. We're not built to be faithful to one person all of our lives. It's not natural. Now, what's behind that? Behind the scholarship, you know what I hear? I hear a guy wanting to break a promise to his wife he made many years ago to be faithful and saying, you know, I'm not defiled.

It's just not natural. It's just the way I am. Marriage doesn't fit me. I am not defiled. I'm not in the power of sin, as I'm now breaking my promise. I'm not in the grip of a lust. Oh, no. It's just as I'm just being true to who I am. Him. God says, if you deny the power of sin early on in your life, rationalizing it, saying, I am not defiled, in the end you'll be brought to despair. Can't you see this? Can't you see the power of sin in your life? Listen, you who are married, you should certainly know. You know, before you get married, you're continually told by people about your faults. You're told that you're picky, or you're sensitive, or you're obsessive, or you're kind of a coward here, or you're kind of selfish or you have a trouble with your temper or you tend to hold grudges. And over the years, you've seen these things and people have pointed them out to you, but you've always said, I am not defiled. That's not such a big problem. I could change if I really had to. And then you get married.

If there's anybody in this room who ought to know about the power of sin, it should be the people who are married or have been married. Why don't you know? You should know why. These things create problems for you and you see how strong they are. You say, okay, honey, I'll change. And you're right back into it. How many times, you don't have to be married to see this, you make your resolutions. You say, I'll never do that again. And you do it. I won't lose my temper the way I used to. I won't stay in this habit. I won't give in to fears. You think you're sincere. You are sincere. And you can't stop. Don't you see the power of sin in your life? Paul says, the Apostle Paul, Paul, he says, the good that I would, I do not. And that which I would not, I do. Now, are you more compassionate than Paul? Are you more, have more integrity than Paul? You have more of a self, sense of self-sacrifice than Paul? Are you a better person than Paul? But he admits it. Can't you see it? If you start out denying it, I'm not defiled, you'll end up saying it's no use. Eventually you'll see that there is a power in you that is beyond you. You can spend a lot of time rationalizing it. You can take courses in both psychology and sociology to do everything to redefine sin

in such a way that we're able to say we're not defiled, but in the end we'll say it's no use. Here's what's so interesting about these three verses. It doesn't just tell us that sin is an enslaving power, but it tells us why. And the reason it tells us, this is fascinating. God tells us that the reason that we are under the power of sin is because, listen, sin is a fatal attraction.

Sin is a fatal attraction. But you say, it's no use. I love foreign gods. I must go after them. Now, what is a fatal attraction? You know, the movie, of course, gave us the term, but we've always known about it. A fatal attraction is when a man or a woman gets so obsessed with someone that you'll do anything. You'll lie, you'll steal, you'll kill, anything. And we all say, ah, of course, that's obsessive, that there's something wrong there. That person has taken something and made it so important that it's more important than anything else, any principle, anything. Ah, we're not like that. And God says that's not true. God says every human being has a fatal attraction to something. Every human being has lover gods. Every human being has a bottom line. Every human being has something that you live for that you say, I must have that. And whatever you say I must have that about, that's your lover. That's your God. That's the thing that you rely on. That's the thing that has total control over you. Total control. Now you see, when he talks about the Baals and the foreign gods, he says, oh, this is Israel. These are primitive. Well, you see, in Romans chapter 1, this is the fundamental to the biblical analysis of the human condition. Romans chapter 1, God says, all of us, because we will not center on God, because we would not glorify God, we worship created things rather than the creature, and we worship and serve them. Now, what is Paul saying? He's not talking just about ancients, you know, polytheists, animists. He's talking about all of us. And he's saying this. Didn't we say that the character of sin was we refuse to center on God? We refuse to put God in the center. So what do we do? We have to put something in the center. You have to have something there. But whatever you have, because your center was shaped for God, because, as people continually say, there's a God-shaped hole in you, whatever you put in there, whatever you make your bottom line, whatever you make your meaning in life, whatever you make the thing that you must have, is, because you put it in God's place, it becomes a God. You can't just like your bottom line. You can't just like the central value of your life. You are fatally attracted to it. You will do anything to get it. Anything. Lover gods, you see. Foreign gods. I must go after them. This is a very, very profound analysis. I hope you see it in every way. Now somebody says, Anything you live for, power or approval or control or needing to be needed or independence, you see, or achievement or work or romance or a personal relationship or relationships in general or one relationship in particular or the way you look. But everybody's got something that they say, this is the one in whose arms I put myself. This is the one in whom I rest. Obsessed, this is the one who I say, if I have you, then I'll be happy, but I must have you. That's what we're talking about. Now, somebody says, well, listen, I can sort of see this would be true of some people. I know of obsessive people. I have heard of fatal attractions, and I also know of religious people, but not me. I'm skeptical. I'm totally skeptical. I believe in no absolute values of any sort. I'm a complete relativist. I'm totally independent. I believe that I have to create my own reality. You see? Therefore, I serve nothing. But that's not true. Your skepticism, look at it. Your skepticism is the one thing you won't question. I can prove it to you. If you really were skeptical of your skepticism, you wouldn't be so skeptical. I can prove it to you. And look more carefully. Look more carefully. It's the thing you rely on. It's how you face life. It's the thing by which you judge everything else. It's the thing that you're facing life with. It's the thing that makes you feel good about yourself. It's the thing look carefully. You have bet your eternal destiny on it. You can't prove there's no God, and yet you have bet your entire destiny. Oh, my friends, we all have lover gods. We've all got bottom lines. Ultimate concerns. We've all got the things that we say, it's no use. I must have this. And that's the way you can tell what they are. I got to move on here because, you see, the first point is, you're enslaved. We're enslaved. You know, the power of sin. But why? Why? Why are we enslaved? Because anything that you put in the place where God should be becomes a God. Anything except the true God about which you say, I must have it, becomes a fatal attraction. George MacDonald, the old Scottish writer, put it this way. Anything that you cannot part with at need is your ruler. Think of that one. Test yourself for a minute. For example, is there anything that if you would lose it, you would say, I actually talked about this under a different guise two weeks ago. Anything that you look at and you say, if I don't have this, or if I lose this, or if I fail to get it, I die. I have nothing to live for. I must have it. Anything but the true God that you say that about is more important than God. What would you ditch God for? Some of you in the past have, haven't you? What would you say, if God does this to me, if God lets this happen, then I want nothing to do with God. Whatever that would be would be more important than God and would be your God. Right? What drives you?

What is it about what you say, if I do not have this, I cannot receive life joyfully?

The word must. If you use it about anything but God, you're under the power of that thing. Right. Look at your depression. Look at your disappointments. Look at your anger. Look at your worry. And instead of saying, how can I change my circumstances? you have to say, look, the reason I'm so worried, the reason I'm petrified, the reason I'm so discouraged is because there's something about which I am saying, I must have it. That's why I'm having these emotions. It's at the bottom of everything.

The bondage of sin. Your idol gods, your lover gods will always leave you enslaved. But secondly, they will always leave you empty. Look at this passage. Secondly, they will always leave you empty. Down here, verse ten, 27. They say to wood, you are my father, and to stone, you gave me birth. They have turned their backs to me and not their faces. Yet when they are in trouble, they say, come and save us. Where then are the gods you have made for yourselves? Let them come if they can and save you when you're in trouble, for you have as many gods as you have towns. Oh, Judah. Now, what do we learn here? Here, your lover gods will always leave you empty.

Where are the gods when you're in trouble? And let me, you know, actually, if you, and don't look, just listen to this. Just a couple of chapters later, Jeremiah is preaching again. In chapter 4, verse 30, he says the same thing, but he says it in such a poignant way. He says to his people, he says, what are you doing, oh devastated ones? Why dress yourself in scarlet and put on jewels of gold? Why shade your eyes with paint? You adorn yourself in vain. Your lovers despise you. They seek your life. Now what's the teaching here? The teaching is if there's anything in your life about which you say, besides God, about which you say, I must have this to receive life joyfully. It controls you. That's the first point. But the second point is you will never satisfy that lover. Never. Here's what God is saying. Ah, you devastated ones. Why do you shade your eyes with paint? Why do you deck yourselves with jewels? Your lovers will never be satisfied. They despise your life. They despise you and they seek your life. You will never satisfy them. I saw a book review about Irving Berlin's life. Irving Berlin wrote an awful lot of good songs. His daughter said the trouble was, no matter how much he achieved, as soon as he achieved something, he immediately would fall into a kind of discouragement. He says, I'll never be able to do that again. I'll never be able to write a song like that one. The achievement, God, will never be satisfied. It doesn't matter. You say, if only I get to this level of achievement, then my lover God will say, you're acceptable. You've made it. It will never say that. Never. They despise you. How about the thinness God? You know, some people have an extreme example of it. It's called eating disorders. But you know what? You'll never, you'll never, ever, ever satisfy the thinness God. God. You ever read interviews with supermodels? How they hate the fact that there's, you know, a half an inch bump on the backside of their, you know, their shoulder blade, and they just say, there's something wrong with me. You'll never satisfy any of these things. The work, God. When you pick up a child, newborn, and you're the parent, don't you dare look into its eyes and say, I will live for this. This is it now. I've got meaning in life. One of the most awful things about all those stories about babies having babies, all the little girls who say, I want to have this baby. Why? Then I'll have somebody to love. Then I'll have something to live for. I have nothing in my life. My dear friends,

your children at some time, even when things go pretty well in child rearing, at some point your children will despise you. You can't live for that. Now here's the power of an idol. They say to wood. They say to stone. Now the idol makers do not create wood and stone. They take wood and stone and create an idol out of it. See here's the subtlety. Here's the power of an idol. They're good things. There's nothing wrong with wood. There's nothing wrong with stone. It's what you do with it. There's nothing wrong with children. There's nothing wrong with trying to take care of your appearance. There's nothing wrong with work. There's nothing wrong with achievement. See they're good things. That's why they're so powerful. God made them good things. They're good in themselves. Power of goodness in them. That's really where a lot of their power comes from. But when you put them where only God should go, when you set them where only God should go, it's what you've made out of them that exhorts an enormous power over you, but they will never be satisfied. Never. What do you want from these? You deck yourself for them. You say, if only. I mean, everybody, Why do you work so hard? Why are some of you so driven in so many different ways? You want these idle guys to say something that they never will say. You want them to say, well done, good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master. Here's my arms open for you. Come in. You are completely acceptable to me. Never, never, they say, you could do better. They always do. And listen, if you want to really see, Jeremiah says, God says, if you want to really see how absolutely bankrupt and how absolutely empty your gods will leave you, don't test your religion. Don't test your religion when the sun is shining. When you're in trouble, call on your gods. How can they help you then? You see, an awful lot of you still are out there saying, you know, I don't know what you're talking about. I have no problems like this. I don't feel, I don't see any fatal attraction in my life, you see. Wait till the trouble comes. Call on your gods then. Let me give you three examples. False gods will never help you. These lover gods will never help you in three situations. Three, okay?

Really bad sickness, bereavement and death, and failure. They'll never do it. Look, for example, what if you're really sick? What if you get really sick for a long term or permanently? You're on your back. There's no God except the true God that can help you there. Are you living for material possessions? Are you living for achievement? Are you living for physical beauty? Are you living for relationships? What are you living for? If you become permanently on your back, every one of those gods will have to desert you. They can't help you a thing there. Only the real God could. Well, you say that may not happen to me. You're going to get old.

Call on your gods then. None of them will come through but the true God. None of them will be able to bring you through. Let's take a look at death. What do you mean by death? You say, well, I mean this. What if you have a great marriage? What if your spouse is the meaning of your life? What if your spouse is what gives you your joy? Somebody's going to have to die first. It's something Kathy and I every so often look at and we say, you know what? Unless some strange, strange, strange, incredible coincidence, one or the other is going to be left behind. And if we make, if either of us make the other one our God, our God help us when it's in the casket? Call on your gods then. The gods that you have made for yourself, good things that you've turned into, gods, they will never help you then. Then you'll see. You may not know that these are your lover gods until the sickness comes, until the death. Let me give you one more. Failure. My dear friends, people are continually saying to me, you know, I guess I know God forgives me, but I failed here. I failed as a parent. I failed as a spouse. I failed as an employee. I haven't made the grade. I did something wrong. I can't forgive myself. It sounds so humble, but you know what you mean? I have a God, you mean, higher than the God.

Because the fact that the Bible says God forgives me doesn't really see I put something over God and now that thing won't forgive me you know why idols never forgive never if the thing you're living for is your is your work if the thing you're living for is money the thing you're living for is relationships so the thing you're living for is morality I have people coming saying I'm very religious but I blew it and now I can't forgive myself I've gone to Jesus and I know he forgives me but I can't forgive myself then morality is your idol God you remember it's

Christ. Religion will never forgive you. No God will ever forgive you except the true God. They won't. They despise you. They seek your life. Call on your gods, the gods that you have made for yourself in time of trouble, and you will see if you can't forgive yourself, it's because you've got a God higher than God, and no God but God will ever forgive you. Don't you see? These things help you. I mean, if moral achievement is the thing that you're living for, how can it help you when it's gone? If relationships are the thing you're living for, how can they help you when they're gone? Don't you see that? They can never help you in death. They can never help you in failure. They can never help you in sickness and suffering. You know why? Because they don't exist. They're an extension of yourself. They're an extension of your will of the power. You see? They have no life in them. They're just stock. They're just stone.

And they'll never help When your heart is broken. And if you cannot. Find any comfort when your heart is broken. It's because. There's something more God than God in your life. Now lastly. Alright. These things leave you enslaved. And they leave you empty. Well how can we be healed?

Wonderfully. Look. At the very end. Verse 31. Hear the word of the Lord. Have I been a desert to Israel? Oh, look at this. Look at this. Have I been a desert to Israel or a land of great darkness? Why do my people say we are free to roam? We will come to you no more. Does a maiden forget her jewelry? Does a bride forget her wedding ornaments? Yet my people have forgotten me. Days without number. Now look here. Look. What is God saying? He says, listen, have you ever seen a bride coming down the aisle saying, oh my gosh, I forgot to put on makeup? Have you ever seen a bride come down the aisle and say, oh my gosh, I forgot to wear my earrings. They don't do that. Well, maybe, maybe that one. But you know, they don't forget things like that. They don't forget this why. A bride does an awful lot of work to be as absolutely beautiful as she possibly can be. And by the way, I've never seen a bride who failed. Never. There's all sorts of ways to hide the parts of you that's not that attractive.

All sorts of ways to highlight the parts of you that are. And you come down looking like a vision, and everybody in the whole auditorium wants to marry you. Why do you work so hard for that to happen? Because what you want, you're thinking about them, but basically you're thinking about him. And you're coming down to your lover, and you want him to say, I open to you. You're so beautiful, I accept you completely. All the barriers are down. You have complete access. Well done. Enter into my joy. God says you know how to make yourself acceptable physically, but you don't understand how to do it spiritually. You know why you're working so hard? You know why you're going after these? You know why you're trying so hard to be pretty? You know why you're trying so hard to be successful? You know why you're trying so hard for these things, for power and for approval? You're trying to cover your nakedness. You're trying to cover over the sense of inadequacy we all have, right? Trying very hard to get someone to say, I accept you. Don't you understand? I can be your ornament. I can be your righteousness. I can be your acceptability. I can do it. Now, I don't know what Jeremiah thought God was talking about. He had a general understanding of it, but we have a specific understanding of it. In chapter 5 of Ephesians, we read,

How does Jesus Christ make you what you've been trying to make yourself all of your life? By going after these lover gods. Gods. How does he do it? You know how he does it? He gave himself. Every other god despises you and seeks your life. But this god gave. He doesn't seek your life. He gave his life. This is a god who on the cross was stripped so you could be clothed. He was naked in the dark so that you could be clothed in the light. See? He was disfigured so you could be beautiful. He was cast out so someone, so the Father could say, well done, good and faithful servant. When we believe in him, all of his great work on the cross becomes ours. His righteousness becomes ours. That's what the Bible says. That's how God can say here, I don't know how they understood it, but we understand it now. Does a bride forget her ornaments? Bride forget her beauty, yet you have forgotten me. I can be your beauty. Here you are out running around desperately trying to look great, to get your lover gods, to get others around you to say, well done, good and faithful servant. You're trying to clothe yourself with righteousness. You can never do it. I and I alone can do it. Do you see what's going on? Do you see what he's saying? A bride forgets. Would a bride forget her wedding dress? But you've forgotten me. Me. The most astonishing thing, when you ever look at anything and say, I must have you. If I don't have that, I die. And some of you are doing that right now. That's the reason why you're so discouraged. When you say that, you have completely forgotten or you've never heard of what Jesus did on the cross for you. He was stripped naked so that you could be clothed. He's your jewelry He's that which makes you beautiful That's why God says Am I a desert to you? You don't see what I've done for you You don't see what I can be to you So here's what I say What you've got to do Listen, I'm not trying to prove that Christianity is true I'm just trying to show you There's not even another religion that claims to have a God like this Every other god in every other religion, every other god in every other philosophy, every other god says, do this and you will live. Fail and you will die. We have the only god who says, fail and I will die for you. There is no other religion. Other religions say, our god is too great to have died. Our religion says, our god is so great that he died. Every other god seeks your life. This god gives his life for you. I'm not trying to prove that Christianity is true. There's ways of giving the evidence. I'm just trying to say, to have a god like that. As the great poem goes, other gods were strong but thou wast weak. They rode but thou didst stumble to the throne. And to our wounds only God's wounds can speak. And no god has wounds but thou alone. The only god that even claims to have wounds, the only god that even claims to give himself for you. Here's what you need to do when you're you're distressed. Instead of just saying, why am I so distressed? Why does God let this happen to me? Realize the reason you're so distressed is because there's things about which you're saying, I must have them. Then turn away and say, wait a minute, I don't have to have them. The only thing I have to have is Jesus Christ, who is my ornament. I don't have to use these things to clothe my sense of inadequacy. He's my beauty and he's my righteousness. In other words, say to him what the last, you know the stanza? Oh, you remember the chorus of that hymn? say, I will arise and go to Jesus. He will embrace me in his arms, in the arms of my dear Savior. Ah, there are 10,000 charms. Don't forget them. Let's pray. Father, as we offer ourselves to you now, we're beginning to see that things that we looked at in our lives as inexplicable pain and difficult misery, and unexplainable distress, we're starting to see how it all fits together. It's because the other things that we've gone after besides you, the things that we've centered our life on instead of you, they despise us, they seek our life. We're trying to get them to say, well done, they never will be satisfied. We will arise, we will go to Jesus. Jesus, he will embrace us, and there we'll find true rest. We thank you that in him we are radiant, spotless, without stain or wrinkle. Father, those of us who are here who know this but we're not living it, we pray that you give us the power to live it and face the week with it. Those of us here who don't understand this yet, I pray that you would get after them and they would never give up until they understand it and rejoice in it as the central fact of their life, and we ask this in Amen.