The reading is from Matthew chapter 11, 2-6 and 22, 41-46. When John heard in prison what Christ was doing, he sent his disciples to ask him, Are you the one who was to come, or should we expect someone else? Jesus replied, Go back and report to John what you hear and see. The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cured, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the good news is preached to the poor.

While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? The son of David, they replied. He said to them, How is it then that David, speaking by the Spirit, calls him Lord? For he says, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how can he be his son? No one could say a word in reply, and from that day on, no one dared to ask him any more questions. This is God's word.

The second passage that Holly just read, Matthew 22, comes at the very end of a series of debates and arguments that Jesus has just had. During the summer, though we haven't looked at every one of them, at different times, we've looked at many of those debates that he had. Because after he cleared the temple out with the whips, that very famous incident, a lot of different people came up to him. And after the cleansing of the temple, what happens is a lot of people come up to him and they make a lot of different debates and they throw arguments at him. And he answers them.

but at the very end of the string of arguments that he answers, remember there was arguments about politics, Caesar, paying taxes, arguments about morality, arguments about various situations. At the very end, now Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record this, at the very end, Jesus turns around, and instead of answering an argument, argument. So here at the end of the summer, I was looking at the very last thing that Jesus does. It's this place where he goes to the Pharisees and asks them a question. However, it's up to now he's been answering arguments. Finally, he makes an argument. And this is not a very famous passage of scripture. As you heard it read, you might still be scratching your head. You know exactly what is Jesus saying there. It's a little bit of an obscure argument that he's using. And yet, So I looked at this passage and I said, we really need to consider it together. Because it's actually quite interesting and quite significant.

Here's why. Bertrand Russell, famous British skeptic. He didn't believe in God or Christianity. Bertrand Russell was once asked a very interesting question. I wish I had asked him. They said, you know, Dr. Russell, what if you die and you find out you were wrong? There is a God. says to you, why didn't you believe in me? What are you going to say? That's an interesting question. Think about that next time you, yeah, think about that. If you talk to somebody who doesn't believe, or if you don't believe in God, what would you say? Bertrand Russell reportedly said, well, I'll just say, hey, no guilt here. You didn't give us enough evidence. There wasn't enough evidence. I'm under no responsibility to believe when there's hardly no evidence for a reasonable man. That's what he would have said. He said. That's probably what he did say. Anyway. And there was another

There's another He's dead now, by the way. Anyway. There's another little place in a I remember there was a column in the London Times years ago. I don't remember the writer because the important thing is the turn of phrase he uses which I'm going to give you here in a second. Similarly, this writer in the London Times said, you know, I really would be. I would be very happy to be a Christian. But I'm waiting for a watertight argument.

I'm waiting for a watertight argument. Then I'll be happy to believe. But I haven't found one. Nobody's given me one. A watertight argument, see. Now, what's interesting is it's not just people who don't believe or can't believe in Christianity who are looking for a watertight argument.

But Christians are looking for watertight arguments. And it makes sense. You know, if you're a Christian, you have to be incredibly hard-hearted if you found any joy and any spiritual reality in God not to want to get other people to share that. You just be incredibly hard-hearted not to. And what Christians very often do in order to do that is they are looking for watertight arguments. saying, I would love to help my friends into certainty, into knowledge of the truth, into certainty. Not just hoping it's true, but knowing it's true. So I'm looking for watertight arguments. So people who are not Christians are looking for watertight arguments, and people who are Christians are looking for watertight arguments. And here we have a place where, at the very end of a series of debates in which Jesus has to answer arguments, he turns around, and once and only once does he get a chance to make an argument. he gets to make a case. Wouldn't that be interesting to see? When Jesus Christ can set the agenda, when Jesus Christ can determine to a group of skeptics to take the initiative and to say something in order to lead them to the truth, what argument does he use? Wouldn't that be the ultimate argument? And besides that, you see how these last verses say that when he was done, ask him another thing. I mean, it seems like it's the ultimate argument. Well, what is it? That's the question. What is the ultimate argument for the truth of Christianity? What is the ultimate argument that will bring your heart into life changing knowledge and certainty of the truth of Christianity? What is the ultimate argument? How does it work? And where does it lead? Because I believe that these texts will tell us that. What it is. How it works. and where it leads. First of all, what is the argument? Now, a lot of you are probably still scratching your heads. Take a look at this verse 41 to 46. Jesus turns to the Pharisees, and here he goes. He says, you know, the Christ, that's the Messiah. Word Christos that he uses is the Greek word. It's the same as the Hebrew word Mashiach, the Messiah. And he asked them a question about the Messiah. Messiah, the Bible predicts that some great leader is going to come and put everything right. And he says, okay, let me ask you a question about the Messiah. Whose son is he? And that's a simple question. He's saying, Jesus is saying, you know what the Bible says about the Messiah. What will his lineage be? Who will he be descended from? What will his bloodline be? Okay. Whose son is he? and they give a fairly easy answer which it's easy because there's a number of places that the Bible says for 2 Samuel 7 Isaiah 11 almost all the religious leaders would have had consensus on this he's the son of David the Bible says he will be a descendant of David and then Jesus says oh really what about Psalm 110 now he quotes Psalm 110 and he says Psalm 110 was written by David and David was the king of Israel And in this psalm, David speaks about a great person whose scepter will go out from Zion and who is going to rule over the nations. This is the messianic figure. So David's talking about the Messiah in Psalm 110. But look, David calls him Lord. He says in verse 1, The Lord, God, that's Yahweh, the Lord said to my Lord, and Jesus says, Why in the world would David call him Lord? were all perplexed was this. In a traditional society, you might talk about your ancestor. The person you're descended from maybe is your Lord. You might talk about your mother or your father if you have an ancestor. But you would never talk about a descendant as my Lord. You'd talk about a descendant as my son, perhaps, or my daughter, or something like that. Jesus Christ is saying if he's only a human being, if he's only a descendant of David, if that's all he is, if he's only going to be the military political leader you think he is, why would David ever call him Lord? David's the king of Israel. That's the highest rank there is. Who would David be calling Lord?

And you see, now the reason you didn't notice that, some of that is because you have to understand in a traditional culture, for a person to call your descendant Lord does not seem to make sense. And Jesus says, so there's more to this Messiah than you think. Now, you say, oh, well, that's interesting. Thank you for showing me that. I appreciate that. I can sort of see why this isn't a very famous passage. You know, not really very inspiring. I said, okay, I get it now. It's not confusing to me. But so what's the significance of that? I think it's very significant. What is significant is when Jesus Christ gets to choose the argument he makes, when Jesus Christ gets to take the initiative, where does he go? It's just as important, just as illuminating, to see what he doesn't say is what he does. What doesn't he say? First of all, he does not try to prove the existence of God or in any way provide a line of syllogistic reasoning. On the other hand, he doesn't do some incredible miracle. He says, let me show you. He doesn't do some incredible act of supernatural power. Now, the reason I chose those two things and mentioned that they didn't do them is it fits in very, very much with what Paul says in 1 Corinthians 1. Paul says something about Jews and Greeks. Now, Paul, like a lot of you, actually, Paul's bicultural. Paul was a Hellenistic Jew. He understood Hebrew and he understood Jewish culture and Jewish values and so on. But he also was a Greek-speaking person. He understood Hellenistic culture and Hellenistic values. Some of you are also bicultural. why Paul, when Paul says what he says, I'm about to read here in 1 Corinthians 1, he's saying something very interesting about the two cultures. He says, for Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to the Jews and foolishness to the Gentiles. Now this is very profound. Let me put it to you this way. Paul very, very wisely very shrewdly noticing that each culture has a different approach to knowing and certainty. A different approach to proof. Now, the way philosophers would put it, these two cultures have different epistemic criteria, different epistemologies, different ways of knowing, different ways of coming to a conclusion and coming to certainty. The Jews were what you call concrete relational. They didn't want philosophical or rational arguments. pragmatic. They said, I'll tell you what I want. Power. Practical power. Do some kind of miracle that is inexplicable, that cannot be explained away, that couldn't be a fluke, that shows you have omnipotent power at your fingertips. That's proof. They're concrete relational. That's how they prove things. Practical powers. Show me it works. The Greeks were a logical, empirical culture. And what they wanted was demonstrable, logical arguments. You know, Aristotle had his arguments for the existence of God. You know, the famous, the idea of the unmoved mover, the uncaused cause. That's Aristotle. The Greeks were like Russell, basically, like Bertrand and Russell, basically, who are saying, I'm not going to believe unless you give me rational, logical, empirical proofs, airtight, watertight, proofs that I can't shoot any holes in, proofs that just force me to see this must be the truth. And here's what Paul, that's proof. And here's what Paul is saying. And think about this. He says, one culture has epistemic criteria and they have to do with logic and rational proof, and one has another. Why should God bow the knee? Why should God bow to either particular culture's epistemic criteria? You know, I've talked to many New Yorkers, usually they're older, usually they're over 45 or over 50, who say, well, I just can't believe in Christianity. I'm looking for an airtight argument. I'm looking for some proof. I'm like, I'm not going to believe unless I have proof. But you know, you see how narrow you're being in a way? That's most cultures and most people and most centuries, that's not how they decided truth. This is post-enlightenment Western culture, you know? That's how you come to it. Why should God somehow fit into your little cultural box? And Paul says he doesn't. Why should he? He doesn't come, you know, to the concrete relational people doing their version of proof. people doing their truth. He doesn't come with a miracle. He doesn't come with a rational, logical argument. Well, what does he do? And here's the answer. He says, go to the Scriptures and look at what the Scriptures tell you that Christ is. He says, the way that you are going to finally, ultimately come to a knowledge of certainty and the truth is expose yourself to the Christ that the Scriptures tell us. Deep exposure to what the texts, the Gospels tell you Christ is. Not who you imagine him to be, but who Christ is. Years ago, Dick Lucas, an Anglican minister, I listened to a lot of his tapes. He's preached a lot, and he has a lot of sermons on tapes. And he was the one I heard in his tape years ago. He clipped this out of the London Times. He clipped this column that said, I'd be happy to be a Christian. I really would. I'm waiting for a watertight argument. And this He says, you know, if you wait for a watertight argument, you're going to wait forever. Because, as far as I can tell, he says, God has not provided us with a watertight argument. He's provided us with a watertight person. A person against whom, in the end, there can be no argument.

Now, what he's saying is, if you say, give me a watertight proof,

And only when I see that will I begin to do disciplined, sustained, detailed, thoughtful reflection of who Jesus Christ is according to the Bible. I'm not going to do all that Bible study. I'm not going to be reading and thinking and doing all that until you give me some proof, some reason I should believe. And Dick says, you're going to wait forever. What if

God doesn't you a watertight person, against whom ultimately there is no argument. And what he means by that is, it's only as you come to see who Jesus is in the scriptures that you start to say, here's the miracle. How do you account for that? How do you account for a person like this? Nobody could have made this kind of person up. Nobody could have possibly projected this kind of image.

One person put it like this. somebody who just was blown away with reading about Jesus and became a Christian reading about Jesus. A guy named Ronald Watson. You wouldn't even have heard of him, but this is a fascinating thing he says. He says, I found that Jesus was full of surprises, but they were all the surprises of perfection. I found tenderness without being weak, strength without being coarse, lowliness without being servile. He had conviction without intolerance, enthusiasm without fanaticism, holiness without Phariseeism, Passion without prejudice. This man alone never made a false step. No one has yet discovered the word Jesus ought to have said.

The watertight person is what Jesus Christ gives. And only exposure to him, deep exposure to him, sustained reflection to him, a study of him, is the way you'll ever come into that position of having the life-changing knowledge, certainty that this is true. And you know, what's interesting, as I'll show you here in a second, it's a very rational approach but it's not rationalistic. It's a very concrete approach but it's not pragmatic.

And you know, you say, well, you're getting an awful lot out of this text. Aren't you reading a lot of that text? Well, no, I'm reading it in light of John 1. What is John 1? John 1, the gospel writer starts off saying, in the beginning there was the Word, but the Word he uses there, the Greek word, is the word logos. The word logos was a philosophical term that the philosophers debated. The logos was your reason for life. There were different schools of thought. Some people said the reason you should be living is for the common good. Other people said no, the reason you should be living is to serve the gods or the deity. Everybody had a different approach. What is the reason for life? We have to figure out what the principle is the reason for life. What does John come along and say? Guess what? Let me tell you what the gospel is. The word, the logos, became flesh. You're looking for meaning in life in an abstract principle, but the word became flesh and dwelt among us and we beheld his glory. The ideal became real. You see, the watertight principle, the ideal became a person that you could hug, who can hug you, who you can know and you can serve. Don't tell me you need a watertight argument. type person. So the ultimate argument, Jesus does not... There's all kinds of things he could have done. He goes to the scripture and says, see who the scripture says the Christ really is. Not who you think the person is. Who he really is. So that's the ultimate argument. A water type person. Jesus Christ. Number one. Number two. How does this work? Now, how does this argument work? Some of you are saying right now, oh, okay, now that's interesting. So I'm supposed to read the Bible about Jesus and I guess that means you don't have reasons and you're not doing a lot of thinking and what you it's mystical right you're giving me a mystical approach I'm reading the bible and I'll just feel that this is the truth no what I'm trying to show you is that the way to truth that we're given in Christianity is more than rational but not less it's more than an academic and logical, but it's not less. Because look and see what Jesus is doing here. Does Jesus say, you guys are just going to have to stop thinking and believe? No.

Several of the commentators helped me on this when they said, you know what Jesus is doing? These folks have got a working model of salvation. They have a working model of the Messiah. They believe the Messiah will be a descendant of David and he's going to be leader like David, maybe like Judas Maccabeus, and maybe we're going to, you know, they thought Judas Maccabeus was kind of a Messiah who helped us, you know, throw off the Seleucid dynasty and Antiochus' epiphanies, and now we're going to have another one or a bigger one who's going to help us throw off Rome. So they had a working model of salvation. They had a working model of the Messiah. And what Jesus Christ does, he says, now, who will this Messiah be? Son of David. Fine. He's not really disagreeing with that. But he says, how do you work this into your existing model? David calls him Lord. So you have a model of the Messiah that can't account for the data. And what Jesus is doing is exactly, almost exactly, what Thomas Kuhn says happens with scientific progress and scientific knowledge progress. Thomas Kuhn wrote a book some years ago called The Structure revolutions. And Thomas Kuhn really turned, boy, turned the whole field of science up in its head because he said that traditionally people have felt that science moved forward slowly through objective, neutral interpretation of data. See the scientists say we look at the data, we're totally objective, we're totally neutral, right? And we look at the data and when we see from the data we make our inferences and out of the data comes, we infer principles and out of the principles and science moves on. And Thomas Kuhn said, that's not how it works. Here's how it works. He says, nobody's neutral. Everybody has to have a working model of reality. You know? So the astronomers originally had a working model. It was a heliocentric, pardon me, it was a geocentric universe. And we believe that everything revolved around the Earth, right? And so they would look at the heavens saw in terms of the old model. And Kuhn says that's exactly what happens. Is that you have a working model of reality. And when you have a working model of reality every bit of data you interpret through that model and in such a way as it supports that model. But what happens eventually is you come across a little piece of data that doesn't fit. You know, you're looking up there and you're saying, hmm, you know, if everything revolves around the earth Why is that thing going that way? That's kind of weird. Okay. And so, but what do you do with it? You don't know what to do with it. You put it aside. And then you get another bit of data. And that really doesn't really fit the model. You put it aside. And Kuhn says, when you get enough, you start to say, wait a minute. Wait a minute. And you try another model. Maybe this. And you suddenly find a model. And you said, wait. That's it. Because that accounts for all the data. And he says, the way scientific progress moved is It's not dribs and drabs, you know, a little bit of progress every day, every week, every month, every year. But you suddenly have these huge paradigm shifts. That's where the term came from, really, from Thomas Kuhn. And suddenly you have a whole new working model because the data reconstructs, sometimes almost violently, against your will. Gives you a new, more complex, richer model of reality that can now account for all the data. And that's exactly what Jesus is doing. Jesus does not say, here's how you get into a knowledge of the truth. just close your eyes and believe. Don't think. Just read and get this great feeling that this just must be... No. Here's what he's saying. You've got a tiny, wimpy, anemic, one-dimensional little working model of the Messiah

and of salvation. And you've been interpreting the Bible, but you haven't really been looking at the Bible. What about this passage? And what he does is he gives them a piece of data that looks like it contradicts the rest of the Bible. See, some people say it looks like Jesus is saying, guess what? The Messiah is not a descendant of David. Obviously, that's not what Jesus is saying. Even Matthew in chapter 1 has already said that Jesus is a descendant. I mean, that's just not true. What he's really trying to say is, I've got a piece of data that contradicts your model, your understanding of who Jesus is. And I want to give you enough. Notice he does not resolve the enigma. When it says they said nothing, it wasn't because they said, oh, I get it. confused. He sends them home thinking. He says, I'm going to give you something, a piece of data that will lead to a paradigm shift, a revolution in your understanding. You've got a wimpy, weak, anemic little understanding of the Messiah. You've got to get a richer one. You've got to see that the Messiah is not just going to be the son of David, but the son of God. He's not only going to bring political and social change, though he will, but he's going to deal with sin and death and evil itself. And he's going to renew the whole world. with everything that's wrong. Now,

this is directly applicable to us. Jesus is not saying, just believe, but on the, he's not, you know, he's not saying, just close your eyes, just believe, but he's also not saying that you ever get into truth by making these very abstract rational arguments. Notice Jesus does not say, well, now let's deal with this issue of evolution and Genesis. He doesn't say, let's figure out how in the world could a good God and a powerful God deal with evil and suffering. Look, those are important things I talk about those things. But what we see here is that's not the primary way into truth. The primary way is this. It says, if today you do not have, when you look at the death of Jesus on the cross, if that, if you do not, if that does not psychologically transform you, if that doesn't intellectually transform you, if that doesn't change everything, if that isn't the joy of your life, if that doesn't console you deeply, if that doesn't, your life? What? Just believe? Just follow him? Just try harder? No. He says, go to the scripture and start looking at the data that will destroy and reconstruct and blow out your old paradigm. Your whole problem is you have a wimpy, anemic paradigm. Your working model of who Jesus is too small. Your Jesus is too small.

See, this isn't just believe. This isn't just think. This is, I don't know what this is. doesn't fit in any of the human categories. This isn't any particular epistemology. I mean, I took it. I read, you know, there's rationalism and there's empiricism. There's existentialism. I don't know what this is. This isn't any of those. This is all of those. If you have not had Jesus Christ really show himself to you as the truth, you don't just hope that somehow as I read, I'm just going to have a feeling. Think. You think. All the data that's in the text, there's stuff in Matthew, there's stuff in Mark, there's stuff in... Look. Look at what he even does to John the Baptist. That's the reason I put this part in here from chapter 11. When John the Baptist heard in prison what Jesus was doing, he sent his disciples to say, are you the Messiah? Now, have any of you said to yourself when you read that, I guess I didn't give you time to think about it, but have you said, Baptist be asking if Jesus is the Messiah? Isn't he the guy who, by the way, said a long time ago, behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sin of the world? I mean, Jesus. Why is he asking this question? I'll tell you why. His paradigm is too small. Here's what John's doing. John is saying, if you're the Messiah and you're here to liberate everybody and I'm your prophet, why am I in prison about to get killed?

and Jesus is, what does Jesus do? You know what's interesting here? The messenger comes and says, are you the Messiah? And what does Jesus say? Go back to John and say, yeah. Jesus doesn't say that. He does, but he doesn't. What he says is, go back and show John the data. Go back and show John what you see and hear. Look at how I deal with the weak. Look at how I bring good news to the poor. I'm not after the strong. I'm not recruiting an army.

John, you're going to have to have a paradigm shift. The reason you can't deal with prison is not that you just don't have enough faith in some general way. You don't know who I am. You haven't, your paradigm of the Messiah needs to, it's too anemic, it's too one-dimensional. It needs to be blown out into the richness. You need to understand a strength that comes through weakness. this. You need to understand a life that comes through death. You need to understand grace. You need to understand all kinds of things. Go back and think, John. Figure this out. What Jesus Christ says to you is, if I have not revolutionized your life yet and you can't be sure of my truth, I'm not just believe, but on the other hand, I'm not going to say that there's these rational airtight proofs. Look at who I really am. When you start to really read and really think sustained way about the Jesus the Bible shows to you over and over and over again. He'll shock you. He'll surprise you. You say, how could that be? I thought he was a man of truth. I had no idea he was that kind of man of love. See? I thought he was a man talking about the social side. I had no idea it was so much the personal side. I saw the strength, but not the weakness. You see, I saw the holiness, but not the grace. And continually, time after time, data will come in that doesn't fit your model until there's an explosion. And it begins to dazzle you and it begins to amaze you and you begin to say, this man must be true because nobody could have thought him up. You get it, you see that. That's how it works. It's much more than just sort of working through arguments, but it's not less than thinking. It entails furious thinking, thinking. Incredible thinking. Now lastly, first we see what the argument is, second we see how it works. It's through letting the Jesus Christ of the scriptural text destroy and reconstruct the working models you have of salvation, of Jesus, of God, of the cross, of everything. You've got to read the Bible. You've got to think about it. You've got to talk with other people about to figure out what it means. You'll be continually surprised. I promise you, after all these years, I'm continually surprised. And if you stop being surprised, you're not hearing the argument. By the way, this is the last point. How do you know if you're really listening? So I've had all kinds of people that say, I'm open. I'd be happy to become a Christian. I'm just waiting for an airtight argument. But unless you have poured over at least the gospel narratives about who Jesus is in a sustained way, you're not open to the argument. You're not even listening to the argument. Well, how do I know if I'm listening? And the answer is, finally, when it starts to offend you. Where will the argument take you? Well, what's interesting is he says to John, take back what you see, show him the things that you see, and then the most weird beatitude there ever was. Verse 6, chapter 11, blessed is the man, blessed is the one who takes no offense at me. Now, the only reason he would say that is if this was the case. Blessedness is the joy and the spiritual fulfillment. The word blessed doesn't just mean happy. It's a very, very strong word in the Bible. And the deep spiritual fulfillment will only come to people who've been on the verge of offense but didn't. They felt the offense but they didn't take offense. They came right to the brink but then they got past it. If you haven't felt the offensiveness of Jesus, you will not have the blessesness. And here's why. If you haven't felt the offensiveness of Jesus, you haven't really discovered the real Jesus. And this is the reason why. New Yorkers are always doing this to me. They say, you know, there's a lot of things I like about Jesus. But there are a few things that are just two offensives that we anymore. We're modern people in our day and age. I just can't buy that. See, New Yorkers are funny. Here's Jesus Christ, woman caught in adultery. And what does he say? Let him who is without sin cast the first stone. And everybody walks away. And New Yorkers say, yeah, that's the kind of Jesus I like, you know, not judgmental. Okay. And then we come to Jesus saying, I'm the way, the truth and the life, and if you don't come through me, you're lost. And New Yorkers go, oh, gosh. And what they say is this, you know, if I just, if we could just lop off that part. I mean, I just can't accept that part.

Now, when you say we can't accept this or that, do you mean we Latin Americans, we rural Africans, we urban Asians in Singapore? What do you mean we? What you mean is we Upper West Side New Yorkers. And here's the problem. The things that offend you, people in other traditions, other cultures love. And the things that you love offends them. And can you imagine how incredibly narrow it is to say that the problems I have with Jesus, are Jesus real problems? That the things that offend me are the things that are offensive about him? People in traditional cultures say, how could he walk away from an adultery? I mean, isn't adultery sinful? Isn't it wrong? Doesn't it hurt all kinds of people? incredible destruction. And he's saying it doesn't matter. They're offended. But they're not offended by this idea that there's absolute truth and if you don't have it, you're lost. No problem for them. The things that offend them, you love. The things that they love offend you. And don't you get it? If you try to get rid of or avoid the offensive aspects of Jesus, you've got a Jesus only for you. If you say, well, we can just lop this off, then he'll be fine. He'll only be fine for you. There are candidates. There's urban candidates that the rural people don't vote for. And there's rural candidates that the urban people don't vote for. There's management candidates and union candidates. Right? There's black candidates and there's white candidates. Jesus is nobody's candidate. Because everybody finds something deeply offensive about Jesus. And it's always something different than what the other culture found. The only way he'll be a Jesus for everybody. The only way he'll be a Jesus that blesses everyone.

offensive. And until you actually not only embraced all the radical, amazing stuff about Jesus, but even the stuff that you and your friends and your culture finds deeply offensive, do you have a real Jesus? Then you know you've heard the argument. But he says, blessed is the one not who, you know, who feels that offense, but who doesn't take the offense. And this is what's so amazing in the end. Paul says, remember this passage? I read it before. For Jews demand miraculous signs and Greeks look for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and foolishness to Greeks. Well, if he stopped right there, what it really sounds like he's saying is, every culture finds Jesus offensive in some way and tough. That's all it sounds like. Tough. You Jews are offended by this and Greeks are offended by this and Americans are offended by this and everybody is offended by this. Tough. says. He says, but he goes on and he says, but to those God has called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and Christ the wisdom of God, for the foolishness of God is wiser than man's wisdom and stronger than man's strength. And here's what he's saying. If you are a young postmodern person and you don't know who knows what is good, what I want to be is free. or maybe let's just say you are a first generation Asian and you say who cares about free the important thing is to be good and responsible, right?

Each of you has an epistemic criteria that Jesus will challenge each of you will find something about Jesus offensive but if you let Jesus be his offensive self in the long run every culture's deepest aspirations are completed in Jesus The young postmodern person who only wants to be free will find that you're enslaved if you're living for anything but Jesus. The traditional person who wants to be good will find that you'll always be filled with shame and guilt and condemnation your whole life, but only in Jesus can you really become good. To get to that sense of incredible purity that the traditional person needs and can get from Jesus, you've got to let him tell you, you're a sinner. her. Okay? To get to that incredible freedom, the postmodern young person has got to let Jesus tell him, you're a slave. There is absolute truth. What Paul is saying is if you are willing to let Jesus Christ be his offensive self, especially embrace the part that your culture finds offensive, on the far side of that offensiveness, you will find that Jesus is the thing you're really looking for. he is oh you who want power the power of God he is oh you who want wisdom and rational proof the ultimate wisdom of God and Christians listen don't think that learning to use Jesus as the ultimate argument is just the way that you get into the kingdom it's also the way that you make progress through the kingdom look at all those places in the Psalms where David is saying why art thou cast down oh my soul and why art thou in me. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. What's this O my soul stuff? Who's David talking to? Himself. And David knows the secret of Christian growth. The secret of Christian growth is not stoicism, just repressing your feelings, just saying, I'm a Christian, just do it. You know? Not emotivism, that just follow your feelings. Don't repress your feelings. Don't follow your feelings. Argue. Take Jesus. Not just argue. In general, take Jesus into your heart. Learn how to preach the gospel to yourself. Learn how to argue with yourself. Learn how Jesus is the watertight person, the ultimate argument your heart needs. It's not just the way to get in. It's the way to get through.

You ultimately, your heart doesn't need to look at this or look at that or look at it, but to look at him.

Are you the one or should we look for another? No. I'm the one. That's what he says. Let's pray. Father, help us to understand how unique the gospel understanding of truth and certainty and proof is. We who are believers keep us from thinking we can argue our friends into the kingdom. As important in many, many ways as it is to understand how to deal with all the different objections, help us to see that what our friends most need deep exposure to the Jesus Christ revealed in the texts, in the Gospels, in the Scriptures. And Father, for those over here who are wishing that they just had more faith, help them to see that they need to start thinking. Help them to see what they need to start looking and reading. Father, all of us need, with the Spirit's power, to have our puny little working models of who Jesus Christ is. blasted into multidimensional richness by the Word of God. Help us to really make ourselves available to the Spirit working in our lives through the Scriptures, especially what the Scriptures tell us about the Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
