Okay, take a look at the handout. Just like last time, this is a short two-page handout that we use right now for the talk. Afterwards, we're going to break into groups and discuss, and we'll come back and do a Q&A, just like last time. And also, a longer version of this handout will be available on the website at some point. I don't think it's up there tonight, but this week will be available, okay? The theme for the year is leaders are stewards. A steward is someone who cultivates resources and bears fruit with those resources for God's glory, for the sake of the master. And you might not think of evangelism in relationship to stewardship, but I want to bring it out now. And here's the reason why. If you take a look at the first paragraph, in the book of Acts particularly, Christians

evangelize. There's a Greek word that literally is evangelism. It's not exactly literal. It's evangelizdominoi. But it means to gospelize, because evangel is the good news. And evangelism is to gospelize. And every Christian is to evangelize. You can prove it from the book of Acts. Not only do we see the leaders, the apostles, the preachers are evangelizing when they preach, but in places like Acts chapter 8, verse 4, 11, verse 20, we see that everyone evangelizes. 8.4 is particularly clear, because in Acts 8.4 it said that the apostles stayed in Jerusalem after the persecution, when Stephen was put to death. When there was a persecution in Jerusalem. So the apostles stayed put, but everyone else scattered, and they went evangelizing everywhere. So everyone is everyone but the clergy, you might say. And it's very clear in Acts 8.4 that the non-clergy evangelize. However, in the Bible, evangelism does not happen primarily through programs. It doesn't happen through departments. It doesn't happen through events. It happens naturally through one's oikos. And the oikos is a word that meant a household. So, for example, in Acts 10, when Cornelius believes. In Acts 16.15, that's Lydia. In Acts 16.31, that's the Philippian jailer. When people believed, their household believed with them, or much of their household. And it means that people evangelized. They turned to the other members of their household and told the good news to the members of the household. Now, a household, the trouble is when you and I think of household, you think of the nuclear family. And the word doesn't get across what it got across. What the Greek word meant, the social reality of the time, is not conveyed very well to us by the English word household. Because a household was not just your family, but also, of course, the parents, the grandparents, the uncles, the aunts, the extended family. Also, the servants who worked for, the hired hands that worked. For, we talked about this last month, some of the people in the household were slaves. Some of the people were hired, and they weren't slaves. They were freemen who worked for you. And they all had families, and they all lived sometimes very, very close together. And then you had the business associates that went with that. So a household was a fairly tight-knit, close set of colleagues, kin, friends, neighbors. And that's how evangelism was done. It was understood that when you... When you became a Christian, you had been called to be a steward, evangelistically speaking, for your oikos. It's not an accident that you're male or female. It's not an accident that you're white or black or Asian or Hispanic. It's not an accident that you've had the experiences you've had. It's not an accident that you even have the interest that you have, that you like football or you like bird watching or whatever. Because this immediately puts you into your social location, your ethnic identity. Your gender. All these things put you into a network of relationships. An oikos. And it's your job to be a steward of that location. That it's your job to say, how evangelistically, how do I... How am I a good steward of my relationships so that I'm really seeing fruit born in people's lives by communicating the gospel through my oikos? And that's what evangelism is. Evangelism originally was not a program or a department or something. It was something that some people did. Everybody did it. And you didn't do it through events. You didn't do it through programs and things like that. You did it naturally through your relationships, your web network of relationships. But if that's the case, then let's look a little bit more deeply at what evangelism is. That's the next heading. Evangelism is communicating the gospel. What's the gospel? I'm not going to belabor that here. There's a little bit more on that in the lengthy handout. The gospel is two things. That Jesus has come to renew the world. And he's doing it through evangelism. Through grace. So that we are saved by his grace, not our works. And, however, you never, ever, ever see the gospel only presented in one little nutshell in the Bible. There are dozens and dozens of versions of the gospel. So John Stott, in his commentary on Acts, John Stott tries to look at all the various gospel presentations. All the examples of evangelism you find in the Bible. And he says they all have four elements. And here's what they are. There are gospel events communicated. Jesus' death and his resurrection and his return and so on. Events. Secondly, there's gospel witnesses. And gospel witnesses are things like the prophets and the eyewitnesses of the resurrection. How do you know this is true? So gospel events is what the gospel, you know, the good news of what God has done. The gospel witnesses is how we know this has really happened. Thirdly, there's the gospel promises. There is sometimes, and what John Stott means by this is, what does the gospel do for you personally? Pardon for the past, freedom for the present, hope for the future. And the fourth element in gospel presentations are gospel conditions. What do I have to do to receive this? Repentance, faith, and so on. So there's the events, what God has done. There's the witnesses, how do you know it's true? There's the promises, what this will do for you. And there's the conditions. What you have to do. Now what this means, by the way, is especially in our time, in our time, when you have so many people who are never churched, that is, they have almost no idea of what Christianity is teaching. And the de-churched, who are people who used to be in the church, but are really turned off and are out. And the lightly churched, and these are people who have been in and out and hardly know anything. There are four different things that have got to happen. One is that they have to be evangelized. The other is that they have to be evangelized. Evangelism has to be a process now. I'll explain what I mean, why. There are still parts of the world, parts of America, where it doesn't have to be a process. But for us in New York, it has to be a process. And these four things have got to happen for someone, for them to be ready to become a Christian. They are not exactly stages. It's not like you go from one to the next. All four have to come together. And these four things that I mentioned down here correspond to John Stott's, biblical analysis. They correspond to the events, the witnesses, the conditions, pardon me, the promises and the conditions. First of all, the gospel has to be intelligible to people. You've got to bring them to the place where they understand what it teaches. People today are incredibly ignorant, and they don't understand what God means. If you say God loves you, or if you say people are sinful, they don't know what sin is. They don't know what God is. They're going to read their own worldview or philosophy into the words that you were saying. And therefore, at a certain level, you've got to spend quite a bit of time for people to even understand, intellectually, what you mean when you say, God loves you, we're sinners, Jesus died for you to pardon us, and you need to receive him by faith. I mean, that's the gospel, right? But the point is, if people's understanding of God, of truth, of faith, of sin, is so different, it takes quite a long time for you to be sure that they have the intellectual furniture necessary, to even understand, for the gospel to even be intelligible to them. Okay? That's the first. That takes time, almost always. When I was in, well, let me keep going here quick. Credibility. People may understand the gospel, but not believe it's true. And today, unlike even 50 years ago, there are, in our culture, a number of beliefs out there that many people consider common sense. And that if you don't, and because they believe them, when you talk to them about the gospel, these things, I call them, you've heard me call them this before, they're defeater beliefs. A defeater belief is belief A, that if true, belief B can't be true. So one of the defeater beliefs that's out there is, there can't just be one true religion. There just can't be. There can't be just one true religion and everybody else is lost. It can't happen. Now that, if you go to the Middle East and say, there can't just be one true religion, everybody would look and say, why not? That's not a problem in their culture. That's not their problem with Christianity, the claim that it's one true religion. But it is a problem here. And because it's a problem here, you can't simply ignore that. There's no way you can make the gospel intelligible if at some point you don't deal with these defeater beliefs. Another defeater belief is, well, you know, you can't trust the Bible because it was written by the winners. There were all kinds of other people with different points of views, but these are the ones who threw out the rest and you really can't trust what it says. There's a whole set, of course, right now, the sermon series is on these defeater beliefs. And people don't sit around for rational, long arguments. The old days in which you spent time, you know, trying to prove the existence of God or long kind of syllogistic reasoning or long trains of reasoning on why, there must be a God or why the resurrection must have happened. People don't sit still for that sort of thing anymore. It's a soundbite generation and it's an image generation and they don't think along lines like that. Instead, what you need to be able to do, and that's what I'm trying to do for you right now in the sermons, is you've got to be able to have soundbite kind of responses to these sorts of beliefs that show that they don't work on their own terms. They don't work on their own terms. There's problems with them. And you've got to have these little soundbites that you sprinkle into your own conversation. Number three, there needs to be intelligibility. Secondly, there needs to be gospel credibility. Thirdly, gospel plausibility. Now, by plausibility, I mean that people have got to see how the gospel meets their need. Intelligibility and credibility are kind of the hard edge of evangelism. It's telling people this is the way it is. But plausibility and intimacy are the soft side of evangelism. It's showing people this is how Jesus will really meet this deep need that you've got in you that you don't know how you're going to meet. And last of all, intimacy. And intimacy is how you make it personal. You might believe in sin, but do you know that you are convicted that you're a sinner? You might believe that Jesus died on the cross, but do you see him as your savior? Do you know how to appropriate it and make it personal and you personally commit to this? Now, when I was in Hopewell, Virginia from 1975 to 1984, I could do Evangelism Explosion, which was a program. And it was a program in which you went through the gospel, God, sin, Christ, faith. And basically, when those short gospel presentations assumed intelligibility, that people knew that there was a God, for example, it assumed credibility, that people basically believed Christianity was true, they weren't filled with all these defeater beliefs. It assumed even plausibility, and went right to intimacy. And as a result, it worked. And yet, interestingly enough, 30 years later, even though Hopewell, Virginia is still the same population it was in 1975, and all the people still walk around looking pretty much the way they looked 30, 40 years ago, Evangelism Explosion doesn't work there. It just doesn't happen. Because Evangelism takes a long process now, and we're going to have to go back to the drawing board, which is called the Bible. You can't just simply say, here's the presentation and take them through it and expect them to understand it. So what is the process? Here's the process. The process is what I call a methodless method. In Oikos Evangelism, you don't have what used to be called friendship evangelism, you just have friendship. And I mean friendship rightly conducted. If you are a friend to a non-Christian, evangelism will happen naturally unless you short-circuit it in two ways. It will happen naturally unless you short-circuit it in two ways. One is, it short-circuits it if you really are not living a very attractive life because you yourself have a glaring inconsistency in the way in which you live. You're just a grumpy person, or you're an extremely frightened person, or you're an unbelievably undisciplined person, or everybody around you kind of, you know, knows that you're something of a high-maintenance person. In which case, that short-circuits evangelism. The second way it short-circuits evangelism is if you hide it. You hide how important Jesus is to you. And you just don't talk about him. You talk about all the other things that are important to you, but you just don't naturally talk about him. You hide it. If you do those two things, it short-circuits evangelism amongst your friends. But if you don't short-circuit it, evangelism just happens naturally. Why? You don't love people, spend time with people, you know, reach out to people in order to evangelize them. You don't love people in order to evangelize them. You avoid them. You don't want to evangelize them as you love them in order to love them. If you've got Christ and you love somebody, you've got to want to show Christ to them. You've just got to. And only cowardice will short-circuit evangelism. So don't think of people in your web networks as cases of evangelism. You've got to figure out, well, how do I get the gospel across? Just stop short-circuiting it. And you see, in Oikos evangelism, in a traditional evangelistic program like Evangelism Explosion, which I do, which I did for years, and which I love, and I still love, you are in the driver's seat. You visit, you sit down, you have a program, you set the agenda, and they respond. But in Oikos evangelism, where you're simply getting rid of your cowardice and being willing to talk about what you go through as a Christian and how Christianity has an impact on the way in which you think about things, they're in the driver's seat. They get to ask the questions. They decide how fast the process goes, or how slow the process goes. And that's why it's so kind of frightening for us, and why it's so wonderful for them. And why it was the basic way in which Christianity grew in the early days. Now, if you turn over to the second, I'm almost done, believe it or not. I have to be. You see the place where it says, Recognizing Your Oikos? Here's a very brief method to the non-method. First of all, if you want to be a Christian, be a steward of your oikos. I guess. I'd have to say there's more than one oikos now, which would mean that you're oikoi, which is really stupid sounding. Today, you could apply the term oikos to at least five networks. Your kinship networks, which is your family and relatives. Your neighborhood networks, those living with you in the same geographical place. Some parts of the city, the neighborhoods are really important. Other parts of the city, nobody knows the neighbors, and they don't know you, and so on. Number three, your colleagues, co-workers or co-students. Fourth, your affinity network, which is people with a shared special interest, the same hobby, the same politics. You go to that. In New York, by the way, as you know, unlike other places, very often the kinship network isn't much because very often people are here away from their families. And the neighborhood network, at least in Manhattan, isn't very much usually. It's much more so other places in the city. But colleagues is extremely important, who you work with. And affinity is surprisingly important, you know, the clubs you're in or the other kinds of things that you're involved with. And then last of all, friends. And what are friends? Friends are basically those people that you meet in all the other networks that really become pretty close to you. You know, friends are not really even so much an oikos, is that they are the top people in all the other oikoses or oikoi. If you would identify three or four people in every one of those networks, here's what I suggest. A, one, start praying deliberately, what? For their joy and their growth. B, think of practical ways to strengthen your relationships to them and serve them and love them and share life with them more, which means if you're short-circuiting natural evangelism, get rid of it. And then last of all, overt communication of a Christian truth should usually be a response to a perceived and agreed-upon need or interest. You both know you've got an interest. You both know she's or he's got a need. And that's when it comes up and you say, well, in light of what we've been talking about or in light of this problem or because of what you've been going through, then you can say, here's a book, here's a booklet, here's a tape, here's an MP3 file, here's a sermon or a talk, here's a class, here's an event, here's a small group meeting, here's a church service. But it has to come when it's more organic. The only other thing to say is that Redeemer, and you can look at this last part yourself, Redeemer has, from the beginning, sought to be a place where it is extremely easy for you as a Christian to bring members of your oikos that you are simply trying to be a Christian friend to. In fact, I would say the most significant moment in Redeemer's, I don't know how you put it, you know, somebody says in McDonald's, the most significant moment in the entire McDonald's enterprise is when the customer walks up to the cash register and makes the order. And it's a good experience. Everything else in McDonald's will move ahead fine. And if it's a bad experience, all of McDonald's will fall apart. I guess not just one bad experience, but there'd have to be a lot. In Redeemer, if there is a kind of crucial moment, it's when a Christian comes to Redeemer and suddenly realizes, my word, if I brought my unbelieving friends here, they would be surprised to see how attractive and sensible Christianity is. They'd be surprised to see how intelligent it is. They'd be surprised to see how plausible it is. They'd be surprised to see how attractive it is. They'd be surprised to see these kinds of people coming. See, if you come to Redeemer as a Christian and you immediately realize that you're a Christian, you immediately sense that, there'd be no better place to bring a non-Christian friend than Redeemer is doing its job. And it's becoming an aid to people doing oikos evangelism. And if we ever change, if we become the kind of place where Christians say, I get so much out of it, but my non-Christian friend would be either offended or confused by what happens there, then we're out of business. Okay. Questions. And I'm hoping that you may actually ask me something that I can say. If you get the long answer, longer handout, it's in there, which would make it really easy, but I don't know. Let's go. One of the problems I have is dealing with family members. You grew up with them. I'm the youngest of four boys, so I was always the one that was at the bottom of the heap. And trying to evangelize to them, even though we've had that family relationship the whole time, how do you really get to that subject? Yeah, you know, family members, you know, we've actually just recently had a, my daughter, my sister's daughter, who is married to a non-Christian man, recently, you know, seems to,

he's decided, I think he's decided to become a Christian, albeit an Antiochian Orthodox Christian, even though he was raised a Methodist, and suddenly this is the church for him. But, you know, beggars can't be choosy. I actually think, I actually think that the, one of the problems with the family is that you probably have less credibility with other relatives than you will in the other networks. You know, in the other networks, you're kind of an equal. But there is issues, you know, you know, your mother and your father, but especially your mother, you know, wiped your behind. I mean, how can you evangelize somebody like that? And that's really true. I mean, I can even see with my own kids, it's just very, you know, sometimes they say, you don't respect me at all. I'm trying to have a conversation, and I sit there and I think, you're right. And there's all kinds of history. However, on the longer handout, I actually make a list of what I would call themes of relevance. There's death, like fear of death. By the way, as you get older, you will be surprised at people that you thought never ever would talk to you about it. As you get older, as Samuel Johnson said, death concentrates the mind wonderfully. And you'll very often find people who have lost a loved one or they're having some health problems will suddenly become open in a way you never in a million years thought they would. So be patient is one thing. Death, guilt over a problem that they have. Simple strength to face something. An issue of justice. How do I deal with the fact that I have been, you know, unjustly treated? And how do I forgive? Or how do I handle that? General fulfillment, just a feeling like, you know, I'm not really getting out of life what I want. Again, many of these things show up more as you get older. I mean, speaking as an old man, basically, I just see openings with relatives that if you're just, if you're patient and you stay really close to them and loving and you don't, and you're not obnoxious, you know, you don't short circuit with your own life, the effectiveness of your witness, that's not going to happen. And that's the good thing about kinship. Most of these other networks are much lighter and you can drift away from people. Or they can just say, oh, you know, you can take them to Redeemer once. And I have seen this where, you know, you stick your neck out if you bring somebody to Redeemer who's not a Christian. And if the person says, I can't believe that you have anything to do with a group like that and never wants to see you again, it's a shame. It feels terrible and I've seen it happen. With the friends, with the kins though, with the relatives, you know, they can't drop you really. Unless it's really, unless you do something unbelievably serious. They really can't drop you. So if you're just patient with them, actually in some ways in the long run, I have found that evangelizing the family network is almost one of the best, not easiest, I guess I meant to say one of the most effective ways. It just takes time. And a lot of you are young and I don't think you realize how much time wears people down and how many changes can come into people's lives. So I would say be patient and take a look at those themes of relevance that I mentioned and watch for them. And those are avenues into decent conversations. Keep going. Some other questions. I had a question. I have a friend for 10 years and I brought up the gospel subject and I pretty much got shut down. Basically, we can't be friends anymore if you're going to talk about that. So I find myself whenever I'm talking to her avoiding the topic. So I don't know if it's, I guess I'm realizing I might be being kept hourly in this relationship and maybe I shouldn't have it anymore. Not when you've been asked like that. See, if a friend says to you, if you want to be my friend, I don't want you to talk about that. You know, here's something interesting. What if you were friends with a gay person and the gay person was saying something about his or her date last night and you said, you know, I want to be your friend but I don't want you to talk about that at all. I don't want to ever hear about your, your gayness. They'd probably say, maybe we can't be friends. You know, at least in New York, they probably would say that. We as Christians ought to be different. If we just very naturally talk about something about our faith, you know, and this is really important to me, and they say, I don't want you to talk to me about that, then I can, you have to say, well, I said, because I love you, because I care about you, because I want to be your friend, fine. It is important to me and it does mean I'm going to have to actually at some point say, well, I'm going to have to go out of my way to avoid talking about it because it's not just something, it's not a club, it's like at the heart of who I am. And I hope occasionally you'll be, you'll be nice to me and kind if I slip up and I make some reference to it. But if you don't want me, if the way to love you is to avoid that subject, then I'll do it. I'll avoid it. Why not? I mean, you are much more likely, listen, if you say, no, I'm going to talk to you about the gospel and then you never see the person again, how does that evangelize? Evangelize her. So if you say, I'd like to talk about the gospel and she says, don't talk to me if you want to be my friend. Let's be different than so many, everybody else, you know, their identity is everything. You don't want to talk to me about that? Well, I want to be your friend. Why don't you say, okay, it's not going to be easy, but I'll do that for you. And I might even slip up because it's so important to me, it just might slip out. But if that's what you want, I'll do that for you because I care about you and I want to be your friend. Do it. And you're much more likely well, actually, the other way, you'll never evangelize her. This way, you've got one chance in 10 probably, you know, that she'll change or something will come up. Or like I said, if you're with a person a long enough time over the years, you actually do get a lot of cred. You build up a lot of credit. If as a Christian, people know that you are a vibrant Christian and yet you're careful with them about the discussion, then they actually appreciate that. And it makes them feel less exploited if eventually you do talk about it at their behest. So I don't think you're being a coward, honestly. Keep going. Hello. We were discussing the various ways that people come into our lives and love the way that you talked about relationships and friendships and so forth. But on occasion, people come into our lives where we have to very quickly give the gospel, where we might not have a relationship built. Yeah, yeah. So what is your answer to that? Because I think that as I understand it, it's always important to have the word of God in an answer so that the Holy Spirit can really use that. Yeah, you're saying you should then, as Christian leaders, actually have something that you would be able to say by memory, you know, briefly and cogently. Right. Okay. So could you speak to that? Yeah, I would say, the only thing I would suggest is I would say that for almost, for most people, for most purposes, any of the older gospel presentations are fine. I'll tell you what you mean by the older ones. You've got Steps with God, you know, Steps to Faith in God by Billy Graham. You've got the Four Spiritual Laws, Version 1 and Version 2. There's the revised version. There's the King James Version, right, the King Bill Version, and then there was the Revised Standard Version. You have Evangelism Explosion. You have the Navigators Bridgeway, Bridge Illustration. If you get the, if you get the, the Bill, not the Bill Hybels, it's the Willow Creek book called The Contagious Christian. He's got four or five. They're very, very simple and they're not bad. However, you will, the only other thing I'll say about gospel presentations is that the, the old-fashioned gospel presentations tend to be topical and they go, they basically go, to God, sin, Christ, faith. There's a God who loves us that we owe everything to. We fall short, we sin, we don't live as we should. Jesus comes and bridges the gap. He lives the life we should have lived, died the death we should have died. And so that brings us to God. If you believe in him, that's fine. And I mean, there's nothing wrong with that at all. I don't want you to think that I'm dissing it in any way. But you do notice it's an individualistic presentation. It presents it as, here's God, here's you, here's you. There's another way to do a gospel presentation and that is not across the Bible but along the storyline of the Bible. So instead of saying, God, sin, Christ, faith, you can go, faith, I mean, you can go creation, fall, redemption, restoration. Genesis to Revelation. You can say, God created the world that we all want. A world of peace and of harmony and of, you know, of love and of transparency and perfect relationship. And no sin and no death and all that. And because we have tried to be our own masters, because we want to be, every one of us wants to be our own saviors and Lord, we're all selfish and because of self-centeredness there's poverty and there's war and there's racism and there's greed and all that sort of thing. But Jesus Christ has come back. He's come into this world and he, because of the, he is our savior and Lord for us. So we don't have to earn that anymore and we don't have to be rushing around trying for, to patch up a righteousness and a self-image of our own. And Jesus Christ, because he died on the cross for us and paid the penalty for our sins, that changes us so that we can start to live lives that foretell the great renewal of the world at the end of time in which everybody's going to be living not selfish lives but selfless lives and loving one another. Now see, I know that there isn't anybody right now who stuck that into a tiny little tract that's anywhere near as memorable and as easy as those old gospel presentations. But I like to do that. In New York, people are very interested in the theme of, you know, justice, injustice, you know, the judge coming and taking justice himself on the cross and eventually establishing justice. There's so many ways to do it. I don't want you to think, you know, you can go and get an old gospel presentation and yet consider doing your own, writing your own, thinking of your own. Talk to other people about it and share it and see whether it helps them as well. And don't forget who you're talking to. I do believe in contextualizing. I do believe that the more liberal type person, the more secular person, the person who's really bothered by the injustice in the world might like a creation, fall, redemption, restoration outline rather than a God, sin, Christ, faith. So I know I just confused you like crazy. But basically, I would suggest that you either write your own. It's got to be very short. Or take one of the old ones. It would be great. Okay, up here. Yes. Our group had a question or clarification, point of clarification, whether we should be gospelizing one another as well as believers already. Yeah, I think so. But what do you mean? For example? Well, the discussion was in the way that we've traditionally understood evangelism is basically as you've been talking about, you go out and you talk to someone who doesn't know the gospel. But does evangelism also apply to me talking to someone who does know the gospel? All right, now, this is going to be the last question. It's a great question. I'm glad both of you asked it. Forgive me for self-reference. On Sunday, when I'm talking to non-Christians, what do I do? I say, here's the gospel. But when I'm dealing with Christians, when I'm dealing with any problem at all, when I'm dealing with, you know, your problem with, if I'm dealing with love and sex, dealing with anxiety, dealing with money, if I deal with anybody at all on any subject, Christian or non-Christian, I basically do the gospel. You know? How do you overcome your greed? How do you overcome your fear of being lonely? How do you deal with

insufferable older parents? I mean, how do you deal with anything? I actually always basically evangelize you. If you look at it, I don't just go to biblical principles. I say, the gospel itself is what you need to understand and grasp at a deeper level. And therefore, yes, you actually, you might, and I want to put it as, one way to put it is, you do have to evangelize non-Christians in order to justify them before God. But you need to be evangelizing each other in order to sanctify each other before God. It's really true. Okay, last statement. Last statement is, as leaders, what has this got to do with you as leaders? As leaders, number one, you really do need to be good stewards of your oikos, of your social relational location. And in that sense, you're leading everyone else because you are models. Secondly, however, for the people over whom you lead, you need to be trying to at least encourage them to consider this as well. I don't believe, I know some of you have been around from the very, very earliest days. I would say that in the earliest days of Redeemer, probably more than half of the people who were there on Sunday were Christians who couldn't wait to invite somebody else to church because they saw Redeemer as this incredible evangelistic opportunity. In fact, I can't tell you how many times in the first year I had people who come and said, you know, Redeemer, I'm more charismatic than Redeemer. You guys are way too frozen chosen for me. Or other people would say, I'm too liturgical. I love the Episcopal Church. You guys are way too low church for me. You know, it's just, you know, you Presbyterians, I like the smells, bells and the bells and all that. People are always saying, you know, for me personally, you're not this enough, you're not that enough, you're not this or that enough. And yet many of them said, but I come here because I couldn't bring my non-Christian friend to my own church. I couldn't bring him to my own church because they would be offended or they'd be turned off or they wouldn't understand it. I would say in the early days, we had more people who did that than we do now. A higher, well, I should say a higher percentage of people. Obviously, we've got more people doing everything now than we did back then. But the point is, I really don't think we have as percentage-wise as evangelistic a church as we used to have. I don't think there's as many people being stewards of their web networks evangelistically as we used to have. And it's our job as leaders to try to see whether or not we can increase the number of people who understand their evangelistic stewardship responsibilities.