Tonight we get to the sixth commandment, maybe the one that people think is the easiest one to obey, thou shalt not kill. And we're going to be taking a look at all the ramifications of it, and even though thou shalt not kill, the sixth commandment was originally, of course, written and found in the original ten commandments which are written in Exodus chapter 20. the first place that this particular principle and commandment is expounded and articulated in the Bible is in the passage that's printed in your bulletin. It's Genesis 9, and I'm going to read from verses 1 to 12. Genesis 9, verses 1 to 12.

Then God blessed Noah and his sons, saying to them, be fruitful and increase in number and fill the earth. The fear and dread of you will fall upon all the beasts of the earth and all the birds of the air. Upon every creature that moves along the ground and upon all the fish of the sea, they are given into your hands. Everything that lives and moves will be food for you. Just as I gave you the green plants, I now give you everything. But you must not eat meat that has its lifeblood still in it. and for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal, and from each man too. I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God has God made man. As for you, be fruitful and increase in number, multiply on the earth and increase upon it. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, I now establish my covenant with you and with your descendants after you, with every living creature that was with you, the birds, the livestock, and all the wild animals, all those that came out of the ark with you, every living creature on earth. I establish my covenant with you. Never again will all life be cut off by the waters of a flood. Never again will there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, this is the sign of the covenant I'm making between me and you and every living creature with you, a covenant for all generations to come. This is God's Word. Now there's, we really have two problems tonight, and I don't mean the Knicks game.

The first problem is that the commandment, thou shalt not kill, is a very, very, very broad and all-embracing principle, and to work out all the ramifications of it is impossible in one teaching, one evening. And then secondly, the passage has got all kinds of strange and interesting and in some is obscure and difficult pieces of information in it. And if we try to expound the whole passage, or if we try to expound the entire meaning of the commandment, thou shalt not kill, in both cases, we wouldn't be able to get done. And in either case, I mean, we wouldn't be able to get done. And so I'm going to have to be selective. But here's what we're after. The commandment, thou shalt not kill is first articulated after the flood. It's given to Noah. And if any of you have ever been through a major natural disaster, if you ever lived through a tornado, or right in the center of a hurricane, or if you've been in an avalanche, or if you've been shipwrecked at sea, or something like that, if you have ever been in a situation where you see the vastness of the grand scheme of the universe and the grand scheme of the world and of nature. You can't help but feel that human beings are teeny weeny little insignificant things, you see, belly button lint in the cosmos. You know, when you're in a situation like that, you feel like, what am I? I'm nothing. I'm a speck. And it's after a tremendous experience like that, when you feel The fact that you happen to be alive almost seems to be an accident and that you feel so small and vulnerable, a speck, as I said. It's in that situation that God comes to Noah and his family after having seen that kind of power in nature and probably felt like those insignificant beings, and God comes to them pastorally. It's just amazing to see what a shepherd God is, to see how tender he is, to see how he's continually coming. He's sensitive to what we need at the time. And he comes to Noah, and he comes to his family, and he comes in here to reassure them that they are, human beings are, the most unique and the most precious things to him in all the world. and he comes in and he explains what it means to be a human being. In other words, he comes and reassures them of their importance. He says, this is what you are. You are unique in the universe. You are unique, I mean, at least in the world. You are unique here. I want you to know what you are to me. I want you to know how important you are to me. And after he says that, he then turns around and says, on the basis of this, on the basis of this thing I'm telling you nature of human life. This is how I want you to treat each other as well. So what we have here is, first of all, a principle, a theological principle. How does God see human life? And then secondly, we see some practical implications. If this is true about human life, then how are we supposed to live with each other? So let's take a look first of all at the principle and then at the practical implications, at least as many as we can get to. What is the principle? The principle is human life is sacred. Human life is sacred, sacred in a different way than everything else. Human life is sacred. Now, you see this in verse 5. Here's one of those parts I'm not going to be able to trace out, partly because I don't know how to trace it. Look at verse 5, the second part. It says, for your lifeblood, I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal and from every man too. I will demand an accounting for the life of your fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God has God made man. Now, somebody's going to say to me, what? If animals kill a human being, God is going to hold those animals accountable? That's what it says. how the heck does that work? And the answer is, I have no idea. But you know what the point is? You see, what it's trying to say is, if God is angry at animals doing instinctive things for killing human beings, how much more accountable are human beings for one another's lives? What God is getting across here is that of all of his creation, and we're going to see in a minute, touch on this. God does love all of his creation. He loves everything that he's made, but he says there's something special about human beings. Human life is sacred. Anyone who violates it, I will hold accountable. Now, what does the word sacred mean? I mean, what does it tell us here? Why do I use the word sacred? Why are we warranted in using the word sacred? And I would suggest that right here in the text, you've got basically three grounds for saying that God says human First of all, human life is sacred because, if you look carefully, it's priceless.

Why is it priceless? If you see a diamond ring and you ask the man who owns it, I would like to buy that diamond ring. What if the man says, no, no, no, no. That was my wife's. That was the ring I gave her when we were engaged. She died a tragic death some years ago. It's priceless to me. What does he mean? there is no exchange for it. Nothing, nothing can be exchanged for it. And what God is saying, and here's one of these areas where I'm going to have to skirt around, I'm sorry. A lot of people are pretty unhappy about what looks in here like a bloodthirsty reaction. It says, whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. Now, let me tell you why this is a tremendous advance. When this was written, why this is a tremendous advance Toward the dignity of every human individual. Because what it is saying is, there is nothing that can pay for human life. Human life is so priceless, there is nothing else in all of reality that can be exchanged for it. In other words, if you said, if you shed human life, that'll be 10,000 ducats, please. That means that person's life was worth 10,000 ducats. If you say it's 30 years in jail, then when the 30 years is up, you get out. In other words, anything that you would put in the place there would make human life a finite value. But because there is nothing that you can exchange for it, you can't pay for it in anything else other than its own currency, it's a way of saying human life is infinite in value. Let me just tell you another way in which this was a tremendous advance. We know something about the ancient codes of the civilizations around Israel at the time. We have the Code of Hammurabi, and we have a number of ancient law codes from those ancient days. And we know there was a tremendous class distinction at the basis for punishment for murder. For example, if a rich man was murdered by a poor man, the penalty might be that the rich man's family could go and slaughter all of the poor man's family, put out their eyes, disembowel them, and slaughter them right there. But if a rich man killed a poor man, generally the rich man all had to do was restitute the poor man's family a certain amount of money. And what was that to say? say. What it was to say was in those cultures, various human life, various individuals were of different value. And here is God coming out and saying, no matter who you are, whether you're rich or poor, no matter your class, no matter your race, every human individual's life is priceless. Human life is sacred because it is infinite in value. You cannot put a value on it. Nothing can

Nothing but blood. Human life blood, you see, can pay for human life blood. That's what he's saying. There is nothing more valuable than the life. Nothing more valuable than human life. Now, by the way, you notice I'm just staying away from the whole issue of capital punishment because I can't do everything. But I want you to see, instead of reading this and saying, Oh, this is capital punishment. I don't know what I think about capital punishment. You're missing the point. The point is human life is priceless. You can't put a price on it. It's infinite in value, and every single human life is infinite in value.

That's one way we say that this text is saying that human life is sacred because it's priceless. Secondly, this text is saying human life is sacred because it's not yours. You're accountable for it. Something is sacred if it's put into your hands, and yet it's not put into your ownership. If a person gives you $10,000, this is a gift. Just because I love you and here's a gift. $10,000, that money is not sacred. Not to you. You know why? You can do anything you want with it. But if, on the other hand, somebody gives you $10,000 and asks you to be the broker, asks you to invest it, you know, you get your broker's license and now you can invest it and so forth. In that case, the money's sacred. What do I mean the money's sacred? It's in your hands, but it's not yours. Therefore, you are accountable. If it's a gift, if it's your money, you're not accountable. You do whatever you want with it. But if it's not yours, yet it's in your hands, you're accountable. And that's what we have here, see? It says, for your lifeblood, I will demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting for the life of your fellow man. Now, this is a frightening thing. In other words, if you were going out on a date and you did it in your car, you want. But if your friend says, Hey, you're going out on this big date. Let me loan you this wonderful car of mine. And it's a beautiful car. It's an expensive car. It's a terrific car. Well, you're accountable for that. That car is sacred to you. It's in your hands, but it's not in your ownership. And if this particular friend of yours says, I want you to only do this. And I want you to do this. What do you do? Yes, of course. You're accountable. It's sacred. Now, Human life is sacred in this sense. Every human life that comes into your life, whether it's the doorman, whether it's that taxi driver who won't take you to Roosevelt Island late at night and lies about it, whether it's your grocer, whether it's the person that you don't know very well or at all, sitting with you in a large room and smells pretty bad, No matter what life comes into your world, you're accountable for it. Every human life is a sacred deposit. How you treat other people, God says, I will hold you accountable for how you treat. Because human beings are not yours. No human being, not your children, not your parents, not your friends, not your family. No human being is yours to cut up and to stack and to use and to discard as if it's yours. As if $10,000 is yours. It's not. You're a broker. It's a sacred deposit. It's a sacred trust. And therefore, we say human life is sacred because you cannot do with other people as you wish. They are owned by somebody else. And as a result, you're accountable to the owner. treat them as he says you must treat them. Okay. So human life is sacred because it's priceless. Human life is sacred because it's not yours. Yet it's in your life. You're accountable for it. But lastly, and most importantly, human life is sacred because every human being, you see, for whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed for because in the image of God, Now, this means that divine glory rests on every human being. God has put his stamp on us. God has put his sign of ownership on us. And as Thomas Watson puts it, Thomas Watson was an old Puritan who wrote a great commentary on the Ten Commandments. And he says, whenever you harm another human being, whenever you harm them physically, whenever you harm them spiritually, emotionally, whenever you harm, whenever you abuse, whenever you violate another human being.

because they're not yours. They have an integrity that you're not supposed to violate.

Whenever, he says, you violate another human being's humanness, whenever you abuse or use them, you're tearing God's picture. You're tearing his picture. You know, not too long ago, I think a musical artist on Saturday Night Live tore somebody's picture up. Do you remember that? that? Everybody knew what she meant when she did that. Everybody knew what she meant. God says, that's what you're doing to me. An assault on someone in my image is an assault on me. You're tearing my picture. Now, what does it mean when it comes down to this issue? You know, What is the image of God? Now, let me give you a couple of ideas on that. And it's not an extremely easy idea to get across. But let me, first of all, let me lay it out this way. To be in the image of God means that God gave us some kind of structure that enables us to reflect aspects of his being, which we alone can reflect. In other words, the idea of the image means that there's something about us, about our nature which makes us able to reflect. He's made us a mirror. Now, you all know, for example, that you can see your reflection kind of in a dim way in maybe polished rock. You can see your reflection in a better way in still water. But you can see your reflection in almost a perfect way in a certain kind of metal, especially, you know, a mirror which is metal-backed glass. Depending on the structure, the chemical, the physical structure of the substance, you're able to see your image because each kind of substance is a little bit better at reflection. It can reflect in different dimensions. Now, the Bible tells us that all of creation, to some degree, everything God's created reflects his glory. glory. You know, it says in Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God. What does that mean? Take a look at a waterfall. Can you see anything of God in there? Of course. Look at the mountains. Look at the horses. Do you see anything of God in there? Of course. They reflect something, but they reflect dimly. They reflect the way a polished rock reflects. You know, you can see a little bit of your face. You can see a shadow. You can see something of it. But the heavens are telling the glory of God. But what God is telling us right here is more than the animals. You don't have this accountability for animals' lives. It doesn't mean that we're not supposed to be good stewards of the created order, but there's a higher accountability because we're made in the image of God. We're like a mirror. There's something about us that can reflect God's glory in a peculiar way that no other created thing can. Now, what are those things? Let me ask you a couple of questions. Why are you so much more unhappy than horses? Have you ever thought about that?

We have a cat, and that cat is far more well-adjusted than any other member of our family.

There is just no doubt about it. Well, you say, you know, horses, cats, they have simpler needs. That's right. They have simpler structures. That's right. Our cat wants to be fed and wants cozy places. A cat's life is an eternal quest for what? It's not a very high quest. It's a quest for coziness. Cozy spots. Warm, cozy spots. And food. That's all the cat's after. And the cat glorifies God. The cat's beautiful. The cat's fun. The cat's fascinating. The Bible says the horse glorifies God by being a horse. The mountain glorifies God by being a mountain. The cat glorifies God by being a cat. And it's our job not to worship nature, but to be stewards of nature and let them glorify God by being what they are. It's our job as human beings not to worship nature. See, there's a great Christian basis right here for environmentalism. Not the loony side, which says we have to worship nature as if nature is no different than us. But not this side, which says we can ravage nature. way we want. Use it. The important thing is jobs and food on the table and, you know, animals are made for destruction. What we see here is that it's our job to enable the created order to glorify God by being itself. We need to let mountains be mountains. That's how they glorify God. They tell us something about the majesty of God. We've got to let the Grand Canyon be the Grand Canyon. You don't see anything of God in there? Of course you do. We've got to let horses be horses. We've They are much simpler things.

Why is my cat so much more well-adjusted than everybody else in my family? Well, let's think about it this way. Why do we want more love than we can ever get? Why are we so frustrated in our desire to create things? No matter how good the job is, no matter, you know, just about the time you get old enough for your head to get mature, your body starts to deteriorate. Why is it that we never can achieve what we want to achieve? Why is it that we want beauty and we never have enough? Why is it that we want love and we never have enough? Why is it that we have higher standards? Why are we so unhappy? Why are our desires insatiable? We want a joy. We want a love. We want a beauty. We want a creativity. The world doesn't afford us. Why? Why are we so unhappy? Or one more question.

do we hate death so much? You know, if this world is all there is, there is nothing more natural than death. Nothing. Animals do not fear death. They fear pain, but death is perfectly natural. Here's the reason why. The Bible says that we are made in the image of God. We have that complex structure by which we can reflect things that the mountains and the horses and the cats cannot. not. We can reflect God's rationality, his personality, his eternity, and his creativity, and they can't. Look, because we are rational, we hunger to know. Because we're personal, we hunger for love. Because we're eternal, we hunger to last. That's why we rage against the dying of the light. And because we're creative, we hunger for beauty. You see, we and we alone are mirrors of God. We can reflect his rationality, his personality, his eternity, his creativity in a way that nothing else can. And if you don't understand that you're made in the image of God, you'll never know why you're so unhappy. You're so unhappy because you're so great You're so on, you know, one of the great stories that I often use is that tremendous interview with Eugene O'Neill, you know, who's hit the top of his profession as a playwright. And right after one of his greatest triumphs and all the critics were saying this is incredible, he says, I'm fed to the teeth with the theater. He says, success is as spiritually flat as failure. Remember that? And you know what it makes you ask? You have to ask yourself, if our souls are so great that degree of success can't satisfy them, what were we made for? There's something so great about us. That's why we're so unhappy. Animals aren't so unhappy. They're very happy. Coziness. Food. Running fast like the horses. They're happy. What do we want? We were built to reflect God. God. We were built as mirrors to face God. That's the greatness that we've been given. The reason we're so unhappy is we're not faced toward God. If you face a mirror toward the sun, it's brilliant. If you face the mirror toward the darkness, it's dark. It's still a mirror. But it's not doing what it needs to do. If you turn the mirror toward nothing, it reflects nothing, but it's still a mirror. And that's the nature of human beings We're turned away from that which we were built to reflect. We're still mirrors. We still have that capacity for rationality, for personality, for eternity, for creativity. And we're faced with the darkness. And so we rage against the dying of the light and we hunger. And we thirst for to know, to last. But in our unhappiness, you see our greatness. And God says it's because I put my stamp on you. I've made you in my image. I've made you little versions of me, mortal versions of me. That's how great you really are. And before we move on, I have to get on to the practical implications. But you see, the sacredness of human, every single human life, whether rich or poor, whether smelling good or smelling bad,

whether elect or reprobate, as Lewis Mead says, in that quote I put in the beginning of the bulletin this week, abate, whether rich or poor, you see, whether satisfying or irritating. The austere, I think he says the austere generality of the sixth commandments puts, you know, a protective shield around every human life and says, sacred. Priceless? It's priceless. Secondly, it's not yours. You're accountable. But thirdly, it's in the image of God, the divine stamp. And by the way, one other thing, it's very, very important, quickly, if you don't understand that every image of God, you will not understand yourself as I just tried to show you. You won't understand why you're so unhappy. You'll think you're maladjusted. You know, you'll think there's something wrong with me. If I'm not happy, I need therapy, and you might. But there's an unhappiness underneath the aggravated unhappiness of the moment. There's a base note of unhappiness because we're so great that nothing but God himself will fill our mirror. So anyway.

Now, one other thing.

Sociologically, unless you believe every human being is in the image of God, you can't build a society. You can't build the kind of society we need to have. Do you believe that we're created in the image of God? then you've got a basis for saying that we must not trample on each other. But if you believe there is no God, if you believe that we're all essentially, we evolved out of the ooze, that we're just bags of chemicals, that we're not essentially any different than animals, you suddenly have lost your ability to talk about building a just society. One thing that always bothered me, when I was in college, I had to read a number of books about the Holocaust. And they were terrible. What happened was just terrible. But the conclusions that some people drew was this. If God is so loving and just, how could he have let so many people suffer? Therefore, there can't be a loving and just God. And you know the problem with that? If there's no loving and just God, if there's no God, then we're not in the image of God. We're animals. And then how in the world do you have a basis for complaining about how animals treat animals? Don't you see there can be no moral oughtness about how animals treat animals. You can't set up standards now. You undercut your very basis for humane society, and I think we actually have. See, when you get rid of the idea of God because of your moral outrage over, well, if God is so great, why did he let these people suffer so I don't believe in God anymore? You know, you still smuggle into your life a treatment of human beings as dignified. into your life the old habit that you got from a world based on the idea that God created us. But your children and your grandchildren, in other words, if you get rid of the idea of God, they will not treat people with dignity because for you to treat people with dignity, having gotten rid of the idea of God, is a complete anomaly. And though you can live that way, people won't live that way forever, and we're going to lose our ability to have a humane society. society. You remember this quote? I think I quoted it a few months ago by G.K. Chesterton. It's a fascinating quote. He was talking about the person who says, I don't believe in God. He says, as a politician, he will cry out that war is a waste of life, yet as a philosopher, he admits that all life is a waste of time. A Russian philosopher denounces a policeman for killing a peasant, but then in his other philosophical writings proves that the peasant should have killed himself. A scientist goes to a political meeting where he complains that we're treating native peoples like beasts, but then he goes to a scientific meeting where he proves that we are beasts. Therefore, the modern rebel, the modern skeptic, has become useless for all purposes of revolution. By rebelling against everything, including God, he has lost his right to rebel against anything.

Get rid of God, get rid of the idea of ownership, get rid of the idea of the image of God, and eventually we've got no basis for not using each other. You get rid of the idea of the sacredness of human life.

Now, I've got a couple minutes to do some application. What does this mean then? What does it mean? How do we apply it? Let me give you the general principle and then let me give you several specific applications. The general principle is very, very important, very important. If you're a Christian and you want to take this seriously, you have got to see, you've got to start this way. Don't start asking, well, how does this relate to war, capital punishment, suicide, abortion, and euthanasia? You know, we could spend a long time on those five things. I'm not going there first. I'll mention a few of them in a minute. You could really get, you could say, oh, yes, what are the ethical implications? Don't go there. The first and the primary application of this commandment is that everybody who honored and valued. They must feel that you take them so seriously.

You are breaking this commandment when you treat people with indifference, when you treat people with flippancy, when you treat people with coldness. Does everybody that comes into your orbit sense that you treat them with dignity, with warmth, with seriousness? Do they feel valued? Do they feel like a million bucks when they're done talking with you? Now, there is nothing that cuts me to the heart more than this question and this whole subject. How easy it is, whenever I want to preach and want to think about this commandment, thou shalt not kill, how much easier it is to say, well, what does this mean about suicide? Does this mean you can commit suicide? What does this mean about war? you better start here and this is what tears me up now there's a one of the there's probably three quotes in all of c.s lewis that just tear me up and make me cry every time i read them but i'll try to overcome that here tonight lewis says and scott alluded to this idea lewis said if we're all made in the image of God. Look at the sun. Look at the mountains in their massive seeming permanence. And then look at the person sitting next to you. Do you realize that when that sun is so old, if it gets that old, that it's just a cinder. And when those mountains are so old that they've been worn down by the wind and the tides of time into little grains of sand on a seashore that doesn't exist now. That the person's sitting around you tonight will still be alive in some

do you realize that the mountain the life of the persons around you makes the life of those mountains nothing

lewis has this great quote that says have you thought about what it means to live in a society of people made in the image of God and do you treat people with value do they sense that you're warm do they sense that you're interested do they sense that you're You're serious about them. Do they just feel your love when you talk to them? Do they sense that you're trying to size them up to see whether or not you want to be with them, whether or not this is a good use of your time, or do they sense that you're just trying to find out what they need? Here's Lewis's quote, and this is from his famous sermon, The Weight of Glory. He says, It may be possible for us to think too much of our own potential glory hereafter, too often or too deeply about that of our neighbor. The load or weight or burden of my neighbor's glory should be laid daily on my back, a load so heavy that only humility can carry it, and the backs of the proud will be broken. It's a serious thing to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you talk to may someday be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would be strongly tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare. All day long, we are in some degree helping each other to one or the other of these destinations. It is in the light of these overwhelming possibilities, it's with the awe and circumspection proper to them that we should conduct all our dealings with each other, all friendships, all loves, all play, all politics. There are no ordinary people. You have never talked to a mere mortal. Nations, cultures, arts, civilization, these are mortal, and their life is to ours as the life of a gnat. This does not mean that we are to be perpetually solemn. We must play, but our merriment must be of that kind, and it is, in fact, the merriest kind, which exists between people who have from the outset taken each other seriously. no superiority, no presumption. Our love, of which we love the sinner, our love must be real and costly love with deep feeling for the sins in spite of which we love the sinner. No mere tolerance or indulgence, which parodies love, adds flippancy, parodies merriment. It is in the light of these overwhelming possibilities. It is with the awe and circumspection proper to them that we should conduct all our dealings with each other, all friendships, all loves, all play, all politics. I mean, I don't want to get trite. This should tear into everybody. I don't want to get trite. We live in a city where people do discard you. Where the retailers know there's a long line of people after you if you're not happy. Where the people who you work for know that, hey, there's a hundred other people that want your job. I don't have to deal with you.

The more modern a city gets, the more we lose sight of the sacredness. The weight of your neighbor's glory. glory. I hope nobody thinks I'm being trivial when I say, you know, when the Knicks were losing, blowing a big game at home, people mocked them. They spit on them. They yelled at them. You know, when the Indiana Pacers were blowing a big game at home, nobody booed. They didn't see them as people to discard and use and say, well, you're not fun tonight. You know, and I looked at that and I said, well, you know, I don't, I know this is not, this is not an illustration that everybody in New York, what's it an illustration of? It's just one place where people are failing to bear the weight of their neighbor's glory. How are you doing at it?

Now, having said that, when it comes to ethics, let me just give you one principle that this particular passage, because people are going to say, why didn't you say it? So I will. This passage, this text, this truth gives us an ethical rule of thumb to be used in all these strange and careful and difficult situations like suicide and like euthanasia and physicians-assisted suicide and abortion and even war. And here's what I mean. It's the doctrine of carefulness. Let me tell you what the doctrine of carefulness is. The doctrine of carefulness is...

In other words, human life is so important and precious that anything that might harm or weaken it in any way must be avoided at all costs. Now, Thomas Watson took the doctrine of carefulness and applied it in some amazing ways. In his little commentary he wrote 300 years ago on the Ten Commandments, he says, first of all, if we understand that human life is so important Anything that harms or weaken it, might harm or weaken it. First of all, he says, that means that we should be taking care of the poor like nobody's business. He says the poor lack the basic necessities. They lack beauty. They lack the basic necessities of life. They lack the food. They lack the shelter. They lack many of the basic necessities of life. And he quotes Matthew 25. And I think it's incredibly smart of him to do so. In Matthew 25, Jesus says on the last day, he's going to come to some people and say, I was sick and you didn't visit me. I was in prison and you didn't come to me. I was homeless and you didn't give me shelter. I was hungry and you didn't feed me. I was naked and you didn't clothe me. And the people will say, when did we see you in these conditions, Lord? And he will say, because you didn't do it to them, these hungry people, these homeless people, you didn't do it to me. Now, Thomas Watson points out that's image of God reasoning. It's the same reasoning you have in Genesis 9. God is saying, my image is on those people. And to assault a human being is to assault me. Well, in Matthew 25, what Jesus is saying is, I'm the poor.

I'm the poor. When you weaken their life, when you fail, as Thomas Watson put it, when you fail able to do everything in your power to prevent their death. Which is the only way to obey this commandment. When you do everything in your power, because of the doctrine of carefulness, anything that might harm or weaken, in any way, human life has to be avoided at all costs. And that means if you have something in your power to ameliorate a condition that might lead to somebody's death, might lead to somebody's destruction, then you must do it. It doesn't mean you can save all the poor people in the world. You have to do everything in your power. Jesus says, I am that poor person. How you treat him, how you treat her tells me how you regard me. Well, you say, how could that be? If you know you're a sinner saved by grace, if you think God loves you because you're a good person, then you're going to look at the poor and say, why should I help them? Pick themselves up. They pull themselves up by their bootstrap. But if you know that you're a sinner saved by grace alone, that God came in spite of the fact that you got yourself into the mess that you're in and he in a costly way poured himself out though he was rich he became poor so that through his poverty we might become rich you take that verse and it burns itself into your heart and you say i have got to do something about these folks the doctrine of carefulness says you've got to be helping the people who don't have basic necessities of life.

Secondly, suicide's wrong. You know, an awful lot of people say, well, but, you know, don't you own your own life? You know, what's interesting is humanists and Christians agree that you can't murder other people because those people's lives aren't yours. That's an accidental, that's a sort of an accidental coincidence, isn't it? Because a person who's not a Christian an individual's life belongs to you. I belong to me, therefore I can take my life if I want. But here's the big problem with that. The only way that you would belong to yourself is if you were not created. See, whatever you create, you own. If I make something in my basement, I own it. If God created you, he owns you, and your life is not your own, you can't do what you want with it. We talked about that. If you say you can commit suicide because you are your own and no one created you, then we're in a real quandary because if it's okay to commit suicide because you're not in the image of God, then what's wrong with murder? You see, you weaken the whole idea. You weaken the whole idea of the sanctity of human life by saying, if I belong to myself, I'm not owned by anybody. God didn't create me. I'm not in the image of God. If people are in the image of God, who cares what animals do with animals? animals. If you were raised in the Catholic Church, you may have heard, and not all Catholics teach this, but I keep talking to people about this. This is just a little tangent. You know, because Catholics believe that you can lose your grace through a mortal sin, and because suicide is a sin, many Catholics have been raised to believe or have heard that if I commit suicide, I go to hell because I've done a sin, but I didn't have a chance to do confession. But you have to understand that's not the way it goes. Romans 8.1 says, when a person becomes a Christian, now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, which means if you are not a Christian and you die, whether it's suicide or not, you're lost. And if you are a Christian and you die, whether it's suicide or not, you're saved. But suicide is a terrible thing to do. And it's wrong. Let me give you a, I got to run through the end here. Let me, let me give you another one. Abortion. A lot of people say to me, why don't you talk more about abortion? And here's the reason why. Abortion is sort of what I call Doctrine D, and it's based on Doctrine A, B, and C. And since there's always a significant number of people in our congregation who doesn't believe in a Doctrine A, B, and C, Doctrine D doesn't make much sense. So why should I push Doctrine D when a lot of people are still thinking about A, B, and C? So if what I say to you right now makes no sense, no offense. Because we obviously don't agree on doctrines A, B, and C, and I would be very happy to have you continue coming to our church and learn more about what those doctrines are. But for a minute, to Christians, those of you who have the other things together, why is it that most Orthodox Christians see that abortion is killing? And it's against the sixth commandment. it's for this reason. The doctrine of carefulness. Remember what the doctrine of carefulness is? Human life is so important and precious that anything that might harm or weaken it in any way must be avoided at all costs. Abortion is interesting. There's only three possible positions you could have with regard to the fetus. You could say the fetus is a human being, you could say the fetus is not a human being, or you could say, I don't know.

Now, do you realize if you say it is a human being or you say you don't know, you must be against abortion. Why? Because if you understand the sacredness of human life, you would never do anything that might be killing a human being. If there's any chance that a particular action, why is drunk driving wrong? It might kill a human being. It usually doesn't.

Any action that might be killing a human being has to be completely off limits. you are absolutely and totally sure that a fetus is no different than a tadpole, you have, I think, I might say, the logical and theological right to proceed. But if you have any doubts, the doctrine of carefulness says you mustn't do it because anything that might be leading to the killing of a human being would be wrong. You know, one thing that's important to say, and I need to wrap up at this point. Here's the joy of this. And I hope nobody thinks that I'm being overly dramatic. Lots and lots of people in this room, both men and women, have paid or done what was necessary to have abortions. And therefore, some of you are sitting there saying, well, where does this leave me? Everybody has a solid human life. Some have done it maybe very literally. Some have done it maybe through abortion. Some have done it maybe through even attempting their own suicide. Some have done it in all kinds of ways. Everybody's a murderer. And Paul says, but by the grace of God, we can be his, his children. Because Jesus, though he was rich, became poor. Though he was alive, became dead. So that those of us who spread death could come to life and spread life. That is the gospel, and it's the only way to understand the sacredness of human life. Thou shalt not kill means love one another as I have loved you. Let's pray. Father, much to see. We said a lot. I know that I have stirred up an awful lot of conflicting feelings in people. I pray, though, that when it comes down to it, we would see that this commandment enjoins us, us, exhorts us, and invites us to a life of aggressive compassion. And I ask that you would enable us to be compelled and to be empowered by the knowledge of what Jesus Christ did for us. Though he was alive, became dead, that those of us who were dead could become alive. Though he was alive, he was killed so that those of us who kill might become life givers. And we ask that you would grant that everybody in this room would become a life-giving spirit, even as you are. Oh, Holy Spirit, as you are, oh, Son of God. Jesus, it's in your name that we approach and ask for all these things, and we do it in confidence because of your love for us. In your name we pray. Amen.
