Well, I'd like you in the syllabus to turn to the very, very end, the vetti, vetti end, which is the last. It's on prayer, talking about prayer and the spirit. And I think it would be probably about page 118 maybe, 119. maybe? Yes. As some of you have noted and noted ruefully, which is, I guess, a compliment, but noted ruefully that there's huge sections of the syllabus that we're just skipping and we're not saying anything about. On the other hand, this year, you're in luck. And that is, every year I've taken this syllabus and made it less sketchy and less outlining and more, you know, I write it out because I know every year I can't cover it all. And I want I want you to be able to take it home. Even though it's still a syllabus, you'll find grammatical mistakes, but you'll also find repetition. He just said that over there, and he moved that over there and didn't really edit it too well. I mean, it's still a syllabus, but it is written out. It's longhand. So you ought to be able to read it and get the gist of it without necessarily having to have me deliver it to you.

What we're talking about is the third perspective on preaching. Their perspective on preaching has got to do with how do you lead people to adore Christ. The purpose of the sermon is not just to get them to understand Christ or even to sort of follow and apply Christ, but to adore Christ. We've been trying to say, yesterday we tried to say, that actually these things are not three different things. It's as they're adoring Christ, as you're preaching, that they actually are applying Christ. And I mean, the way we are defining application here is rather than you saying, here's what it means to live a Christian life, now go and do it. The sanctification, as we're defining it here, actually happens as the person's adoring Christ and their heart's being changed. And therefore, your job is to use all the resources you have to lift Christ up so that he is evocative, so that people get a sense on the heart of his beauty, of who he is, and they actually find themselves worshipping him more deeply as you're preaching about him than before. If you do that, you're changing their lives right on the spot. And I do think there's a lot of conceptions of preaching that say, no, no, no, you teach them how to live the life, and then they go out and they do it. I hope this is actually a more exciting model, I hope, than that. But we said at the end yesterday that probably there is nothing that more leads people to worship as you're preaching than if they see you're worshiping. And we also said that, gave some reasons why it's pretty hard to do. When you're a young minister, the subtext is, the real purpose of the sermon is to sort of prove yourself to yourself and everybody else. And that's not worship. And I don't know how you get past that other than to know that's where you are and you need to get past it. I mean, I don't think you should just say, said, you can't raise the first child like the fifth. Remember that illustration? That's an illustration. It's not easy. But I also said the most fundamental way for you to be a worshiping preacher as you're preaching is to be a worshiping man, a person who knows how to pray. So I want to talk about that finally here in my last lecture, something about the prayer life of the pastor. Look at the first page. Here's a couple of quickies that are important.

Some of you have never heard of Jack Miller till he started getting bandied about here, but Jack Miller is the perfect example of the person whose the preaching was vastly better than the sermon. See, to me the sermon is what you write, and it's the stuff, and the preaching is the act of delivering the sermon, and there are plenty of people, especially, by the way, when you're first at the seminary, where your sermons are vastly better than your preaching, it's probably partly because you're self-conscious and you're still finding your voice, as they say today, get past the original subtext of your life, of your ministry, which is, don't you like me? Don't you like me? Don't you think I'm pretty good? Don't you think I'm all right? You know, that kind of thing. There's some people that sermons aren't terribly good because they're so godly, the preaching's wonderful. And Jack Miller's a perfect example of that. If you were a theologian or a seminary-trained person, you'd sit there halfway through saying, this is not a very good sermon. You'd say, wait, didn't he just say that? What are his points, where is he going, why doesn't he sort of stick more carefully to the text. He's breaking all the rules, and then at the end you'd really be weeping because his preaching was vastly better. As I said, in fact, we all know this odd phenomenon, we can have good preaching without having a good sermon. We've seen preachers who seem to break all the rules for sermon, poor outline, not mumbling, yet still have a great spiritual impact on the people and on you. Ordinarily, this is because the spiritual quality of the character shines through better than the words of the sermon. Because he's worshiping, clearly worshiping, and worshiping very well, and worshiping wisely, and worshiping humbly, the people are led into worship, which is the purpose of the sermon. Here's something, I ought to say this. I don't want to just scare you to death, but this is a little bit of a driver training film. Okay, the next five minutes. I've done this a number of places. I mean, A.B. may have heard me do it down at Spanish River when we used to go to that conference every year. Very, very, very important to keep in your mind the difference between the operation of your spiritual gifts, you've got gifts or you wouldn't be, gifts of communication, gifts of sort of leadership, and the level of actual godliness and grace. The Puritans knew about the difference between the operation of your gifts and the operation of your graces. For you to know the difference is very, very important. What I'm about to tell you is going to be an incentive to pray, and then I want to talk about how to pray, but here's an incentive. Read Edwards' Charity and its Fruit. In the very beginning of his exposition, he talks about the place where Paul starts saying, you know, if I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, if I prophesy, if I do all these great things and I don't have love, he says, I'm just a sounding gong and a tinkling brass and so on. And he seems to be saying it's really possible to have fairly strong skills and gifts and be spiritually stupid, bad, wrong, or even devoid of grace. In fact, Edwards makes a very interesting case. At the very bottom, look at the very bottom of page 119. This is a quote from one of his sermons in that series. And Edwards actually says, and I think he makes a good case, that it's possible to some degree for God to gift a man and use, gift a man by the Spirit, even if the person is not a Christian at all. Now, I mean, I'm not going to get into the nuances of exactly what does that mean. Is that a spiritual gift exactly the same way as a Christian has a spiritual gift? And here is what he says, he makes a good case, look, Many bad men have had these gifts, these gifts of speaking and ability, Many will say in the last day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied thy name, And in thy name cast out devils, And in thy name done many wonderful works? Such as these, whom have had gifts of the Spirit, But no special and saving work of the Spirit, Gifts of the Spirit, you see what he is saying? They say, Didn't we cast out demons? And didn't we prophesy? Which is preaching, let's say? Didn't we preach great sermons? Didn't a lot of people come to you? And Jesus, it doesn't say no, it didn't happen. He says, but I never knew you. So Edwards says, now wait a minute, here's people who not only have low spiritual grace, but they have no spiritual grace, and yet they're being used in ministry. I mean, that's his point. Don't you dare, Edwards is saying, think just because your gifts are operating and because God is

You're not, necessarily. You see, he says, gifts of the Spirit are excellent things, but they are not the things which are inherent in the nature, as true grace and holiness are. Gifts of the Spirit are, as it were, precious jewels, which a man carries about him, page 120, but true grace in the heart is, as it were, the preciousness of the heart itself, by which the soul itself becomes a precious jewel. The Spirit of God may produce effects on many things to which he does not communicate himself. Isn't that interesting? So the Spirit of God waters, but not so as to impart himself to the waters. But when the Spirit by his ordinary influence is bestowed saving grace, he therein imparts himself to our soul, the soul. Now, his whole point, and what he's saying is, Paul's whole point is very important. Read this paragraph with me. The distinction between the fruit of the Spirit or the gifts of the Spirit, fruit meaning the idea of inner real character change, and gifts, which has to do with skills, Or somebody else might want to say, you know, gifts is sort of what you do, but fruit has more to do with what you are. The distinction is vital to bear in mind as ministers. Gift operations will always be mistaken for spiritual maturity as evidence that God is pleased with your heart, pleased with your walk with Him. That is not true. If anything, Christians living today are in greater danger than ever, ever, in the days of Whitefield or the days of Edwards, because we live in an era that can be called the age of technique. put more emphasis on results, skills, surfaces, and less emphasis on character, reflection, and depth. This is the reason why so many of the most blessed ministers, I mean blessed meaning numbers, money, nickels and noses, that sort of thing, often have moral falls or laps because their gift operations mask the lack of grace in their life until it was too late. I think it was Peter Wagner that says spiritual gifts without spiritual fruit is like a tire without air. Have you ever noticed you actually can have a flat tire, moving along kind of fast, something sort of keeps it up and then you come to the stop sign, you put on the brake and suddenly you feel yourself collapse. What happened? I don't know how that works. But what he's trying to say is, what happens is this, you're far from God, your prayer life stinks, you're actually mad at your spouse, you're having lustful thoughts about other women, you go on a retreat, you speak to everybody, you see your gifts come out in the situation, gifts, you wax eloquent, you see some people come to Christ, and you say, God is with me. Not necessarily. You know, Saul prophesied. Fear to God came on Saul, did not impart himself to Saul. Don't mistake the operation of gifts for grace, which means there's an awful lot of pastors that are very busy, and as a result, they're getting the results, and as a result, they're mistaking the results for walking with God and God's favor and God's pleasure with you, when actually in your actual interior life you are a stranger to him. That's all I'm trying to say. You know what I'm talking about. There's never been a time in the history, or never been a place in the Christian church where that's more likely to happen than here. That's scary, isn't it? So pray. Actually, I do remember, I remember a Gordon Conwell chapel talk. Ed Clowney used to come to Gordon Conwell and speak back when I was there. But I remember a John Gerstner chapel talk in which he preached on the place in Psalm 69 where it says, If I cherish iniquity in my heart, he will not hear me. I remember everybody cut the next two classes and went back and had a quiet time. I just remember. We all said, nobody had prayed that day. At least 99% of students hadn't prayed that day. We're busy people. We're getting ready for ministry. I just remember, we all lived on campus. I just remember, no kidding, cut the next class or two and went back and prayed, repented, said, we're in danger, we're in trouble. It wore off in a week. Anyway, it did. Okay, now, no, I'm not kidding. Anyway, so now what do we do? Now, let me give you some thoughts on prayer. Turn to page 126. There's a terrible danger on this. In the last couple of years, I've made some progress paragraphs in my own life in prayer, last five years. So what do I do? Because of my gifts, which means I'm a communicator, I'm an outliner, you know, and that sort of thing. I've gotten really pretty good at teaching people about this, immediately giving not only you, but I think to some degree me, the impression that I'm doing this, that I'm ahead of you. You know, just in fact, you see this, this actually is looking back to what I just covered in the last five or 10 God helped me in some ways in some areas of prayer in the last five years and I made a couple of steps forward, three steps maybe, I immediately started teaching it. Now, that's my job, that's your job. As soon as you get just the tiniest little new little insight, the tiniest little new thing, next thing you know, you're teaching people and not only they have the impression, but you have the impression because you're doing it, that it's more true in your life than it really is. And, you know, you're sitting there saying, email me that, help me that, I really need that And the next thing you know, you realize, but I'm not really doing that very well. I mean, I've taken three steps, but I'm acting like I've gone a mile. And I realize that I'm, in the last month, as I've been doing some of this teaching, I've actually gotten very convicted that I'm really in danger. I'm really in danger of acting like I've actually done, in a way, I feel like God finally showed me, here's the next stage in your spiritual life. And I went in, and I ate of the fruit, and I said, this is great, and I went back. I was like a spy in Canaan, I ate it, I brought back about other people, and I'm acting like I'm actually living there when I'm not. But, having said that, I'm saying that a little bit more for me than you, if I'm honest. I'm not trying to act like a humble guy, oh, he's so humble. I'm actually doing this so I can remind myself, I might be in danger, very, very great danger, of assuming that I've actually tread into this land and really taken up the land when I've only visited it. But, here's something, and this is actually a little different than what Ed's heard before, he already referred to this, I learned, partly through looking outside my spiritual tradition, the evangelical tradition where I am, quiet time, use the Word God in your life, the charismatic tradition, that put more emphasis on God meeting God in corporate praise, the sacramental tradition, that put more emphasis God meeting God in sort of corporate liturgy, the sacramental tradition put the emphasis on the physical, beautiful buildings, smells and bells, kneeling, senses, vestments. Then there's the contemplative tradition, which I think in some ways came out of the counter-reformation to a great degree, trying to, I think, counter Protestantism to some degree, because Protestantism was actually giving people a personal relationship with God. Teresa of Avila and John of the Cross and all that developed the contemplative tradition. Now, as an evangelical, that's where I am. them. Theologically, I'm in the evangelical spirituality tradition. But I have discovered that you reach a wall if you're afraid of the pathologies in the other traditions, the charismatic tradition, the contemplative tradition, the sacramental tradition. And of course, when you get out of seminary, you are. If I'm too paranoid to realize that my own tradition has imbalances in it, if I'm able to say, I'm situated where I am theologically, that's where I am. I'm an evangelical. I'm not charismatic. I'm not a Catholic contemplative. But if you don't know how to go out there and sort of learn from them about the imbalances of your own tradition, I think you hit a wall somewhere. And at a certain point you feel like, spiritually, in my experience of God, I just can't go any further. That's one of the things. When I started looking outside, and you don't have to look very far outside at all, the Puritans themselves were considerably bigger on spiritual experience than modern Reformed evangelicals who are a little afraid of experience, partly because they see the excesses. One of the reasons that David Martyn Lloyd... It's really funny to read Iain Murray's biography of David Martyn Lloyd-Jones, because Martyn Lloyd-Jones was quite a mystic and talked a great deal about the need. Martyn Lloyd-Jones in 1949 was very, very, very desperately burned out. Poor guy was burned out at a dime when he didn't have the term for it. But anyway. Anyway, and he went to Wales for a vacation, you know, a fairly long vacation. He took almost the whole summer off because he just was so wiped out. One morning he got up and he was out on a farm trying to pray and he could never pray. One morning he got up. Have you seen this? It's in the biography. He got up and he looked as he was getting dressed. He looked over at a he'd been trying to pray for a long time and it just wasn't working. There was an Arthur W. Pink book laying open. And as he was getting dressed, he looked over at the book, and he saw the word glory. His eye caught the printed word glory on the page, and he had an experience of glory. It lasted a couple hours. Came back the next night, came back several times over the next couple weeks, came back a couple times during the summer, and the next thing you know, Lloyd-Jones is asking himself, what was that? And he went back to the Puritans, and he found it was all in there.

we are children of God now what that means is our spirit is saying I'm a child God sometimes the spirit comes alongside of our spirit and says yes you really are and he says that's just assurance is the sense of God on the heart is just the higher sense of God's reality and he went to look for the peers he saw kinds of references to it now when you go to the contemplative tradition you'll find that's what I think what Teresa of Avila and John of the Cross are talking about, only in theologically murkier terms. What Lloyd-Jones discovered was that it's not just a matter of, I read the Bible, I feel a little inspiration, and then I pray my prayer list. He says there's deeper stuff going on here. Iain Murray, I mean, so many modern Reformed evangelicals are afraid of that aspect. I do think they're afraid of the experience to some degree, and it's funny to watch Iain Murray try to explain Lloyd-Jones away. Iain Murray virtually worshipped, you know, Lloyd-Jones, and yet he just could not... And you know what they basically say? Iain Murray's Scottish, isn't he? Right. And Lloyd-Jones is Welsh, right? And so that's basically what Iain Murray says. I mean, if you read between the lines, he's saying, well, you know, the doctor, he said this and this, but you know, he was Welsh.

And you know how those Welsh are. What I really think, the fact is, is that the Bible holds out... Let me show you here for a second. And I feel like there actually is a consensus out there in the spirituality tradition that when you pray, that you ought to be actually seeking the face of God, and seeking the face of God is an experience. I think if you want it in a nutshell, if you're looking for God, if you're looking for experience of God, you're not going to get it. But if you really just want God, if you want what God wants for you, if you want to know him, you're going to experience him. In other words, some of the Puritans say, mind your work more than your wages when it comes to prayer. You know what they're saying? What they're saying is, if you go after goosebumps in your prayer life, you're just being selfish. You're really not after God. You're after goosebumps. But if you really, really go after God, knowing, as the hymn writer says, the hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach the heavenly fields. or walk the golden streets. You know, that was one of Lloyd-Jones' faves. Every so often, if you listen to his tapes, sometimes he'll suddenly say that. He'll say, the hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach heavenly fields and walk the golden streets. So, here's what I found when I read the Puritans that Lloyd-Jones read. When I read what, you know, other spirituality traditions said, I discovered, first of all, and this is what you heard Ed refer to, was I was going from Bible study to prayer. In other words, what I would do is in a good inner varsity, campus crusade, quiet time sort of way, so I'd study my Bible. This is how I had my devotions. I'd study my Bible and I would say, yep, that's great. And I might even be a little bit moved by it. That's wonderful. And then I'd go to pray and I'd say, bless mommy and daddy and go through everybody. And sometimes I'd be moved as I studied the Bible and sometimes I'd be moved as I was interceding in prayer. but very often I was not and I just did it and at least it would relax you and it would focus you but that was about it I came to recognize that there is something between Bible study and prayer if you were drawing and I don't have to because I can draw it in other words I had a tendency to think of this as two circles that kissed I moved from Bible study and then I opened the door out of the Bible study circle into the prayer circle I came to realize that there is actually an overlap between the two circles called meditation

meditation. And that the most natural way to find God in prayer is to move from Bible study into meditation and into prayer. Now, what does that mean? Actually, you'd be amazed at how much there is in the Bible about meditation. And by the way, is it in print, Ed, your CM book? It's not in print anymore. That's kind of a shame because here's again, one of the problems with Reformed evangelicals is because Eastern religions and everybody else has co-opted it. And Ed has a book, or had a book, or it's somewhere, I'm sure it's in the Reform Library here or something like that, on which he tries to make, it used to be called, what's it called, CM. CM, asterisk. Asterisk. Making fun of TM. Making fun of, yeah. At the time, TM was Transcendental Meditation, and he said CM. But it is true, you know, most of us are going to have to read books like that to see that there is a difference between the Eastern view of meditation and the Christian view, so that you actually have the confidence. I mean, us Reformed types, we need the confidence to move forward in this area, otherwise we're scared of it. It's almost like meditation. You know, Catholics do that, and Buddhists do that. Is that what we do? But you need guidance, like what Ed did. It was very helpful to me, actually, though I never did it. I mean, I read the book years ago and said, okay, so there is such a thing as Christian meditation. But then I never did it. So between prayer and Bible study, prayer is meditation. Don't move. And here's what I just did. I'll tell it to you in a nutshell and then descend down here. After I'm done praying, I mean, after I'm done my Bible study, I take the parts of the Bible study that I think are probably most spiritually significant to me at this point, and I meditate on them until my heart gets hot. It's as simple as that. You learn to meditate. And meditation, as I'm going to show you, is a kind of hybrid. It's kind of a hybrid. It's sort of like if Bible study married prayer, it'd have little meditations running around. It's an illustration. You're going to remember it? It helps. To the universes of discourse, right? It's going to do what Ed tells me. Anyway, so you have the Bible study and prayer. In meditation, you're taking certain parts of the scripture and you're actually praying them into your heart. and you're doing it through, as I'll show you, adoration and confession and supplication until your heart gets to some degree warm. Then move on into prayer. And here's the thing I'm going to add. In the past, I always said, so move from Bible study to meditation to prayer. And what I've recently been doing, at least for me, is I've actually been giving people a four-fold plan. So it's a little dangerous because the last stage is really not something that you can plan. It's something that God can do. In the middle of page 126, here is an outline for a devotional event, which is twice the length that my outline was when I got out of seminary. Below, we outline a simple way of fellowship with God. Rather than simply studying our Bibles and praying in a merely cognitive way, our four-fold outline includes the discipline of a middle practice, meditation, between Bible study and prayer, as well as the expectation of a final practice, contemplation, that's the fruit of all that we're trying to do. In other words, the ideal would be Bible study, meditation, prayer, contemplation. I'm including the discipline of a middle practice, which you can do, and the expectation, the hope of a final practice, which may or may not happen. Follow? Let me give you some definitions. The Bible reading, which you could call reading, listening, reading of the Scriptures repeatedly, looking for things not seen or appreciated or enjoyed before. You do have to be very careful, because I do think that you should do extensive Bible reading in your quiet time, and yet it shouldn't be quite the same kind of Bible reading you do when you're studying the text to preach. I want to allow for individual differences here. I can't do it that way. What I need to do is when I say slow, gentle reading of the scripture, the scripture in which I go over it sort of repeatedly saying it to myself and looking, especially for things I haven't really seen or appreciated before or enjoyed before. And in a sense, listening for God's voice and stopping to taste the truth as it goes by. You know, you go on by and you're reading it and you suddenly get to a word that you actually hadn't really noticed before or you never really completely understood or you never really, really appreciated before. So go over it, you know, repeat it, think about it a little bit, almost like, they're like little, I think of it as little cups And then you move on And you may Here's the thing that I've found with my own folks When you're a new Christian And this is not you guys, I hope When you're a new Christian The trouble with doing this Is that the texts themselves are so opaque That you can't really read them for appreciation You're going to have to go You're going to have to find a way Of even figuring out what in the world They're about at all And that's the reason why This is cumulative I've said to my own folks that you are probably going to have to do some bible study before you do this kind of gentle reading and then move on into meditation so I said, find familiar passages that you have studied either because you have heard them preached on at the Redeemer or you have studied them in your bible study or you have studied them in your personal study so you basically know what they are about because there is nothing more distracting for meditation then to get to something that you say what in the world is that? and you get into the concordance of your dictionary and you don't know what it is and really that's the end of your devotional time, I think. You usually have to work with Bible passages that you basically understand, but that you are looking for a new appreciation in a sense on your heart. So anyway, the first thing is slow general reading of the Scripture. That's Bible reading. Then, meditation. In meditation, and that's what I want to talk to you about mostly, you take parts that have impressed you from the Bible reading. It can't be too many of them. And you think out,

God Now, I want you to know that I have, when working on that little set of things, that's what I do. I've been working on this for years. I need something in my mind that I actually use to meditate. I actually have to memorize, not memorize, I have to know this. Do you see what I'm saying? There has to be a series of questions that I can do on the spot. This comes from Luther's letter to his barber on how to pray, 40-page letter to his barber on how to pray. And what Luther does in that is he talks about this garland meditation. He says he would take our Father who art in heaven, he'd take any passage of scripture, he'd go word by word through, and he'd meditate. So he'd say, okay, let's do it. You want to do it? Okay. Our. How can we praise God for that? We can praise God that he actually saved us into a church. That Jesus did not teach us to pray, my Father who art in heaven. He's assuming you're in community. Okay? So I praise God that he saved me into a community. Okay? sin on the basis of this? Well, you can say, you know, I'm kind of a loner. I don't like to share my deepest needs. I don't pray enough with others. I need to be probably more open about my spiritual life with other people. I need to be more accountable, you know? Okay, so hour. How can I adore? How can I confess? Okay, then what do I need? What can I start to ask God for on the basis of this? Lord, help me to find somebody that, you know, I've been too much of a lone wolf. Help me to find one or the two people that I start to share my heart more with and I pray more with, OK? Now, let's move on to the Father. Now, what is he doing? Luther says he moves on to the Father and he goes right through, and he starts, How can I confess? What does this tell me about God that I can praise him for? What does this tell me about myself that I need to confess? What does this tell me I need? And what I have added is, And this is kind of the way it makes me a better preacher in the end, ultimately, How is Jesus Christ the ultimate example of this attribute, for this sin and the ultimate source of this grace. Now that has not been an easy thing, but if I actually add that as a fourth question, a fourth tripartite question, and I look at any part, our Father who art in heaven, holy be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done. Now here's what Luther says. You say, boy, that takes a long time. Yeah, at first. But Luther says, warm up with meditation. And this is Martin Luther. Martin Luther is not exactly Pentecostal, I don't think, but Martin Luther says, meditate, meditate, until the Holy Spirit starts preaching to you, then stop your discipline and write everything down. God?

God? after that's done and you've gotten some new insights and you're thanking God for them, you move on into prayer. Now go to your prayer list. Now go after the kingdom of God. Wrestle for that. But sometimes you move from reading to meditation to prayer to contemplation. And contemplation, from what I can tell, it's amazing how similar Edwards, Luther, and Teresa of Avila and John of the Cross are about this. Every one of them says you have what they call, the trouble is, the reason it's hard at first is they all use different terms. What Teresa and John of the Cross says, he says, do discursive meditation, which is a deliberate, intentional discipline, until you sense the love of God, basically until you see him spiritually. And they use the term contemplation. And contemplation means you actually, in a sense, you get a faith sight. You've moved from the abstract and you kind of get a sight. Or, you know, we're descending into sensory language here. Or, as Martin Luther says, you get this flood of illumination, and you have to write it down, which means you're just getting all this information, these ideas that you hadn't seen before. You've moved out of meditation and Bible study into a sense of contemplation. God is speaking to you. God is preaching to you. God is revealing himself to you. God is communicating himself to you in this experiential way. It doesn't necessarily have to be the once or twice in a lifetime thing that Lloyd-Jones had. There are witnesses of the Spirit like that. But this is the kind of ordinary thing you're hoping will happen. And that's the reason why we put down here, I'll get you, don't forget your, I'll get to the questions. Reading, meditation. Now meditation, those questions are things that I have worked on for quite a while. But on the other hand, I don't want to sound too relativistic, this is what works for me. The Luther stuff works for me. It doesn't mean that everybody else has to do it. Then you move into prayer. After meditation, or as soon as you become sort of engaged, your heart's engaged, Meditation. Pray it. Adore God. Repent for sins. Thank God for Christ. Ask for aid. And then move on to your kingdom prayer. Move right through your list. And sometimes, I put down here contemplating, which is sensing. See, listening, reflecting, speaking, sensing. Not as much a fourth stage as the fruit of all the rest. It's a spiritual sense in the heart of the reality of God. It can mingle with the other practices or come in strong and displace them. The essence of it is a kind of gaze at him. At bottom, it's a gift. Now, what comes in the next couple... I want to preach a little semi-sermon here before we do our Q&A time. That's what I've been giving you. Ed and I have been giving you semi-sermons. I hope you enjoy them. Just a couple of ideas that might clarify this. Turn over to page 127. Here are some definitions of meditation. Theophan the Recluse. a household name in Presbyterian circles. To meditate, this is in the middle of the page, is to descend with the mind into the heart and there to stand before the face of the Lord ever present, all seeing within you. Now, he's actually probably merging the meditation and contemplation, but what he's really saying is, take the mind into the heart. And that is a very, that's a fairly good definition of meditation. Taking the mind into the heart. You know, actually, Ed, in his CM book, at one point says, wisdom is knowledge with the knower left in, which means instead of being abstract, it's practical. Well, meditation is, there's a lot of, you could almost say the same thing about meditation. It's truth with you left in it. It's truth, it's taking what you knew with the mind and bringing it into your heart and saying, what does this mean to me? Am I really living this? Do I really believe this? What would happen if I really was living in the light of this? That's why meditation and wisdom go together in the wisdom literature, right? Right. But that's not a bad idea. To meditate is to descend with the mind into the heart. Here's Peter Toon, who is an evangelical Anglican, so it might make you feel a little bit less nervous than Theophan the Recluse, to be drinking from Theophan the Recluse. He says, The mind must, as it were, descend into the heart, and then the whole soul ascend to seek for and gaze upon the majesty of God. What Toon is saying is, is meditate until you say, even if you don't get the contemplation, you just desperately want to be there. And he actually says, if you find yourself just hungering, and actually Lewis talks about this, to actually hunger for God and not eat is better than not to hunger. The hunger itself in some ways is satisfying. You know what I mean? And that must mean God must be really great. Because he's the one food that to even be hungry for it nourishing anyway. What must it be to actually get him? You know, here's Baxter. Now, Baxter is a kind of old Puritan. See what I mean? This is what I mean by saying when the doctor, Dr. Lloyd-Jones, went back into the Puritans to see what was going on, he suddenly realized, no, wait a minute. You know, there's actually a lot of resources for a kind of reformed mysticism. He says, here's Baxter, by solemn or stated meditation, I mean the thoughts of some subject, spiritual and divine, with the fixing, forcing, and ordering of our thoughts affect our own hearts and souls with the matter of it, of the things contained in it. That's meditation. They all did that. All the Puritans did that. By this design is distinguished from the study of the Word. See, this is the overlap between the circles. This is not the same as the study of the Word, wherein our principal aim is to learn the truth or to declare it unto others. Do you know the difference, everybody? And also, from prayer, it's different from prayer, where of God Himself is the immediate object. But in meditation, it's the affecting of our hearts and minds with love and delight and humiliation. In a sense, meditation is sort of studying right in front of God. I mean, you know he's right there. I mean, you're almost talking to him, but you haven't completely turned right to him in prayer. That's the reason why this is this hybrid situation, that he says it's not quite the same thing as study, it's not quite the same thing as prayer. But if you want some examples of it in the scripture, this is probably talking more about contemplation than, especially Ephesians 1. Look at Ephesians 1, 17-19. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know Him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. What does that mean? In order that you may know the hope to which He's called you. Don't they already know it? He says, yeah, but I want the eyes of your heart. See, He cannot help but use sensory language. Eyes of the heart. What in the world is He talking about? See? He says, I want you to have a sense of the heart. I want the heart to see what you intellectually know. I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance and saints and his incomparably great power toward those of us who believe. Now, if you want to see one other thing, turn over to page 128. And I'll talk to you for a minute about contemplation. Contemplation does scare me a little bit. But it's not as frightening. I mean, the first idea, when I say scare me, I said, what are we talking about here? I came to recognize it's really this witness of the Spirit. It's the idea that I know I'm a child of God. My spirit is bearing witness that I'm a child of God. And then sometimes the Spirit bears witness with my spirit, which means it's an additional sensing, a greater clarity. In a way, it's really, in some ways, it's wonderful and it's deep and it's powerful. But in a way, it's not all that hocus pocus-y. and if you want but if you want some examples actually turn over to 129 here's my favorite one right in the middle of the page by Edwards once as I rode out into the woods for my health in 1737 having alighted from my horse in a retired place as my manner commonly had been to walk for divine contemplation and prayer see he sees the difference he's using the term probably like meditation or else he's conflating the two terms the way I'm using them in a slightly distinct way from one another. I had a view that for me was extraordinary, which I imagine must have been pretty good, of the glory of the Son of God as mediator between God and man and of his wonderful, grateful, pure and sweet grace and love and meek and gentle condescension. This grace that appeared was so calm and sweet, it appeared also great above the heaven. The person of Christ appeared ineffably excellent with an excellency great enough to swallow up all thought and conception. And I continued in this state, near as I can judge, an hour, which kept me the greater part of the time in a flood of tears and weeping aloud. I felt an ardency of soul to be what I know not otherwise how to express, emptied and annihilated, to lie in the dust, to be full of Christ alone, to love Him with a holy and pure love, to trust in Him, to live upon Him, to serve and follow Him, and to be perfectly made pure with the divine and heavenly purity. I have several other times had views very much of the same nature and which have had the same effects. And you say, wow, that was a great quiet time he had there. Well, you see what I'm talking about. If you have your Bibles around, let me give you what I think is a very good biblical case for this. It's also an example of a sermon. Let me give you a semi-sermon. This is actually a sermon, the exegesis of which, this is John chapter 2. The exegesis of this is completely based on a sermon I heard actually Ed Clowney preach over the years. First time I realized last night, about 30 years ago. going to apply it completely to prayer. It doesn't mean it's the only way you apply it, but I'm going to apply it to prayer. You'll see what I mean. On the third day, a wedding took place at Cana in Galilee. Jesus' mother was there, and Jesus and his disciples also had been invited to the wedding. And when the wine was gone, Jesus' mother said to him, they have no more wine. Dear woman, why do you involve me? Jesus replied, my time has not yet come. Nearby stood six stone water jars, the kind used by the Jews for the ceremonial washing. Each held about 20 to 30 gallons. And Jesus said to the servants, Fill the jars with water. So they filled them to the brim. Then he told them, Now draw some out and take it to the master of the banquet. They did so. And the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned into wine. He did not realize where it had come from, though the servants who had drawn the water knew. He calls the bridegroom aside It says, everyone brings out the choice wine first, and then the cheaper wine after the guests have had too much to drink, but you have saved the best to last. This, then, is the first of his miraculous signs, the first of his miraculous signs that Jesus performed in Cana of Galilee. Thus he revealed his glory, and his disciples put their faith in him. I'm very sorry to dishonor this text and my Lord with this little praise of a sermon, but why is this a sign? It's not just a miracle, it's a sign.

This is more than just the miracle. When you're starting a campaign, you want to make sure the first thing you do and the first thing you say is quintessentially represented of everything. When somebody gets your web-page up, the first thing they see, you've got to make sure that is telling the people everything you're about. Everything about the web-page has got to show them instantly what you're about. You don't want anything to mislead, you want to get right to the heart of things, right to the essence, right? If the web-page doesn't do that, it's not well-designed. that Jesus would do this as his first miracle? Why would this be the first miracle? Why would this be his basic calling card? Why, in a sense, would he do this miracle to say, this is what I'm about? There's nobody hurt. There's nobody dying. There's nobody with leprosy. There's nobody sinking into the waves. There's nobody hungry. What's he doing? He's taking a party that was about to end and making it huge, and that's his first miracle. That's very weird, don't you think? That's pretty remarkable. What he's actually showing us though is what he came to bring and how he's going to bring it. Look at these two things. Number one, the first thing, what does he come to bring? Now I know this is going to be scary. I'm talking both to you and also how I would say it to somebody else. I know it's scary for you to hear a Presbyterian minister say something like this. But what he came to do is be Lord of the Feast. there was a bank-lit, there was the Lord of the bank-lit, you see down here in Verse 10? It says, then he called the brideg- he is talking about the Master of the bank-lit, excuse-me- The master of the banquet, the lord of the feast. We don't really have anything quite like this. Sort of like the master of ceremonies. The job of the master of the banquet was to make sure the party went well and was presiding over the party. And by Jesus Christ, not healing the sick, not raising the dead, not feeding the hungry, but by creating 150 gallons of the most incredible wine to keep a party really, really going strong, by him choosing that as his quintessential first miracle, Think about this, everybody. What he's really saying is, I'm the real master of the banquet. I'm the one who comes into your life to bring joy. It's my job to turn your life into a feast. I'm the real master of the banquet, I'm the real lord of the feasts. But beyond that, what he's really saying he's bringing into your life is sensation, powerful sensation, because what he brings is all about taste. See verse 9 and 10, when the master of the banquet tasted the water that had been turned to wine, it. He says, this is incredible. This tastes so great. That's what the whole thing is about. Why does the Bible continually talk about tasting? Why in Psalm 34 does it say, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good? Don't they already know the Lord is good? By the way, like I said, this is a semi-sermon. I'm talking to you because I know that you just went through the half hour before with me. Jesus Christ came to bring powerful sensation

and having the actual sense of its sweetness. Jesus Christ came to bring sensation. Jesus Christ wants you to taste and see that the Lord is good. Jesus Christ wants you to understand the sweetness of God. You know, here's an interesting quote by, I guess I'm moving quickly. I would spend much more time on this part of the sermon if I was speaking to people that I hadn't just talked to like I did you last night and today about this. He says, some of us know, by the way, this is when Spurgeon preaches a sermon on The Prodigal Son, you know how Spurgeon was the kind of person that would preach on two or three words, and Spurgeon has an entire sermon on the place in The Prodigal Son, where it says, and The Father kissed him. And the whole sermon is on this, I mean it's really a bad way to preach, he forgets about He forgets about the context. He forgets about the parable. But you know what? It's a terrific sermon. And the whole sermon is about the experience of the Father's kiss. I mean, it's typical of Spurgeon. It's a wonderful biblical sermon. It has nothing to do with the text it's based on. But here's what he says in the sermon. He says, Some of us know what it's like to be too happy to live. The love of God has been so overpoweringly experienced by us on some occasions that we almost had to ask God to stop the delight. for we were afraid that we could endure no more. I believe one night if God had not veiled his love and glory a bit, I would have... We, he always talked about, you know, Spurgeon, he always used the term we. We would have died for joy. Now, I know it's a little dangerous if I was talking to the average person to put forth this. I have to be careful when you're preaching about this because, boy, modern people just love experience. And you have to safeguard it and talk about the danger of making an idol. But I'm talking to you. I'm talking to you. I want to know something. that at all. Do you have any idea what Spurgeon is talking about? Why? Why not? That's what he brought. That's what he came to bring. You realize, this is his first, this is his calling card. He says, I'm the real master of the banquet and it's your life I want to come into. I want to be the Lord of the feast. But, how does he bring this? Now this is actually, Actually, there's an exegetical key to the passage. How does he bring this? There's a very, very weird spot where Mary comes and says, you know, they've run out of wine. The wine is gone, verse 3. And Jesus says, dear woman, this is NIV now, dear woman, what have you, why do you involve me? My time has not yet come. Now, you know what? We really are not very well served by this translation, right? I think Ed knows that. it's at least two ways in which it's unhelpful. The first is this idea of him saying, dear woman. Now, it's really trying to pretty it up. Jesus does not say, my dear woman, nor does he say, now mom. He says, woman. I mean, it's a very brusque. He's clearly, he's emotional. He's emotional. Woman, why do you involve me? My time has not yet come. Now, when you read that, and when I read that, and when the average person reads that, we're almost sure what he means is, my time has not yet come to do a miracle, right? In other words, she's saying, they have no wine, do you want to do something about it? Woman, my time has not yet come. And almost the natural reading of this is to say, well, what he's saying is, I'm not ready to come forth and show my power, right? It's not time to do a miracle. But that can't be right. Here's why not. does it. Now, what do we have? Do we have a typical relationship between an adult child and his mother? Is that it? I mean, has Jesus not gotten past the way you and me are? Here's what we have. Honey, I remember the angels. I was there at the manger. You can do something about this. Mom, no, no, it's not time No, no, no, oh, alright Is that it? See, if Jesus means my time has not yet come to do a miracle Then he's just gotten henpecked I think we need to give him more credit than that I don't think so I believe the man who is willing to put up with everything he's about to put up In order to do exactly what his mission is he sets his face like a flint, nothing is going to stop him, he is like a laser beam, nothing stops him, the wrath of hell itself doesn't stop him from his mission, you think he is going to let his mother? Knock him out of his, you know, his mother is not even mad at him here, you know? You think he is saying my time is not come for miracle? It can't be, so what is he talking about? And this is the whole key, and the NIV translation doesn't serve us well, because what he literally says is my hour is not come, now I don't know why, Why they don't say that? Because that's very important. Why is it so important? Because absolutely every place in the book of John where Jesus talks about his hour, he's talking about the hour of his death. You can look it up. John 730, John 820, John 13-1. Every time, every, every, every time that Jesus ever talks about his hour, he's talking about his death. But now you suddenly realize what's weird about this. She comes and says, Why don't you do something about the wine? He is talking about a supernatural thing, I'm sure. Why don't you do something about the wine? And he says, it's not my time to die. Well now we've got a conundrum here. And we've actually got a kind of, we have a narrative tension that has to be resolved. Why is he saying, Mom, it's not my time to die? What is he thinking about? I mean, it seems like a real non-sequitur. And therefore we are actually invited into his heart. I think John must be inviting us into his heart because we're going to have to say what is he thinking about and we're going to have to think about this and here's what I think he's got to be thinking about because I have something that you don't have. I have a church that's 80% single. There's nobody else here that has that because I don't think there's anybody else that has that anywhere. Church is 80% single. I actually have an insight that helped me with this text. In fact, whenever I preach this, I looked out there and everybody got very quiet because they knew I said, when you go to somebody else's wedding, what are you thinking about? When you sit there at somebody else's wedding reception, I very often see a lot of single people kind of staring off into space, their eyes kind of focused on something else. What are you all thinking about? You know what they're thinking about. What are they thinking about? They're thinking about their wedding. See, most of us have been married for so long, we forget what it's like to go to somebody else's wedding. What is he thinking about? See, there's only one possible answer to the question, he thinking about? She says, there's wine needed for the wedding. And if Jesus is thinking of his wedding, if Jesus is thinking of the day in which he sits down to drink the cup with his bride, and of course now at this point I would go in and explaining to everybody else, which I'm not going to do for you, that he's the bridegroom. And the book of John certainly understands this. Maybe Mark and Matthew do not as much, but boy, John knows all about this. It's in John that he says, you know, when the friends of the bridegroom, They're not fasting. It's John who at the very end of the book of Revelation talks about the holy city coming down adorned as a bride. So John knows all about this. And John knows that Jesus knows all about this. So Jesus is thinking, she says, they have no wine for the wedding. No wine for the wedding. Give them wine for the wedding. And Jesus is saying, there's only one way that I'm ever going to get wine for the wedding. The only way I'm ever going to sit down at my wedding feast, the only way I'm going to drink the cup of joy at my wedding feast, I'm going to have to die. The only way to get wine into the lives of the people that I love is I'm going to have to die. Because these jars of purification, you think that's an accident that's where he decides? These jars for the cleansing of people so that they're fit to go into the presence of God, you think that's an accident? Absolutely not. How is Jesus Christ going to give us this festal joy that he came to give us? going to get incredible sensation into your life? The only way he is going to do that is if he dies to make us his bride. Do you realize what that means? Here is something else that I can…. It is really interesting…. It is one thing to preach this text to a group of people single Here's one of the things that we do we have an experience of that almost nobody has even movie stars don't have this Now the average movie star only gets married about eight times Right eight nine times But you and I get something we get an experience that happens for us hundreds of times in our life, and that's this We're here the grooms here the bride turns the corner and down she comes Now the experience of watching a woman incredibly decked out, coming down the aisle to her husband-to-be, there's a look. There is a look. I mean, there is a radiance. There's a beauty. One of the things that's so interesting about wedding dresses, you know, they haven't changed in years and years and years. You know why? They got them right. Here's what I mean. There has never... Have you noticed this? No matter what that woman looked like in reality,

I mean, you counsel, you did the premarital counseling, you did the premarital counseling, no matter what she looked like in reality, she turns the corner, she comes down, and you say, unbelievable.

She looks terrific. You wouldn't mind, no matter what she looked like in reality, you wouldn't mind if she was coming to you. You know, you see her turn the corner, she comes down, in a dress, in a wedding dress, and I don't know what it is, is it the, I don't know what it is, that's the reason why it hasn't changed in years, what that woman looks like in reality, she in that dress is unbelievably beautiful. I mean, listen, even Dennis Rodman made a good looking bride. Do you remember that? And I remember, I can only use this illustration in another couple years because time is fading, Do you remember seeing Dennis Rodman in a dress? It was a publicity stunt, a wedding dress, it was all done up, do you remember that? I looked at that and I said, oh my gosh, I suddenly realized something, I was looking at Dennis Rodman in a wedding dress. How dare Jesus Christ say that's how he sees us? How dare he say that no matter what we look like in reality, even if we are an extremely ugly, six foot nine, power forward, you know, in a wedding dress, you look incredibly beautiful. How dare he say, could he mean that he feels like the groom does? She's beautiful. You can hardly keep yourself from running down the aisle toward her. You're ready to say, all that I am and all that I have I give to you. You're ready to say, is it possible that Jesus actually feels like that when he sees us? And that he's willing to die that we can appear like that in his eyes and that we can fall into his arms. Now, does that move you? That's the wine. That's the sensation. That's the wine. He came to bring us festival joy. willing to die to make us his bride. That's how he brings it into our life. Now, on the basis of what we've just seen, let me apply this to prayer. This text teaches us to pray in four ways. Number one, number one, by the way, by the way, if I was talking to non-Christians, here's what I would say. If you would like to get this joy into your life, and if you would like to know that you have this kind of relationship with the Lord of the universe, then the text, by the way, I'm allegorizing here, Trust, try and stop me. The text tells us how you can become a Christian today. Two things. Number one, admit you're out. This miracle would not have happened unless Mary came and said, they're out. You have to admit that you're empty. You have to admit you're empty. You have to go to him and admit it. And then secondly, take the credit for what he's done. Because at the end, the master of the banquet brings the stupid bridegroom, the bridegroom whose marriage is about to collapse because of some kind of bad planning, and calls him and says, what a great job you did. In other words, this bridegroom gets all the credit for what Jesus Christ did, and that's what it means to become a Christian. You have to admit that you're out, you have to see that he died for your sin, and you have to go to the Father confidently taking credit for what Jesus did, saying, Father, save me because of what Jesus did. Give me credit for what Jesus did. Praise me because Jesus is loving and praiseworthy. Because he did it for me. Because he loves me. That's how you become a Christian today. Admit you're out and take credit. See, I allegorized. Are you going to begrudge me that? But let's go to prayer. Four things. Four ways in which this teaches us about prayer. The first thing, very simple but very important, is do petitionary prayer. Go to him for any little thing. Somebody put it this way. I can't remember which one it was. Some commentator said this. Jesus was willing to use his divine power egg off the faces of two disorganized teenagers. I've never gotten over that statement. Because these were kids, they would have been teenagers, they clearly were disorganized. And let's go back to the introduction of this sermon. Why in the world is Jesus not finding a leper who is to be cleansed, a dead person to be raised, a blind person to be healed? Why didn't he go there? I don't know. I was trying to show you that Jesus basically, he sees his ministry is incredibly positive. He says, yeah, I'm going to call you to self-denial and maybe even persecution and all sorts of other things. But ultimately, in the end, I come to bring festival joy. I come to turn your life into a feast. I'm the master of your banquet. But there's something else that's interesting here. And that is that Jesus Christ was willing to use his divine power and his precious time to look at what would seem to be a kind of little thing. But it was an embarrassment and he cared. Which means, go to him for anything. Petitionary prayer. Bring everything to him. He counts the hairs on your head. He keeps the tears in your bottle. So the first thing is petitionary prayer. Do it. The second thing is what I'm going to call patience prayer. In prayer, pray yourself patient with him. Because what's interesting is Mary comes and makes a prayer. Doesn't she pray? What does she pray? Could you do something about the party? And what answer does she get? Okay, Mom. Or, no, not right now, but I'll do something later. Absolutely not. abrupt kind of response with no promise of anything. In other words, sometimes that's how God seems to be treating you. But pray yourself patient because what does she do? Does she say, how dare you speak to your mother like that? Oh no. She remembers the angels. She remembers. So what does she say to the servants? You know, he basically just brushed her off. What does she say to the servants? He says, just wait and do whatever he says. And tell yourself that. Pray, tell your heart that in prayer. Say the same thing to your heart that Mary says to the servants. You know, so let, you know, so first I'll do petitionary prayer. Secondly, do patience prayer. Thirdly, do perspective prayer. Now, what I mean by perspective prayer, and this is, here's something I take right out of Ed's old sermon on this. Well, you know, if I have singles, you know what I'm going to say to singles? I'm going to say in prayer thinking about what he is and who he is and what he's done and what he's going to bring into our lives right and what he's done in order to bring it into our lives don't let marriage throw you get perspective on it and here's what I would say a wedding day awaits you to eradicate all your hurts his first embrace can undo a thousand lives of hurt many times worse than yours there's only one bridegroom in the world that's going to be able there's only one spouse God will fulfill you and he awaits you so don't be too completely overthrown if your marriage and your family isn't everything you want it to be even if it was everything you want it to be it wouldn't be enough I look at them very often and say my marriage is far better than I ever thought it would be and I want you to know it's still not enough to make me a happy person it is not the only spouse that can unless you know there is a spouse there the only spouse that will fulfill the needs of your heart and he is waiting for you if you believe in him and he is actually willing in a sense to pour some wine into your heart right now if you go to him You need to know that if you're going to get married and not turn your husband or your family into an idol and destroy them. You need to know it if you're never going to get married and you're going to be able to live without a sort of life of bitterness. And you need to know it right now if you're even happily married, not to think, well, as long as my marriage is happy, everything is fine, because maybe you have a bad stretch. You need to see him. You need, in prayer, to get perspective. But it's not just on the suffering of maybe my marriage isn't right or maybe I don't like being single. in his sermon that is just a proverb you want to keep forever. You must get perspective. No matter how bad things are, get perspective. Get the eternal, the long perspective. Jesus Christ sat amidst all the joy, sipping the coming sorrow. So that today we can sit amidst all this world's sorrow, sipping the coming joy. By the way, when Ed says that, he actually shows you that he understands the exegetical heart of the passage. the only reason that Jesus would say, my hour is not yet come, mom, it's not my time to die, is he is sitting in the midst of all the joy, sipping the coming sorrow, thinking about the cross, so that he went through that kind of life, so that you can sit in the midst of all the sorrow of this world, sipping the coming joy, you can face life with confidence, you are not overthrown by the grief that comes to you, you have the confidence bought by the sorrow of your true bridegroom, room. So, petitionary prayer, patience prayer, perspective prayer, but finally, presence prayer. He wants to come into your life and give you wine. And actually, I'm not going to say anything more about that, because that's what I've been talking about last night, and especially this morning. Why are you settling for bread and water in your prayer life? Isaiah 55. That's right. That'd be a good place to quote it. That's a good point. why are you settling for bread and water? Why not have a feast? You know, in your own prayer life, are you settling for bread and water? The hill of Zion yields a thousand sacred sweets before we reach the heavenly fields and walk the golden streets. So seek his presence in prayer. Get perspective in prayer. Find patience in prayer. And go to him about absolutely everything. There's nothing too small for him. He loves you like that. Okay? Let's pray for a second, okay? Father, we do need so badly to learn how to meditate and learn how to pray and become men and women of God so that, as the little hymn says, let his beauty rest upon me as I seek the lost to win. Then may they forget the channel, seeing only him. Ironically, it's when we most have our focus on you that other people are most really going to be affected. We are so concerned about getting people to our church and getting people to come back and getting people saved. And we're so busy discipling people. We're so busy with results. We know that ultimately what you most need from us is a holy heart and you need a praying pastor in the pulpit. We ask that you would show us how. Not to settle for bread and water. We thank you that your son came to heal the sick and to raise the dead to bind up the broken, but we're so grateful that ultimately he came to be the Lord of the feast and our husband. Now we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
