We're moving through the Gospel of John in series. Now, the next two weeks we're going to take a small hiatus from our expositions in John. We're going to look at a couple of Christmas themes. Very important to do that, of course, at this time of year. Today we're going to take our second look at this basic, at this conversation. Today we're going to start at verse 4 and read through verse 15. We'll see that Jesus has announced the subject of the new birth, the doctrine, you might say, of the new birth. in verses 1 to 3, and starting in verse 4 and then again in verse 9, Nicodemus asks two questions. And Jesus responds in both cases with a picture. The first picture has to do with a picture of wind. The second picture has to do with a picture of a brass serpent lifted up on a rod. And so let's read John chapter 3, verse 4 through 15. How can a man be born when he is old, Nicodemus asked, surely he cannot enter a second time into his mother's womb? And Jesus answered, I tell you the truth, no one can enter the kingdom of God unless he is born of water and the Spirit. Flesh gives birth to flesh, but the Spirit gives birth to Spirit. You should not be surprised at my saying, you must be born again. The wind blows wherever it pleases. You hear its sound, but you cannot tell where it comes from or where it is going. So it is with everyone born of the Spirit. How can this be? Nicodemus asked. You are Israel's teacher, and you do not understand these things. I tell you the truth. We speak of what we know, and we testify of what we have seen, but still you people do not accept our testimony. I have spoken to you of earthly things, and you do not believe. How then will you believe if I speak of heavenly things? No one has ever gone into heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. Just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, so the Son of Man must be lifted up, that everyone who believes in him may have eternal life. The word of the Lord.

We said last week this is the most complete and comprehensive treatment in the Bible of the subject of the new birth, or what's popularly called, what Jesus calls it, being born again. And quick review, last week we first of all pointed out that Jesus shows us that there is no other way to the Father than this. In verse 3, you must be born again unless you're born again, you can't see the kingdom. five, unless you're born again, you can't enter the kingdom. Verse seven, you must be born again. Jesus is repeatedly saying there is no possibility of any Christianity unless you're born again. And the reason he does this is because he knows that Nicodemus, as well as you and I, will want desperately to believe that the new birth is an option and not a necessity. because the language of the typical person, Nicodemus might have said this, would go like this. The new birth sounds like a very powerful and wonderful experience. And doubtless, it's a helpful experience to those who have experienced it. However, I'm more low-key. I'm a little different, you see. I'm more cautious. I am a little scared of religious fanaticism. and besides that, I believe everybody has to find God in his or her own way. And you see, that sounds so balanced.

But Jesus will have none of it because he knows it's just another way of keeping control of your life. And that's the reason why he says it again and again and again, why he's so abrupt, why he's so blunt, and why he is so painfully repetitive. You must be born again. And the second thing we saw last week, to look at the nature of the new birth, the second thing that we learn here, and we're going to look at it even more today, is what the new birth is. And last week we saw that it is a supernatural act of God in which he takes the Holy Spirit and implants the Holy Spirit at the base of your heart, thereby giving your mind, your will, and your emotions, your entire being, and your whole personality a whole new direction. And another way to put it is the Holy Spirit is a drastic change wrought on your heart because you now for the first time come functionally under the dominion of God. In other words, verse 3, you must be born again to see the kingdom. It's only when you're born again that you can see him as king. That means you can come to God and seek him for guidance. You can seek him for forgiveness. You can seek him for help. You can get really quite religious without being born again. But unless you're born again, you can't see him as king. And that means that until you're born again, you want him to answer to you, but you do not see that it's your job to answer to him. You want him to respond to you, but finally you see that the whole point is for you to respond to him. You see that you belong to him. You shut up, in a sense, when it comes to your complaining and your requests, and you say, I am yours. You have to be born again to see him as King. That's the difference between just being religious and being born again. That's the difference between just being moral and being born again. Now, this week we have to go on because Nicodemus is a wonderful stand-in for us because he keeps asking the kinds of questions we would ask. And because of that, after Jesus announces the necessity and the essential nature of the new birth, now in verses 4 through 15, Nicodemus asks two more questions. First of all, he says, in verse 4, he says, how can this be? Which is another way of saying, explain it to me. I still don't really get it. I don't understand how it works. Explain it a little bit more. How does it work? And Jesus goes on after verse 4 up to verse 8, and he uses the metaphor of the Holy Spirit being a wind as a way of explaining what it means to be born of the Spirit. But then Nicodemus comes back in verse 9 and asks another question and he says, I still don't get it, but I think at this point he is saying, what does that mean to me? How can I receive it? How can it happen to me? And Jesus goes on and then uses a different illustration to try to explain how you can receive and experience it yourself. And he uses the strange story in the Book of Numbers of how the serpent in the wilderness was raised up on a rod. And so the two questions are, how does the new birth work? And the answer is, like the wind. And the second question is, how can it work for me? And the answer is, by looking to me when I'm lifted up. And there's your two questions and your two answers. And let's just try to elaborate on Now, let's look first at verses 4 to 8. Nicodemus says, I don't get it. How can this work? He says, can a man climb back into his mother's womb? What's going on here? Once you're born, you're born. You can't be born again. And Jesus' point here is to say, we're not talking about a physical birth.

Nicodemus mistakes in verse 4 the physical and the spiritual birth. Jesus comes through here and says, I'm not talking about being born of flesh, being born of the spirit. I'm not talking about being born of water, which I think here is referring to physical birth, but being born of the spirit. We're not talking about the physical birth. I'm talking about spiritual birth. In other words, Jesus says, in order to enter the kingdom, you've got to be born not once, but twice. Not just of the flesh, but of the spirit. Not just of water, but of the wind. Isn't that great? If you have entered the kingdom of God, you've been born of water and the wind. Now that sounds fairly messy, doesn't it? It sounds sort of stormy, doesn't it? Water and wind. And the answer is yes, it is messy and it is stormy. And Jesus Christ, for those very reasons, is trying to get across a picture of a windstorm when he is describing the new birth. And if you don't sit and meditate on it, you won't understand what he's saying. What is he trying to say? What is he trying to teach us? by saying to be born again is to be born of the hurricane, is to be born of the tornado, is to be born of the storm, born of the wind. I suggest that he's telling us several things, and here's what they are. First of all, the new birth is an event of life-giving but intimidating power. Because that's what a rainstorm is. The first thing he's telling us is if you are born again, Again, you are experiencing, it's an event of life-giving but intimidating power. That means, think of a rainstorm. Rainstorms, thunderstorms are more powerful than nuclear warheads, but we have to have them for rain. You know, farmers, especially in the dead of summer, during those hot, dry spells, are always praying for rain. They want the rain, even though in the hot, dry spells of the summer is when you need the rain because the crops are in jeopardy, and yet the rain always comes in the most violent way. The thunderstorms are most violent during those heat spells. And so the farmer is praying for rainstorms, even though he knows, even though they know what? They know, first of all, that rain is dangerous. First of all, there'll be flash flooding. There'll be wind damage and destruction. And not only that, you'll have to cancel your picnic. I mean, rain is also very... It makes you have to rearrange your plans around a bad rainstorm. You get up in the morning and you see a rainstorm is terrible, and you say, well, there's a couple of things I won't be able to do. And the farmers say, what's the alternative? Of course there'll be damage. Of course there'll be changes of our plans. Of course all these things will happen. Of course there'll be flooding someplace, but what's the alternative? Drought. Death.

So we have to. This is our livelihood. food that we eat. It's the same way with the new birth. Same way. If you've experienced the new birth, you will find that the Spirit of God that comes into your life is both life-giving and intimidating in the Spirit's power. For example, there will be flash flooding. Absolutely. You get overwhelmed. You know, you feel, sometimes you feel overwhelmed with the changes and all the new concepts. Some people say that the trouble with the new birth is I'm getting information overload all the time. It is flash flooding in your life. Haven't you felt that? Also, there's wind damage. Oh my, yes, because the Spirit of God rearranges your life and rearranges your schedule. There's that love relationship that will never be the same, maybe. It'll either transform it and it'll be something absolutely new or it may put it to death, you see. Your professional career might be jeopardized because there might be things that before you were able to tolerate, You knew it was a lack of integrity, but everybody did it, and now you can't live with it. There might be a certain crowd of people with whom the new birth will not leave you in great standing. There's all kinds of ways in which the Spirit of God coming into your life, there's all kinds of ways in which the new birth is a storm. It's a rainstorm. It moves things around. It changes things. There's flash flooding. There's wind damage. But what's the alternative? says the farmer. Drought! Death. You have to be born of the Spirit, born of the wind. So he's trying to say, listen, the new birth is an event of life-giving and yet intimidating power. They come together. Secondly, another thing that Jesus is trying to teach by using the illustration of the wind is that the Spirit of God or the new birth is of supernatural origin. The idea of using The New Birth is not of the visible world. It's of the invisible world. It's not of the natural world. It's of the supernatural world. And therefore, we're talking about something that is of a different realm. It's not something that you've got power over. Just like a child being born. It's something that happens to you. You can't do it to yourself. You don't decide to be born. Nobody ever has. In the same way, the wind is not something that you can just get a hold of and use. Instead, the wind comes from the outside. What Jesus is saying is this. You can't make yourself a Christian.

You can't. The new birth is an impossible thing to affect yourself. It's not something you can do to yourself. You don't have the power for it. No matter how religious and how cultured and how able you are, you can't bring this wonderful effect into your life. It can't be done. Jesus is constantly saying that elsewhere. There's one place where people say to Jesus, what must we do to be saved? And yet, Jesus says, with men it's impossible, but with God nothing is possible. With men it's impossible, with God nothing is impossible. Now, listen, why is this true? Only with the direct intervention of God's supernatural power from another realm can you be changed in this way, the way we've been describing. Why? Well, for example, if you sit a lion down, go ahead, try, and then you put before the lion a piece of meat and a bowl of oatmeal, what will the lion choose? The lion, a thousand times out of a thousand, will choose the meat. Why? Because he's carnivorous. It's nothing to do with free will here. He's got perfect free will. Nobody's forcing him. But he'll always want the meat because of his nature. The Bible says repeatedly that if you give yourself, a human being, a thousand chances to serve either God or self, you will always serve self. It doesn't mean you can't go to God and make promises and do religious things as long as you believe that it will be useful to you.

the Bible teaches not that only you have to be born again in order to be religious doesn't say that but what it does teach is that you can never without the Spirit of God renewing and regenerating your heart do you can never serve him you can only use him a thousand chances to serve God or serve self you will always serve self and therefore in order to affect this remarkable change in which you come functionally under the dominion of God so that your life is completely changed so that he's in the center instead of you. That has to be a direct intervention from outside. You aren't capable of it and yet it's the glory of God's grace that God's grace comes down and confronts and faces our moral and spiritual impossibility. Jesus says this is an impossible thing for you to affect. You cannot do it and yet God can come into your life and he can renew you. He can change you. You can't change yourself.

now whenever people get around Jesus and hear him talk like that an odd thing happens it divides people

why do you think the outcasts why do you think the prostitutes why do you think the tax collectors why do you think the people who are the outcasts of society follow Jesus and love Jesus because when Jesus kept talking like this he says it's impossible for this to happen is not a matter of moral reformation. The able, the cultured, the powerful people, you cannot bring this about. You see, the people who were self-righteous, the people who felt powerful, the people who were proud, the people who felt that they had control, the people that felt they had the ability and power to run their lives, when they heard what Jesus was saying, they lost hope, and they got upset, and they got offended. But the outcasts, the people who felt they were flawed, who saw their mistakes and saw their weakness, they began to get hope. Whenever anybody listened to Jesus talking about the new birth, some people got offended and some people would get hope. Which are you?

The people would say, I don't like this kind of talk. I don't like this idea that I have to be completely dependent on God to come in and transform me and change me. I'm not that bad. I don't like to give up that kind of control. I don't like this kind of talk. Which side are you? The people with pride and self-righteousness lose hope when they hear about the new birth. And the people, those of us who say, I'm flawed, I'm a failure, we gain hope. Our hearts leap for joy. Which are you? And which is right? It's obvious which is right. You can't make yourself a Christian. Go ahead, go to somebody whose life is a wreck and go ahead, try it. Try the old way. Try the other way. In the name of decency, pull yourself together. Go ahead, try that. In the name of humanity. In your own name. In the name of self-respect. Authenticate yourself.

Realize your potential. Pull yourself together. Get yourself together. For the sake of society. For the sake of democracy. For the sake of the city. of human beings and humankind. Pull yourself together. Friends, there's a lot more able people than you and me that have failed to heed that kind of appeal. And there's men and women who are far weaker than you and me who have come to Jesus Christ and been changed. Don't you see? It cuts two ways. The doctrine of the new birth means that there are no hopeless cases. But you know what else it means? left. Born of the wind, born of the Spirit. It's of supernatural origin. It's of the invisible world that comes in. You are not something that you can't bring it about. You don't have the resources. You can't affect it, but God can. And also, one more thing, Jesus using this idea of the wind, life-giving and intimidating, invisible becoming visible.

Also, Jesus is saying the new birth is a mysterious thing. The reason he uses the wind is because the wind is mysterious. You can't see where it's coming from or where it's going, yet it moves things. It's mysterious. In fact, if you want to, right, if you're making a movie or if you're a play or writing a short story, you want to create a mysterious context, a mysterious environment, you have the wind howling. The wind is mysterious. And Jesus is saying, if you were born of the Spirit, you have had a mysterious event happen in your life. In two ways. First of all, if you're born again, you're mysterious to people on the outside. People who are born again cannot be understood. They're inexplicable.

just like well see for example people from outside people who are not have not gone through the experience they look at somebody who's born again and they see strange things for example the most moral people in the world very often are those who are born again and yet they're always going around saying i need to repent and very often the most miserable people in the world people are people who are born again who have gone through a lot of losses and yet they're sitting there and they're saying through their tears Here's, I'm still at rest because my riches are intact. And so the person from outside says, this doesn't make any sense at all. Here, you see, here's a person confessing who's the most moral person I know. Here's a person content who's the most miserable person I know. I don't get this. Why is it when you take a look at the folks who are born again, first of all, you know, when they're... I've never seen people... They say from the outside, I've never seen people who look so poor when they're wealthy. fulfilled, and so wealthy when they're poor. They're rejoicing when they suffer, and when they're successful, they're humble. I don't understand this. And of course, that figures in the same way that you can't see the wind, but you can see the effects. You see what it moves around. So when people from the outside see someone who's born again, they can see the effects. They see the contentment. They see the humility. They see the changes, but they can't see the cause. And if you're born again, you cannot expect people from outside that experience to understand you. You're inexplicable. You're mysterious.

But it's not only true that you're mysterious to people outside, unfortunately. And yet this is very important. If you're born again, you'll also find that you're somewhat mysterious to yourself. Oh, yeah. You're surprising to yourself. The way you know you're really a born-again Christian, is that you're constantly surprised by what you see happening. There's a surprise. There's a mystery, because you are not running your life anymore. Something from outside, a life-giving, mysterious principle has come inside and is taking hold of you, and now you don't know necessarily what the day is going to bring up. In fact, to me, my favorite way of explaining this is to notice the big difference between a religious person and a born-again person. Now, born-again people are religious, but I'm talking about a merely religious or moral person. Go to them and say, are you a Christian? And you know what they say? Of course. And they're very annoyed. Why would you ask? You know, you're very, very, very bugged. Why would you ask such a question? But go to a born-again person and say, are you a Christian? You know what they say? They say, yeah, but it's a mystery to me. Why? It's an amazing thing. It's a marvel. It's a miracle. And it's a joke that I, of all people, would be a Christian, that the life script of my life would end like this. Why? It's a surprise to me. It's amazing, but it's true. It's all a joy and it's all of grace. There's a whole different approach. You see, people who are born again, they're always amazed at themselves. They're always laughing at themselves. always a wonder about because they are mystery to themselves. Do you understand Christianity is that?.. do you?.. do you sense that there is a life giving principle?.. something mysterious?.. from outside of you?.. that come inside of you?.. and taking hold of you?.. from the inside?.. that is Christianity?.. its not a bunch of rules?.. and regulations?.. do you sense?.. that this?.. thing ?.. come?.. on?.. the outside?..?.. this?.. life giving?..

you, and it's bringing you back constantly? And every time you think, ah, he's given up on me, it's bringing you back? No. That's what Christianity is. Do you sense that? Are you a surprise to yourself? And I have to ask you a more telling question. Are you a mystery to other people? If you're born again, there's something inexplicable about you. Is that true? Do people The people from the outside look at you and they say, oh my, I can't explain the contentment I see. Is anybody finding you mysterious? I can't explain the person looking at you. I can't explain the humility. I can't explain the integrity. I can't explain the... On the one hand, here's a person with great deep convictions. I know this person really has strong beliefs and yet so approachable, so sensitive, so reasonable, and yet so convicted. courageous and yet so humble, so joyful and yet not somebody who doesn't feel sadness. Are you inexplicable to people? Are you remarkable to people? Do people from the outside look at you and are they aware that there is something molding and guiding your life that's utterly different than that which is molding and guiding theirs?

Are you a mystery? That's the beauty, that's the wonder, that's the glory of Christianity. Christianity. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. We understand that. That which is born of the spirit is spirit. It's from the invisible realm. It's from outside. It's a mystery. It's inexplicable. Is anybody here getting discouraged because you're saying, I wish I had that kind of life? I don't know that I've got that kind of life. I don't think there's anything remarkable about me. I'm afraid it's not true of me. I'm getting scared the more you talk. I want you not to be discouraged. You know why? If you're offended by the whole talk of the new birth, that's something you should be discouraged about. But if you're yearning for this, if you're saying, I want this, I want this kind of life, I want this kind of reality in my life, don't you forget what verse three says. You have to be born of the spirit to see the kingdom. And that means you couldn't even see this. You couldn't want this. You couldn't want this kingdom to reality unless God was already working in you and opening your heart to it and moving you toward it. So don't be discouraged. Don't say, oh my word, I don't have this. How will I ever get it? God's already working in you or you wouldn't be asking such a question. Go to him. Can't you hear the door opening now? The doors that were locked for a long time, the prejudices, the fears, he's opening the doors now or you wouldn't be yearning for this. So Answer him. Now, the last question that we see, you know, Jesus is talking about the Spirit to explain the incredible nature of the new birth, the life-giving nature of it, the mysterious nature of it, and so on. But then Nicodemus asks in verse 9, again, he says, But how can these things be? And it's very clear by Jesus' answer to him that he must be saying, But how can these things be for me? All this discussion is just very, very exciting, Jesus. But let's be practical. How can I experience this? Now, we've just said that the new birth is not something that you can bring about. On the other hand, Jesus says in a number of places that there is something that you must do. believe. He mentions it four or five times in the passage we've read. Believe the testimony. When I am lifted up, believe in me. In fact, you see here in John 3, it says, unless you are born again, you can't see the kingdom of God. In Matthew 18, he says, unless you convert, unless you turn and trust in me, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. There's two sides of this coin. underneath, inside, something you cannot do, God must do. He brings about the new birth. But outside, consciously, up here, we have something to do, and that is to believe. Verse 15, those who believe in him have eternal life. Well, now the question is, what does that mean? Believe. The word believe means a lot of things, but what is new birth believing? What is that? And Jesus says, I'll tell you what it is, and he gives you this strange, strange picture out of Numbers chapter 21. And he says, just as Moses lifted up the snake in the desert, in the wilderness, so the Son of Man must be lifted up. What is that? In Numbers chapter 21, we're told this weird story. This is what happened. The children of Israel had been freed from bondage in Egypt. and they were being brought to the promised land, but they were spending many years in the wilderness on the way. So they had been slaves in Egypt, and yet they started to rebel. They started to say, we wish we could go back to Egypt. At least we were comfortable there. Forgetting the fact that they were slaves before. Now they were free. And so on. And they had been doing this constantly. And so what happened was God allowed a plague of snakes, poisonous snakes, to come into the camp and begin biting people, and many of them were dying.

Why would God do such a thing? Because there was a venom in their souls which was far more destructive than any venom that could come into their bodies. It was the only poison that could really kill them. And God had to show them by putting venom and poison in their bodies that they needed to deal with the poison in their souls. What is the poison in their souls? Well, it's something called sin. sin. But you see, it was showing itself in this way. What is sin? Sin is that which presses us to put ourselves first. Here are the children of Israel, and they're constantly unhappy with everything God's doing. And what's really ironic is when they get sick, when they're bitten by these poisonous vipers, what happens is they begin to get a fever, and they begin to get very hot, Their bodies are wracked with convulsions, and they are absolutely thirsty, unquenchably thirsty, which is an ironic picture of what's actually happened in their hearts. And what happens to you and me? One of the reasons that my wife and I kind of dread Christmas, and many parents understand this, is that the more you do for children, the more grumpy and unhappy they get. You see, if you wake up on the average day, and there's no presents, the kids aren't expecting anything, You send them off to school and you give them peanut butter and jelly sandwiches for lunch. Everything's fine. But you wake up on Christmas morning and there's all this loot out there. And they come rushing on out. And after they have opened everything, they say, is that it? Every year.

Or else they say, pants. Pants. You know. The more privileges you shower on children, the more things you give them, the more demanding they get, the more unhappy they are, the more grumpy they are. Now, is that a coincidence?

No, that's just an expression of the fact that the sin in our lives does the same thing to us. The more we get, the more we say, my goals, my agenda, my desires, and it creates a greater and greater thirst that's unquenchable. The more we put ourselves in the center, the more unhappy we get. And that's what sin does, and it creates a spiritual thirst that's unquenchable. And God says, I'm going to have to do something to show you how dire your situation is. So as they lay dying, they cry to him in the camp. And God says, Moses, here's what I want you to do. I want you to put up on a pole a brass serpent. and anyone who looks at it will instantly be cured and that's what happened. And then Jesus says, in the same way you must look at me on the cross. Why would Jesus liken himself to the brass serpent? And here's why.

First, the people who looked at the serpent knew they were dying. If you want to believe in such a way, you might call it new birth believing, believing, it's not good enough to come and say, well, I need some help. No, that's not new birth believing. That doesn't go along with a new birth. You have to say, my problems are going over my head. They are beyond me to deal with. I am perishing because of the spiritual poison in my body. I will die unless I have intervention. If you don't go to him that way, you are not new birth believing. Secondly, Jesus is also trying to show us that the very thing that brings about our death will bring about our life. The very thing that ought to kill us will save us. They looked at the serpent, the thing that had actually was killing them, and by looking at it they were saved. And Jesus says, look, your punishment, the curse, the punishment that you deserve because of the way in which you treat God, because of your desire to be master, because of your desire to put yourself in the center. The bullet with your name on it, I will take. The curse, the punishment will fall on me. The fever I will take into my body and I'll be racked with the convulsions. God made him sin who knew no sin, Paul says, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus took the curse so the very thing that should have killed you saves you. He took it all on himself. Everything that you owe is his, is now in him. And thirdly, and the most important thing, I think, is the reason Jesus likened himself to the serpent is the only thing you had to do to be healed was to look at it. Suppose Moses had said, or God had said, anybody who can crawl on hands and knees, has enough strength to come over and touch the serpent, you'll be healed. What if he'd said that? Well, then the stronger ones would have been saved, right? And what about the weaker ones. They would have been killed. They would have died. It takes no ability to look. It takes no strength to look. Some of them were healthier. Some of them were stronger. Some of them are weaker. Some of them were just barely alive. Everybody was on the same equal platform. Everybody was on the same level. All they had to do was look. And that is what Jesus Christ means when he says, believe. He doesn't say, now those of you who've got the ability muster up enough love and up enough faith, and then I'll save you. Never think that. What it means to look on him is actually to say, I'm dying of the poison in my veins. You have taken my curse upon me. You have done everything I need to do. You have received everything I need to pay, and therefore accept me completely for this Jesus' sake. That's what it means. It means to rest completely in what he has done, to accept it, to receive it. As I love to say, all you need is nothing. And if you come with anything else, you're excluded.

Charles Spurgeon, the great Baptist minister, was converted after spending weeks doing everything he possibly could to make God accept him. He confessed his sins every day, and he tried real hard to be moral, and one day he walked in, Methodist preacher preaching out of Isaiah 45, and all the text was is, look to me and be saved, for I am God and there is no other. And suddenly Spurgeon realized what he'd been doing. He hadn't looked. He'd been working. He'd been crawling. He'd been dragging himself over, but he wasn't. He was just being called to look. And he suddenly realized that anybody can look. And he looked and listen.

Anybody who's experienced this feels like somebody in a nightmare waking up into your birthday party. You feel like somebody, you feel like an accepted lover who was sure that when you popped the question, she'd say no.

And you feel like this astonishing happiness, you just didn't do anything to deserve happiness, and you're right, because it's a complete, unbounded, free grace. And you begin to realize that your puny, stupid efforts to achieve joy haven't done it, and now your puny, ridiculous efforts cannot retain the joy or keep the joy or even lose the joy, because God's bliss cannot be earned, and it's not for sale. And therefore, it's this buoyant this buoyant humility, this farewell to self and all of its incessant resolutions and anxieties and scruples and introspection, farewell to self, and out of this buoyant humility, the rest of your life flows. All you have to do is look. That's all that Jesus is saying. Do you understand this? Friends, some of you know you've been through the experience. You know you're born again. But listen, if you've ever seen a little baby born, they come out very often kicking and screaming, but you have to feed that child, and you also have to cherish and hold the child. There's a number of you who've been through the experience of being born again, and you have left the baby. If you leave the baby aside and you do not feed the baby, or if you don't hold and cherish the baby, the life will slowly ebb out. You wonder why, though this incredible, life-giving, intimidating power your life that there is nothing remarkable about you anymore. There's nothing inexplicable about you anymore. It's because you're not feeding the child. You're not feeding the life that's within you. It needs the Word. It needs obedience. It needs prayer. It needs fellowship. And you need to cherish it, too. You know what it means by cherishing? You need to every day fill your mind with the glory of what's inside of you. And if there's anybody here who's depressed because you say, I'm facing things that I cannot face. You've forgotten what's inside. Cherish it. Caress it. Be melted with spiritual understandings of the greatness that's come into your life. And it will deal with your fear and it will deal with your hardness of heart. And there's some people here who say, hey, I know that I've never been through this experience. Now look, don't make a mistake. If you're trying to get a seed into hard ground, there's two ways to do it. slowly until it gets soft and you push the seed in. Or else you can take a big pickaxe and you pull up the slab and then you stick the seed in. And there's various ways in which people are converted. Some people are converted because God very slowly sprinkles the heart softer, softer, softer. And one day He pushes that seed in and you don't even know the day that you crossed over from death to life. You don't even know the day because it's been a gradual process, even though there was one day in which you were born again. And others of us have been through traumatic pickaxe kinds of experiences, and sometimes those of us who are getting sprinkled see the pickaxe people and we say, gee, I don't know, have I been born again? You know, don't make that mistake. The question is this, have you ever said to him, I'm dying of the poison, I see that you took my curse for me. And now I ask, I just look, receive me for Jesus' sake. What do you think made Nicodemus willing to risk everything at the end of his life to bury Jesus? Because he was just beginning to experience the new life. And those of us who have tasted the new life down here, we can't imagine if the lower reaches of the spring are this can't imagine what the headwaters must be like. Jesus Christ, when he was born, the angels sang. Do you realize the Bible says that there's joy in the presence of the angels for one person that repents? Do you realize that if there's anybody here who decides to convert today and to see the king and to give your life to him, do you realize that you can set all of heaven ablaze with singing? singing, that's how powerful the new birth is. Born of the wind, born of the Spirit. Let's pray. Our Father, we're going to spend some time looking at you. There's those of us who have been through this experience and yet we're not feeding or cherishing what we have. And there's some of us who need to know whether we should be coming to you now. Now, Father, we pray that as we listen to the music, as we receive the offering, that during this time you might deal with us and we might give to you exactly what we owe you. We owe you everything. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
