We did something like this in November on the subject of sex and relationships, marriage. We're going to do three weeks on the subject of self-image. I'll tell you what, I'm glad my wife did make it. Hey, Jim Irwin, there's one of those little tabs that says two. Could you turn it down? Yeah, and remember where it was. so that when Kathy says something in this mic, you might want to turn it back up. Okay, I'll probably remind you. Okay. Alrighty, then this is a tough subject. I'm going to ask you to turn the number seven one down just a bit, too. That's me. Sorry about that. I'd like to ask God to help me and help you during this next hour and 20 minutes. So let's begin with prayer, please. Let's pray. Father, we can't know ourselves unless we know you. We can't know you unless you reveal yourself. That's the way it is with persons. You can't know a person unless that person chooses to open and to reveal. Since we realize that our own understanding and knowledge of ourselves is bound up inextricably with our knowledge of you, we need your help. You tell us in your words that the Spirit of God alone plumbs the depths and knows the heart of God. And therefore we ask for your Spirit's help. As we talk about a subject on all of our hearts and minds, we ask that you would enable us by your spirit to have clarity in our thinking and wisdom and our understanding. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We're going to do this. Those of you who were here when we did this sort of format in November, it basically goes like this. I start, my wife thinks of things that she needs to add. My wife says, in Yiddish it's called kibitzing. And she will get up and she will add to the subject. And then we have a pretty good period of time of question and answer. I'm not sure. Though a lot of people considered the sex and marriage weeks a great triumph. I never felt that people really felt that they were able to ask questions. I never felt that maybe it's because of the size of the number of people in the room. And maybe it was because of the ticklishness of a number of the subjects that we covered last time. I never felt there was as much give and take. And maybe that still will happen. But I would hope that tonight we have plenty of time for questions and answers. and that you would feel very free to raise a hand and speak it out. So it's going to be me giving a longer address, my wife giving a response. My wife Kathy, I'll introduce her to you in a second, or not a second, in a few minutes. And then I'll open it up. Here's how I'd like to divide the three weeks. The first week tonight, in some ways, is the most general. It's natural to lay down an introduction. introduction, it's natural to come up with a basic biblical model, you might say, paradigm, outline, structure for talking about the subject of self-image, self-esteem, identity. And I'll pretty much use those three terms interchangeably, self-image, self-esteem, and identity. I think when we talk about strong self-image, I know depending on the psychologist, people can use But in general, I think, in general parlance, to talk about a strong self-image, to talk about self-esteem, and to talk about strong identity or good identity, it's really the same thing. What is it? Well, that's what we're here to talk about. But anyway, tonight we're going to lay down a groundwork. And in some ways, tonight's a little bit more theoretical, a little more inspirational. Then what I'd like to do the following two weeks is to say, now that we have some principles, principles, how do we apply them to identity issues that you're probably coming up against? For example, many of you have been through various sorts of counseling. One of the problems with counseling is that no counselor is neutral. Every counselor tends to come from a perspective. They tend to come from paradigms of their own, personality theories of their own, and so on. and therefore you may have already been given different sorts of advice that arises out of a certain view of humanity, a certain view even of God and of sin and of what is human nature and personality. So there's a lot of issues that you may have confronted and heard about. What I'd like to do for the next two weeks is give you two case studies. Next week I'd like to try to take what we're talking about tonight and maybe apply it to a subject,

a consideration that many people come up against. And that is a subject of what does your family background have to do to your self-image. And we'll talk about a couple of words that are catch words. We'll talk about what does a dysfunctional family does. What does it have a missile damage. What does a missile

damage. The third week. We'd like to talk about gender roles. And your identity. And I don't know why in the world I chose these topics. These are really hard. But anyway, tonight, a theory, you might say, a biblical theology of understanding ourselves. Next week, how that bears on the subject of dysfunctional families and codependency. And the third week, how that bears on gender roles. All right? So in some ways, tonight's more general. The next two weeks will be more application. Here's what I'd like to talk about tonight. night. There's our culture and our American culture. And by the way, our professional American culture. And especially big city professional American culture is really obsessed with the subject of self-image. And there's no other time in history. And there's no other place. And there's no other kind of people, even in the whole world, that are as concerned about it as we are. As you all know, that if you get out into, only 85% of Americans have college degrees. People without college degrees are not nearly as concerned about this as we are, those of us that haven't. Non-Americans are not nearly as concerned about it as we are. Obviously, up until modern times, people weren't as concerned about it as we are. So just trying to keep this in context, the world has gotten on, and lots of people have lived and died and lived great lives and never even asked themselves, who am I? I know that may be hard for some of us to understand, but that's true. Occasionally, it's hard to come up out of your own culture. This is a big part of our culture, though. The question, who am I? What's my identity? Now, I am not at all saying there isn't such a thing as identity. There really is. And yet, an awful lot of the answers we're getting in our culture are awfully shallow. Whenever you see a commercial with a limber young thing looking like she is gorgeous because she is consuming the products that the commercial is trying to sell, whatever those are, and then she says, I believe in me, I've got a great self-image because I'm using these products and because I look and feel the way you can see me looking and feeling right here in this commercial. Every so often you get sane and you say, gosh, self-image, whatever it is, identity, has to rest on something more than that. And of course it does. In our sane moments, I'd like to give you a few principles that I think the Bible lays down on the subject of identity. because, like I said, only modern professional white Americans, by and large, are really, really consumed with this question. But there really is an issue. The Bible talks about it. Who are you? What's your identity? What does it mean to have a strong identity? What does it mean to have a strong self-image? First, the first principle I'd like to lay down is, in order to find your identity, you've got to reach for things beyond or besides your identity. The first Christian principle, in order to find your identity, you've got to reach for and stretch and seek things beyond your identity. Now, let me give you an example. There's no such thing as a point that makes any sense apart from its context. So if I say, ask you this question, is this pen big? Now, you answer me that question. Is this pen big? And you can't answer that question because you say it depends, right? context. What's your frame of reference? Big compared to what? You see, obviously it killed a bunch of amoebas. Why? Well, you see, there's all sorts of little microbes that I just squashed because this pen is huge. It depends. Is this a big pen? It depends on the context. Or if my son comes to me and says, Dad, what does the word bank mean? Now, some of you say it's a place where you put your money right away. You see, you have shows that you live in New York. A bank also can mean a grassy, remember grass? It can mean, you remember grass? A bank can be a part of the landscape with grass, grass stuff that grows, it's green, it needs, you know, photosynthesis, light, water, stuff like that. In other words, when my son asked me, what is a bank? I don't know. No. I say that is a meaningless question. The word bank means nothing outside of the context. How is it used in a sentence, you say? It could mean this. Things mean nothing apart from their context. A bank is not a bank unless you know where you're talking about it and what the frame of reference is. In the same way, is this pen big? What is a bank? Now let's ask this question. Who am I? And the thing that has worried me, and this is a modern problem, is that people think that they can answer that question outside a context. I have talked to people, and maybe you have, maybe you are one of these people, who have left everything else to find out. They leave their careers. They leave their job. They leave their family. They leave their religion. Why? They say, because I've got to find out who I am. So what they do is they rip themselves out of every context. And they concentrate completely Well, I've got to find out who I am. I can't let my duties as a husband, or I can't let my duties as a citizen, or I can't let my responsibilities as an engineer, I can't let these other things get in the way. I've got to find out who I am. And, of course, there's a lot of people that have taken text in a way, I think, that's a bit twisted. For example, it says, Thou must love thy neighbor as thyself. And people say, see, unless you love yourself, self, unless you know who you are, unless you have a strong self-image, you can't do anything else. Therefore, this has got that priority. So you've got to stop everything else and pull away from everything else and concentrate on yourself and find out who you are. And that's what the Bible says you mustn't do. Even common sense tells you that a text without a context is a pretext. That a point without a framework is impossible to understand. What is a bank? It depends. What's It's the frame. Who are you? Rip yourself out of your role in the family. Rip yourself out of the faith. Rip yourself out of everything else. And just concentrate on that. Make that the highest priority. You'll never find yourself that way. Ever. The best text to understand this is Luke 9, verse 24, and its parallels in the other synoptic Gospels. yourself to find yourself. That means if you want to find out who you really are, you've got to want to know something more than to find out who you really are. That's the first principle and that's very, very important and it's really quite critical. You know, there is such a thing as identity and yet in a Christian context you'll find out that the best way to find out who you are, in a sense, is to find other things out. As you know, I'm fond of saying it doesn't say in the Beatitudes, Blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after blessedness. It says, Blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after righteousness. Which means, let me paraphrase that. Happy is the one who wants something more than happiness. Unhappy is the one who seeks happiness directly. Happy is the one who seeks righteousness. Happiness is a bribe product. You see, if you aim for first things first and second things second, you'll have first and second things. If you aim at second things first and first things second, you'll have neither. There is an identity that you've got. But let me tell you something. In a Christian context, it is far more brutal and far more wonderful than anything that non-Christians will allow. Now let's get to that. But let me just give you a little quote as we move on. That's the first principle. There's a place in the Narnia Tales, those fairy tales for children, where Prince Caspian, I think, it's in the Prince Caspian book, but I'm pretty sure there's a place where someone says to one of the little kids that comes into the fairy tale from our world, you came of the Lord Adam and the Lady Eve, and that's both honor enough to lift the head of the poorest beggar and shame enough to bow the shoulders of the greatest emperor on earth. You see, who you are depends on other things being true. And you cannot understand yourself unless you figure out the context. You are one of the race. You come from the Lord Adam and the Lady Eve. You're a descendant of Adam and Eve, they say. And that's both honor enough to lift the head of the poorest beggar and shame enough to bow the shoulders of the greatest emperor on earth. The Bible tells us that human beings are made in the image of God and the honor of that is astonishing. that human beings are sinful. They have turned their back on God. They've sought to rebel. And therefore that brings shame on you. They're both true. And unless you understand the glory of that context, unless you understand what the Bible says about the nature of human beings, you will either live with shame, but it'll be a false shame. Or you'll live with a sense of greatness, but it'll be a false sense of greatness. You've got to find out the context for being a human being. context is all the theology of the Bible. A billion years from now, if the Bible's right, you will still be around. You will either be an everlasting horror, something so monstrous to look at that right now if you saw yourself in a mirror, you saw what you would look like, you'd flee away in terror, or you will be something so beautiful, so radiant, so absolutely beautiful beyond bearing that if you were to meet yourself right now you'd be tempted to worship you. That's what the Bible says. You are immortal. You are going to go on forever. You're going to go on either being like Christ or being like the evil one. You're either going to because of the spirit of God in your life to be turned into the most beautiful and most glorious and most noble and great kind of person who reflects back to God everything that he is because you're made in the image of God and you're made to be a mirror to reflect that back or else you're going to turn away. And you're going to become unable to love. Unable to give. More and more wrapped up in yourself. More and more centered on yourself. A billion years from now, everybody in this room will be around. When the mountains are so old that they've worn down the pebbles. And the sun is so old that it's a red dwarf. If it's around at all. Everybody in this room. Now, the answer I just gave you is something that unless you're a Christian, and too bad to be true. Christian theology, Christian truth is not for weak people. Frankly, it's too big for anybody who's narrow-minded. It's too great. It's too much. The whole context of what the Bible says about mankind, about humankind, the whole context of what the Bible says about the glory that you're in for, the glory that you were built for, and also the tragedy into which human beings have fallen and can fall and can stay. that you can never come up with your identity. A point without a context is meaningless. Second principle. The second principle, which is pretty obvious, since you can't understand yourself without a context and a framework, you certainly that the second principle is that context is God. You cannot know yourself unless you know God. The knowledge of yourself and your knowledge of God stand and fall together. One great theologian says that they're coterminous and they're like your left and your right foot. You can't walk very far on your left foot without having to bring your right foot back up or you're going to fall over. You can't walk. Your left foot can't get too far ahead of your right foot. Then you have to shift the balance and that's what it means to walk. Left, right, left, right. self, your intimacy with yourself, your understanding of yourself and your intimacy and knowledge and experience of God, they grow together. One leads to the other. That's definitely what the scripture says and always has. Now, let me go a little bit deeper. Some people have said that the best way to understand what it means to have a strong self-image that self-image relies in three things. Now, the Bible would say, I as a Christian pastor would say, the people who can understand themselves and get the strongest identity are the people who get these three things at the deepest spiritual level. But I want to show you here that even if you get them at a kind of human material level, you can have the semblance, you can have a certain amount mount of self-identity and self-image. See, the three things are values, purpose, and love. They're the three things you need in order to have a sense of self-image and identity. What does it mean to have a strong self-image or a strong identity? Have you ever heard somebody say, I wasn't myself yesterday? It's an interesting statement. What do you mean you weren't yourself? Well, I acted like this. And that's not really me. What you mean is. Every one of us. Has a ton of different roles. I'm different with my. Grandfather than I am. With the people who work under me. I'm different. In this situation. From this situation. I'm different. From mood. To mood. I'm different. From day. To day. There's all kinds. Of roles. And all kinds. And you can't be. The same way. With your. Grandfather. As you are. With the. Fifty. People. That work. Under. You. Can't. Be. But. What. Gives. You. A. Strong. of those roles. There's something that you always have that's you. There's a core. It's always true. Whether you're with your grandfather, with your employees, whether you're with your dog. In other words, no matter what you're with, no matter where you are, there's got to be something that ties you all together. If not, you lack identity. There's people who have real problems in their self-image because they're people who usually say, I don't know who I am. I feel like I'm a contradictory bunch of roles. I'm one way with this group. I'm one way with that group. But I don't know what core there is. I don't know what there is that's the essential me that's always true behind all that. So I feel like a hypocrite. I feel like an actor. With all these different roles. And there's no script. And there's no director. I don't know who I am. What gives you a strong identity is that there's a core of you that you know what that is. That's true in all these different roles. There are people with tremendous mental problems because they essentially lack, almost completely lack an identity. On the other end of the spectrum, there's people who have a strong one because they always know who they are. All right, what is it that gives you that core? Values, purpose, and love. Let me start. Values. Okay, values. The thing that makes you sure that you know who you are, one of the things, is that you've that you will live and die for. You see, if there are some core commitments, some things that are important to you that you know are moral principles and you will not compromise them, no matter what situation, that is one of the things that binds you together. You've got to have some moral principles that you hold with no matter whether you're with your grandfather or whether you're with the people that you work with. Now, this is very, very important. It wasn't that long ago, you know, when Jimmy Carter tried to institute the draft picture, carried out by the wire services, that one of the protests, there was some guy that was holding up a placard that said, nothing is worth dying for. And that really is the conviction, I think, of the average American person. There is nothing more important in my life. There's nothing more important than my happiness. There's no moral principle that I will die for. Peter Berger wrote a book called The Homeless Mind. He's a sociologist, and he's into the sociology of knowledge, and he's a hard guy to read when he's really, you know, writing it in the scholarly level. so different. The modern mind is so different from the pre-modern mind is he says the modern mind is more real to itself than any of its roles. That means the modern mind says I have to be free to choose. I have to be free to fulfill myself. There shouldn't be any kind of commitment or responsibility. There shouldn't be any kind of a duty

that I have I have got to obey whether it fulfills me or not. I need to be free if necessary to discard all these things and find my own fulfillment. And that means there's a lot of us that have got no values that we really maintain in every one of our relationships. When we're at work, we're one way. When we're with our family, we're another way. If we go to church, we're another way. With this group of friends, another way. Because we've gotten to the place where we want to please people. we want to make it. We've been told that morality is relative, and we practice it. There's almost nothing that we hold to in every single situation. And a person like that, without values that are more important than your own life, not just values to live for, but values to die for, unless you have that, you lose your identity. You start to wonder who in the world you are. I was looking for this quote the other day. My wife pointed out that I misquoted it. For All Seasons, there's a place where Thomas More is under great duress because he's being pressured to recognize the marriage of Henry VIII to Anne Boleyn. And he knows that if he doesn't recognize it, he may be executed. And he decides, no, he says, I have to uphold the law of the church. And he won't do it. At one point, his daughter Meg is pleading with him, please, for my sake break your oath so you're not killed recognize it, do that which is politically expedient and in the play Thomas More never probably said this really but in the play, More says this when a man takes an oath, Meg, he's holding his own self in his own hands like water and if he opens his fingers he won't hope to find himself again and you see what he's saying is if I did the politically expedient thing, I would save my life and lose myself. See, Jesus says that very thing. What does he mean when he says you must lose yourself to find yourself? He says, I want you to serve me and obey me even to the point of losing comfort, even to the point of losing money, even to the point of losing your life. And if you believe like that, if you're committed like that to me, you will find yourself. if I had found my life, I would have lost myself. He wouldn't have known who he was. And there's so many of us in this room that have compromised so often. We don't know who we are. Unless you've got values, moral values, moral principles, truths that you would live for and die for, truths that are more important than your life. Unless you've got truths that are more important than your life, you don't know who you are. That's what Jesus means when he says, unless you're willing to lose your life for my sake, you'll never find yourself. Okay, secondly, purpose. Now, when I talk about purpose, I mean this. Have you noticed that many English names are names like Baker, Fisher, Smith? There's an awful lot of English names that are names taken from vocations, from jobs. Originally, it was probably because somebody somewhere, you know, in Britain was asked, who are you? And he said, I'm John the Smith. And, or I'm Jack the Fisher. And not long after that, it became John Smith and Jack Fisher and so forth. Why would he do that? Because one of the things that gives you also a sense of purpose, a sense of identity is a sense of purpose, a sense of accomplishment. I know what I can do. I can do something that's worthwhile. I accomplish something. what I'm built for, what I'm good for. So part of what gives you your sense of identity in spite of all of those different roles is these values that you hold in any situation. But secondly, another thing that gives you a great sense of identity is purpose. Knowing what I do well, knowing I'm accomplishing something, knowing I'm built for something. Now in the Bible we're told that you're actually built for God. And something that I need to press here, I really need to press. Somebody's going to ask, and I'm going to try to, well, you might not have the guts to do this in public. Somebody's going to sit there and say, I smell you saying, I hear you saying that you can't really find a strong self-image unless you know God through Jesus Christ. Now, isn't that awfully narrow? narrow. Isn't it awfully narrow for you to say that the only people who really can have a strong self-image and a complete identity are religious people? Isn't that narrow? And just what we thought from a religious professional. Anyway, now you might be thinking that. Let me tell you this. If there's a God who created you, if there's a personal God who created you, then you were built for him. He built you for him. And the only way you're going to find out what you're for, Or the only way you're actually going to find your purpose in life is to know him. If, on the other hand, there isn't a creator God, if there isn't a God at all, then you are an accident. And an accident, by definition, is something that happened for no purpose. And you can do everything you possibly can to try to find a purpose, and you're not going to find it. One of the reasons, I think, why non-religious people struggle a lot with a sense of who am I in self-image is because they're trying to get a sense of purpose out of something that would be impossible. If there's a God, you have purpose. If there is no God, then you have to manufacture purpose. Everything is an accident. Your life feels like an accident because it must be. Your life feels like there's no rhyme or reason. you feel like you're not really built for, you feel like you're not accomplishing anything, well, you couldn't be. You're an accidental collision of molecules that happen. Don't you see the point? When I say only people who really know God can find out what they're built for and get that deep sense of identity, as you've seen over the history of the world, religious people of any religion, frankly, people who think they know God, whether they do or not, of identity. They're very, very tenacious. They do not give up. They know who they are. You don't find them compromising at the end. You see, you don't find them opening their hand and breaking their oaths. And the reason for that is because they believe that they know God. They know what they're built for. And if you don't have any kind of idea about whether there's a God or not, you are an accident. And you feel like an accident. And you can only go so far with a self-image when you know you're an accident. it. Purpose. It says in Ephesians 2, it says, you are God's workmanship created beforehand for good works. Now listen to that. It says in Ephesians 2, I guess it's down verse 10. It says, you are God's workmanship created for good works that God has prepared beforehand that you should walk in. Go to that verse sometime and look at it. And you see this beautiful statement. When Paul says, you are God's workmanship, he uses a Greek word called poiema, from which we get our word poem. What we're told there, Paul is saying, you are a work of art. A work of art is a thing of beauty, and it's the expression of the inner being of the artist. Right, you artists? You know that. The Bible says, you are poiema, you are God's workmanship. You are a work of art, and he created you There are certain good deeds that only you can do. Now that means that not only the good but the bad things in your life are all part of the ways in which God has formed you into the work of art that you are. There are certain people that only you can reach. Not only because of your talents. Not only because of your gifts. But also because of your tragedies. Also because of your suffering. Also because of your mistakes. You know what was really interesting to me was when I was coming up in college. Every psychology course showed me that there was this great battle going on people that said, what makes you who you are? Are you determined by heredity? Are you determined by your chromosomes? Is that why you are the way you are? Is that what makes a criminal the way he or she is? Is that what makes somebody this way? Is it your heredity or is it the environment? What determines who you are? And one day I suddenly realized, who cares? Either way, I'm determined. You know, either way, I'm not free. It means that somehow, whether by heredity or environment. Blind chance has made me what I am. Most of us realize that we are really responsible for a little. My Americans like to think that you made yourself what you are. But, for example, you didn't choose where you were born. You didn't choose your parents. You didn't choose a lot. choose a lot. You didn't choose a lot. person. You know, you had 2% that you could sort of, you had 2% of what you are now that you could, you know, kind of juggle around a little bit. You're determined. We all know that. Until I became a Christian, that was tremendously depressing. And then I got to Ephesians 2, verse 8, 9, and 10. And I suddenly realized that not only the good things in me, not only my talents, not only my gifts, but even my tragedies, even my mistakes, even the things that harmed me mean that I am as unique as a snowflake. I'm as unique as a thumbprint. There are certain people that only I can reach. There are certain things that only I can do. I am a piece of art. So are you. And the only way you can find out what you're built for, the only way you can find out what you're there for, the only way you can find out that whole series of good deeds that God has prepared beforehand, is for you to know Him. Purpose. okay Smith, Baker, Fisher but that's the human level your gifts, your ministry, people that only you can reach people that God wants to change through you big part of what gives you your identity and the last thing is love remember, values, you don't have those moral values you don't know who you are purpose, you don't have a sense of purpose or accomplishment or being here to make an impact on the world and knowing what you're for you don't have any kind of self image you're just a bunch of contradictory roles Thirdly, and maybe most importantly, though I hate to say it, love. What makes you feel acceptable? You need to feel that you're lovable. Now, you might be surprised how often the Bible talks about that. Not whenever, but in many, many, many instances, in many instances, the Bible talks about it when it uses the word righteousness. Righteousness. Now, it's not that I mean that the word righteousness always can be translated lovableness. Not exactly, but I want you to realize this. The word righteousness in the Bible does not talk so much about character qualities. To be righteous means to be right with somebody. It means to be acceptable. It means to be appropriate. Now, to give you an example, if you are asked to come to a party And you are sure it means dress down, get in your most comfortable, grubby things, and you walk in and it's a black tie affair. You suddenly feel, at the human level, exactly what the Bible calls, spiritually, you feel unrighteous. You realize everybody's staring at you, you are unacceptable. Surely some of you have had those kinds of dreams where you show up at a party and you look down and you find out you're not wearing your pants. Am I the only one? Haven't you ever had those kinds of dreams? And what they are, of course, it's shame. It's a sense of being unrighteous. I'm not right with this group. I'm not acceptable. You haven't had that? Now look, Paul talks about the fact that every human being struggles for righteousness. Your life is one long struggle for righteousness, for being acceptable, feeling that I am lovable, someone looks at me and says, you're all right, you're great, you're in. Now Paul talks about it in Philippians 3. He says, not there, watch out for the dogs. I'll go down a little further. If anybody thinks he has reason to put confidence in accomplishments, I have more. Circumcised on the eighth day of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of the Hebrews, in regard to the law of Pharisee, persecuting the church as for legalistic righteousness, faultless, but whatever was to my profit I now consider loss for the sake of Christ. Now hear this. I consider everything I accomplished a loss compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Jesus Christ my Lord, for whose sake I have lost all things. I consider them rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through true faith in Christ, the righteousness that comes from God and is by faith. He says, all of my life I struggled for righteousness. Now, he was a religious dude. That means he struggled for his righteousness through being religious. He worked extremely hard and said, by my pedigree, by getting the right degrees, by doing everything fastidiously, keeping all the moral law, I can feel good about myself. in the mirror. Not that Paul had a mirror probably, but I can see who I am. That's how I'm going to know that I'm acceptable. That's how I'm going to know that I'm righteous. Paul says everybody, whether you're religious or not, goes around seeking to build your own righteousness. And we have different ways of doing it. You know, Alfred Adler, not using the word righteousness, righteousness, however, said that every single person is basically motivated by a certain thing, and he says you're driven by the horror of a certain thing. He says everybody has certain motivations behind your behavior, and you believe if I get this, I will be acceptable. He doesn't use the word righteousness, but he's basically saying the same thing. He says some people need power. You feel, if I can compete, if I can win, if I can get influence, if I can get power, then I will be worthwhile. Then I can look myself in the eyes. Then I will feel like I'm a worthwhile person. Adler says those kind of people are absolutely horrified by the idea of losing. Their greatest horror is humiliation. There's other people who need approval. The thing you say to yourself is, if I have approval, people accept me, if they like me, if I'm popular. If I have warm, cuddly relationships with people. Then I will feel good about myself. Then I will be righteous. Then I will be acceptable. Then my life will be worthwhile. He calls that approval. And the big horror of people you see, who want approval is rejection. Humiliation is alright for this kind of person. As long as they're not rejected. You see that? Rejection is alright for the first kind of person as long as they're not humiliated. Everybody's got something that they make their righteousness and something that they're afraid of. He says there's another kind of person that wants comfort. What I want is I want people out of my face. I want a comfortable life. I don't want pain. I don't want suffering. I don't want strain. And he says there's other people that want control. And that's just one psychologist. Alfred Adler is not a Christian. He's certainly not an evangelical Christian. But what he's doing, in fact, just about all the psychologists will agree need to base their self-image on something. And we all have learned from certain people, our parents, our friends, that there's certain ways that if we accomplish that, then we will be righteous. Now, we don't use the word righteous, but that's the way the Bible uses the word righteous. We all need to understand what those things are. We all need to know what those are. Now, my wife and I are not completely, I hope she still agrees with me on this, but we know that one of the things that makes us different is that we're after different things. I am an approval person. I need it. I need not so much to win. I need to keep people happy. So, for example, one of the things that I learned when I first became a Christian, I thought, back when I was 20, I said, wow, I'm done sinning. Before I became a Christian, I did a lot of things that were against the Ten Commandments because I was very susceptible to peer pressure. Very. people, when I felt that people were going to laugh at me or cut me off or exclude me, I'd do anything. Well, I became a Christian, so I stopped when I realized that some of those things I couldn't do. Then I became a pastor. Next thing you know, I found myself working my tail off as a pastor, working 90 hours a week, 95 hours a week, 100 hours a week, and making sure that everybody in my church felt like they were the only one in the church. I used to joke, I mean, I was really there for them. If the doctor needed to tell them that we have to, you know, you've got an ingrown toenail, I wanted to be the one to break the news to them. I wanted to be there first. And I worked myself down, I began to burn out, I began to find out that underneath it all, in spite of the fact that I had become a Christian and I had stopped the more superficial aspects of sin, underneath I was still driven, driven pretty badly. I said, in other words, I believe that Jesus Christ is my Savior, but underneath I was still going about to patch up and create a righteousness of my own. I really didn't feel that I was acceptable. I believe Jesus loved me in a general intellectual way, but underneath the thing I was most afraid of was for someone to say, you've been a bad pastor, you should have been there. My grandmother got sick and you weren't at the hospital side. I was definitely afraid of that. and I got to the place where I had to begin to see that in spite of the fact that I had said intellectually I believe Jesus is my Savior, I was continuing to operate as if I had earned my own righteousness. That drove me. I was an insecure person. I was an anxious person. My self-image was weak because I believed in a general way that God loved me, but underneath I didn't feel lovable, I didn't feel acceptable. I had to be the perfect pastor. I haven't overcome that, but I'll tell you what I have to do sometimes. I have to get up before I preach. I have to look out at the congregation. And under my breath. And I have to keep my microphone turned off at the time. And I have to look at you. And I have to say. You are not my peace. You are not my righteousness. Because you see. I want you to like me. I want you to say. Oh I like him. I want to come back. I want to bring my friends back. You see. I need that. and I have to kill that every single week and I have to say, you know, if that's true, if these people and their response become my righteousness, become my identity, become my self-esteem, if they do that, first of all, I will be such a nervous person, I'll be such an anxious person, I'll exhibit all the signs of somebody with a low self-image. I'll be insecure. But not only that, I won't actually be up there teaching them for them. I'll be teaching them for me. You see? I'll be manipulating them. I'll be using them. Now, I want you to know I have some better weeks and I have some worse weeks at that. But the moment I realized what that was, the moment I began to realize that I do everything I possibly can to go about patching my own righteousness up in this particular way, When I began to realize that, it opened my eyes to a lot of things. One of the things that's interesting about one difference between my wife and myself is that I don't, when it comes to counseling, I'm a very, very patient person, as some of you know. I never give up on you. I'll be gentle. If I confront you, I'll be as sweet as I possibly can. And people say, wow, what a compassionate, patient person. On the other hand, my wife is very courageous. And very often, she will tackle a person who needs to be told things. know this, when everybody says, who's going to tell so-and-so about that? Let's get Kathy Keller to do it. I mean, people already realize that she can do it. She will do it. She's got the courage. She can be winsome about it. But, you know, is she courageous and unpatient, or is it that because my righteousness is an approval righteousness, I don't mind people making me uncomfortable as long as they don't reject me. On the other hand, because her righteousness is a comfort righteousness, she doesn't mind if people reject her as long as they get out of her face. You see, do you understand that? When you begin to understand, ultimately, that our self-image, all of us have a deeply rooted desire to base our self-image on some kind of righteousness that we're earning, and as a result, we are deeply anxious and insecure people. The Bible tells us, Paul just said, the day I developed freedom, the day I didn't care anymore what people thought about me, the day I didn't care even what I thought about me, the day that I really got that kind of liberation was the day that I realized that my righteousness is in heaven. The day that I realized that Jesus Christ both lived and died for me. That Jesus Christ is my advocate. That he's my defense attorney. journey, that the determining factor in my relationship with God is not my past, but Christ's past. That now Jesus Christ, because he died for me and because I trust in him, now God looks at me.