I'm going to read to you from just two verses out of the book of Hebrews, not the verse that's actually printed there. I'd like to talk to you about the same subject as that verse. I found a parallel couple of verses in Hebrews that I think bring out some features of the subject that I'd like to share with you tonight. So listen very carefully. It's not printed in your bulletin. Just two verses from Hebrews chapter 4, verses 15 and 16.

For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore approach the throne of grace with confidence so that we may receive mercy and grace to help us in our time of need. need. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us, but we have one who has been tempted in every way, just as we are, yet without sin. Now, I'd like tonight to meditate with you on one more ramification of Christmas. And what's Christmas? That God became human. And one of the things we see here is because he became human, he's the perfect counselor. Isaiah chapter 9, it says, For unto us a child is born, for unto us a son is given. And what's he called? What's the first of the names? Wonderful counselor. Because he's human, because he's like us, because he's been made like us, because he's had the same experiences that we've had, problem solver. He's the perfect counselor. He's the perfect priest. And I'd just like to first of all think with you about what it means to be a priest, what a priest is, and what makes a good priest, and just to show you why Jesus Christ is the ultimate priest, the ultimate counselor. And then a few words saying, since he has become human, therefore he is the great counselor, now go to him. Let me just first of all remind you a little bit about what a priest is. In the Old Testament, a prophet and a priest It's a little hard for us to get into how singular the focus of the priesthood is. Because most of us who have ever been in churches that had priests, you know, the clergy in our church, I'm not called a priest, but in many churches the clergy are called priests. And priests both speak to people. You see, they preach, they teach. But they also sympathize and serve. In the Old Testament, a priest was not someone who spoke to people, but only someone who spoke for them. You know, in the Old Testament, the priest always had their back to the people, not because the people weren't important to him. Oh, no. Because his job was not to preach and exhort and lecture. His job was not to speak to the people. His job was to speak for the people. His job was to get into their shoes, feel their pain, bear their burdens, and besiege heaven for them. Pray for them. Offer sacrifices for them. That's what a priest is. That's what a priest was. was. But I would like to propose to you that there's two things that a good priest had to have in order to be effective. Two things. The priest had to be like us and yet unlike us. Like, for example, to me, the quintessential version or example of a person who went in the Old Testament looking for priestly ministry and didn't get it was Hannah. Remember Hannah? Hannah was eventually, the mother of Samuel. But at first, Hannah went to the temple, went to the tabernacle, because she felt absolutely upset and in despair because she could not have a child. She was not able to have a child. Now, she went and she looked for priestly help and she didn't get it. But let's think of it like this. Imagine Hannah, she comes and she pours her life story out to the priest. And if you do that and the priest looks at you and says, yes, yes, yes, Of course. I'll pray for you. Is there anything else?

There's no priestly connection. She looks at him and she says by his words and by his heart and by his spirit, she says, this man has never known fulfilled longing. This man has never known loneliness. This man has never known deep disappointment. This man has never known what it's like to feel abandoned by God. This man's not like me. This man is not like me. He's having a great life. Fine, he's having a great life, but he can't be my priest. And he says, yes, I'll pray for you. And there's no connection. There's no deep connection. He's not like her. So she gets nothing from it. But what if instead the priest looks at her and begins to weep with her? And by his words and by his spirit, Hannah knows. He knows unfulfilled longing. He's known disappointment. He's known what it's like to be abandoned by God. says, I'm going to pray for you. And he prays for her right there. And he says, I'm going to offer sacrifices for you. I'm going to pray for you. I'm going to stand with you in this thing. And her heart is lifted up. Why? Because there's nothing like great priestly ministry. Now do you see, this isn't so esoteric and remote, this priesthood thing. What is he? He's a wonderful counselor. He stands with her. She suddenly feels like she's got a backbone. She's got someone alongside of her. She's got an advocate. She's lifted up because her priest is like her. And that's the first thing that any priest has got to have in order to be effective. But a good priest not only has to be like you, but unlike you. And here's what I mean by that. Imagine Hannah going to the tabernacle and pouring out her trouble. And she looks up, and what if the priest instead did this? What if he said, this is terrible. You're right, life is terrible. I don't know how we can bear it. And he breaks down and he hugs her. going to do? She's going to say, maybe we both better go find a priest someplace. You know, this isn't helping me. You see, she pours her life out, and he breaks down. You don't want a counselor who's just like you. You also want a counselor who is unlike you. In this, you want someone not only who's been through the dark valley you're in, but you'd like to have somebody who can say, there's a way out. You don't want someone who says, says, I don't know that there's any way out either. I mean, the 12-step movement, in a 12-step movement, one of the reasons why it's been so effective is when you walk in there, you see other people who've been through the same valley and they've survived. And just simply by standing there and looking at you and saying, I've been through what you've been through, but I'm through it. What is that? Why has that transformed so many lives just to have somebody say that? That's the priestlyness. That's priestly ministry. you don't just want someone who's like you. You also want someone who's stronger than you, who's got more hope than you, who can see the way through.

In other words, you do not just simply want a person who is like you, but you've also got to have someone who is unlike you. Now, having said that and having understood that, we see that Christmas tells us that Jesus is the perfect priest. Because, let me just remind you of what I read. so I have to remind you. It says, we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us, but we have one who was tempted in every way as we are yet without sin. As we are yet. You see it? He's as we are yet. He's not exactly as we are. He's the perfect priest. Let me show you. First of all, he is like us. He's as we are. And it says, how's that? It says he was tempted in every way. Now, one of the problems with that verse is the word tempted. In English, the word tempted really means situations in which you're being encouraged to sin. The trouble is that the word that's used there is much more general than that, and the word tempt is really maybe not the best translation in some ways. What it's really saying is he endured everything we endured. Lord. That means he's experienced everything we've experienced. Now somebody says, hold on, and this is the first thing I've heard people say over the years, wait a minute, he's experienced everything we've experienced? He never went through a divorce like I have, somebody says. He's never had a miscarriage like I've had, somebody says. He doesn't know what it's like to be paralyzed from the neck down in a wheelchair, chair, as somebody says. He's never been through these things. But did you see, look, experiences have their external and they have their core. And you see on the one hand, if you really want to press your logic here, you could say that nobody's ever experienced anything that anybody's ever experienced. We're all different. I mean, every one of our experiences is as unique as a snowflake, but there's a core. And what are the core of these experiences? They're the same things out Hannah. What did she feel? Unfulfilled longing, deep disappointment, alienation, loneliness, and a sense of being abandoned by God. And when the Bible says Jesus has experienced everything we've experienced, oh my, nobody has ever had the unfulfilled longings that Jesus had. Nobody's ever had the alienation that Jesus had. No one's ever experienced the disappointment Jesus had, and nobody's ever been abandoned by God the way Jesus was. And that means that whatever you've experienced externally, the divorce, the miscarriage, the paralysis, the death of a child, all the things that you say Jesus never experienced those, but the core, the abandonment, the alienation, the deep disappointment, the despair, oh my, Jesus has experienced so much more than you than the worst sufferers in this room, than the worst sufferers in history. He's experienced so much more. Our suffering is so much smaller than his was.

As a grain of sand is smaller than a mountain range. Every way he's like us. He's utterly and completely like us. But, look, notice it says, tempted in every way, yet, without sin. sin. Jesus Christ experienced everything we've experienced. He faced everything many times over, but he only and completely responded with integrity, with love, with power. So he's unlike us. And again, here's the other objection. People often will say, wait a minute. You say that he's experienced all that we've experienced, but he hasn't sinned, so he doesn't know. How can he sympathize with us if he never sinned? He can't sympathize with us if he's not been through the sin that we've been through, I beg to differ. If you look carefully, and you can't because I didn't print it out, I'm sorry, but if you look carefully, both clauses explain the word sympathy. The writer is saying he can sympathize because he's like us and yet without sin. In other words, it's his sinlessness which is as important for his perfect sympathy

his experience, common experience with us. Let me get right down to it. One of my jobs as a minister, and many of you are in these helping professions. Some of you are counselors, but a lot of you are in situations where you're supposed to be listening to people's problems. Let me, let me, can I, is it all right if I tell the rest of them about our dirty little secrets here?

The main reason that I have trouble sympathizing with people when I do is not because I don't know what they're going through. It's because of my sin. It's my selfishness. It's my irritability. It's my impatience. It's my pride that makes it so hard to enter into other people's lives, to enter into their heart and their hurt. You see, the definition of sin is self-centeredness. I'll tell you what sin makes you feel like. Sin makes you feel like nobody understands me. me. I am so deep. I'm so complicated. No one's ever faced the things I'm having to face. You see, that sin, it's made of self-pity. It's made of self-absorption. It's made of self-centeredness. Nobody's experienced what I've experienced. I am so deep. I'm so complicated. You don't understand. Nobody understands. My problems are unique. That's the nature of sin. Sin. Self-justifying, making excuses, feeling so sorry for yourself, that makes it impossible for you to enter into anyone else's experience. The more sinful you are, the more sin has got a hold of you, the less sympathetic you are. Oh, you may have gone through what they're going through, but you don't feel like entering into them. You don't feel like any sympathy to them. You're too wrapped up in your own problems.

Therefore, it's not just a lack of common experience that can keep you from being a sympathetic counselor, but to be... See, it's not just that you have never experienced their problems. That might keep you from being a good counselor. But if you've been defeated by their problems, that makes you a lousy counselor too. If you're in the middle of your problems... But don't you see why Jesus, therefore, is the ultimate counselor? counselor. No, Jesus was totally burned. Jesus was totally in the pits, and yet Jesus is totally pure, totally loving, totally godly, moral purity, and so he has none of the sin that eats up his sympathy, and yet he has had all the experiences that creates the sympathy. He is the perfect counselor. He's not like any of us. I'll tell you something. Here's the problem with being a good counselor. counselor. The best counselors are people who have been burned. They've been in the pits. And yet anybody who's been, any human being who's been burned and been in the pits is scarred by that. To some degree, you're hurting, see? And I know there's a lot of talk about how wonderful, you want a wounded healer, don't you? Have you heard that? People say, I want somebody who's as wounded as I am. No, you don't. Because a person who's as wounded as you are doesn't have doesn't have any excess. Can't be generous with their emotions. They're absorbed in themselves.

There's people who have not been through the pits, and the people who have been through the pits are scarred. But Jesus Christ has been through the pits, yet without sin. Friends, he loves you more than you love yourself. He remembers what it's like to be dust. He knows what it's like to be through what you've been through. and yet, because he came through without sin, he is utterly in you. He's not wrapped up in himself. His heart goes completely out to you. It completely comes to you. He is completely wrapped up in you. He knows how many tears have gone down your cheeks. He knows the number of hair on your heads. He keeps all your tears in his bottle. The Bible says he loves you more than you love yourself. He is the wonderful counselor.

Now, don't you see it? All through the Bible. You know, there's a place where he heals the deaf-mute in Mark chapter 7, and it said he looked to heaven and he sighed deeply. Oh, the sigh of Jesus. He's drained. See, us counselors know that it's possible to listen to somebody pour out their problems and say to yourself, I can't afford this. I can't be drawn into his hurt. I can't let my heart connect with his heart. I can't let that deep priestly connection happen. It'll be too draining. And so what you do is you detach. And you say, uh-uh. And then you dispense advice. Or you can let the person touch you. And you can let your heart pull into their heart. And your feelings pull into their feelings. And when that happens, when you counsel them, they feel lifted up. But you are drained. When the woman with the hemorrhage touched Jesus, he says, power went out from me. You know why? That's the way he helps people. He's drained. Most of us have a great deal of trouble with that. Jesus Christ in front of the tomb. Lazarus is dead, and he's weeping. Why is he weeping? In five minutes, he's going to bring him back from the dead. Why is he weeping? Because his heart doesn't belong to him anymore. His heart is Mary's heart. His heart is Martha's heart. His heart is Lazarus' heart. art. And that's the reason why he's the perfect and wonderful counselor. Now, in conclusion, here's what I'm asking you to think of. If he's the perfect priest, if he's the perfect counselor, then I suggest that you do what he did, engage. Those of us who try to be counselors, we're always having trouble engaging. One of the reasons we have trouble engaging and making that deep connection and holding on and then really helping people is because either we haven't been through what they've been through or we're too absorbed in what they've been through. But Jesus utterly engages, utterly involves, makes that deep connection. And if that's true, then here's what I suggest. I propose to you that you engage personally, that you engage emotionally, and you engage spiritually. Here's what I mean. one, I suggest that you engage personally. You know what the virgin birth really means?

I couldn't work it in tonight. Some future time I will do it, but there is a most misleading and distressing article in the New York Times Magazine today called, When Jesus, what was the name of it? Some of you probably saw it. I actually wrote it down here briefly. Jesus Before You Could Talk. and it's a little meditation on the birth narratives of Jesus. And what the writer says is this, well, none of this ever happened. This is all a legend, but it's still very inspiring. The Christmas story, he said, never happened, but it works. Do you see that? He says the virgin birth, the idea of the virgin birth, that's a legend. We can't believe in that anymore, but it still works. Now, that's nonsense. You know why? Because the point of the story is that God really engaged. The point of the story is that the baby born in a manger is not one more legend pointing to the truth, but the baby born in the manger is the truth to which all legends point. The point of the Christmas story, you know what the point of the virgin birth is? God engages. engages. God came into Mary right into the reproductive system of a real human being and became concrete. God got entangled in our humanity. God showed his priestly spirit in the virgin birth. He got utterly engaged. He got utterly entangled. He got utterly vulnerable. He became utterly involved. He engaged with us. That's the virgin birth. To say, and it still works. The point of the story is that God happened. God is not just a wonderful idea. God happened. In human history, he got involved. He got entangled. That's what it means to be a priest. And I'll tell you this. Therefore, if you're a Christian, though you're a New Yorker, you need to start to engage. New Yorkers don't like to engage. New Yorkers like prenuptial agreements. New Yorkers don't like to join. New Yorkers do not like to get entangled. New Yorkers like to come and consume and stay around the outside. Do they not? New Yorkers do not like accountability. New Yorkers do not like the vulnerability that comes with entanglement. New Yorkers do not like to get engaged. Thank God is not like that.

So my first point is, if this is true, if Christmas is true, if the virgin birth happened,

join a church. Don't just consume. Make promises. Don't be afraid of obligation. Don't be afraid of commitment. Look what God did. The virgin birth. He came all the way into us. He engaged all the way down. The virgin conceived through the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit came into that kind of connection with us. Okay, so engage personally. engage emotionally. Now, what I mean by that is, now I know some of you are going to say, I'm scared of what you're about to say. Well, what I'm trying to say is, are we really a priestly community? I'm continually hearing of people who really tried to pour their problems out to somebody else in this church and people looked at them like this. You did what? what? How could you do something like that? I'm sorry. You see, that's even worse than listening to somebody on the outside and kind of nodding and seeming, you know, kind of sympathetic, but inside keeping that disconnection. Listen, engage. Look at what Jesus did. Look at how involved he got Look how involved he is with you Engage emotionally with people Don't be afraid to let their hurt you Don't be afraid to let their problems come on to you And when somebody says, oh my gosh, this sounds codependent Well, remember codependency? Remember when I got here six years ago, everything was codependency Nobody ever talks about it anymore It just goes to show, as C.S. Lewis said, everything that's not eternal is eternally out of date Oh, you know, here's what I'm trying to say is, look, Jesus Christ was always getting drained. He was drained by the woman. He was drained by the deaf-mute. So what did he do? He was always going off to pray. Let me show you two bodies of water. Here is a body of water with no outlet and no inlet. Nothing coming in, not going out. What is the nature of that? Stagnation.

and here's a life-giving lake. Water in and water out. Life grows in a lake like that. Now all I'm trying to say is get emotionally involved with the people around you and listen to their hurts and let those hurts hurt you so that you have to go to the real high priest. You see, if you refuse to be a priest to other people because somehow you're trying to defend yourself and you're trying to conserve yourself, you won't be driven to the real high priest. and you'll be more like the stagnant lake than the life-giving lake. Don't you see? Please. Engage emotionally. Don't be afraid of engaging emotionally. Don't be afraid of that. We've got a high priest to go to, which brings me to the last point. Engage personally. Engage emotionally. But also engage spiritually. Now, what do I mean by that? Some of you, this is, I'm sure, I don't know, everybody, buddy. That's the nice thing about preaching in a fairly large venue like this. There's some of you who have only ever come to Jesus as prophet and never as priest. You know how I know that? See, Jesus is a prophet. He tells you how you should live. Read the Sermon on the Mount. That's Jesus the prophet. He says don't lust. He says don't hurt. He says don't resent. The law. He tells you how to live. Jesus the prophet.

And so when I ask a person, are you a Christian? Are you a Christian? And if they say, I hope so, I'm trying, that's a person who's not a Christian because a person who's only come to Jesus as prophet. But you've got to come to Jesus as prophet, priest, and king. To come to Jesus as priest is to say, I realize that I can never try hard enough or be good enough. I've got to take this pressure off me. Lord Jesus, go to God for me. Speak to God for me. me. Besiege heaven for me. Be my advocate. Be my sacrifice. Be my representative. Be the one who gets in my shoes and represents me before the Father. Oh, Lord, Father, oh, God, Almighty Father, accept me for Jesus' sake. That's what it means to be a Christian. It means to be a Christian by engaging with Jesus spiritually, getting into solidarity with him, saying, because you're my representative and only because you're my representative are you able, am I able to come before the Father? That's what it means to be a Christian. That's the reason why Martin Luther puts it this way. Martin Luther says, I have been preaching and cultivating the gospel for 20 years, yet I still feel the old clinging dirt of wanting to deal with God so that I may contribute something so that he will have to give me his grace in exchange for my holiness. Still I cannot get it into my head that I should surrender myself completely to sheer grace, yet I know that this is what I should and must do. It is an exceedingly hard and bitter thing for a man who all his life has been mired in his own works righteousness to pull himself out of it and with all his heart rise up through faith in the one high priest. So, engage spiritually means go to the Father through Jesus the priest. Don't just come to Jesus as prophet, but as priest. But one more thing, thing. Christian friends, one of the reasons why we're not able to be sympathetic to others is because we're not continually going the way it says here, you're supposed to go to him. It says, see him as your priest. Go to him as your priest. What does that mean? It means to go and say, I know he loves me in spite of what I've done. He sympathizes. He cares. I know that in I'm in him, even though my problems right now look terrible, my life has a purpose because his did. My sufferings have a reason because his did, and my deaths will lead to resurrection because his did. He's my priest. He loves me. He cares for me. I'm in him. The more you go to him as the high priest, the more you'll be a priest to others. Engage personally. Engage emotionally. Engage age spiritually. That's what the virgin birth means. That's what the incarnation means. That's what Christmas means. Let's pray. Now, Father, through our priest, Jesus Christ, that you would come to help us see that we can take anything to him, that he will hear us no matter what, he will love us no matter what, and he will bring us to you as a good high priest does. So we pray, Lord, that the more we come to him as priest, the more we come to him as our wonderful counselor, the more we may find that we have become wonderful counselors as well. Help us to see that and help us to not be afraid of making promises and getting entangled and engaging ourselves because that is the way to freedom. We thank you for this and we ask that you help us to understand and celebrate this through Christmas, tonight and tomorrow. Amen.
