On the first day of the week, very early in the morning, the women took the spices they had prepared and went to the tomb. They found the stone rolled away from the tomb, but when they had entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. While they were wondering about this, suddenly two men in clothes that gleamed like lightning stood beside them. In their fright, the women bowed down with their faces to the ground. But the men said to them,

It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the others with them who told this to the apostles. But they did not believe the women, because their words seemed to them like nonsense. Peter, however, got up and ran to the tomb. Bending over, he saw the strips of linen lying by themselves, and he went away, wondering to himself, What had happened? This is God's word. Now, of all the accounts that the Gospels give between Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, this here in Luke, this is the only account that tells us that when the women came to the tomb, there were two men, angels, dressed in brightness, dressed in gleaming lightning, and they asked him a question. They said, why do you seek the living among the dead? it was a counseling question. Actually. It was a rhetorical question. It wasn't looking for information. It was trying to push them. It was trying to show them their error. It was trying to show them that they were disoriented to who Jesus really was and what he really came to do. But it was almost a rebuke. But it was a glorious rebuke. It was a joyful. It was loving. It was therapeutic. It was out to heal. These women were making a mistake. And I'd like to show you three different ways, in a sense, in which they did make the mistake and in which we can make the same mistake. All under the rubric of seeking the living among the dead. In other words, there's three different ways that you can treat Jesus Christ as if he were dead today. You can treat Him as if He was dead. They made the mistake of denying the miracle of the resurrection. And then they, on top of that, they made the mistake of denying the meaning of the resurrection. And then on top of that, they made the mistake of denying the spiritual reality of the resurrection. And we can do any one of those three, or all three, or just one of the three. Look. First of all, the first way in which they made this mistake was they didn't, they came believing the tomb be full. They came thinking the tomb would be full. They denied the very miracle. They didn't expect the miracle of the resurrection. They had no idea it was going to happen. Now, immediately that shows us that they believed that Jesus Christ was among the dead, and they understood that he was like all the other founders of all other religions. All other major religions, their founders are dead. And if you want to go seek them, you have to read their writings, and you try to abide by their guidance, but that's it. And what the angels are basically saying to the women, and they're saying to us this, if you treat Jesus as if he's like all the other founders, if you treat him as a brilliant teacher, a wonderful teacher, his truth goes marching on, but he doesn't go marching on. If you treat him like that, you'll never find him. He's not there. He's risen. And so Luke begins by showing us that the tomb is empty and that the bones are gone and that Jesus Christ is really, really risen. Now, before we move on, I'll just ask you all this. How many of you are making that mistake? Now, it would go this way. If you say, well, I believe that Jesus' teachings are wonderful. In fact, I find Jesus very inspiring. I really try in many any ways to honor Him and respect Him and so on. But I can't believe the primitive idea that He actually miraculously got up from the grave. I can't believe that. I'm a modern person. I'm a thoughtful person. Back then, people were credulous. They were more primitive. They believed these things. We can't believe these things now. I believe in a sense of a spiritual resurrection, but I don't actually believe that Jesus literally miraculously got up out of the tomb. I'm a modern person. Now, the great irony in this mistake is that it passes itself off as if it's very modern, but Luke, in fact, most of the commentators understand this, Luke is very specifically

addressing that very mistake. Because here's the thing that people don't seem to recognize today, it's always been impossible to believe that Jesus rose from the grave. It's always been impossible, what's always been difficult. Now today, one of the reasons people have trouble believing it is because of a scientific mindset. They say, well, we can't believe in miracles. Back then, it was a whole different reason. Back then, in the Greco-Roman world, in that culture, people believed the physical was bad. They believed the body was bad. And they believed the idea of a physical resurrection, they just considered utterly ridiculous. If you go to, for example, in the book of Acts, chapter 17, Paul is preaching and he's trying to preach the gospel and the philosophers at the Areopagus in Athens are listening to him. And when he gets to the, he's moving right along, they're kind of with him. Suddenly he says, resurrection from the dead. Jesus was raised from the dead. That's the end of the sermon. Everybody just starts to sneer. They explode. They laugh. That's it. He didn't even finish. In those days, the idea of a physical resurrection was every bit as ridiculous as it is today. The idea that we're modern people, we can't believe in it back then, they could believe in it, that's not true at all. The people back then had just as much, you might say, in their culture, in their belief system, the plausibility structure of the society, were absolutely just as much against it. And Luke points this out. Luke is after you, if that's how you believe. If you don't believe in the miracle, Luke's after you, and he's bringing the evidence. evidence, and you know how he brings the evidence? He names. Let me take a minute to show you what I mean. Look there in verse 10. He doesn't say women in general, apostles in general. He mentions what? He mentions Joanna. Joanna, by the way, was the wife of the administrator of Herod. You can read that in Luke chapter 8, verse 3. He met Mary Magdalene, a reformed prostitute, by the way. Mary, the mother of Joseph, Mary, the mother of James. Now, here's what I mean. He names. To show you the significance of this and the power of this, imagine something with me. Luke was written about 45, 46, some years after the events. He wrote probably 40, 45 years after this all happened. Let's go back 45 years. 1950. What if a book came out this year? And what if that book came out and said, your parents, imagine, where were your parents in 1950? Just think for a minute. Where were your parents living? Now, what if this book said, your parents in 1950, in their hometown, Abraham Lincoln that year appeared. He came from the And he appeared. And he began to teach the people. And for 40 days, he appeared in that town off and on. And people listened to him. And they wrote down what he said. He appeared to several dozen people. Once he appeared to one person. Once he appeared to three. Once he appeared to 12. Once he appeared to 500. So there were hundreds and hundreds, scores and scores, of people in that town that actually saw him with their eye over 40 days. And then he disappeared. Now, what if that book came out and made that claim today for 1950, 47 years ago? Well, what would you say? First of all, would people say, oh, I believe it? Or would people say, no, I don't believe it? By reading it? Of course not. Everybody would get in their car and they would go to that town. And the first thing they would do, they wouldn't make up their mind unless they talked to the people. They say, hey, you know, this book says that hundreds of people saw Abraham Lincoln here in 1950. Now, what if your parents, for example, what if your parents were dead by now, but what if somebody asked you and you said, my parents never told me a thing about Abraham Lincoln. I think if they'd seen him, they would have told me. Or what if all the people who are still alive, who were alive then but are alive now, what if you went up to them and said, did people see Abraham Lincoln? No, never heard of it. What's

I mean, people aren't going to make the decision on the base of the book. It's an incredible claim. They're not going to decide the book just by reading the book. They're going to go check it out. They're not fools. They're not idiots. And if nobody in town has ever heard of this sort of thing, that's the end of the book. Impossible that people would believe that book without checking out. And impossible that if those things didn't happen, the book would go anywhere. Now, every year, every Easter, there's some on the media, in the newspapers. They'll have some scholar or somebody who will say, well, you know, the Gospels were written many, many years after the events of Jesus. We don't know there was an empty tomb. And we don't know that there were all these eyewitnesses to his resurrection. For all we know, these were legends written by the church later on to bolster their position. But do you realize what that basically, what's the premise there? What they're saying is thousands of people read these public documents, Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, and also 1 Corinthians, which also makes the same claims. All within 20, 30, 40 years, 1 Corinthians 15 was written 20 years after the events. People would read these documents and they would make up their mind on the basis of it. I mean, you know, thousands of people read this, read these scriptures, and then they said, I'm gonna give my life to this. I'm gonna die for this. Thousands of people did it. Do you think they did it just by reading it? I mean, listen, it's not a big area. I mean, if you read about this in Asia Minor, it's just a couple of days and you can go to Jerusalem. Do you think that 47 years after, somebody could write stories that there was an empty tomb and there wasn't and get away with it? People 47 years later could say there were hundreds of people that saw this man physically with their eyes and get away with it. Absolutely not. If you really believe that, if you believe that these texts could be written that soon after the events and there not really be an empty tomb and there not really be hundreds and dozens of witnesses that saw Jesus Christ, you're guilty of chronological arrogance. back then were jerks, but of course we're not. That's chronological arrogance. Sure, they weren't technically advanced. Sure, they didn't understand antibiotics. That doesn't mean their IQs were all 50. And you see, here's what I'm, this is the first point. Simple as this. Look at verse 10. The disciples didn't believe it was nonsense. Do you know that there have been dozens and dozens of little groups that have claimed that their founder was God. Dozens before Jesus and dozens since, who believed their founder was God and was living again. Dozens of them. You've never heard of them. You know why? Because it's always been, in every culture, in any century, at any time, somebody says, my founder is God. Nobody's going to believe it, unless there's incredible evidence. There's always going to be a little, tiny, emotionally needy group that will believe it. But if you're going to get thousands of people, if you're going to get widespread numbers of people to believe that somebody was God and was raised from the dead, there's going to have to have been, and there has to have been, such incredibly powerful evidence that overwhelmed their prejudices, that broke through their paradigms, you see, that just blew through their grids until they were down on the floor, just like Dowling Thomas saying, my Lord and my God. That's the only possible explanation. If you treat Jesus as if he's dead, you're flying in the face of what Luke is telling you here. You're flying in the face of the evidence. You know what the angels are saying? If you believe he was, this is just a legend, but he was a good man, you'll never find him that way. You might be a good person, you might become a disciplined person, but you won't be a Christian. Christianity is not reformation through conforming to some kind of ideal. Its transformation through relating to a living Lord. That's the first mistake you can make. And the first mistake they made. They didn't expect a miracle. They didn't expect Him to rise. They thought that He'd be in a tomb. Now the second way that you can really misunderstand and seek the living among the dead. Is not just a disbelieve in the miracle but missed the meaning of the resurrection. And you know what's so interesting about what the angels say here. When the angels meet them and they're dumbfounded and the angels say, you know, he's resurrected. Why don't you believe he's resurrected? Why didn't you expect it? You know what? They don't say anything about the resurrection. They say the reason you don't understand the resurrection, the reason you didn't expect the resurrection is you didn't understand his death. Right away they talk about it. What do they say? You didn't understand that he must die. Do you see the little word must? The little word must down there in their statement is the controlling word for all the rest of the phrase. He must be delivered. He must suffer. He must die. He must be raised. Now, let me put it to you in a nutshell. These women are like an awful lot of us in church today. Frankly, most people in church on Easter Sunday morning do believe in the miracle of the resurrection. At least they don't have much reason not to. But here's what don't understand. Here's what the women didn't understand. Here's what we don't understand. The women knew he had died, but they didn't know he had to die. The women knew he had died. They didn't know he had to. That's what the angels say. You didn't know he had to. What does that mean? They knew he died for them in some general way. They knew that he had suffered for them. They knew he suffered as a kind of example, that he held his integrity, that he loved them, that because he was such a great man, he was destroyed by the leaders They knew in some general way that he loved them and he died for them in a general way. But they didn't understand that he had to. You know why? His death to them was just one more example of being a great man. And you know what the impact on their life was? What was the impact of his death? All it made them know is, I need to honor his memory. And we need to live a sacrificial life like that. But they didn't understand that he had to die. Because frankly, they thought that all they needed from Him was not so much a death but an example. They believed all they needed was an example because they understood Christianity to be a good, to live like Jesus, and to live for Jesus. Is that your understanding of Christianity, to live like Him and for Him? That's all these women had. They understood that He died for them, but they didn't understand He had to. Well, what does it mean to say He had to? Here's what it means. This is a very insulting statement. To say Jesus Christ didn't just die as an example, but he had to die as a sacrifice means all of your serving him is not going to be good enough. You're too sinful. You're too lost. You're too guilty. He had to die. Now, if you dislike that idea, you're making the same mistake as the women. Do you believe, well, you know what? I don't believe Jesus actually had to die. I think any really good person who lives like Jesus and lives for Jesus, surely that should be enough. No, the angels say it's not. And this is the reason why. Look at the difference. Before they understood what the angels said, before the angels got their theology straight, before the angels showed them that Jesus had to die for them because they were that lost, because all their serving and all their good works would never ever save them, And before that, in a sense, when they were flattering themselves that they could live a good life and could satisfy God, look at their religion. It was funereal. You know, they're walking very slowly to the tomb, you know, being good people, of course, being very, very honoring of his person and his memory and so on. but when they get the gospel, when they understand it, when they remember the words, when they see it, you notice they're running. They're not trudging. They're not doing. They're telling. They're not trying to earn their salvation. They're telling people about a complete salvation. It's very possible, just like those women, to be around Jesus and not get. You know what the angels do not say. You need new knowledge. You need a new insight. Let me tell you about it. Instead, what they say, my dear sisters, the reason your religion is a grind, the reason you are all burdened down is because you've never understood the gospel. You thought that he died as just an example and you're trying to emulate him. No, he died as your substitute. He didn't die as your example. He died as your savior. And now you're completely saved through him. and that's the reason why the huge change came. Look, before we move on, do you see how subtle this is? You might believe in the miracle of the resurrection but see it just as a kind of Steven Spielberg special effect. It's wonderful, isn't it? It's miraculous, isn't it great? It shows that God's here in some kind of general way. No. Do you know that Jesus had to die for you or do you find that insulting? Do you live as if he didn't have to die for you? people, I know plenty of people, who walk around. Let me give you two examples of this, two signs to see whether this is your mistake. Do you live in self-pity? Do you feel like, I live a pretty good life and my life's not going the way it should go? What's wrong with God? What's wrong? What's going on? Life isn't fair. God's not fair. Your life's a grind. You know why? Frankly, you think that you deserve this life. You deserve a better life than you get. You think you deserve a better life than you're getting. You don't live as if Jesus had to die for you. You're so sinful and so guilty. If you knew that, you would say, I don't deserve anything, but through Jesus Christ, I am embraced and crowned with glory and honor. That gets rid of self-pity. That gets rid of the grind. That gets rid of the trudge. That puts wings on your feet. On the other hand, let me give you another sign. Not self-pity, which is a kind of spiritual superiority complex, which comes from not seeing the centrality of the death of Christ and not seeing that he had to die for you. But then you've got self-loathing, self-abuse, people that walk around all the time saying, you know, you know who you are? When somebody criticizes you and all they're doing is talking about something fairly narrow, you hear it as, look, what a failure I am. When you fail in a little, you feel like you feel terrible. You're always beating yourself up. You're always flagellating yourself. You know what's going on? That's a spiritual inferiority complex. And it also comes from the belief that if I could just live up, if I could live like Christ or live for Christ, but I'm not living up, you also don't understand. He had to die for you. You need to say, look, I was so sinful, and yet Jesus Christ, I mean so much to him that he was willing to lose the universe rather than lose me. He was willing to lose his father rather than lose me. He was is willing to be cut off and go to hell rather than lose me. See, until you see the centrality of the death of Christ, until you see that the death of Christ is your confidence before God, not just a model, not just an example, but Jesus is your substitute, your Savior, you're seeking the living among the dead. You're still treating him as if he's just a dead founder, somebody who's given you a guidance. It's given you, you know, you may say intellectually, I believe he's risen. I believe he died. Now he's risen again. You're treating him as if he was Confucius. No offense to Confucius, a great guy, a great man, great teaching, but you're living toward him as if he was. Don't seek the living among the dead. Now, there's a third group of people here. Now, let me tell you who you are. Can I help? There's three kinds of people I've been addressing. Let me tell you, You're the third type if. This is what happened on the first two points. To you. Okay. In the first point. I said. The first way. That you can really. Make this mistake. And. Treat Jesus. If he's dead. Is. If you don't believe. In the miracle. The resurrection. If you believe. That was all a legend. And. You sat there. And. You said. Not me. I believe. Okay. And. You say. Not me. I believe. In the miracle. Fine. Okay. So. That. Weren't. The. Group. I. Got. a dead founder, is by trying to earn your own salvation. I mean, you know, around Redeemer, you always have a number of people in the first group who are struggling with how do I even know that the Bible's true? How do I even know that Jesus is the Son of God? You know, struggling with the basic doctrines. But then there's always a second group that believes the basic doctrines, but you're struggling with the gospel itself. And before you come to Redeemer, maybe you think that Christianity is you work up a righteous record and give it to God and then He owes you. you hear, no, Christianity is God through Jesus Christ developing a righteous record and giving it to you, and then you owe him. Religion and Christianity are two different things. You're saved by grace, and you're struggling with that. Many people are like that, and that's what I said was the second mistake, but when you heard that, you know what you, if you want to know if you're in the third group, you said, yeah, I know, I understand that. I've been called a redeemer. I know the right answer. I know that you're not saved through your service of him. We're saved through his service of us. The son of man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. I know that, you said. I understand that. Now you know who you are. Let me tell you how the third group can still treat Jesus if he's dead. You may know that he, the miracle of the resurrection, you may even know the meaning of the resurrection, but you can deny the spiritual reality of the resurrection because when it comes right down to it, your actual relationship with him is he might as well be dead. You don't feel him. You don't sense him. You don't know him. You just know about him. You really do relate to him. Now listen, I'm talking about good, solid Christian people. Intellectually, you understand all this, but there's almost no spiritual reality. You go. Look at how. When you go to a grave, do you have anybody that really means a lot to you? Somebody you admire. Somebody you love. Do you ever go to the grave? How do you relate to them? You go before the grave. You put flowers down. You think about the person. Maybe you shed a tear. It can be inspiring. It can be very moving. But it's not personal. You're not talking to them. You're not dealing with them. You're dealing with a memory. trying to worship Jesus. And the angel said, he's not here. You can't do it that way. And here's what I want to point out to you. Are you sure that you're not doing that? Is your prayer life like standing at a grave? Or do you sense his presence? Look, when they say you're not looking in the right place, what they mean is now go look. The Bible is filled with sensory language. Christianity is always described in sensory language. It says in Psalm 34, taste and see good. Now Jonathan Edwards, one of my heroes, I was reading a sermon by him and he quotes that. Taste and see that the Lord is good. And he says, why doesn't the psalmist know that his readers know that the Lord is good? Isn't it enough to know that the Lord is good? Of course they know the Lord is good, but of course it's not enough. Is it enough to know the Lord is good? No. You have to taste that the Lord is good. Isn't it enough to know that he's risen? To believe he's risen. To even believe why he's risen. No. You have to see he's risen. You have to find him risen. Easter pushes you beyond agreeing. Easter pushes you beyond believing. Easter says he's a living reality. You don't just have to. It's not enough just to know that he loves you. You have to know his love. It's not enough just to know that he's good. You have to taste he's good. Becoming a Christian means that you have now an ability in your heart to actually grab him, to sense him, to find him, not just know that, but to find him amiable, to find him glorious, to find him loving. And here's what I'd like you in the third group to do. I would like you to say, between this Easter and next Easter, that's going to change. I know that I don't know him that way. I know that he's not that much of a living Lord to me. Every so often I get moved in church, Every so often I can tell when I'm praying, every so often I can sense there's more to it. But when it comes right down to it, I don't spend the time. I don't learn the prayer disciplines. I've got some conscience problems. I need to clear my conscience. I need to be accountable to other people. This year I'm going to know him as a living Lord. That's what I'm asking you to do. Would you consider that? Why do you think you're stealing? Why do you think you always need to be stealing love from the people around you? Stealing approval from the people around you because you're not tasting his love. You're not seeing his love. You just know about it. Why do you think you need to steal glory and significance from your career and you never can get enough? Because you're not seeing his glory. You're not finding it. You see, he's a risen Lord. Here's my challenge to you. Do you remember when you were adolescents? Not many of you are, I can see. Remember when you were adolescents? You wanted love. You wanted glory. You thought, boy, if I just get things right, you know, I'll be able. And, of course, the older you've gotten, the more you've said, well, when I was young, I used to howl after the moon, but now I know that life can only give you so much. Don't you dare, on Easter Sunday, don't you dare kill that part, Cut the taprope to that part of your hopes. That part of your dreams. That part of your humanity. You're destroying your humanity. When you say. Easter tells you. That it is all possible. Easter tells you. It's possible to be a new creation. Easter tells you. It's possible to drink joy. And to wear love. One writer put it this way. He says. That lifelong longing. To be reunited. With something in the universe. From which we feel cut off. To look at the glory of nature. inside of the door, which we always have seen only from the outside. That is not a neurotic fantasy or an adolescent dreaminess, but it's the most real true index of our situation. The way through that door is Easter. The way through that door is the open tomb. Go in there, see that he's gone, understand what it means, and go look for him. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us

And we ask that these last couple of minutes of the service, we can make these commitments to you. Some of us don't even believe in the miracle. Help us to see the powerful evidence for it. Some of us don't understand the meaning of the resurrection. Help us to see that it's not what we do for you, but what you have done for us. That you had to die for us. That's our hope. But so many of us don't even know the spiritual reality that's available to us because your Son is now alive as our living Lord. to us and be real to us. Manifest yourself to us so that we can be like your son. In his name we pray. Amen.
