Romans 12 reads this way. You'll see it's very much a parallel passage to the one that was read earlier. The earlier passage was Jesus' teaching. This is St. Paul's teaching. Let me read it. Romans 12, 14 to 21. Bless those who persecute you. Bless and do not curse. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Mourn with those who mourn. Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited. Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everybody. If it's possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my friends, but leave room for God's wrath, for it is written, it is mine to avenge, I will repay, says the Lord. On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he is thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head. Do not overcome, do not be overcome by evil, rather. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. That's God's Word. We've been looking at, during this season of the year, looking at the cross every week. We've been looking at what the Bible means when it talks about the cross. And I hope we've begun to see, I hope we have been seeing, that to be a Christian is not simply to be a nice, moral, decent person. To be a Christian is to be completely reshaped in all of your relationships by the cross. In other words, Christianity is not a mechanical change. It's an organical change. New word. You heard it here first. Just remember that. It's not a mechanical change. It's an organic change. The cross for a Christian starts as a concept, starts as an idea, of course, starts as an abstraction, starts as an intellectual thing, but eventually becomes a dynamic, becomes a power. And we've seen every week that the cross our relationship to God. We've seen that it changes our relationship to our own history and our own sufferings and our own circumstances. It changes our relationship to ourselves. We spent two weeks talking about its impact on our self-image. Today, we're going to look at how the cross shapes our relationship to evil. What does that mean? It means this. The world religions have a tremendous amount of common ethical ground. ground. You see S. Lewis' little book, The Abolition of Man. At the end of the book, he takes it, he looks at all the different world religions, and he shows how essentially the ethical teaching of all the world religions is very similar. They prohibit murder and physical abuse. They all prohibit theft. They all prohibit dishonesty. On the other hand, they uphold compassion for people in need. They uphold justice and fair play in the public realm and in the private realm. They family, and so on. But what happens when people break those rules? What happens when people do wrong at your expense? How do you react to that? That's what we mean by evil here. When people break those obvious moral principles, when they break the things that everybody knows, no matter what religion you are, no matter who you are, whatever your culture is, those essential laws of fair play and right and wrong, when someone breaks them at your expense, how do you react? point, though there's a tremendous amount of ethical common ground amongst all the religions, at this point, Jesus breaks out of the pack. And he begins to break through all the other definitions of moral behavior, and he begins to say things that give everybody a nosebleed who really listens to them. He says, love your enemy. Do good to those that hate you. Turn the other cheek. When someone slaps you on the one cheek, turn to them the other one again. in. And Jesus, his words in that particular teaching gets distilled, and yet it's incarnated in all the teachings of the various New Testament writers, and we just read from Paul. Paul's saying the same thing. Do not be overcome with evil. Do not repay evil for evil with evil, but overcome evil with good. Now, that is probably the loftiest, the loftiest model of human behavior that anyone's us. And nobody really wants to laugh at it. Nobody wants to knock it down. It's so high and lofty, but it's widely disregarded. And the reason it's disregarded, I would say, is number one, because it's misunderstood, basically misunderstood. But secondly, it's cut off from its power dynamic, the cross. The cross both makes sense out of this principle of behavior, and it also creates a dynamic. It gives you the power to do it. Most people, when they hear, cheek, they say, what a nice idea. Wonderful. If you're Jesus, maybe you can do it. But I live in the real world, and I'm a real human being. In other words, they not only misunderstand it, but they don't see where they would get the power for it. If you cut it off from the cross, it makes no sense. But what I'd like to show you is overcoming evil with good in light of the cross is the only thing that makes sense, and there is plenty of power to carry it out. Let's just ask ourselves, what is overcoming evil with good? What does it mean to overcome evil with good? And I'll just ask three questions. What is it? How is it? Why is it? What does it mean? How do we go about doing it? And why do we do it? In other words, what is the power? What is the motor? What is the motivation for it? What, how, and why? Why? What? Well, let's define it a little bit. First of all, we'll say what it's not than what it is. You notice the word, well, maybe you don't notice, but that's what I'm here for.

Overcome does not mean to be passive toward evil. The word overcome is a military word. The word overcome that Paul uses in the Greek is a word that means to defeat. It's a tremendously aggressive word. He says, don't be overcome by evil. Now, what does he mean by that? If you look through the rest of the text, he means don't pay back. Don't respond in kind. If you receive malice, don't be malicious back. If you receive an attack, don't attack back. If you receive an attack, forgive. So, he says, otherwise you will be overcome with evil, rather overcome evil with good. Now here's what's so fascinating. What he is saying is that the reason you should never take revenge and the reason you should not be malicious and attack other people, you shouldn't do it before they do it to you or do it because they've done it to you. The reason you shouldn't is because to do so is not to be active, not to be aggressive, not to be in control, but to be reactive, to be controlled, to be molded. You're not in charge when you're malicious. You're doing You're being molded by the evil. You're being absorbed by the evil. You're being controlled by the evil. I don't know how many times I've had to say as a pastor to people, Mrs. X hurt you. Mr. X hurt you. And now you're bitter. Don't you see? Because you're bitter, they're controlling you. They have won. Because of your vengeance, because of your trying to score points, because of the ways in which you're trying to get back at them, they're controlling your behavior. They're affecting your behavior. They've won. And Paul knows that. Paul says, if you want to truly be aggressive, if you want to truly defeat evil, you must not respond in kind. Because, let me put it another way, it takes far more creativity. It takes far more self-control. See, and you know that right away, because right away, a lot of you are saying this is unrealistic. Okay, you know why you think it's unrealistic? Because to overcome evil with good takes more self-control than to just meet evil with evil. It takes more creativity. It takes more self-control. It takes more power. It takes more freedom. So overcoming evil does not mean to be passive toward it. Absolutely not. It means to be aggressively forgiving. It means to be aggressively kind. It means to be aggressively positive and affirming in response to it. Any other way of responding to evil is to actually be sucked into the maelstrom. It's to be sucked in and to become part of it, to be controlled and molded. Now, let me put it positively. So, that's what it is not. To overcome evil with good is not to be passive, but not to respond in kind. All right, then someone says, what is it? It's to be positive, it's to be forgiving, it's to be affirming. We'll get into the hows in a minute, but let's just look at the overall for a to pour burning coals on their heads. You see that? It's a great little verse that, again, is widely misunderstood. It says, you see, don't take wrath, leave room for revenge. It says, on the contrary, put burning coals on their head. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on their head. If your enemy is hungry, feed him. You know what that means? Well, maybe this is obvious. to heat burning coals on somebody's head is to create alarm. It's to wake people up.

Let me put it to you a couple of different ways. The Christian paradigm, which is so different, in fact, I guess I could say that it really, it's off the scale between left and right. Let me show you what I mean. The paradigm, overcoming evil means to identify the evil to overcome evil with good means you have to identify the evil as more the enemy than the evildoer. I'm not saying that there isn't such a thing as a human enemy, and we'll talk about what that means. But the idea is this. How do you overcome evil? You overcome evil like you overcome any enemy. Destroy the enemy's power. Destroy the enemy's influence. Make the enemy impotent, you see. And how do you destroy evil? How do you defeat it? To get it to lose its influence over the evildoer. In other words, if I respond to evil, the evildoer with evil, I am completely defeated. If I respond to the evildoer with positive regard and forgiveness, at least I have checked the evil so it's not sucking me in. But if I could get the evildoer to wake up, if I could pour burning coals on his or her head, if I could get them to see what's wrong and get them to forsake their motivation and forsake the evil that's got them by the throat, then I have thoroughly defeated evil. And that's the goal. Now, by the way, it's completely realistic. You see verse 18? It says, as much as it depends on you, everybody. You know, the Bible is absolutely realistic. The Bible is far more realistic. Anybody who says this is idealistic, let me tell you, you know what the Bible says? The Bible says every human being is totally depraved, rotten to the core, selfish, full of radical evil. You know what the Bible says about sin. You're going to tell me that you're more, that the Bible's too idealistic? The Bible is nowhere near as idealistic as the average modern person in New York City about human nature. So, what it's saying here has got to be realistic. It's more realistic than most of you probably. It says as much as it depends on you live at peace with all men, which is a way of saying it knows that in many cases for you to respond to evil with good is not going to save the evildoer. It's not going to get the person to awaken. It's not going to recapture the person. But at least if you respond in that direction, you will check the evil so it doesn't pull you in, and it might actually defeat the evil. So to overcome evil with good is to recognize that the evil or to understand the evil as more the enemy than the evildoer, to make a kind of separation, to be positive and affirming to the evildoer even as you are identifying the evil itself. Talking about it, challenging it, as we're going to see. Now, I'm getting into my next point. So, that's what it is. Overcome evil with good. Be aggressive. Go after it. Seek to destroy its power over you and the person who is channeling it toward you. Now, that's what it is. How do we do it? And there's four things that the text tells us, four hooks, four practical hooks that tells you what you should do if you decide to make this your strategy.

I hope you do make it your strategy. The Christian paradigm is very different. On the left, in a sense, you might have people who deny that there really is evil here. On the right, you have people who want to get the sucker, you know, who's done the evil. Instead, the Christian says, I identify the evil as more the enemy than the evildoer. It's real evil. but I've got a strategy in mind. See, Christianity is always more complex, more sophisticated, more nuanced. It's always less simple in what it tells you is the case, less simple in what it tells you to do. Other alternatives are always one-dimensional and reductionistic, too positive, too negative, too optimistic, too pessimistic, and so on. Now, let's get into the how. There's four Four things we're told that you have to do if you're going to overcome evil with good. Yet, I'm not telling you about the power source. I'm just telling you what you're supposed to do. And the four things are you have to hate evil, you have to have a humble spirit, you have to have blessing words, and you have to have a forgiving heart. Now, let me go through those four. The first one may be obvious, but it's not actually listed in the passage that we printed in the bulletin. of Romans 12. It says, abhor evil. You might have a, if you've got a modern translation, it may just say hate evil. Well, the trouble with the word hate is sometimes the word hate may sound malicious. The word, the Greek word that's translated there as hate or abhor is got not much, so much, has not so much the connotation of hate as horror. And if you read the life of Jesus, you will see he's constantly getting angry. He's always getting angry. Look at him snorting in anger. That's what the words are some places in the gospel. He snorts in anger at the tomb of Lazarus. He's angry at death. He snorts in anger, at one point it says, over their hardness of heart. He snorts in anger at the impurity of the temple. Remember before he throws the money changes out of the temple. Why? Because he's good. You see, here's a guy, E.F. Gifford. When he was thinking about his own son, great little quote. He says, the more a father loves his son, the more he hates in his son the drunkard, the liar, the traitor. He says, the more a father loves his son, the more he hates in him the drunkard, the liar, the traitor. Or Becky Pippert put it this way, anger isn't the opposite of love. and the final form of hate is indifference. In other words, love and anger against evil not only can go together, they're inseparable. The reason that Jesus is more angry more often than you and I is because he's more loving and he's more good. And if you're loving and good, you get angry at anything that destroys that which you love. See, the more you love your son, says Gifford, the more you hate in him the lie. The less you love your son, the less upset you get when you see your son lie. And therefore, first of all, if you're going to overcome evil, there's got to be a willingness to hate it. There's got to be a willingness to be abhorrent when it comes to it. As C.S. Lewis put it, that's the way God is. In an awful and surprising truth, he writes, we are the objects of his love. You asked for a loving God, you've got one. Not a senile benevolence that drowsily in our own way. Not the cold benevolence at philanthropy of a kind magistrate, but the consuming fire itself, the love that made the worlds persistent as the artist's love for her work, venerable as the father's love for his child, jealous, inexorable, exacting as love between the sexes. If you love, you hate evil. So that's the first thing. There has to be a willingness. In other words, you are not going to be able to overcome evil with good unless you're able to get indignant. Some of us have been out of cowardice and out of kind of working intellectually on our consciences so that we don't see any difference between right and wrong. Some of us can't get indignant about anything anymore. You will never overcome evil unless you are capable of righteous anger. Number one, you've got to be able to hate evil. Number two, there Spirit. You see verse 16? It says, don't be conceited. Now, this is the heart of what it means to turn the other cheek. Do you know what it means to turn the other cheek? Many people, when they've heard Jesus say, when someone slaps you on the cheek, turn to the person, the other cheek. And people say, this is ridiculous. In other words, if somebody comes and physically attacks them, I'm supposed to say, hit me again. I'm still breathing. What are you are you supposed to do? And of course, that's just, that is bad interpretation. You obviously are not really trying to understand what he says. If somebody physically attacks you, they don't slap you on the cheek. Give me a martial arts book that tells you now the first thing you do with your enemy is you slap him on the cheek. You go after the solar plexus. You go after the jaw. You go after all kinds of things. When someone is slapping you on the cheek, they are not physically attacking you. They are insulting you. They are assaulting your honor. They're belittling you. They're assaulting your pride. They're assaulting your ego.

And Jesus, when he says, turn the other cheek, he is saying something wonderfully balanced. On the one hand, what happens when people insult you? What happens when people come after you and make you look bad. On the one hand, the one thing you want to do, and many of us do it, is we are passive. We just, we stuff it. We don't want to make waves. We don't want to say anything. And we, you know, pretty much, you know, we rationalize it and we coddle ourselves by saying that we're peacemaking people. That we're loving people. I don't want to bring in anything up. I'm not that kind of person. I don't like to complain all the time. So what you do is you just stuff it and you stay passive and you let the behavior go on. You let the person continue to insult you. You let the person continue to abuse you. What's the other thing we do? The other alternative is to just punch the person out, you know, is to come after and attack and do exactly what they have done. In other words, in one case, you sit there and you let the person continue to slap the cheek. You just keep the same cheek there. You keep the cheek and you let it keep slapping. Jesus has to do. Or on the other hand, you go after his cheek, you go after her cheek, and you go and attack, and you are just as malicious back. But Jesus says neither. You turn the cheek. What's that mean? First of all, it's got to mean you don't let that person continue to do what they were doing. The turn of cheek means you can't let the person continue to do it. You call them on it. You talk to them about it. But to turn the other cheek means that you show your willingness to reestablish a relationship. You don't withdraw. You don't say, I've had it. You say, I still want to be friends. Turning of their cheek means you show them that you're willing to start over and to have a relationship. In other words, the normal human reaction, I think, because I'm a fairly normal human and I'm surrounded by normal humans, humans. When you're abused, the first thing you do is you stay very passive on the outside and you burn up on the inside until you can't take it anymore, and then you pound. Jesus says, I require the utter opposite. I say, be active on the outside and completely at peace on the inside. I say, go after the person on the outside, but inside you forgive, and inside you have a different spirit. You have a spirit in which face-saving is not important anymore because that's what turning the cheek is all about. It's about face. It's about saving face. Jesus says, my followers have got a new spirit because they've got a new dynamic in them so that they are concerned about justice but not about their ego. Well, that's the opposite of what everybody else is. We're concerned about our ego and not that much about justice. He says, I want you to go after the person but without a shred of vengefulness, without a cynicism, without a shred of spite, venom, or rancor in your voice. Why? Because inside, you don't care about your face, and you've forgiven that person. There has to be a new spirit. You go after them. You go after truth and justice, but without the ego involved, without taking it personally, without being defensive. Boy, do you see us? Listen, anybody in this room, if you know yourself, you know that you're incapable of that balance. It's too balanced. It's too wonderful. And all of us fall into one side or the other. We either are people who really are love without justice types or justice without love types. Some of us are wimps. We let people continue to slap the cheek. Some of us are, you know, really aggressive, and we won't take that twice, and that's the end of it. The relationship's gone. I'm going to get him. I'm going to get her. Justice without love, love without justice, Jesus is absolutely not. I insist that you combine love and justice. And the only way to do that is to extricate your personal ego from the situation so that you go after justice and truth alone, not to pay back, not vengefulness, not to make that person just as embarrassed as you were embarrassed. There's a difference. All of us fall into one or the other. Do you know who you are? Some of us either are wimps. We're always biting our tongue or else when we do talk about truth, we're defensive, we're angry. We're always taking everything personally. are? Do you know where you are? If you don't know which side there you are on, I don't think you know yourself. Then, it's not enough, in also in order to overcome evil, there has to be blessing words. Now, this is just an expression of what we've already seen so far. Verse 14, it says, bless and do not curse. A curse is not profanity. The word curse that Paul's using is not talking about profanity. A curse is a cut. And to bless somebody means to tell them the truth, but in a way that is affirming. You know, you can see it all the time. In 1 Samuel 24, Saul, the king, is trying to kill David because he's jealous of David. He's afraid David is going to supplant him as king. And you remember the story that Saul actually goes into a cave to relieve himself, not knowing that David's hiding in the cave. David could kill Saul, but instead he cuts a piece of his robe off. And when Saul leaves, David goes high up onto a mountain and he does exactly what Jesus says he should do. He says, Saul, look. He calls him father. He says, you are my father. I love and respect you. I could have killed you in the cave. Look, and I have a piece of your robe and I didn't. You're absolutely, but then he turns around and says, you're treating me like a dog. You're hunting me down. This is not right. May You are sinning against me. There is a positive regard. There's a respect. There's a desire for relationship. And yet there is an absolutely uncompromising willingness to call a spade a spade, to say this is what's right, to say this is what's wrong. That's what a blessing is. Blessing is to say, this is what's going on. As far as I see it, though I'm open to correction, this is what's wrong. But more than anything else, I want to get this right because I still want to be friends. a relationship. That's what it means to bless. And then lastly, you've got to have a forgiving heart. Hate evil. There's got to be that righteous indignation. And yet humility. See the balance? They come together in a blessing tongue, and they arise out of a forgiving heart. What is a forgiving heart? God says, and Paul's quoting God here, vengeance is mine. I will repay. And you know as vengeance is mine, I will repay. He just lays bare the whole issue of forgiveness. Forgiveness is a payment thing. When someone has wronged you, you can either exact the debt from the person, or you can let God do that. Either you can exact the debt, or you can leave the whole thing to God and say, God, you know what that person deserves, I don't. Besides that, you've forgiven me radically, and therefore I pass over any efforts to exact a debt from this person. You know, how do you exact a debt? It's simple. People ask me, how do I forgive? Well, you see, forgiveness is granted before it's felt. Forgiveness is a commitment not to exact a debt, and there's three ways to do it. You can exact a debt by bringing the matter up to the person again, in, scoring points, carping, or even just being cold and withdrawing. Those are all ways of punishing the person. I say, I'm not going to exact the debt. I'm not going to exact payment that way. The second way you can do it is by bringing the matter up to other people. You can run the person down. You can, you know, do things that make other people turn against him or her. I won't do that. But most of all, when you forgive, you promise not to bring the matter up to yourself. Self. You promise not to keep going over and replaying the tapes and reminding yourself of what a lass that person is. Because you see, when you bring the matter up to the person, bring the matter up to others, bring the matter up to yourself, you're exacting payment, and they are in charge of your life. They are dominating what you're thinking now. They are in charge. And Jesus says, no, no, no, no. Forgive. You may not feel forgiving, but you grant forgiveness, and then out of the granting of forgiveness flows a different attitude. Out of that different attitude, you have a balance between hatred of evil and humble love for the person. And in blessing words, you seek to overcome evil with good. Now, somebody says, this is all very interesting, and I know what side of the spectrum I'm on. I see where I sin, I see where I fall down. I also see that obviously, I mean intellectually, I see that you're right. If you just withdraw from evil, the evil has won. And if you just go back and you repay evil with evil, evil has won. And now that you've explained it to me, I see that Jesus' paradigm, the Christian paradigm, is really the only way that you'll ever overcome evil. You may not overcome evil when you try to do all these things, but at least you give it a... there's a good chance, and it's the only way to do it. think it's impossible. Maybe Jesus could do it, but I couldn't. No. Here's Jesus on the cross. He's being killed by people, and he says, Father, forgive them. Well, somebody says, that's Jesus. Well, look at church history in the book of Acts. Remember Stephen? Stephen wasn't Jesus. Stephen wasn't the Son of God. Stephen was just a guy like you and me. And as he was being stoned, remember, and St. Paul was part of the group that was killing him, say? He looked to heaven and he said, Father, don't lay these sins to their charge. See, it's not just Jesus. Well, you say, where do you get it? It's very simple, and yet it's not. First of all, when you look at the cross, when you look at the cross, you have both the intellectual resources and the emotional spiritual resources to do this. This is my last point, and this is the conclusion. But if you go up to the beginning of the chapter, chapter 12 of Romans, all of this talk about overcome evil with good assumes verse 1. And you know what it says in verse 1? It's a very famous verse. I beseech you, brothers and sisters, in view of God's mercy, make yourself a living sacrifice, which is your reasonable service. In view of God's mercy, there it is. You look at Jesus' sacrifice. and you both understand why we have to overcome evil in this way and it gives you the intellectual resources and the emotional resources. Look first, look at the intellectual. Number one, the intellectual. If God wanted love without justice or justice without love, he would not have had to go to the cross with his son. Right? See, justice without love, he could have just slammed us. He wouldn't have needed the cross.

Love without justice, well, as we saw a minute ago, there is no such thing. If he loves us, he has to do something about the evil. So what did he do? Jesus Christ went to the cross to at the same time show that evil had to be punished, yet it had to be overcome in us. When Jesus dies on the cross, that first of all shows that sin is serious. The average person doesn't see why Jesus had to die. Why? Because you're not realistic about the nature of sin. I told you this a moment ago. go, you're too sanguine about the nature of sin. Jesus dying on the cross proves, it's the biggest biblical case, that sin and selfishness, radical even in the human heart, is much more serious than we like to think. And Jesus dying on the cross shows God will take sin seriously. He cares about justice and truth. But Jesus dying on the cross so that we could be forgiven shows that at the same moment, He hates evil, and yet He will overcome it in us. He will break it. now because Jesus died, if we receive him as Savior, our sins are forgiven and we can enter into a relationship with God. The fact is, love without justice and justice without love is always easier. In other words, malice or appeasement costs nothing. But to do both, to forgive and yet to deal with a person who's really wronged you and yet still pray for that person and still try to give that person a chance and to still try to care about that person and do everything you possibly can short of letting them continue to abuse you to help that person. See, either malice or appeasement is nothing, takes nothing. But to do love and justice is always costly. You see it on the cross.

And if you do it, which is the only way to go, it will cost you too. Of course it'll cost you. to forgive is tremendously costly every day you've got to remind yourself don't keep bringing that up to make peace with somebody who you've wronged is tremendously costly the best thing to do is to rationalize and say well I didn't do the right thing but she didn't do the right thing either it's much more costly not malice or appeasement but to go and say tell me how you feel and have to listen or if a person has offended you to go and say let me tell you how I feel costly, don't you see? Because Jesus died on the cross, we can never be satisfied with either malice or appeasement, with ever attacking or withdrawing. And the more you see what he did, the more it melts you down. A tree, if you want to graft a branch into a tree, you know how you do it? The only way to graft a branch into a tree is to gash the tree to cut the tree. And the more deeply it's wounded, the deeper in the branch goes. And at the point, and only at the point that it's wounded, does the branch go in. Jesus Christ looks at you and says, I was wounded so that you could come in. I was wounded to the bottom so that you could come in.

And when we look at that and we see the cost of what he did,

then we can forgive. No matter what people have done to you, it's nothing like what you've done to him. You can forgive when you think, look, oh my Lord Jesus, look what you did. And the cross changes your self-image, you know. And the reason that you can be truthful and yet loving is because if you're a Christian, you lost face once for all when you admitted you were a sinner and you lost face blessedly forever. And now the thing that the person has wronged you so much on is not your honor. Your performance is not your honor. Your record is not your honor. Your reputation is not your honor. It's what Jesus has done for you that's your honor. See, without the cross, you've got nothing except the things that those people out there in the world are attacking. But if Jesus is your righteousness and he is your record and he is your peace and he He is your beauty. Nobody out there can attack the real you. It's safe.

Turn the other cheek. It's possible. Not only is it possible, it's inevitable. If you let the cross be the center of your life, if you say with Paul, God forbid that I should glory in anything except the cross of Jesus Christ, by which the world is crucified to me and I to the world. Let's pray. Father, I ask that you'd help us all understand what these principles mean because virtually everybody in this room right now is dealing with people who have mistreated them or who they've mistreated. Show us the radical beauty, the profundities of the cross. This has been very esoteric and this has been very involved and very high and lofty. bring it down so that everybody in this room can see what they need to do toward the people around them and most of all what they need to do toward you because this is impossible unless they have lost face and repented and admitted their need for you and received you as their Savior. So Father, enable that. Give us the groundwork. Give us the ability. Give us the power. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you.