I think of my job is to try to take the theme and the pursuit of joy, the exuberance of joy, and yet the pain from the pursuit of joy, from losing joy, all the things that were in, oh my, all those lyrics if you were listening to them. What can you say, what can I say? Actually, of all the themes I've done on these open forums over the last few years, it seems like this is the hardest. But here's what I like to suggest. If we're going to understand joy, it's best to understand it in the light of three things. That there's an inner implosion that we have, there's a bunch of strategies we use to deal with it, but there's an inner explosion that we need. When it comes to joy, there's an inner implosion that we're having, and there's a bunch of strategies we use in order to deal with that inner implosion. There's an implosion we have, there's strategies we use to deal with it, but there's an inner explosion that we need if we're really ever going to have joy. Now, what do I mean by that? I'm not even sure myself. Let's try. Let's take a look at this. Here's what I mean by an inner implosion. there's something going on deep down inside. You don't claw after joy if you had it. In other words, when a person is suffocating, they claw for the air. When a person is dying of thirst, they push and they scream and they run and they push through. They have to get the water. They get down on their knees. They get down on the floor and they lap it up. It doesn't matter how dirty it is because they don't have water. When you need water that badly, you do anything to get it. When you need air that badly, you do anything to get it. And the only really real explanation for how strongly we pursue joy, how much we want it, is because we don't have it. There's something going on inside. I was very struck by a quote in the New York Times this week by, of all people, George Steinbrenner. who, after winning the World Series, said how important it was for him to win. He felt a responsibility to win. And here's the reason why. Someone asked him why, and I quote. He said, well, he said, a lot of people depend on us for their daily feelings, and our job is to make them happy. Now that, listen, that instantly made me think of one of the worst moments of my life, one of the worst episodes of despondency that I ever experienced as actually a boy. And I'm really very shy about telling you this, and I know that's odd, because I'm not very shy.

When I was 13 years old, I lived in the Philadelphia area, and I followed the Philadelphia Phillies, who for years and years and years have been absolutely futile. In fact, the year before, they had gone on a 23-game losing streak. that was the longest losing streak in the history of Major League Baseball. And the year, 23 games, and the year that I was 13, they were in first place. They were having a tremendous year. And I followed them. I knew every single baseball player, every one of their players, batting average that day. I knew it from day to day. I followed everybody's average. I followed the box score every day. Absolutely, absolutely, I was depending on them for my daily feelings. great. When they were losing, I didn't feel great. And as some of you know, if you know anything about your baseball history, that year, they were six games ahead of the St. Louis Cardinals with 12 games to go in the season, and they lost 10 in a row. You remember that? There's a lot of reasons why that happened, and I won't go into them. But they lost the pennant. They didn't go to the World Series. And you say, ah, yes, a 13-year-old boy, he'd be devastated. Yes, he was. But I never anybody really except just you and me

how devastated I was weeks and weeks and months I wasn't right and you know thirteen-year-old boys are about the least conscious human beings but even I started to realize something I had I had taken my heart and I had set it on the

my source of joy. That was what made me happy in a day. I was dependent on them for my feelings. And when they failed me, I suddenly came to realize that I had actually taken my heart and I put it on them and it was sort of like, I suddenly realized the heart's desire for joy is sort of like a vacuum pump. I put it on and it was sucking so strong. And the intake and the pull on this team, on this sports experience was so strong that when it failed to give, it imploded. My heart imploded. And I was absolutely devastated for a very, very long time. Now, I know that you and I can laugh at that. You look at a 13-year-old boy that gets that involved in a sports team, or you look at children or youth that get a crush on somebody, or they get involved with a celebrity and then something lets them down and they get disillusioned. And you smile. And you smile and you say, well, you know, they'll learn. Yeah, we do learn. You know what we learn? We learn never to look that stupid again. We learn never to be that obvious again. But my thesis is that everybody in this room is doing that with something. You've put your heart onto something which is the source of your daily feelings and your joy, and the suction that your heart is putting on that object for joy is enormously powerful. That's the reason I say there's something going on inside our lives, something in our souls, that I can only call an implosion. Now, what's an implosion? Well, I looked this up in a dictionary, and I looked it up in my encyclopedias, and this is what an implosion is. is an implosion starts when a system loses some very important factor, something that should be in the system. There's some huge energy loss. And as a result, the system begins to pull in, it begins to suck in. It is, what my dictionary said, an implosion is a bursting inward. It's powerful intake. And the system pulls everything it possibly can in because the system is trying to go to equilibrium. The system is deeply out of balance. that should be in the system is taken out, and it has to go to equilibrium, so it sucks absolutely everything it can in. And the very most spectacular and astounding examples of an implosion is what are called black holes. A black hole, it's hard to know much about them. They're out there in the universe. And we know this. We know a black hole is a star that has gotten very old, and has collapsed. And when the star that was taking up all this space collapses in on itself, suddenly the system, that solar system, suddenly becomes this huge whirlpool, this absolutely cosmic vacuum pump that begins to pull everything in, and it pulls so much in that it even pulls in light. That's the reason we don't know anything about black holes. they're literally invisible. Why? Because these things are so voracious. The suction is so incredibly great. The pull of the system trying desperately to get to equilibrium pulls everything in, everything, including light. That's why you can't see them. Light itself. And a black hole is never satisfied. A black hole takes in and in and in and is never satisfied. Now, I would like to submit to you that as exciting as it is to hear people talk about joy, there's a franticness about human pursuits of joy. When we get it, we go through the roof. When we don't get it, we go down. Why? Our hearts, our souls have some kind of implosion going on inside. There is something missing. And as a result, you know, and I'm going to, let me show you as we look at the strategies, strategies, there is an appetite for happiness that is never satisfied. No matter what you put in there, it's never satisfied. Every time you think, this is what's going to make me happy, next thing you know, it's not enough. You need to put more and more and more. You're a black hole. I'm a black hole. There have been times in your life when you were, well, like I was when I was a 13-year-old boy, when I was naive and I sort of let my slip show, even to myself, we don't want to even see this ourselves, we want to hide it not just from others, but ourselves, we want to hide how needy we are, we want to hide how absolutely unhappy we are, we want to hide how absolutely we are depending on certain things for our daily feelings, and it's never enough.

So there's an inner implosion going on, that's why the franticness, that's why the passion for joy, that's why the need. Now, what do we do, how do we deal with that implosion? As I was looking at the lyrics of the songs and I was thinking about this, I'd say I can think of four basic strategies that human beings use in order to deal with that implosion, in order to fill up that hole, that suction, that intake, that powerful whirlwind, that tornado that's sucking in. What are we going to do about it? Well, I would say the four things, here are the four strategies I know. know? First of all, when you're younger, the, I should say, the most festive, I wrote these things down, actually, I would say the most upbeat people, the most festive people, the most apparently happy, the most sunny people, the most, you know, joyous people, at least superficially, are younger people who have fixed their lives on certain things that you've You've decided what objects are going to get you happiness, but you're not very far down the path toward them. I mean, the very, very most bubbly and exuberant people in the world are younger people who say, if I get there, when I get there, then I'll be happy. So you fixed your heart on certain things, but you're not very close to them. You fixed your heart on certain specific things, but you've just started down the path toward them. Then you're in great shape. In other words, what you're really doing actually are feeding off the dream. You've actually taken your heart, your vacuum pump, and you've stuck it on a dream. Now, dreams, really, they don't disappoint for a long time. You haven't actually put it on any particular concrete reality. You haven't put it, you know, when you have a dream about being married, boy, you know, you stick that suction pump on there, and man, it just gives you so much. When you actually get a spouse, and you put your suction pump on him or her, it's different. Well, that's the next strategy, but see my first point is when you've got a dream you've decided this is what's going to make me happy and you set off down the path but you're not very far you are really the most bubbly people you're the ones who really are enjoying life the most there's very few tears there's lots of parties there's a certain festiveness but even this first strategy you begin to see the first signs of addiction I just mean this. Anything that, well, Lord Byron, you know the romantic poet from the 18th century? Lord Byron put it this way. He says, there's not a joy the world can give that it doesn't take away, or put it another way. Whatever the world gives you that your heart, pardon me, whatever the world gives you that your heart sets itself upon as your main joy, that world will then spend the rest of your life torture you with it, okay? Whatever, think about this. What if you've actually set your heart on your children? Every hurt, every discouragement, everything that goes wrong, every disappointment, everything that goes wrong with your children, what happens to you? See, you get devastated because the suction pump, the vacuum pump of your heart, that incredibly

Umpteenthatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsatsats pain the rest of your life. Because everything that goes wrong with your child will just devastate you, throw you to the ground. Ah, you say, okay, well, I won't do that. Well, what will you do? What if you put it on your work? That means not every failure, every even, even, even mediocrity will devastate you. Then you'll see somebody else at work that's sort of having the same things happen to them, but they're not all that upset about it. Why? Because they haven't put their vacuum pump on, on work. You have. And whatever you make your chief joy will be your chief torment. It begins to happen even in the earliest stages. Well, someone says, well, I'm not going to make my joy my career of children or anything. I will be noble. I will work for a cause. I will work for whatever. I don't know, political cause, environmental cause. But don't you reckon the same thing's going to happen? If the main thing, if the vacuum pump of your heart with its incredible need for joy is laid onto some cause, some political program, again, its ups and downs are going to just be your very, very life. And therefore, even in the early stages, if you set your heart on anything specific, it addicts you. It becomes actually not your chief joy. It becomes your chief misery. There's not a joy the world can give that it doesn't take away. Common sense. So that's the first strategy. The second strategy is, like I said, some people have chosen where their joy is haven't gone down the path very far. Then there's another group of people who've gotten to the end of the path. Now, when you get to the end of the path, there's two ways to get there. The one way to get to the end of the path is that you come to realize a major disappointment that the thing you've always wanted is never going to happen.

The other way to get to the end of the path is to actually get the thing that you've always wanted, and when you get it, you realize it's not enough. Either way, you've gotten to the end. Um, see, 90% of us are on the path. We're saying, if I could just get here, if I could just get this, if I could just have this kind of marriage, if I could just have this kind of family, if I could just have this kind of career, if I could just get myself this place and financial independence, we're on our way down. And even though the first signs of addiction are there, basically, we're pretty happy. But there's a second group of people who have made it to the end of the path, and there's two ways to make it to the end. The one way to make it to the end is to realize the thing I've always wanted, it's never going to happen. going to make it in my field in New York, I'm going to have to go home, do something else, I'm never really going to find that person that I thought would fall in love with me and make everything right, I'm never going to find, in other words, either you get to the end and you're disappointed, or you get to the end and you get everything you want and it's not enough, there are just tons and tons of examples of this, there's tons and tons of biographies, there's tons and tons of biographies that the most successful people the most rich people the most beautiful people are the most messed up the most likely to kill themselves and you know what those of us who have not made the top what we do is we joke about it whenever we hear somebody like Sophia Loren this is still my favorite quote I like to get it out every so often Sophia Loren in one of her interviews said my life is what I have always dreamed of I've made films I'm married to Carlo I've born his children. Everything seemed marvelous. There's only one thing I lack. In the very center of my life, I find there is a void impossible to describe. In other words, she says, films, marriage to Carlo, bearing his children. I'm rich. I'm beautiful. I'm famous. I've done everything I wanted artistically. I've done everything I want professionally. Just one thing missing in the center of my life. I'm absolutely empty. Now, when we hear about that, we say, ha, ha, ha, well, better to be rich and unhappy than poor and unhappy. And you know, I've decided, even though I just made you laugh about that myself, I just did it, okay? I think that's pernicious. And here's why it's pernicious. It's bad for us intellectually. It's bad for us philosophically. What we are refusing to see is this. There are some people in the world, not many, there's some people in the world who have driven into that void, into that hole, into that black hole looking for joy. 20 truckloads of gold, of beauty, 20 truckloads of wealth and of fame and of fortune, and it has disappeared without a trace. Without a trace, that's a black hole. That means that whatever is missing in the very center of the system that is creating the vortex must be infinite in size. Must be infinite in size. eyes. See, the only people who know just how deep their lack of joy is, just what an implosion is going on in the soul, are people who've been very disappointed or people who've been absolutely fulfilled in their pursuit of the joy objects. And only they're the ones who really know. The rest of us are kind of living in bliss. It's not... Some of you, the last time you broke up,

You've hidden from everybody how devastated you are. And you don't know why you were that devastated. You say, it shouldn't be this bad. You haven't let anybody know. You're scared, even to understand it yourself. You feel like, I must be so emotionally weak. You say, I must be so emotionally devastated. There must be something wrong with me. My parents didn't raise me. Why should I let this happen to me? Why should I be this broken up over this person? So you think there's something wrong psychologically with you, but maybe, maybe, here's hope, you're not all that big a psychological basket case, maybe you're participating in a theological problem, maybe you're participating in a universal disorder that every single one of us has by virtue of being human, that there's something wrong in our soul, there's something missing in our soul that's creating this unbelievable intake and vacuum, it's sucking everything in, and only people who've been very disappointed or extremely successful can know just how deep that hole is, the rest of us really are hiding from ourselves, just how needy we are. Now, third, so first of all, you have the people on their way up the mountain, they're on their way on the path, and they haven't gotten very far, they're the happiest ones. Then you got the people who've made to the end of the path, and they realize how utterly deep the hole is, and why nothing seems to satisfy. Now, there's a third group of people. Third group of the people are not the people on the way up the path, they're not the people who've made it to the top and realize just the other side of the mountain, they're not the bear that had hit the top of the mountain up there? They're wandering aimlessly back down the path, laughing at everybody who's trying to go along. Now, in New York, there's lots of people like this, and most of them are writers.

And there's an energy. These are people who still want joy, but they are absolutely sure that in this world, it doesn't exist. Now, they get a terrific energy from this. They write op-ed pieces in the New York Times. And the energy comes from this. They desperately they desperately want joy, they desperately want love, but they absolutely refuse to believe that anybody's got it. They utterly refuse anybody that claims, I got truth, get out of here. I know where love is, shut up. I know where joy is, don't be ridiculous. But they want it, they wish for it, they long for it, that's the energy they get. Now, Albert Camus worked this out beautifully in a book that he wrote just in the middle of World War II called The Myth of Sisyphus. and in the myth of Sisyphus, he says, you've got to want joy

but it's not here there's a there's a vacuum in us, there's a desire for justice, a desire for truth a desire for joy, a desire for love but nothing in this world can satisfy but it ought to he says, it ought to be here but it's not so what does he say? He says, maintain your desire for joy and truth by loving people and sacrificing people but absolutely refuse to believe that kind of love and truth is here. Absolutely believed. He says, live an absurd existence, rebel against the meaninglessness of the world. Now, see, in other words, these are not people who are on their way up the path toward joy, they're not people who have hit the top and realized there's nothing there, they're people who have hit the top, they've come back down, and they're just laughing at anybody else who's trying to move up the path, and they're writing about it, and they're knocking everybody down. I'll tell you what they're like. After my terrible Philadelphia Phillies experience, we moved to Pittsburgh. And every day I got the sports page out and I looked at the Pirates and I said, no kidding, I said, I will never let you do to me what the Phillies did to me. I will never give you my heart. I used to be careful. I used to not watch too often.

Now listen, let's get a little more serious. some of you have done that with the opposite sex. You have said, I will never let another man, I will never let another woman do to me what that one did. Now what you're saying is, I will never give you my heart. Now here's the problem with that. A heart doesn't stay a heart unless it's given away. And yet when you give your heart away to any object of joy and it starts to suck in on down, eventually there'll be an implosion because nothing will satisfy it. are we not? We're really stuck. Now, you know, C.S. Lewis at one wonderful place in the Four Loves talks about this. He says to the third group, the group that's coming back down the path, laughing at everybody, saying, well, there's no joy in the world. Don't give your heart to anything. Don't say the Democrats are right. Don't say the Republicans are right. Don't say the Socialists are right. Don't say the Capitals are right. Don't say marriage and the family is the way to go. Don't say free love and sleeping around is the way. None of these things. Don't be ridiculous. They're all wrong. They're They're all bad, they're all bad for you, you see? There is no joy, there is no right, there is no wrong, so there is no beauty, don't give your heart to everything, and Lewis says, okay, don't, take your heart, don't give it to anybody, if you do, it'll live and die by that object, so put it in a box and wrap it around with little privacies and wrap it around with little luxuries don't give it to anybody, and if you don't, your heart will not be broken, No, it'll become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable, and the box will be a coffin. Now, you see, we are stuck because in that third group, on the one hand, says, I cannot, I cannot go back. I cannot put my heart on anything. On the other hand, I realize if I don't do it, my heart's turning to stone. Bit by bit, I'm becoming less human. I'm becoming more of a robot. a casket. See, a heart doesn't stay a heart unless it's given. Now, there's a fourth group, before I tell you what I think, what the Christian answer to this is. Um, there's a one, there's a fourth group. I'm sorry, there's, there's a group, you know, that was on the way up the path, there's a group that's hit to the top and sees there's nothing there, there's a group that's coming down making fun of everybody else, and there really is a group who's just jumped off, just jumped off the cliff. You see, here's Albert Camus saying, we need joy. The world won't give us that joy, but it ought to. So fight against the injustice of the world. Fight against the meaninglessness of the world. But you know, after a while, you hear that and you start to say, why ought it? If this world is all there is, why should I want joy? Why should I keep my hopes up? up? Why should I keep wishing for truth and love? Um, why should I, at all, why should I even want it anymore? See, the people on their way up want it, the people at the top want it, the people on their way down, who are angry about it, still want it, but at a certain point, you might just say, I can't keep this up, and when you stop wanting joy at all, you don't just believe there's no joy in the world, but you stop even caring, you're, ugh, you're dying, you may not be committing suicide, but I tell you something, you're not living, you're just existing, and your resistance is down, you're a sitting duck for any kind of disease that comes along. Because the human heart's not meant to not want joy. Your pursuit of joy sets the course of your life as a whole. Now, what's Christianity have to say about this? Let me just say there's three people, three great thinkers, though the least great thinker of the three is the one I would suggest reading. Don't try to read the other two. St. Augustine, C.S. Lewis, from whose name, from whose autobiography the evening, surprised by joy, and St. Teresa of Avila. And each one of them has a very important insight, and I'll just fairly briefly give you what those insights are. See, basically, the Christian answer is this. The internal implosion has to become an explosion. Psalm 23 says, my cup runneth over. Psalm 23 says, you've got to reverse the dynamic of the heart so that the system that your soul is no longer missing and therefore pulling in, but the system of your heart is now exploding with energy and giving you more than you need for yourself. There's lots to give to everybody else. You need to change your internal implosion into an internal explosion. Well, how do you do that? Number one, St. Augustine said you need God. Now, this shouldn't take long, but let's be reasonable. if you're a black hole, if no matter how many truckloads of success you pour into your heart trying to get it filled with joy, it disappears. That means that the thing that's missing in your system that's creating the suction is an infinite size. See, if no matter what you put in, I mean, Albert Camus should know this. If nothing in this world can satisfy the desire for joy, He says there isn't anything. He says the things that we want, this world can't give us. That means we're missing an infinite component to the system. That's why the intake. And so, what does Augustine say? If you open his Confessions, his very famous work, which is a kind of spiritual autobiography, the most famous thing he ever said is on the very first page of the Confessions. He says this, chapter 1, book 1 of the Confessions, man wishes to praise you, O Lord, and takes joy in praising you, for you have made us for yourself, and our heart is restless till it finds its rest in you. Now, what does he mean by restlessness? That's the vacuum. That's the black hole. That's the powerful intake. That's this incredible desire of the system of your heart. It's so magnificent. The Bible says you're made in the image of God. There's an about you. There's an eternity about you. There's something supernatural about you. And so God was supposed to be in the center, praising him, serving him, knowing him. There was an infinite component that's taken out when you try to live for yourself, when you try to be your own master. If you put God on the periphery instead of in the center, you create this enormous imbalance and the sucking, the giant sucking sound, Ross Perot talked about, is not what he said it was. The giant is the loss of God in your soul.

And so the first thing Augustine says, you need God. That seems obvious. But C.S. Lewis goes a little further. Frankly, that's a little too general. C.S. Lewis says not only do you need God, you need a story. You need a terrific story. If you go to read C.S. Lewis's biography, his spiritual biography called Surprised by Joy, he talks about the fact that when he was a child, would be certain stories he would read that would make, that would suddenly fill him with this enormous sense of longing and sense of joy. In fact, when he was a little boy, he was reading a series of Scandinavian sagas, Norse myths or something, and he read a passage that went like this, I heard a voice that cried, Balder the Beautiful is dead, is dead. Now, Lewis was like 10 years old at the time. He said, I knew nothing about Balder. I had no idea who Balder the Beautiful was, but instantly I was uplifted and I desired with almost sickening intensity something never to be described. He called it joy. He found that Goethe talked about it. Goethe called it Sehnsucht, blissful longing. He found a lot of other writers talked about it. And what it is, and you know what it is too, there are certain stories that when you're listening to them, even though you say this isn't true and it isn't, they mean they're fiction, it moves you. It tells you. You know, intellectually, you may say there's no hope, and you hear that story, and you know there is intellectually you may say there is no right and wrong everything is relative you listen to all these stories and you know there is a right and you know there is wrong you know there is a good and there's an evil and good does triumph over evil and there is light and high-beautied forever beyond the rich a shadow you know it why now Lewis just decided was a psychological trick he said you know when I hear these stories they tell me about these deep realities, but there's just a trick. But Lewis was an atheist, and he was teaching at Oxford, but he made a friend with J.R.R. Tolkien. He was a devout Catholic, a strong Christian man, and in 1931, one night, they were strolling on Addison's Walk outside of Modlin College, and they got into discussion. And Lewis said, you know, myths make me feel that there's really truth, that there's really goodness, that there's really salvation. You know, it's amazing. But, he said, myths are lies, though breathed through silver. And Tolkien said, no, they are not. And Tolkien began to talk to him in a way that Lewis later on said this was basically where he became a Christian. Here's what Tolkien said. He said, think about these great stories. Think of Beauty and the Beast. Beauty and the Beast tells you that there is a grace that comes and can, even when you're ugly, kisses you unmerited and makes you lovely. It doesn't kiss you because you're lovely. It kisses you to make you lovely. Sleeping Beauty says there's a handsome prince that when he shows up, he'll break the bondage. Peter Pan says we were meant to fly. We were meant never to get old. Now, they move you. You don't believe in eternal life. life, you don't believe in a messiah, you don't believe in a salvation, you don't believe in grace, you don't believe in sin, you don't believe in evil, you don't believe in bewitchment, but why do you, what happens? When you hear these stories, they work on you in such a way that they make you sense, resonate with these awesome divine realities, but Tolkien says, but there's one story that's different, the story of Jesus, the story of a poor man that comes to and he seems to be on the way to destruction. But in the end, it turns out that in spite of what everybody has said, he saves the world. And here's what Tolkien says. The story of the gospel, the story of Jesus, is not one more myth pointing to these divine, awesome realities, but this is the divine, awesome reality to which all the myths point. This is the one myth that became a fact. act. That night, Lewis began to realize what Tolkien said. Tolkien said, there is a story that you need to believe. Every soul needs to believe. It needs to believe in Beauty and the Beast, that there's a love that can kiss you and give itself for you when you're ugly to make you beautiful. There is a story that came true, that really was true. So this was actually literally true, that you can fly, that you won't grow old, that you will have eternal life. We desperately want to believe it's true, but Jesus Christ, the story of the gospel, is not one more myth pointing to these realities, it is the reality to which all these myths point, and it says if you believe that, it will inflict a joy in your heart, because it's the one story that your heart needs to believe, and if you can't believe, it'll put you in despair, and if you do believe, leave. It'll give you a joy that will never go out. Lewis was astounded, and he suddenly realized that this is true. If I believe this story, I'll have a joy. Otherwise, all I'll do is I'll get around the edges of it with these other stories. But see, you talk about joy. If you're a Christian and you believe the gospel, when a little kid comes up and says, I wish there was a Superman. See, if you weren't a Christian, you'd say, yeah, me too. But if you are a Christian, you'd say, But there is. If a little kid comes up after watching Peter Pan and says, I wish I could fly. I wish I would never grow old. If you're not a Christian, you say, yeah, me too. But if you are a Christian, you say, yeah, well, we won't have to. We won't have to grow old and we will fly. Now you say, oh, that's sweet. No, it's not sweet. See, here's this great divide right here. You don't just need God in the center of your heart. you need a story at the center of your heart. And then lastly, St. Teresa of Avila will tell you one. St. Teresa wrote books about prayer, and she says the lower levels of prayer you have the quiet peace of a clear conscience. But at the middle reaches of prayer, if you go even deeper into experience of God, you have the deeper joy of loving relationship. But finally, eventually, if you keep on going in prayer, you experience the highest joy of delight in his beauty for who he is isn't Himself. And Saint Teresa tells us, you don't just need God in general, you don't just need the belief in the story of the Gospel, you need an experience of the very beauty of God, and you can have it if you believe the Gospel. Where does this bring us? This is good news. Some of you think there's something wrong with you. You won't let anybody know how upset you are about that last breakup. You won't let anybody know how upset you are about what happened to the mess. You won't let anybody know how. And you think there's something wrong with you. You think it's psychological. It's theological. You think you're weird. You're normal, but you're broken, but you can be fixed. We have an inner implosion that can be turned into an inner explosion. My cup runneth over. Now, here's how we're going to end our evening. I'm very sorry this thing. I'm very sorry. There's no way you can turn the air conditioning on at Hunter College Auditorium on the day before November, but we had a hot day. I'm very sorry about that. Here's what we're going to do. We are going to have, because this is in the place of an evening service, we take an offering. Now, the offering is because people who are members of the church or who come to the church, this is the way to support this ministry. You notice there was no charge for this tonight. That's partly because people support the ministry with their gifts. However, if you're a guest or a visitor, number one, we don't want your money. No coercion. Just ignore that little plate as it comes on by, okay? You don't even have to look at it, all right? Secondly, if you're a guest or visitor, you'd like to learn more about the gospel, about this story. You'll see on the back there's a free book offer. If you're a first-time visitor, Redeemer, if you're new and you would like a great book by Michael Green called Who Is This Jesus? You can get a free book from the Redeemer table out in the welcome center out in the lounge. Now, what we're going to do is we're going to have the offer, so we're going to have one more piece of music. I'm sorry I can't give you five more, but we're going to have one more piece from Calvin, and at the end of that time, I'm going to come back, and I'm going to say, God bless you, thank you for coming, and give you about a five minute break, and those who want to stay here for a question and answer time about the things we've talked about, just come to the front part of the auditorium, I'll sit right here, and we'll take about a half an hour if you can bear the heat, okay? But right now, we're going to hear one more great of music. Calvin Earl is going to sing What a Wonderful World.
