Hey, great to see you again. The idea behind this series, which we've never done before, but we was off to a great start last week, is we are obviously offering what we're doing right here. First of all, it's simple. Have you noticed that? I get up and talk. We have questions and answers. We talk afterwards as well. I knew that stuff. What am I doing?

I think I, no, it's still sinking.

Oh, you just think it's out here.

No, wait, no, wait, no, wait. I'm skeptical.

So last week about a pretty good number of people watched this online. It's being live streamed, and you can watch it during the week as well. and so we're hoping that it's seven weeks and I don't know if anybody can always make seven Thursday nights in a row but I'm hoping there'll be a kind of community of people who will digest this and talk about this and make this an opportunity to think about these issues and if you're not able to be here in person you can watch it online and cumulatively hopefully the arguments that we're trying to make here will be complete, and I actually would suggest if you don't make every one, that you should try to watch it so you see it all. What we're trying to do is we're trying to explore the character and claims of Christianity to see if it makes sense to contemporary people, if it makes sense emotionally, culturally, and intellectually or rationally. And why do we put it that way? that's the way we determine all of our beliefs. There are some things you can prove. You can prove, for example, that there are a certain number of species of fish in Lake Ontario. If that's what you're trying to prove, you can prove it or you can disprove it, but nothing really important in our lives can we actually prove. For example, you really can't prove the things you think are really right and really wrong. You can't prove what you think life is, you know, what's worth living for, and you actually can't prove that there's a God or that there's not a God. See, if you say to me, and some of you did last week, by the way, if you say to me, nobody can be sure that there's a God, nobody can know there's a God, well, that's a belief, right? Can you prove that belief? Of course you can't. If you say there is no God, you can't prove that. If you say there is a God, you can't prove that either, which means everybody's life is assuming one of these things. So you can't live without deciding what's worth living for, you can't live without deciding what's right and wrong, you can't decide actually whether, unless you assume there's a God or there's not a God. And since you can't prove there is a God or there isn't a God, you are either living as if there's a God when there actually might not be, or you're living as if there is no God when actually

an enormous risk, it's an act of faith. So, what I'm trying to say is everybody's got a set of beliefs, you can't live without a set of beliefs about these big issues, and none of them can you prove. So, what do you do once you realize that? I'm trying to avoid extremes. First of all, I do not think you just make a blind leap in the dark and say, okay, I'm just going to believe this thing. Since I can't prove it, I'm just going to believe anything I want. Without thinking, without weighing the evidence, just because you can't prove something doesn't mean necessarily just make a leap in the dark. But on the other hand, you shouldn't insist, I'm only going to believe the things that can be proven, because then you couldn't live. Because you have to live on the basis of a number of assumptions about human nature and about the meaning of life and about whether there's a God or not, and you can't prove that. So I suggest to you that we all do this, that basically you arrive at your beliefs and you run through these three. You adopt beliefs that, first of all, emotionally resonate. resonate, they fit in with your feelings, your intuitions, your hopes, your aspirations, secondly, you adopt beliefs if you like the way they're culturally fleshed out, when you see them lived out in real life, you know, you say, I like, I like the way they flesh out, I like the way they feel, and there are, there's evidence, and there's reasons to believe it too, and cumulatively, you say, this is where I'm living, these are my beliefs, and so, I'm just saying that Christianity can pass

that Christianity makes sense emotionally, culturally, spiritually, and I mean, rationally and intellectually. And I'm trying each week to give you another example of it. Now, last week we talked about what Christianity can offer, and that is a meaning in life that suffering can't take away from you. And we said that without God, you certainly can create your own meaning in life, but that meaning in life will be based on something inside this world and this life, and suffering can take that away from you. So, in other words, without God, whatever your meaning in life is, suffering can destroy it, but Christianity gives you a meaning in life, which is a love relationship with God that goes on forever, which gives you hope no matter what happens here, gives you a basis for meaning in life. I was making the case that it's an incredibly robust meaning in life. Okay, that was last week, don't spend any more time. This week, I'd like to give you a second thing, which I think actually shows Christianity making sense emotionally, culturally, and intellectually, and that is this. Christianity gives you a strong basis for doing justice. A strong, non-oppressive basis for doing justice. Got it? Now, let me just unpack that. Whenever we talk about whether there's a God or not, one thing that often gets brought up to the endless irritation of atheist agnostics and more secular people. It's always very irritating. Somebody pulls out this quote by Dostoevsky, which is, if God does not exist, everything is permitted. And by the way, rather than somebody tell me, where does he say that? I've heard that, but I'm not sure. He writes that in part four, book 11, chapter four of the Brothers Karamazov. Chapter's name is, A Hymn and a Secret. Okay. Just so I, you know, if God is, doesn't exist, if God does not exist, everything is permitted. I guess it depends on your translation. It might be a little bit different. However, this is extremely irritating and frustrating to many people who are agnostic or atheists or don't believe in God. And in fact, some of you know, I was, I spent some time with, we had a dialogue with Greg Epstein, the humanist chaplain at Harvard University. He wrote a book called Good Without God? And I had to read it, of course, and I did read it. I enjoyed it in order to have the dialogue. And of course, the whole book is basically pushing back on this idea that you've got to believe in God in order to be morally good. And he makes a great case and shows his frustration, which I was sympathetic with. I said, you've just got plenty of people who do not believe in God or don't know if there is a God. God is really not a big part of their lives, and yet they are incredibly good, and they're sold out for other people, and they're working to alleviate all kinds of human ills. And it's just insulting, he says, to hear that if God doesn't exist, then anything goes. And if God exists, if you believe God doesn't exist, well, I can't really trust your morals. And that is rightfully, I think, very frustrating. But I still think that Dostoevsky's on to something. He doesn't really say that if you're an atheist, you can't be good. He doesn't say that. He's really trying to say the non-existence of God creates a problem for morality and morals. And I do think he's right about that. So let's do what we did last week, which is let me pose three questions. And I think the first two will show you is, I'd like to break the issue down about what does it mean to be good? And here's the three questions. Can there be moral goodness without God? Second question, can there be moral obligation without God? Those are two different things, so I'm going to try to break it down. Can there be moral goodness without God? Can there be moral obligation without God? And what would moral goodness and obligation look like if Christianity is true? That's what we did last time. And by the way, just so those of you who really want to save time and would like to leave right now, I'll tell you the answers. Can there be moral goodness without God? Yes, absolutely. Can there be moral obligation without God? No way, no matter how hard you insist. And what does morality and justice look like if Christianity is true? I can't put that in a nutshell, so maybe you ought to stick around. So, A, can there be moral goodness without God? Oh yeah, absolutely. And I would like to belabor this for a bit. What I mean is, can people be good without believing in God? Very, very, very good. Absolutely, yes. I'll go further. Can lots and lots of people who don't believe in God be much braver, more honest, more self-sacrificing, more loving? Can lots and lots of people who don't believe in God be better than lots and lots and lots of people who do? The answer again is, oh, yes. And here's what I'd like to do for a second. I mean, fortunately, we're kind of fairly evenly distributed between people who have Christian belief, who don't have Christian belief, who believe in God, who don't believe in God. So let me just say, for the purposes of those of you who don't believe in God and Christianity, let me for a minute talk to your neighbor there who does believe in Christianity, and I'd like to say to you for a minute, because this will help for everybody, is if you're a Christian and you think you really can't be good without God, if a person doesn't believe in God, you really can't trust their morals, you are not being true to your own Christian beliefs. Christianity, Christian doctrine teaches that people can be good without God. Do you know that? And if you don't agree, then you're actually not being true to your own doctrine. How so? Let me give you an example. Let me give you two quick examples. I don't want to stay on this very long because I don't think anybody's really, you know, I'm saying, of course, you can be good without God. Moral goodness, definitely. John Calvin is a very conservative Christian theologian from the 16th century. Many people would consider him narrow and rigid. I don't, but let's not go there. But nobody's ever accused him of being a liberal. He is a conservative, you know, strict Protestant theologian. And in his theology, one of his theological writings, he is talking about how do we regard the Greek and Roman and ancient writers, the philosophers, the mathematicians, and others, that he would consider polytheists, they believed in many gods, or atheists or in other words, you're talking about Plato and Aristotle and you're talking about all kinds of other people. How do we regard those, he was asked. Since they didn't believe in Christianity, they don't believe in the true God of the Bible and therefore they're all heretics by John Calvin's standards. So when he reads these people, how does he regard them? Listen to this. Now he calls them secular writers, by the way. He's really talking about ancient Greek and Roman. He says, whenever we come upon these matters in secular writers, let that admirable light of truth shining in them teach us that the mind of man, though fallen and perverted from its wholeness, is nevertheless clothed and ornamented with God's excellent gifts. If we regard the Spirit of God as the sole fountain of truth, we shall neither reject the truth itself nor despise it wherever it shall appear, unless we wish to dishonor the Spirit of God. Shall we say that the philosophers were blind in their fine observation and artful description of nature? Shall we say that they are insane who developed medicine, devoting their labor to our benefit? What shall we say of all the mathematical sciences? Shall we consider them the ravings of madmen? No, we cannot read the writings of the ancients on these subjects without the greatest of admiration. Let us accordingly how many gifts the Lord has left to human nature. Do you hear what he's saying? Now, if you are an atheist, you might rankle a little bit at being told that if you have any wisdom or goodness, it's from the Spirit of God. You might rankle, but right now, here's my point. If you're a Christian, according to this theology, which is absolutely right, if you're a Christian and you believe that the Spirit of God is the source of all truth and all wisdom and all beauty, then you have to say lots of people who don't believe in God at all are being given that wisdom and beauty and truth. John Calvin says so. It must be true. You see what he's arguing. He's saying it's just totally inconsistent. And I'll go one step further, but only for like 30 seconds. If you're a Christian and you believe you're saved by grace, Christianity does not believe that good people go to heaven and bad people go to hell. Christianity believes that humble people who are willing to admit that we're sinners and we're flawed and we need God's free mercy and pardon, that Christians believe that if you are in a right relationship with God, it's strictly by grace. It's not because you are smarter or you're humbler or you're more virtuous or you're more self-controlled or you're more loving or any of that. It's just the grace of God, right? Do we believe that? Then how can you turn to your friend or your relative or anybody around you who doesn't believe in Christianity, without assuming that they have, it's very likely that they are more loving than you, they are more self-controlled than you, they are wiser than you, they are better fathers or mothers or sons or daughters than you, why not? Because you are not saved by being a good father or mother, son or daughter, you are not saved for those reasons, so it's completely inconsistent for Christians, knowing what we know about what the Bible says, to say that people who don't believe in God can't be good, of course they can be good,

Okay? So that's the first question. The second question. Can there be moral goodness without God? Yes. Can there be moral obligation without God? And I'm going to say no, no matter how hard you insist. And I'm going to have to take a little, this is where I'm going to take the longest time to develop. Because most people aren't used to thinking out this distinction at all. And so I'm just going to have to help you. What is, tease it out, I mean, obligation. Well, you know what it means right off by the... It means a course of action that you're required to do regardless of your feelings about it. And what is the difference between moral goodness and moral obligation? Here's what it is. What does it mean to be morally good? It means to have moral feelings and convictions and then act on them. So if you feel and believe that X is wrong to do, and Y is absolutely right to do, and important to do, so you believe X is bad to do, Y is good to do, and then you feel that, and then you act on that, you are morally good, you are a morally good person, you have got strong moral feelings, and you act on it, and the question that comes up is, can we account for moral feelings without out, belief in God. If there is no God, can you have moral feelings? If there is no God, can you account for moral feelings? If there's no God, does it make sense that people have these strong moral feelings and convictions? Yes. Now, people disagree. Um, some people would say, for example, that your moral feelings are basically from evolution, that you feel some things are good and some things are bad because your brain chemistry makes you feel good when you see X and feel, what is the other way around, feel bad when you see X and feel good when you see Y, and the reason why your brain works like that is because that kind of behavior helped your ancestors survive, and therefore, they passed that down to you, so one is your moral feelings are basically genetic traits that helped your ancestors survive, so that's why you feel that way, another explanation for moral feelings is that they're culturally constructed, that every culture decides how it wants to adapt to its environment, and collectively, not biologically, but collectively, cultures work out a set of morality, and we call that socially constructed morality. And if you're part of a culture, a culture can really, really instill itself into you, so you feel very strongly that X is wrong and Y is right. So it could be biology It could be, you know, it could be culturally constructed. Or maybe if you're more of a Sarch and Camus existentialist, you decide, I as an individual, as an authentic individual, I decide what is right or wrong for me, and I have these very deep feelings. So do you need to believe in God in order to be morally good? No. Do you need to believe in God to account for moral feelings? No. There's a lot of ways we can explain moral feelings and convictions without God. But without believing in God, is it possible to really believe in moral obligation or to require it? Now listen. Here's what the difference is. A moral feeling is, I believe X is wrong and Y is right. But a moral obligation is, you may not do X and you must do Y and I'm requiring you even though you don't feel it. See? See, it's one thing for me to say, I feel this is wrong, that's a moral feeling. It's another thing to say, you're obliged to do it or not to do it, even though you don't feel it. That's moral obligation. Moral obligation is saying, I don't care about your feelings, I don't care about your consequences, you may do this or you may not do this. Now, the question is, what right do you have if you don't believe in God? God, how consistent are you, if you don't believe in God, to not just say, here's my moral feelings, but to call someone else and say, you ought not to do that, even though they don't share your feelings? The reason why it's a problem, do you see? I'll give you an example, a couple examples. I'll tell you why the problem, but first the examples. Let's just say you see a culture. culture, it's not your culture, it's a long way away, and in that culture, women are not allowed to drive or vote or work outside the house, that's the way the whole culture is, okay, and you say, I think that's wrong, okay, why? The people inside the culture don't feel it's wrong, you feel it's wrong, so you've got moral feelings and they have different moral feelings, I think that's wrong, you're not just saying, I feel it's wrong. You're saying it is wrong. And they ought to change, even though they don't feel it. Why? Is it because your feelings are superior to their feelings? Is it because your culture is superior to their culture? Do you see the problem? What gives you the right? If you're a Muslim, if you're a Jew or a Christian, and you believe in a God who's a lawgiver, if you're Greek or Roman and you believed, if you're Plato, for example, and you believe in a supertemporal realm beyond the natural world where there's ideas and moral truths, you know, we would say supernatural. I mean, the Greeks and Romans were a little bit different, but the point is if you're like the Greeks or Romans and you believe there was a supernatural realm, or if you're, you know, a Christian or a Jew or Muslim, Islam, look, then you could say, that's how we know who's right. You have your moral feelings, and I have my moral feelings. You have your little inner moral evaluator, and I have my little inner moral evaluator, and they're different. Well, how are we going to decide who's right? Instead of me just saying, I'm right because I'm right, because I'm stronger, because I'm six foot four and you're five foot three, and I'm going to make you do, do. Instead, you could say what Martin Luther King Jr. said in his letter from Birmingham jail. You know, a very famous letter, a letter from Birmingham jail. He wrote it when he was in jail. And he says, how do we know if a law is just or not? Like, you say it's just, I say it's not just. How do we decide? Is it Mike makes right? No, no. He says, almost word for word. I'm not sure I got it, I didn't write the quote down, he says, the way we know a law is just is if it accords with the law of God. If it fits the law of God, then it's just. If it doesn't fit with the law of God, it's not just. Now, that's consistent within that view of life that there is a God and there's a law of God, there's a natural law, you know, there's something out there besides this material, natural world, then it's perfectly right to say there is such a thing as moral obligation. But how, if you say there's no God, there's no supernatural realm, how in the world do you say there is moral obligation? What standard are you pointing to that adjudicates between your feelings and their feelings? Or are you just saying your feelings are superior?

Now, it's a pretty big problem. Excuse me. I'm sorry. I had to do that in front of a microphone, but anyway. You know, it's February and it's cold out there, so there we go. There's a whole lot of very smart people who have spent the last 30 years talking about the crisis that this is for our society. There's never been a society before in history that said there's such a thing as moral obligation, but there's nothing outside of this world that exists. Every other culture has always said, Confucianism said, everybody's always said there's something besides outside of this world that's a standard by which we judge our various moral feelings and evaluators. We're the first society in history that said, no, there's no way for us to make decisions between those two things. Well, now, how are we going to decide what is right and wrong? How are we going to decide what is just? How are we going to decide what laws are just and what laws are not? The single best place, I think, to read a scholarship is something that was in the very beginning of these last couple of decades where people were writing about it. You can get this online. I'm just going to tell you right now. Arthur Leff L-E-F-F, who died actually, unfortunately, fairly young, I think somewhere in the 1980s. But anyway, Arthur Leff taught at Yale Law School for many years. And in the Duke Law Journal of December 1979, he wrote an article called Unspeakable Ethics, Unnatural Law. By the way, Leff is not a believer in God, or at least there's no indication he is. Unspeakable Ethics, on natural law, in it he says, once you take away the idea of God or natural law, how do you judge between these competing moral feelings? How do you do that? How do we decide, you know, since he says, we can't do, he didn't say this in the article, but he says, you can't do what Martin Luther King Jr. did, which is how things were always done in the past, which was a just human law is just or not just on the basis of the natural law or, you know, God's law or something like that. What are we going to do now? In the absence of the Greek moral absolutes or the law of God or natural order. And what he does in this article is he goes through, I'm going to read you the very last part, but let me just give you the gist of it. He goes through all the possible alternatives that people come up with. Which, by the way, some of you will probably come up with too. But I'm actually trying to address them before you even bring them up. So how do we decide whether something's right or wrong? Um, you know, one is what's called majority rule, majoritarianism, and a majority rule, we say, is, well, the human race is coming to greater and greater consensus about things, and, you know, smart people, and, you know, most of the people vote on it, and it's a democracy, and if the majority of people say this is wrong, it's wrong. wrong. If the majority of people say it's right, it's right. And we're coming to greater, so in other words, the majority rules. Now, there's two or three problems with that, and they're huge problems, and Arthur left points them out. For example, what about 200 years ago, let me ask you a question, those of you who might say that, 200 years ago when most people in the world thought slavery was okay, and you had the Quakers and a few outliers who were saying it's wrong. wrong. Here's my question. Was slavery wrong when most people thought it was okay? If you say no it wasn't, very clearly you have a standard for moral obligation that is not based in majority rule. Because you think, and besides that, if you had the views you have today back 200 years ago, on what basis could you have called people to start to change the law. What could you appeal to? You can't just say, well, everybody knows that human rights are important and everybody's... Oh, really? See, the problem is you can't do majoritarian. A second is, of course, there's a whole bunch of them, and Arthur Leff talks about them, is hiding behind the idea that you can empirically decide what's good for people. You know, Immanuel Kant had something like that called the categorical imperative where he said, use a human being as a means to an end, but rather you're supposed to always, you know, never use a human being for a means to an end, which means you must always basically support human beings, the good of the human beings, and not use them for your own self-interest. The real problem is there, or there's a lot of empirical research that says people are happy when this is happening, people are happy when this is happening. There's a whole lot of, empirically say, this is what people, is good for people, and we're going to pass laws that are good for people, but the real problem, of course, is how do you define good? Different religions, different cultures define a good human life in radically different ways, and as soon as you say, well, we're just going to be empirical and scientific, we're just going to find out what really works, what laws are good for people, and what laws give people good lives, and you say, how do you define good? Well, you have to let people define good, if people say they're happy, then that's what we have to do. Okay, what if I found you, what if I found you a place in Mozambique where there are 10,000 people who are in slavery today? And what if you went in and did an empirical study and found out they were happier than most people in France, England, United States, and way happier than people who live in New York City? So what if I could show you that they are incredibly happy? Would you say, well, There's nothing, you shouldn't try to repeal a slave. You shouldn't change anything. And you would say, no, no, that's not good. Why not? Because even though they think they're happy, they're not, because that's wrong. Aha, see, there you go again. You've got an understanding of moral obligation that is not based on what people think makes them happy. It's not based on majoritarian rule. Or, by the way, if you want to say, it's just, you say, look, people feel the way they feel because of evolution. solution. We really feel that rape is wrong, we really feel that murder is wrong, we really feel these things are wrong, simply because this helped us survive. And so the real problem, of course, with that is there's no moral obligation there at all. What you're really trying to say is, we feel things are wrong, but it doesn't mean they are. That we're programmed to feel they're wrong, and that they are pragmatically right or wrong, in other words, they help us survive, but not that they actually are wrong, they feel wrong, and they have bad consequences, but not that they actually are wrong, and they're always wrong, but I see, as soon as someone does get near you with murder or rape, or even just cheating you out of a bunch of money, you're not going to say, look, I know you feel this is wrong, because your genes, no, no, you're going to say it is wrong. I've never seen anybody who denied moral obligation who didn't immediately show that they believed in it in spite of the fact that intellectually wouldn't concede it to me. So, Arthur Leff goes through all these things and he says there is absolutely no way, no way to make any cogent argument for moral obligation Yet we still have to have laws. So how are we going to do it? And here's what he says. This is the last part. He says, there's no way to prove one ethical or legal system superior to any other unless at some point an evaluator is asserted to have the final uncontradictable, unexaminedable word. Hear that? There's no way to prove one ethical or legal system superior to any other unless at some point an evaluator is asserted to have the final uncomtradictable, unexaminedable word. unjudged judge, whoever is given the role itself, strictly speaking, is completely arbitrary. In other words, whatever standard you use to adjudicate all the different competing moral feelings and moral evaluation, he says, it's totally arbitrary. And then he says, here's an example. Robert Nozick's new book says, quote, individuals have rights and there are things no person or group may do to them without violating those rights. You know, does that sound good to you? He says, that's nothing but an assertion. He goes on and says, that's just an assertion. That's not an argument. That's just saying, well, all smart people know. Well, not everybody in the world. I mean, what is an individual right? Can you prove that in a, you know, empirically? So, well, it's just practical. No, well, most people are now believing that we need individual rights. Oh, okay. So it wasn't until we got the majority that people had individual rights. He just knocks it all down. What gives you the right to say that my Western individualistic understanding of human rights is right and everybody else is wrong? And then he goes on. Thus, he says, in the presumed absence of God, each ethical and legal system by the answer it chooses to give to one key question. Who among us ought to be able to declare law? Who among us ought to be obeyed by all the rest? Stated that baldly, the question is so intellectually unsettling that one would expect to find a noticeable number of legal and ethical thinkers trying not to come to grips with it. You see, we really are forced to see ourselves now as lawmakers rather than the law finders. We are immediately led into a regress that is faithfully, not infinite. We can say that the majority cannot consistently disadvantage any minority. We can say all sorts of things, but what we cannot say is why one say is better than any other, unless we state some standard by which it definitely is. To put it as bluntly as possible, if we go to find what law ought to be governing us, and if what we find is not an authoritarian holy Bible, but just ourselves, just people making that law, how can we be governed by what we have all I can say is this. It looks as if we are all we have. Given what we know about ourselves and each other, this is an extraordinarily unappetizing prospect. Neither reason nor love nor even terror seems to have worked to make us good. And worse than that, there is no reason why anything should. As things are now, everything is up for grads. We all believe napalming babies is bad. bad. Starving the poor is wicked. Buying and selling each other is depraved. There is in the world such a thing as evil. Okay, all together now, says who? God help us. Not a believer. Now, you know, for example, now I want to bring this second point to a quick close because I want to make one more point. But the vast majority of people who don't believe in God or don't know that God are oblivious to everything Arthur Leff says. And I have to say, I feel like it's partly my job to wake you up, partly. So, for example, recently I got a book, a brand new book by an Ivy League critical theorist, a faculty member who now teaches at University of Toronto, Mari Ruti, who just wrote a book called The Call of Character. And in it, she says this, listen carefully, This is exactly what Arthur Left says she shouldn't do, but she is going to do, but she's basically trying to get it under the radar. She says, although I believe that all values are socially constructed, okay? She doesn't believe in God, so I believe all values are socially constructed rather than God-given, but I'm not a relativist in the sense that I think that there are, and I do believe there should be, universally applicable codes of conduct that, for example,

instance, she says, even though I believe all morality is socially constructed and there is not God given, she says, for instance, I do not believe that gender inequality is any more defensible than racial inequality, despite repeated efforts to pass it off as a cultural-specific custom rather than an instance of injustice. It would be possible to assert that my insistence of gender equality violates the traditions of other cultures and that I am merely prolonging the legacies of Western colonialism by imposing my Western values on the rest of the world. Now listen, final move. But I do not believe gender equality is a specifically Western invention, and I opt to uphold the ideal of getting rid of discrimination because it seems like an ideal worth upholding. End of quote. In other words, she says all values are socially constructed except this one? Except this one? Well, no, it's socially constructed. Well, then why is your socially constructed value trumping theirs? And here's what she says, because it seems to me better. And this is what Arthur Left said, if you want constant warfare in this world, Go ahead, just do that. Because I'm white, because I'm Harvard educated, because we all smart people know, because all intelligent people know that what you're doing over there is wrong. You want peace in the world and you're gonna talk to people like that? You know, look at Martin Luther King Jr. saying, I mean, he got a lot of people mad, a lot of people mad. But he says, the reason why I'm standing up against the majority is because my understanding of the law of God is that you are not in accordance with the law of God. I mean, you might be angry. You might try to kill a person who says that, but he's not inconsistent. The real question is, what warrant have you got in your own view of things, if you don't believe in God, to call people to do justice, to call people to moral obligation? You don't. And last thing in this point is this. This is actually, I think, a clue and evidence. It's evidence for the existence of God in Christianity. You know why? What if you say, okay, I don't believe in God, but I actually still believe in moral obligation, just like Mari Rudy did. I mean, she says, you know, I don't believe in God, but I still believe in moral obligation. If there is no God, it doesn't make much sense to be moral obligation. If there is a God, it makes more sense. In a universe with a God, moral obligation, a sense that we all have that are wrong, not just feel wrong, but are wrong, makes sense. In a world without God, it doesn't make as much sense, and what you're doing is what? You're saying, moral obligation is something I see, it's more reasonable to believe in it in a world with God, it's less reasonable to believe in it with a world without God, I'm not going to be as reasonable. You certainly have a right to do that, why? Because it doesn't, again, I can't prove that God exists, but here's what I'm saying, Somebody wrote it this way. He says, while the view that there is a creator God would lead us to expect moral obligations, and the view that there is no God would not lead us to expect it in the world, for you to say, I see moral obligation, but I'm going to refuse to embrace God anyway, okay, you have the right to do that. But if your premise that there's no God leads you to a conclusion that you know isn't true, namely that these things only feel wrong, they're not really wrong, they're just something that came in my evolution, if your premise that there's no God leads you to a conclusion you know isn't true, why not change the premise? Why not re-examine the premise so it's evidence? Now lastly, but very lastly, what if Christianity was true and without moral obligation? What would moral obligation be like? One of the big reasons why I think most people really don't want God or Christianity involved in talking about justice is because they believe that so often in the past, people who believed in moral absolute truth were oppressors. Now, I'm trying to show you that on the one hand, not believing in God puts you in a position where it's very, very difficult to actually do because you have no basis on which except naked power and a sense of superiority on which to do it. On the other hand, the problem is in the past, people also didn't do justice because they did believe. So if you don't believe in moral absolutes, you don't believe in a God, just moral obligation, it's hard to do justice. But you also say, well, what about in the past? You had all the oppression. Let me just briefly refer you to something. In Luke chapter 15, Jesus tells a very interesting story. It's called the parable of the prodigal son. It's very famous. But in it, there's two sons. There's a father and he's got two sons, an older son and a younger son. The older son stays home, is very good, very moral, cares for the family, adopts the family mores. The younger son and he goes off and he squanders the family wealth in wild sex parties.

It's very clear in the story that Jesus is saying both are wrong. Both the person who goes off and writes his own moral scripts and decides from his own conscience what is right or wrong for him, and the person who actually stays at home and is very obedient, and the father, of course, represents God, very obedient. you might even say one is a religious person, one represents the irreligious person, or you could say one is a bourgeois and one is a bohemian. Or you could say one person is, yeah, I guess, you know, one person basically is a moralist and one person is a postmodern deconstructionist. Jesus says they're both wrong. Why? First of all, neither of them actually love the Father, God, as different as they look, one is just trying to get the father's things and go off and have the wild sex parties, but the other one is by being really good and being very obedient, is also trying to get control of the father's things. The older brother is self-righteous. He's a Pharisee. He's haughty and he's cruel, basically. And Jesus is trying to say the moralist who believes in, you know, he's very moral and very virtuous, but he's also self-righteous and he's cruel. And you might say the immoralist, the person who just goes off and does anything, these are both dead ends. One is driven by his passions. The other one is driven by social expectations. They're both slaves. Neither of them really loves God. Søren Kierkegaard believed that Jesus was right. Kierkegaard was a Christian philosopher. And he said, therefore, there's really three approaches to life. He called them the aesthetic, the ethical, and the religious. And it's really worth your thinking about this. He says the aesthetic is the younger brother living life, basically deciding for yourself what is right or wrong for you. and the older brother is the ethical, the person who says, I'm going to live according to the law and I'm going to obey and I'm going to be a good person and he argues in his works that both the aesthetic and the ethical are really forms of selfishness, they just look different, on the outside they look very different, in fact, the ethical person could look very unselfish and inside, you know, the ethical person feels a lot of pride, I'm a very good person, I'm doing things right. He tends to look down at the younger brother. He looks down at everybody. And even though he believes in moral absolutes, he's kind of oppressive about it. Christianity, according to Kierkegaard, says you're saved by grace. You are saved by grace. You are no better than anybody else. You've received this pardon. And even though, yes, you now believe there's things you must do, there's moral truth and you must abide by it. You don't have that kind of, in other words, Kierkegaard would say the religious or the Christian approach is to have a non-oppressive moral absolute, a moral absolute that humbles instead of makes you proud. To not have any moral absolutes, you can't do justice. To have, to be a moralistic person also makes you an oppressor, but this is the way forward. So Christianity actually completely, I think, changes the landscape. And so the role of moral goodness and the role of moral obligation in a Christian life is different. It means that you have, you might say, a moral backbone, but you shouldn't be an oppressor, though there are plenty of Christians that are not true to their beliefs. We're going to stop there because that was long. And so I'm going to ask Susan to come on up, and she's going to tell you how we're going to do the Q&A like we did last time.

All right. Now for a fun time when we are going to be answering, well, Tim will be answering your questions, and all you need to do is text in to the number behind me. That's the best way to send in your question. But if your cell service isn't working, you can also log into our Wi-Fi and e-mail your question. And we look forward to hearing what you guys think questions as we can in the next 25 to 30 minutes.

All right. Some fast ones here. Oh, just jump right in. Okay.

Tim, are you ready? All right.

All right.

Try restart. That always tends to work for 90% of my IT problems.

Shall we share a microphone?

We can do that. We're going to work together here. All right, sounds good. Well, the first question is, why is God the proper test of morality as opposed to human happiness? When God has been repeatedly used to abdicate a responsibility that left leaves squarely on our shoulders.

shoulders? Why is God the proper test of morality as opposed to human happiness when God has been repeatedly used to abdicate a responsibility that Lef leaves squarely on our shoulders? I'm glad to take this from you, so now you can't interrupt me. Okay. I would like to think that I spoke to that during the talk, and actually I like a question that enables me to emphasize or clarify something I already said, I think, which is there is no doubt that people have misused God, no doubt about it. That's why I told you the story of the parable of the prodigal son and why we have in Kierkegaard, and he's not the only person who does this, but a number of, Augustine does it too, and even Paul Tillich, who taught here at Union Seminary years ago, talked about it, that there's not two ways to live. It's not like you either toe the moral law of God or else you decide what's right or wrong for you and follow your own conscience. And therefore, God has been used. There's no doubt about it. It's the ethical approach, not the aesthetic, not the spiritual or religious, where the grace of God changes the way in which his law operates in your heart. The idea is the grace of God humbles you and turns you into a servant instead of someone who basically uses God for your own interest. So the reason I told that at the end is, yes, of course it can be misused. And, by the way, don't forget the other thing I said, which I think answers, at least addresses this question, is I think if I pressed you a little bit, there's plenty of people who said they've been happy in the past that were, we would say they were deluded. In other words, we do have a moral sense of moral obligation that goes beyond a person simply saying I'm happy. We do know that a person who's addicted can be happy,

people around them. We do know people who are in all kinds of denial can be happy. So I think you need some moral standard besides human happiness to decide what is right or wrong. And secondly, you need something, you need an understanding of God's grace that keeps the law of God from becoming an instrument of oppression. The next is, how do you know the law of the Christian God is just. What standard are you pointing to that make your feelings superior?

So if there is a God, I mean, obviously, what you're really trying to say is how do you know Christianity makes sense in general? In other words, I mean, I'll give you a whirlwind tour. If you read the New Testament documents, you have to believe they're historically reliable. I think there's evidence that they are, a lot of evidence that they are. I can't prove to you that the Bible's infallible in every bit, but I can prove to you, I think, or pretty much demonstrate that the New Testament is a historically reliable document. Then I decide whether or not the resurrection happened. There's these great accounts, you add up the resurrection evidence. If you decide the resurrection happened, that Jesus is the Son of God, then you take a look at what Jesus taught. And what does Jesus teach? He believes the law of God. The Sermon on the Mount is an exposition of the Ten Commandments. He believes that there is a norm. He believes there's a norm. So I don't just believe in God and God's law in general kind of arbitrarily. My understanding of the evidence is that Jesus is who he said he is. I cannot account for the data any other way. It's still amazing, but I mean, the alternatives to saying or a legend are less credible to me. I believe that the resurrection happened. And once I believe in that, everything else comes. So I don't just say, oh, I like the law of God. I don't think Christians should do it that way. It comes as a whole. Next, another two-part question. Why is moral obligation needed? In practice, will deference to a moral obligation, not specifically the Christian god, yield a better world when the short-term may result in added violence?

The second part, again, is, in practice, will deference to a moral obligation, not specifically the Christian god, yield a better world when the short-term results may be added violence?

Um, by the way, These are actually quite good questions. So the only way to – I still have to answer these briefly so I get to other questions. So I hope you don't feel I'm giving any of them short shrift. But I don't know anybody that doesn't think you need a sense of moral obligation for a society to hold together. other. What are the reasons, I think, that many people say that regimes fall is when people only follow the law because they know that if they don't, they're going to get punished. If the only reason why you obey the law is not out of a sense of moral obligation, but simply because you're just trying to, you know, keep out of jail or something like that, then basically society breaks down. Because there has to be an inner sense of moral obligation for the average interaction to be trustworthy, for people to feel like I can trust people, promises are being kept. I believe people when they say what they say. I believe the doctors when they say this. They're not just trying to make money out of me, but they really care. In other words, if you don't have moral obligation, think you need moral obligation to have a society. You can have rules without a sense of moral obligation. So it could be that you and I don't understand the word. You're dealing with a term I just handed you, and you may be thinking of it a little bit differently. Moral obligation means that regardless of feelings, these things are something we need to do as a country or we need to do as a group of people. And so, in other words, one last example is if you are,

gee,

if I'm, well, I mean, marriages don't work without a sense of moral obligation. If I only do the things that I know my spouse wants me to do, otherwise she's going to get mad at me, Um, friendships wouldn't work, almost nothing would work without this deep inner sense that things are not just feel wrong, but are wrong. Not that these things are impractical, but they're wrong. Not just that, well, if I get caught, it's bad for society, but it's wrong whether I get caught or not, so, and that's very hard to have without a sense of the supernatural, I think. People feel the moral obligation, by the way, um, but it's hard to be, it's, One of the questions people have is, if you had a country where no one really believed in God for like 100 years, what would happen to moral obligation? My guess is that, as a Christian, that it would still be there. Because most people I know that don't believe in God, even though they can't account for moral obligation, still think they're there. So I actually don't feel like if you don't believe in God, society is going to break down. I still think, however, that it creates problems for you, big problems for really being able to do justice in the world.

Another question. What makes Christian morals better than other religious morals?

Well, there's two ways to answer that question, and there's one way you could do it, but I don't think it's quite right. You could just go... that question. No, I'm wrong. I'm wrong. Sorry. Scratch that. The jury will disregard what I've already said. I don't think that's how you decide whether Christianity is true or not. I know that originally you get attracted sometimes to a faith all kinds of ways. In the beginning, you just might get attracted to the faith because there's somebody you admire who's a Christian, and you just admire her or him. But in the end, you have to decide whether Christianity is true. And if you think it's true, if you think Jesus was raised from the dead, if you think all that happened, then the Christian morality comes with it. As time goes on, from the inside, the superiority of Christian ethics might, you know, might become pretty self-evident to you. But I don't think from the outside you can look at five different approaches to ethics and then and say this is the best one. In fact, even if I could do that, even if I could say, okay, I'm going to give you a lecture and I'm going to show you five different approaches to ethics, including the Christian one, and when it's all done, I want you to feel that this is the best one, I don't know what standard I would use, you know what I'm saying? But what standard would I use by which to judge them unless you already had an ethical standard that we were all agreeing on? So, it doesn't seem to work from the outside side, like I judge which ones I like the best, because you'd have to have ethical standards in order to judge which set of ethical standards you liked. I'd say the better thing to do is to go at the claims, is Jesus who he said he is? Read about his life. Think about the resurrection. Think about the existence of God. And don't start with the ethics. I wouldn't say that. The ethics come with the truth of the system, I think. Well, we have a bunch of questions that are quite long, I'll do just one, but this one I can also show to you. It's true. This might be the killer. Well, I think it's really interesting. So here we go. All right. On the question of whether there can be moral obligation without God, what do you think of the works of John Rawls? I don't know who that is, so I don't know if I said it correctly. Of John Rawls, who thought we could find an absolute idea of justice. Technology loves you tonight. All right. What do you think of the works of John Rawls who thought we could find an absolute idea of justice by stepping outside our particular circumstances and considering what kind of society we would want to live in if we did not know our own gender, race, level of status, religion, or any other characteristic? Right. Maybe you can also summarize or restate the question. Well, no, no, actually that's actually, the question writer did an extremely good job.

Read it one more time because actually it does a very good job of summarizing. Rawls essentially saying is you need to think about what kind of society you'd like to live in if you were the outsider, if you were at the lowest rung of the ladder. matter. Now, imagine that, or imagine your family's there, and now construct the society you would want to live in. How mobile would it be? How, you know, how democratic would it be? That kind of stuff. Okay, so the, that's a very, I mean, that's called the golden rule. I mean, I know Rawls is very, very famous, and he's now, I'd say, he gets criticized so much, he's gone now and he's respected, but he's criticized largely. Either the criticism is that he's really just giving you the golden rule. He's just saying, do unto others as you would want to be done unto you if you were poor and an outsider. But the other, you know, I mean, the comeback of the postmodernist comeback of that is to say, who says that should be the standard. I mean, this is what Arthur Leff probably knew John Rawls, I would think. So I don't know. And I can't remember, I guess Rawls wrote his first book in the seventies, but I think Arthur Leff was actually dealing with that in unnatural law. He was basically saying, it's wonderful when you come up, when you come up with a standard like that, that people say, oh, that's great. That's terrific. Okay. So a lot of Western people read it and intuitively, it sounds great, but he says, okay, lots of other people in the world don't see it that way.

who says that this is the way to decide right and wrong? Who says that? You still are putting yourself in a position of saying that my way is the right way and other approaches are wrong, even though there's no standard outside of me by which I can adjudicate. So it really doesn't escape what Arthur Leff is saying. So you either say it's basically a form of, it's either contradictory. Or you say, it's too simple. It's the golden rule. We've always believed in the golden rule. You know, Christianity believes in the golden rule. And, you know, Judaism believes in the golden rule, and it's no big deal. I don't want to be dismissive of him. But he's not got anything like the clout he used to have. So, Rawls, R-A-W-L-S, excuse me. I taught at Harvard for years. So you know him. Great. Next question is, if I can't prove that God does or does not exist, would I be morally obligated to follow any other myth? How do I differentiate without evidence? Oh, well, keep watching. I mean, I do want to give you, I mean, I think I gave you some evidence tonight? I mean, how do you decide? A guy named Richard Swinburne, who taught, I think he's still there, at Oxford Philosophy for years, has written a number of books on how do you know there's a God, okay? And he's a believer in God. And he says that even scientific proof is not what most lay people think it is. He says, basically, science sees a phenomenon, you know, X is happening, and says, okay, how do we explain that? And you come up with a theory of how light operates or how, what did I, that explains it. Then along comes Y, which doesn't fit in the theory that explained X. And now we've got to find a new theory that explains both X and Y. And he says experimenting creates new explanatory models that only exist for a while until something else comes along that the old model can't account for, and then you create a new model. So he goes into great length at explaining that scientific proof is usually not proof. It's usually the best working hypothesis that explains the data. The most rational, best hypothesis that explains the data. That is the scientific belief at the moment. Now, come to God. Moral obligation is a piece of data. I just made a case, in a way, for God by saying, with God, moral obligation makes perfect sense. If there was a God, of course you'd feel moral obligation. If there was a God, of course there would be moral obligation, because no matter how you act, if there's a God, you're acting unjustly, you're wrong. In a universe without God, moral obligation doesn't make as much sense. It's hard to explain where it came from. If you say it came from evolution, you really don't believe that, or else you would admit that it just means you feel things are wrong, but that's not how you actually believe. You really believe they are wrong. It's not just this person feels it's wrong, but they are obliged not to do it. It's wrong. So I would say in a universe without God, moral obligation doesn't make as much sense. I didn't, but that's actually how scientific hypotheses are demonstrated to be true or false. Which one deals with the data the best? And I just gave you one bit of data. And I've had people say, I admit that moral obligation makes more sense if you're a Christian or if you believe in God than if you don't believe in God. But that doesn't prove God. And I want to say, how do you prove anything? Isn't it through bits of data? I want the hypothesis that best explains life as I see it. And I just gave you a piece. So obviously, Obviously, I said that you can't prove there is no God, you can't prove there is a God, but it doesn't mean that there isn't ways of moving rationally toward a view that you think is rationally supported, and it's rationally supported if it fits the data. I'm going to be continuing to give you more arguments on why I think Christianity makes more sense of the life that you see out there and the world you see out there than if there is no God or if Christianity isn't true. Not demonstrably, but rationally. You see?

How do you know that your century-specific interpretation of Christianity is the correct one? Oh, my particular kind of Christianity. You mean my, like, denominational? Is that what you mean? No, it doesn't mention denomination, just century-specific interpretation. What's that word mean, do you think, Susan? Susan. Your understanding in this day and age, because you mentioned people like hundreds of years ago might view things because of their cultural lens. You mean specific to my time? Yeah. Ah, that's a great question. I'm pretty sure, listen, that's a great question and I'll watch myself. And what I mean by that is there really is a kind of core of Christian faith that all the denominations hold to and that have been held for centuries. You know, if you look at the Apostles' Creed, the Nicene Creed, these creeds that are often recited in the churches, these are extremely ancient documents. And even though as the years have gone by, as the centuries go by, there's been a lot of fragmenting of Christianity so the Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church you know the East and Western Church fragmented Protestantism and so on but uh what's interesting you need to know that even though Protestants differ from Catholics and Catholics differ from East and Orthodox um nevertheless the Christian teachings the creeds of the first thousand years of the Christian church in which we all were together are still held by all the branches of Christianity. They're still held. And if you go back to Augustine's book, The Confessions, I've often pressed people to do this. If you read The Confessions, which are written by an African 1,500 years ago or so, at least 80% of it, 70, 80% of it resonates almost completely with anyone who's trying to live a Christian life right now. It's an astonishing book. There's definitely plenty of things in there that you go, what the heck? I mean, it is 1500 years old. It's a different world. And yet there's, it's astounding the kind of, the struggles, the things he's reading in the Bible, his beliefs. It is absolutely recognizable. It is, so I would say that the Christianity I'm sticking with generally is sticking with the core, the same kind of Christianity Augustine had 1,500 years ago, and therefore I wouldn't say I'm generally being century-specific. I can be occasionally, but by and large I'm not being.

All right. We are almost out of time, so I'm going to ask one more question.

question. How do you know what is moral in Christianity? What about the morality guidelines in the Bible that seem outdated? Oh, great question, I guess. Hard question, but a good question. So you can all hear the questions, right? Better than me, okay, because we don't have a monitor. And I should say that was a question that came in the form, like different forms, like several people ask that type of question. Yeah. One of the problems with looking at, say, the Bible and deciding that some of the morality is outdated is that means you are using, I guess, your current time in history as the straight edge by which we're judging, say, the Bible. So you've sort of adopted it, baptized it. Now, there's two problems with it. The one problem, of course, is that you do know, if you think about your grandparents and your great-grandparents, and you do know how many of their beliefs you think of as pretty kind of cringeworthy, right? I mean, I'm sorry, mom, dad, had grandparents. But anyway, there are things that I remember my grandmother and grandfather saying that now would be very embarrassing. You know, many, many attitudes and things like that. So I'm embarrassed. But the point is, do you really think that you've reached the cultural, the historical moment now that your grandchildren or your great-grandchildren will not be cringing at things that you believe right now? You don't think that's going to happen? happen. Oh, which means there's a lot of stuff that you right now hold as up-to-date, which will soon be outdated. So now why should we pull certain things out of the Bible as outdated when 150 years from now, a lot of things you just pulled out will seem cool to that moment in history and the things that you left in will seem outdated. I mean, in other words, there's no use in doing that. You need to decide again if Jesus is who he said he is and that therefore the Bible is a revelation of God. And then you struggle at every single century and every culture, there'll be some things in the Bible that don't seem to fit, but that should make sense to you. so let me just say one last sentence but it's a long sentence if the Bible was not the product of any one culture or any one century but it was actually from God if the Bible is revealed truth from God and it's not the product of any one century or any one culture then it would have to offend every culture in every century somewhere, right?

if you ever found a century or a culture in which the Bible made perfect sense to everybody

disabilities, well, how could that be? Then the Bible would be a product of that culture, but if it's actually from God, if it's from God, it should offend you, but it'll offend your grandchildren in a different place that offends you, and it'll offend a Middle Easterner in a different place that offends a New Yorker, and it'll offend a Japanese person in a different place that will offend a Latin American person, but if it's God's word, of course, it would be like that, so when you say some things in the Bible are kind of offensive and outdated and outmoded. And the answer is, if it's really God's revealed word, then of course you'd feel that way. It would make sense for it to be. But you see the problem with deciding to use your own historical moment as the straight edge to end all straight edges. How can you do that? Why would you do that? Do you realize how incredibly ethnocentric it is to say, the feelings of all the smart people that I know in my part of the are the straight edge by which I'm going to decide which part of this ancient book of the centuries is right and which is wrong. I wouldn't do that. All right, thank you so much, everyone, for your questions. Tim, before we wrap up these next couple minutes, do you want to give people a preview of what they can expect for next week? I want to talk about identity. Everybody has to have one. And I'd like to talk to you about an identity that doesn't crush. crush. I believe that people who come from traditional cultures where you have to live for your family, basically, and your people, that's a smothering and crushing identity. I believe that Western cultures where you have to achieve your own self-worth through your achievement and through becoming the person, exercising your freedom, and deciding who you want to be is also crushing. And I also think that those kinds of modern identities not only crush you, but they actually crush others. Christianity gives you an identity that doesn't crush you because it's not based on performance, and it doesn't crush others because it's not based on difference, capital D. And we'll explore that next week.
