The course of the teaching here in the evening service is following the book of James. James was the brother of Jesus. That's a pretty indisputable historical fact. And he wrote this book to his people, his parishioners. He was a pastor, a bishop. And the first 15 verses we've been going through as we started this fall. And we come now to chapter 1, verse 16, 17, and 18. Let me read it for you. It's right there. Don't be deceived, my dear brothers. Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of heavenly lights, who does not change. Like shifting shadows, he chose to give us birth through the Holy Spirit. Through the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created. Now, what is this about? When you take a tiny little section like this, you have to look at it in the broad scope of things. And I don't think it'll be too hard to see how this relates to what's gone before. If you had only ever read the first 15 verses of James and you didn't get to anything else he said, just to remind you of what he says, he says, consider it, brethren, consider it joy when you face trials of many kinds. The testing will develop perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work. You may become mature, not lacking in anything. And it goes on and says, the brother in humble circumstances ought to take pride in his high position. And he talks about how blessed is the one who perseveres under trial. And so it's been talking about temptation, talking about trial. If this is all you had read of James, you might think that he was saying essentially what Mel Brooks says in that well-known piece that he wrote called Life Stinks, if you remember. Mel Brooks says, Life Stinks. Remember that? And that's kind of what James has been saying up to now. Life stinks. He's very realistic. He's a pastor. He deals with people. People are always coming and talking to him about their situations, and he's come to see what life is really like. If you're a policeman or you're a pastor after a while, or a counselor, after a while, you come to realize life stinks. Because even if your life isn't going too badly, you see how many other people are falling into the kinds of trials and troubles that are inevitable in life, and you really see that life is difficult. So he is saying up to now, James, you have to be strong. You have to face it. You know, the old proverb that the same

that melts wax hardens clay. Here's sunlight coming down, and it comes down on some people, and it seems to make them soft and wise and tender. The difficulties of life, it comes down on other people, and it seems to make them broken and bitter and brittle. Same troubles. You see people going through the troubles of life getting better, and you see other people going through the troubles of life getting worse. And so James says you have to deal with the troubles of life properly. You have to meet them with discipline. You have to meet them with faith. You have to meet them with self-control. And we've been looking at that for a number of weeks. Now, it's inevitable, because James is a pastor, he's like a counselor, people would start eventually saying to James, and he was used to this, he says, now you have to do this, and you have to do this. They would say, where do you get the strength? Where do you get the resources for this? I mean, I think the average person says, yes, okay, when troubles come, I want to be strong. I want to face it. I don't want to just fall apart. I don't want to just have everything, I don't want to run around and just lose it. But where do you get the strength for that? Where do you get the resources for that? And that's what he's telling us in verse 16, 17, and 18. And if we look here, we'll see that he says, no, no, you can't just screw it up. You can't just suck it in. You can't just screw up your strength. No, you do need something to help you face stinky life. How are you going to deal with it? How are you going to do it? And he says the way you do it is two. He says there is a motivation that you can have through Christianity, and there's a power you can have through Christianity. He says, every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows. He chose to give us birth through the word of truth, that we might be a first fruits of all he created. In verse 17, he says, there's a new motivation that you can have. A new motivation that will enable you to be a better person. And in verse 18, he tells us what the new power is. All right, let's look at both of those. First of all, the motivation. When he says here, a Christian is somebody who has learned not just to enjoy every good and perfect gift, but to see what's behind it. Now, as far as I know, this is very, very close. What James is saying is very close to what C.S. Lewis beautifully maps out in two places that many of you have heard me make reference to these two places in other times, but maybe I should really document where C.S. Lewis makes the same case that James makes here in a sermon called The Weight of Glory, and in a chapter in his book, Mere Christianity, called Hope. In a sermon, The Weight of Glory, and in a chapter in Mere Christianity, his book there called Hope. This is his point. He says, when you get into the presence of the good gifts of life, you may be listening to a great piece of music. You may be standing before a beautiful landscape on the seashore, you know. You may be in front of a person that you're falling in love with. So you see the good gifts, you know, a beautiful face, a beautiful landscape, a beautiful piece of music. He says, sometimes you get overtaken with a very, very palpable sense that you're in the presence of God. And you're in the presence of something that you've wanted all your life, and that this embodies it. And if you have this, you'll finally be happy. When that happens, he says, we say, marry him, marry her, you know. Build a house here. At least, buy the music, you know. I mean, that's the good thing about music. You know, you hear the music and you say, where can I get that? I mean, that's the easy part. It's a lot easier than, you know, building a house at the seashore. And it's considerably easier than marrying somebody. But what happens is, you go after the good gift. You say, finally. But you'll find, what Lewis says in this chapter, and in this, I'll read you some sections out of it, in this chapter and in this sermon, he says, you'll always find that the vision fades. You marry the person. You build the house. In fact, you take the CD home. I have found that sometimes, I know exactly what he's talking about. I mean, I certainly hope you do too. Sometimes, you'll get, there's a certain passage in the music. And it points to something. And there's some sort of preternatural, it's a, there's some sense in which it seems to embody something that you want. And every time the passage comes on by, there's a thrill. And it's a kind of metaphysical thrill. And it consoles you, no matter what else is going on in your life. I have found that you can't go back to those passages of music because what Lewis is saying and what James is saying is that those things are not really the bearers of the light. They're not the sun. They're the moon. The moon is always shifting. The moon is always changing in its light because it has no light in itself. It's just reflecting the light of something else. And as a result, you know, one night the moon might really be enough to read by, but other nights it won't because it doesn't have light in itself. And in the same way, the music, the romance, the seashore, these good gifts, they're good, but they actually don't have within them the thing that we sense through them. Actually, I had a very interesting experience recently on this that we went to see a movie and in the movie, I won't mention what the movie was, in the movie, one of the main pieces of music that was a theme that came back in the movie every so often, was Sanson's Third Symphony, I think it is. And, you know, the Third Symphony has the fourth movement. Some of you who know that symphony, there's an organ in it and it's an incredibly rousing, beautiful, huge piece of music. And I remember when I first started dating Kathy, she had a record of that and I used to hear it. And maybe it was I was listening to it when I was first falling in love or something, but I remember it giving me those kinds of goosebumps. And when I heard it in the movie, I remember thinking, oh, great, I love that music. I haven't listened to it in years and I don't even know if I've got a copy of it anymore. I don't even know if we have the record. You know, probably when Kathy had the record, we probably have it here somewhere. And I said, I remember in the movie, the version wasn't nearly as great and as big as I remembered it. I remember one spot that always just made me kind of lifted me to heaven, or something, lifted me out of myself when it seemed like all of heaven was just pouring down. Kathy knows that one section. And I said, boy, I can't wait to find your old recording because it was better than in the movie. The movie was good, but there's a version of it that's a lot more big and a lot more exciting. I found the record. I listened to the record. That was the record I remember listening to all the time in her room in graduate school when I used to go to see her there. And it's funny because it wasn't anywhere near as good as I remembered it. It wasn't as big as I remembered it getting, you know, it seemed like it went faster and it seemed like it was bigger and it seemed like there was more percussion. It seemed like there was more everything. But that was it. This is the one. I went out and got a couple others. I realize now, after about $30, that the light is not in the music. That the thing pointed to something else that I desperately wanted. Now, in the weight of glory, Lewis puts it like this. He says, when you stand before the object, when you stand before the good gift, when you stand before the beautiful woman or when you stand before the seashore, he says, after the vision dies, after the music ends, or the landscape loses its celestial beauty, you'll suddenly realize that beauty has smiled on you but it has not welcomed you. We have not really been accepted, welcomed, or taken into the dance. It was not the physical objects that we were after, but that indescribable something of which they for the moment had become the messengers. Our lifelong nostalgia, our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off, to be on the inside of some door which we have always seen from the outside, is no mere neurotic fancy but the truest index of our real situation. We are to shine as the sun and be given the morning star. Ah, we do not merely want to see beauty, we want something hardly to be able to be put into words. We want to be united with the beauty we see. We want to pass into it. We want to receive it into ourselves, to bathe in it, to become part of it. But this is the promise of the gospel, that one day God will give us the morning star and put on the splendor of the sun. The leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumor that someday, God willing, we will get in. We will put on the glory of nature, or rather, of that greater glory of which nature is only the first sketch. James says, when you get a good gift, you have to say, you have to see that there's something behind it. The father of lights. The father of lights, and it's a perfect light. It's the ultimate light. It's the unchanging light. It's the unshifting light. It's the sun, not the moons. Now James says, if you understand that, you will endure anything. It's very, very practical, extremely practical. How do you deal with a stinky life? How do you deal with the difficulties of life? Well, here it is. On the one hand, a Christian is no ascetic. You know, this word every, every good and perfect gift comes down from above. You know what that means? It means, look, get your friends together and have a great meal around a fire. That's from God. Okay? Go listen to an incredible piece of music. It doesn't matter whether, you know, Mozart was kind of a schnook. You see? But, it's a good gift from God. He was singing with the voice of God. And, a great meal, a great friendship, a wonderful seashore, a terrific piece of music. These are good gifts and they're all from God, every one of them. In other words, this is what's called the doctrine of common grace. How merciful is God? God throws out there into the world an enormous amount of just common sense and wisdom and talent and beauty out there. And, he gives it to people and he gives it to communities regardless of whether they believe in them or not, regardless of whether they're Christians or not. And, Christians are able to deal with life because they don't pull up their skirts and say, oh my goodness, he's not a Christian composer. That's not Christian music. How can I enjoy that? These aren't Christian people. Not at all. Every good, every good and perfect gift. Get out there, enjoy it. They're gifts from God. Appreciate God. Praise God as you're listening to them. Enjoy it. But, do not mistake these things for the reality to which they point. Or, you will be continually disappointed. The way Samuel Rutherford put it, and he was an old Scottish preacher, but he has a great way of putting it. That's why it's a little bit old English. But, listen. Samuel Rutherford says, our little inch of time suffering, our little inch of time suffering is not worthy of our first night's welcome home to heaven. When once Christ shall thrust your weary traveler's head on his breast, you will find just the first one of his kisses will pay for 500 years of sore hearts. Oh, my friends, don't sell all this for Esau's morning breakfast. Esau's morning breakfast. What was that? Remember what that was? Esau had the birthright. Esau was the oldest. Esau had this inheritance. He comes home one day, and he's so hungry, but he's an impulsive man. And Jacob, and by the way, Jacob is not the hero at all in this story. Jacob, his younger brother, is sitting there cooking up some great stew. And Esau says, give me that stew. Why should I? This is mine. I did it. I cooked it. And Esau says, I'll do anything for that stew. And Jacob says, well, okay, give me the birthright. And Esau, and you say, this is incredibly incredible. Esau says, sure, I'm starving to death. What good is it? What good is it having an inheritance if I don't eat this? And so for morning breakfast, he gives up his inheritance. Well, you say, what an ass, what an idiot. Who would put all of your money into something like that? Who would do such a thing? You and me. Why? Because you marry the woman, and then when she doesn't turn out to really make you happy, you're so upset with her, you're so angry with her, and you say, life stinks. See? Or you build the house at the seashore, or you take the job, you see, and then when it doesn't turn out, and what is he saying here? He says, they're good gifts. If you only see them as gifts, and they're shifting, and they're changing, but they're moons, they're not suns. If you see them as what they are, you'll be able to enjoy them. If you don't, you'll become a bitter person. So what should you do? You have to look beyond. You have to look behind, and here's what you're after. You're after the morning star. You're after the crown of life, and you're not after the moon. Remember where James says, to the one who perseveres, there awaits a crown of life. A crown of life. What does that mean? It just means something like this. Enjoy the good gifts, but don't you dare sell the wedding supper of the lamb for Esau's morning breakfast. Don't sell the kisses of Jesus for the kisses of anybody else. Now look. Look. Look. Is there a creator or God? If there's not, your life is meaningless. You're just protoplasm. If there is a God, if there is, then what? It means that only what's done for him will last, and it's one or the other. There's no in-between. Either your life is meaningless and nothing makes any difference at all, or else the wedding supper of the lamb means everything. Now, there are people I know right now, just like Esau. They're saying, well, I believe there is a God, and if there is a God, then he has said, this and this I should do, and this and this I shouldn't do. But I want the kisses of somebody right now. I want it right now. I'm so hungry. What good is my birthright if I don't have this stew? Oh, don't sell all this for Esau's morning breakfast. Don't sell the wedding supper of the lamb. Don't sell the crown of life. Don't sell the morning star. What is that? What does it mean to take all that on? Well, Christians, you're supposed to fill your mind with it. If there is a God, and you're faithful to him, and you give yourself to him, that's what you're in for, and that's your motivation. It's as simple as that. You have to think about it. Some years ago, I heard a minister get to the place in Revelation. He was going through the Bible. That's the place in Revelation where it says, to the ones who overcome, overcome, to the ones who don't sell their birthright for Esau's morning breakfast. They say, I'm after the crown. I'm after that which endures. I'm after the sun, not the moons. I can enjoy the moons because I know they're not the sun. And he got to that place where it says, to the one who overcomes, I will give the morning star. And I expected, you know, this is a good preacher, and I expected, okay, now what he's going to do is he's going to show us what the Greek word, what it is, and what this means. And he's going to tell us the Old Testament background. And then he's going to break it into pieces and give me three or four implications for my daily life. And explain what this all means. And you know what he said? He says, I haven't the slightest idea what this means, but I can't wait for it. I haven't the slightest idea. And that's fair. You can't break down getting the morning star. You can't break down the crown of life. You stand back in awe and you say, that's what I'm after. And I can face anything then. I can face anything. You understand that? Don't sell his kisses. One kiss from the Lord Jesus will wipe out 500 years of sore hearts. Now listen, that's either true or it's not. And if it's not true, and there is no Jesus and there is no nothing, then there is no beauty. In fact, there's no good gifts. There's no nothing. I'm pushing you. Either admit it. There's nothing. Don't try to be moral and say, well, who knows if there is a God. If you don't know that there's a God, there's nothing to live for. It's all arbitrary. Right and wrong is just a matter of your opinion. In the end, when we die, we rot. There's no, there's nothing worth dying for. There's nothing worth being heroic for. But on the other hand, if there is a God and you can know him and you can honor him and you can get the morning star, then nothing is worth losing that for. Nothing. Nothing. Endure anything. Die if necessary. You see? Now, that's the motivation and that's what he gives you. So Christians, on the one hand, are not ascetics. They just enjoy life. They enjoy everything. It's God's good gift. But on the other hand, they know what's on the way. That's the reason why, you know, Lewis is able to say, the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumor that someday, God willing, we will get in. We will put on the glory, the perfect heavenly light, the greater glory of which nature is only the first sketch. But now, the second thing, now, and I left this, I didn't leave much time on this. Why? The second thing, I don't think James intends to give us a lot of information about this. But the second thing that you need to have if you're going to face the difficulties of life is to be born again. See, there's the motivation. You have a whole new approach to life because you're looking at the crown of life. You're looking for the morning star. There's a bigness about your life now. That's the motivation. But on the other hand, you also actually need a power. And it says right here, see, in verse 18, the way he puts it, he chose to give us, and this, in a sense, is the ultimate good gift. He chose to give us birth through the word of truth that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created. Now, all I can do at this point is sort of summarize what he's trying to say. There are people who say, yes, I know born-again kinds of Christians. Some of them are right, but a lot of them, you know, make me kind of nervous. And we often talk today, certainly in New York City, born-again Christianity is a kind of Christianity. That's not what this says. That's not what any of the New Testament says. What does he say? He says, he chose to give us birth. We're born again. Who's us? Us Christians in Jerusalem? What? Us. Us. Us Christians. Christians. In fact, the brevity of the reference shows that this is just something that everybody knows. You're not a Christian if you're not born again. You're not a Christian if you haven't had the new birth. You're just not a Christian at all. That's absolutely necessary. Well, there always are people who say, oh my goodness, I think it's just, I think it's, to believe in that and to have this cathartic experience, this sort of radical experience, that's not what's necessary. What's really necessary is to live by the golden rule and to live by the golden rule to live by the Christian ethic. It's not so much what you believe about Jesus and whether you have this kind of mystical experience. All that's important is you follow what his teachings are, like the Sermon on the Mount, turn the other cheek, blessed are the peacemakers, you know, do unto others as you would have them do unto you and all that. That's the thing. The important thing is to live a good life like that. That's such a hopelessly naive thing to say. Look, do you know what the golden rule is? Do you know what it means to turn the other cheek? Anybody who really reads the Sermon on the Mount will have two responses. If you really read the teaching, blessed are the peacemakers, turn the other cheek, and all that stuff, you know, generosity. First of all, if you read that, you'll say this is just common sense. The world will only be a good place if everybody does this. Actually, I think that anybody from any walk of life, any philosophy, any religion can read that and will say the same thing. But the second right response is not only that this is reasonable and this is the way we ought to do it, but if you look at this with any self-knowledge, the Sermon on the Mount will bring you down into the dust and you will say, unless I'm born again, I can never do this. Anybody who says you don't have to be born again, just live like the Sermon on the Mount has never read the Sermon on the Mount. You certainly don't understand it. We couldn't possibly live like that unless something comes in and changes us utterly and amazingly. So the first thing we learn here is that there's an absolute necessity for some kind of outside intervention, power from the outside coming in. The second thing, by the way, that we learn here about this power is it's a humbling thing. To become a Christian is to be born spiritually. Now, I don't know if you've ever noticed any born, I mean, have any of you seen any born people lately? Any people born lately? I mean, physically born. Have you seen any physically born? I haven't seen any in a long time. I've only seen actually three people born. My three sons. And some of you perhaps have been through this recently. But here's the one thing I remember from them and this is the thing that probably those of you who've recently seen people born would remember too. They're very immature when they're born. You know, you can say, okay, honey, let's get dressed and go home and they just don't. They're babes. They're infants. They're utterly helpless. This is telling us that if you want the power to deal with life, you start at the bottom. It doesn't matter how many PhDs you have. It doesn't matter where you got your MBA. It doesn't matter how in the world's understanding how able you are. To become a Christian means you start at the bottom. You start as a babe. You come in and you have to receive this new life and then you have to say, now what do I do next? You start with baby steps. It takes a terrific amount of humility just the idea of being born again. Just the metaphor is a way of saying if you want this power, you got to see that you need it and you have to start at the very, very bottom. But, the one other thing I'll point out here is this is telling us that you're born again through the word of truth. Now, here's what's so fascinating. On the one hand, it means that to be a Christian is that you go by the truth. This is where you get the power to do the right thing. You go by the truth. But the truth becomes something alive in you. Alive. It's not just an experience. It's not just a set of rules. It's like it's a set of truth that comes inside you and it becomes part of you. It becomes alive. It becomes real. Look at vegetable life, animal life, and human life. Each one of them is a kind of life but if a human being goes back to being at the animal level, you feel like that person's dead. If an animal goes back to a vegetable level, you feel like the animal's dead. What differentiates vegetable from animal from human? They're all forms of biological life. Why do we see them as different levels? I'll tell you why. It's the area of sensation. Plants can sense their environment. They're aware of certain things but they don't have five senses. They can just sort of sense heat and they can sense, you know, touch and so on. Animals are much more aware of their environment. They've got senses. They can touch, taste, hear, see, and smell but they can't sense everything in their environment. They can't sense the difference between justice and tragedy. They can't sense the difference between ugliness and beauty. They can't sense the difference between right and wrong. As human beings, we think those things are there. When we see someone being cruel, someone being oppressive, someone being violent, we say that is wrong. The animals can't see that. In other words, every higher level of sensation moves you into a higher level of life. Eternal life, spiritual life, is something that you're ushered into when you're born again. And you'll never deal with the troubles of life unless you're ushered into it. And what is it? It doesn't mean you get smarter. Not at all. It doesn't mean your IQ goes up when you're born again and you have the spiritual sensation that your IQ is 120, now it's 138. I don't mean that. What it means is things that were either theoretical to you, or nonsense to you, become solid. The mercy of God, the crown of life, the morning star. When I was talking about these things before, did anything stir in you? Did you start to say, that's what I want? Or did you say, this is stupid. What is he talking about? The way you know you've been born again into that new realm is that the things that used to be nonsense to you, or things were just theoretical. A person who's become a Christian may say, hey, all my life, I always believed that Jesus died on the cross, I always believed in God, I always believed in these things. But then something happened. These things became real. They came to affect me. You will never, ever deal with the difficulties of life unless the truth is no longer just an intellectual thing, but it's come into your heart and it's really become part of you. It becomes real, it becomes solid. The love of God. When you sing, thou, oh Lord, art a shield for me. You're my glory and the lifter of my head. Does your whole life flash before your eyes? Or do you say, nice song. What does that mean? You see, when you're born again, it's not like suddenly you get new IQ points. You see solid things that before were just theoretical. And they now console you and they now move you. Let me end like this. Jane Eyre, in the famous book by Charlotte Bronte, there's a place where she's being tempted. There's a man who's really married and his wife is still alive, but she's physically incapacitated. And she started to develop, Jane has started to develop a relationship with this guy. And this guy says, come and be with me. Come and live with me. Come and be my, essentially my wife. How does she deal with the temptation? This is what she says. She says, while he spoke, my very conscience and reason turned traitors against me. They charged me with crime in resisting him. They spoke as loud as feeling and they clamored wildly. Oh, comply, they said. Think of his misery. Soothe him. Save him. Love him. Tell him you love him and we'll be his. Who in the world, who in the world cares for you? Who looks out for you? Who will be injured by what you do? Still indomitable was this reply. I care for me. And the more unstained I am, the more I will respect myself. I will keep the law given by God. I will hold to the principles I received when I was sane and not mad as I feel right now. They are for such moments as this. Laws and principles are not for times when there is no reason. No temptation. They are for times like this when body and soul rise in mutiny against their rigor. Stringent are they. In violet they shall be. If at my individual convenience I might break them, what would be their worth? They have a worth, so I have always believed. But if I cannot believe it now, it's because I'm insane. Quite insane. With my veins running fire and my heart beating faster than I can count its throbs. Preconceived opinions, foregone determinations are all I have at this hour to stand by. But there I plant my foot. And I did. I don't know if Charlotte Bronte was a Christian. I don't know if Jane Eyre is being depicted as a Christian. I know this. When the truth becomes that real to you, thou, O Lord, art a shield for me. You're my glory and the lifter of my head. You know, when I hear that, what I think, I think of a shield. You know what a shield is? The shield is something that goes out in front of me and receives all the blows I would receive if it wasn't there. It's all beaten. It's all beaten up. Because it is beaten, I'm whole. Because it is splintered, I'm in one piece. My shield is my substitute. When David said, thou, O Lord, art a shield for me, he had no idea how God was going to have to be a shield for us. Jesus Christ took the blows. Jesus Christ took our wrath. And as a result, he now is our glory. He's the lifter of our head. That's truth. That's a reality. That's reality. That should make you weep. And then, you're able to say, at times when your veins are running with fire, here I plant my foot. Unless truth is alive, unless truth has been born in you, you'll never be able to have that kind of self-respect that she had when she said, I respect myself only when I stand on these things. Here I plant my foot. I did. You need truth as a living power in your life. You need the motivation that comes from seeing that every good and perfect God comes down from above. And if you have that, you'll be able to face life. In fact, life doesn't stink. In fact, life can be tremendously sweet. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray that you'll enable us to make use of these great resources. They are resources that we can make use of. They're in our grasp. They're not so far from us. We can lift them up right now. I pray there might be some people here who are in need of them. I pray that they recognize that they need to be ushered into eternal life and born again. I pray that you would help them to do that. But on the other hand, I pray that you would help some of us who right now are having a great deal of difficulty because we're tempted to sell everything for Esau's morning breakfast. Help us to take hold of the crown of life. Help us to see that one kiss from you will deal with 500 years of sore hearts. Help us to know those things and let these realities shine so brightly to us that we can have the ability to face life with the courage and power that your son did, who set his face like a flint, did your will, died, but has been highly exalted. And so we ask that we might be like him because we pray in his name. Amen.
