I'd like to return you to Isaiah chapter 9, the passage we started looking at last week. I'm going to read just verses 6 and 7. We're not going to go into detail. We looked to a great extent at the whole structure of the passage last week. This week I would just like to lead you in meditating on the words in verses 6 and 7, in particular verse 6. So this is Isaiah 9, a famous passage at Christmas. Isaiah 9, I'll read just simply verses 6 and 7. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government will be upon his shoulders, and he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. And this is God's word. Of all the customs surrounding Christmas, it occurs to me that the most singular, the most distinctive, is the custom of giving one another gifts. Do you realize how unique that is? There's other special occasions, birthdays, anniversaries, weddings, Father's Day, Mother's Day, and so on, in which somebody is given gifts. You bring your gifts to somebody. But the real question is, how many holidays do we have in which all of us give gifts to all of us? And the answer is, only one. And it's right that we do it at Christmas because it highlights, it makes real the central event, in some ways the central truth of Christmas. Jesus Christ came at Christmas, but he didn't just come, he was given. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. Jesus didn't just come, he was a gift. That's the central event of Christmas, and all the gift-giving, in a sense, makes that real. Jesus was given for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Jesus did not just come, he was a gift. There's one place in which Paul is so overwhelmed by the thought of it that he breaks into praise and he says, thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift, an inexpressible gift. It's beyond description. It's beyond comprehension. Whenever Paul thinks about it, even for a while, his imagination and his heart explode. What I'd like to do this morning is do nothing more than this last Sunday before Christmas, but lead you in a meditation on the idea of Jesus as a gift. If Jesus is a gift from God to us, What does that tell us about Christianity? What does that tell us about reality? What does that tell us about God? What does it tell us about us? The giftedness of Jesus is what I want to think about with you today. The giftedness. And no other aspect, just that. And let's just divide our thinking along these two lines. What does the fact that Jesus is a gift tell us about Jesus? And about the Father that sent him? What does it tell us about the triune God? And on the other hand, what does the fact that Jesus is a gift tell us about ourselves? Now let's start over here. First of all, what does it tell us, the fact that Jesus is a gift, what does it tell us about God? And the first thing it tells us is that, like most gifts, like any great gift, this gift is a surprise. Because it comes in weakness. For unto us a child is born, for unto us a child is given. The best gifts are surprises. Now very often as you get older, you know, between the spouses, for example, my wife and I are not usually super surprised by one another's gifts because we've kind of given each other a lot of guidance over the last few months. But with your children they've got to be surprises. I mean, you don't come up to your child and say, hey look I got you a basketball for Christmas, wrap it up, couple of weeks, and then you can open it up, and it's lost it. It's not much of a gift. It's not exciting. The exciting aspect of the gift, the power and delight of a gift is enhanced if the child is constantly going up and saying, I wonder what's in that box. You know, picking it up and going like that, it's not rattling. I wonder what it could be, you see. And the quintessential joyful response when you open a gift would be this, to say, I did not expect this. This is beyond my expectations, and not only that, though I didn't expect it, it's exactly what I need and not something I ever would have thought of or gotten myself. That's the best gift. I didn't expect it. It's a surprise, but now I see it. It's exactly what I need, and I never would have gotten it or thought about it myself. Now, Jesus is exactly that way, but realize what that means. Jesus is not on the world's Christmas list. the world doesn't expect it the world expects something to come in power the world when you ask the world what would God's gift be to you to save you ask the world what kind of gift should God be giving to save the world always says power and here's why we believe that there's evil forces in the world that make us less happy than we should be and what we need is someone to come along a miracle man or a leader or somebody like that and deal with those things and that's the reason why Jesus had a very big following as long as he looked like he was that kind of gift. As long as Jesus was healing people and people said, well one of the reasons I'm unhappy is that I'm not healthy and maybe Jesus can make me healthy. One of the reasons that I'm unhappy is I'm oppressed and I'm under the Roman boot heel and maybe this Jesus has the power to pull off the Roman oppressors and as long as Jesus looked like he was what the world expected, who was coming in power to destroy evildoers, then everybody followed him. But when his career ended in weakness, see it started in weakness, it's a child that comes. And a child who comes to a poor family, and a child that comes, we saw last week, to a poor family in a backwater area, can anything good come out of Nazareth? And who lives, not the life of a political leader, but as a wandering teacher, and who in the end ends up dying, lying, giving himself over to his tormentors. Without resistance, he was like a lamb before his shearers, dumb before his torturers. When his career ends in weakness and death, everybody says, forget it. This couldn't be the gift. This couldn't be what God's giving us. This couldn't be our salvation. And so they rejected him. And we know that on Pentecost, after three years of ministry, there are only 120 followers of Jesus. Most everybody rejected wasn't on their Christmas list. This is not the kind of gift that I expect. Now let me get personal here. It's the same reason that most people reject Jesus today. Same reason. And here's why. What we expect is power because we all believe our problems are caused by people out there, conditions out there. Those people, that situation, those conditions, that's why I'm unhappy. And if God gives me the gift that I want. If God really is out to save me, he will send into my life power to knock down that person or knock down that deal or do that, and then I'll be happy. We think our problem is out there, and therefore we need power. We need a Messiah who comes in power to destroy evildoers. That's the way it is. If you read what everybody says we need for salvation, you'll see everybody says the reason we have so many problems in our society, in New York City is because of them. That's the one thing that everybody's got in common. Regardless of what you read, regardless of whether you read a conservative or a liberal or a mushy middle kind of journal, regardless of whoever you read, everybody says the problem is them. They're the problem. And so we need someone, we need power to come along and knock that problem down. So the haves come and say the real problem is that there's you know I've worked hard for what I have and if the world was more everybody in the world was like me we'd have a pretty good society but it's them it's the non-productive it's the lazy it's the lawless it's the criminal they're pulling us all down meanwhile the have-nots are looking at the haves and they're saying you know the problem is it's them they've got so much and they won't share they won't share their money but they more than that they won't share their privilege they all help each other into the right schools and in the right clubs and into the right boardrooms and they won't share what they've got but we're going to come and get it and the problem is that all of us to some degree or another politically or emotionally or whatever we say the problem is my parents the problem is my children the problem is my boss the problem is the fact that in my field I just haven't had a break the problem is I don't know the right people the problem is I just don't have the money that's the problem and if God was to come into my life and give me the gift I need he'd come in with power and so people say we need a Messiah to come to destroy the evil doers out there that are making us so miserable. And the Bible's analysis is very different. And therefore the gift that you find under the world's Christmas tree on Christmas morning is not the gift they expected. It's a weak gift. It's someone who comes in weakness, someone who comes to die. You see, the Bible's analysis is the problem, my dear friend, is not out there. The problem, dear Brutus, is not in our stars, it's in ourselves. The problem is not out there. It's in here. The problem is not that other people are making you miserable, but primarily you're a sinner. Primarily you're self-centered. Primarily your big problem is the problem is inside. And you don't need a Messiah to come along and destroy all the evildoers because you'd all be destroyed. If God had sent that kind of gift, where would you be? Instead what you want and what you need is someone who will come and deal with your sin. Who will show you your sin. Who will die for your sin. will cleanse you of your sin, and who will affect your freedom and your forgiveness, then there's hope. And guess what? That's the kind of gift God has left under your Christmas tree. Now, before moving on, do you understand that? Do you realize how important that is? A real Christian is somebody who actually says, Lord, when I first saw Jesus and I first saw the gospel, when I first saw him as a gift, I really didn't expect him to be this way. But now I see it's what I needed. I never would have looked for this kind of gift. I thought I needed power. That's the gift I thought. But now what you gave me I see is what I needed all along. A Christian is somebody whose eyes have been opened, who admits that Jesus is not what you expected, but he's what you need. A Christian is somebody who says, Lord, I wanted power. I thought my real problem was I didn't have enough money. I didn't have enough connections. I didn't have the right relationships in my life. I would be happy if you changed conditions. And now I see the real problem is I am not so much a sufferer who needs a heavenly sugar daddy. I'm a sinner who needs a savior. I'm not somebody who just needs someone to deal with the problems out there. I need someone in here. I need to lay down the melancholy burden of myself. I need to be freed from my self-centeredness and the guilt that goes with it. I need to have my sins dealt with. That is the message of Christmas. Have you ever been in that condition? Is there anything about your Christian experience, your religious experience like that? Can you say today, Lord, I didn't expect you, I wanted power. But what I got was exactly what I needed. I wanted this all along. I didn't know, I didn't know, but you gave it to me, and I praise your name for it. A Christian is somebody who has been surprised says, but this is what I want. Or is your Christian life just a routine? Has that never happened? Because Jesus is a gift, he's a surprise. Secondly, the second thing that we learn here is because Jesus is a gift, Christian religion is all of grace. It's all of grace. You see, Jesus didn't just come. He's a gift. If he had just come, Christianity might be a wage religion, but instead Christianity is a gift religion. Christmas tells us that Christianity is not a wage religion, but a gift religion. If you were my employee and you came to get your monthly paycheck and I handed it to you and I said, by the way, I want you to know that this month, this money's a gift. You'd be insulted and you'd have a right to be insulted because you know what I'm trying to say. If I say this money's a gift, I'm saying you don't You didn't come anywhere close to earning it. Now, when the Bible says, unto us a son is born, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, it means, please consider that Christianity is all of grace, that everything God does is given to you, and it's sheer and complete grace. It's total generosity. If somebody had pulled your name down into the mud and spent all kinds of effort to bring you down. Can you imagine giving a gift to that person? Well, you might do it in order to make him feel bad. Or you might even do it just because, as a Christian, you know you ought to be kind. But can you imagine saying, here's a person who's done everything he possibly can to bring me down, pull me down, to drag me down, so I'm going to give him a gift. And you look around and say, where is the thing closest to my heart? Where is the light of my eyes? What is the most precious possession that I own? I'll give that. Can you imagine doing that? Of course not. It's unimaginable. And yet the Bible says that's what God has done for you. God has given you a gift. It's complete grace. It's not wages. It's not something you'll ever earn. And then he gave you the apple of his eye. He gave you the one thing that wasn't outside of himself. He gave you a gift that actually he couldn't excel, if you can imagine that. I think we have a right to say reverently, here's something that God couldn't top. he brought it in. And at this point, again, we see how Christianity differs from other religions. Christianity says, other religions say, I should say, obey this, follow this, do this, and God will heal you. That's wage religion. Earn your wages. Follow this way, do this, perform this, and God will heal you. And Christianity says, no, it's all a total gift. And here's how. We're told, for example, in 1 Corinthians, now you are in Jesus Christ, who of God is made unto you. Now listen to these words. Who of God is made unto you wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. Did you hear that? Let me give you another verse. Jeremiah 23, verse 6. Behold, the days come when I will raise unto David a righteous branch, a king, he shall reign and prosper. Now you see the difference between a wage religion and a gift religion? Here's what drives all of us, the Bible says. The Bible says that every single one of us, you may not use the word, but every one of us goes about seeking to establish a righteousness. Your righteousness is whatever makes you feel worthy, whatever makes you feel acceptable. whatever makes you able to live with yourself. And I think what the Bible says is something that is psychologically true of everybody. Every one of us has identified something or some practice or some relationship or something which becomes our righteousness. If I can attain that, if I can do that, if I can patch that up, I will be acceptable. And every other religion says, yes, go do it. And Christianity cuts right against that and says, no. The name of the Messiah, the name of the baby that was born, The Lord, our righteousness. Jesus can become your righteousness. That means that when you grasp Jesus by faith, that doesn't just mean that he comes in as a little boost, a kind of spiritual adrenaline shot into your life so now you can go out and patch up your own righteousness. He becomes your righteousness. His moral record, his personal righteousness is made over to you. It's written over. It's accounted to you. Jesus puts, God puts behind you all of your sins and He regards you as perfectly righteous, it's totally a free gift. For unto us a son is given. That means be gone with this horrible self-consciousness, always saying, how am I doing? How am I doing? That's the spirit that's gone, because this is not a wage religion, it's a gift religion. Now, let me bring this home to you. This is Christmas. You've heard this a million times. Jesus Christ is a gift. He's the gift of God. He's the Christmas gift. And yet I know for a fact that lots of you are just being driven into the ground with a sense of unworthiness. Well then, you see, you're singing about Jesus Christ being our gift, but in your actual life, you're refusing it. It sounds very humble to say, well, I can't really believe it's that easy. I can't believe that you just receive that you don't have anything to do. you know John Wesley was converted as somebody was reading to him Martin Luther's commentary on the Galatians at the sentence where Luther says have we nothing then to do? no, nothing but be found in him who of God is made unto us our wisdom, our righteousness, our sanctification our redemption and when John Wesley heard those words it dawned on him and he was converted he had been a Christian minister without being a Christian years. He had gone to Georgia, of all places, in order to work with the slaves and to work with the prisoners, to minister to them. And he was doing it all out of the sensation that I have to become worthy. It's too easy to say you just receive. And yet that night, in which he heard Martin Luther's commentary read, have we nothing to do? No, nothing. But accept of him who has made unto you wisdom and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. In that moment, he was converted. There's a lot of you who hear about it every Christmas. Jesus is a gift. He's not your wages. And you say so humbly, I just can't believe that it's that easy. And what you mean is, I don't want the gift. I want Jesus, but not as a gift. I don't want your bleeding charity, you're saying. Do you realize that? And so you're being ground down. When I was a pastor in Virginia, and I spent a lot of time in hospitals, And I watched people die. I saw a lot of people who were dying of diseases. And very often, you know, the wise thing to do, which I was taught, is that when someone's dying is you make, instead of one or two long visits every couple of weeks, you make lots and lots of very, very short visits. You walk in, you sit down, you're just there. You listen, if there's anything to be listened to. You talk a little bit, you pray, and you go. And you get right back the next day, if possible. the things I found out was that people, if you did that, people started to open up. And one of the things that almost always came, because I was a minister, you know, and I would sit there and eventually people would turn to me and they'd say, you know, I'm afraid of meeting God. And I would say, why? And they'd say, well, I don't know. Because I really feel like I've done my best. And again, I don't know how many times I would help them by smiling and say, well, there's the problem. Because you know You know you haven't done your best. Everybody knows they haven't done their best. No wonder you feel guilty. Lay your deadly doing down, down at Jesus' feet. Stand in him, in him alone, gloriously complete. Stand in him who has made unto us our righteousness. He is your righteousness. You see, what it means to be a Christian is to stand before God and to say, say, Lord, my best efforts can't even satisfy my conscience and standards. How in the world are they going to ever satisfy yours? So I refuse to rely on them anymore. I lay them down. I rely no longer on my performance, but I thankfully and I radically rest completely in the unmerited favor and acceptance that comes to me through Jesus because he's done everything for me. I receive the gift. Gift, unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. Do you have it? Because Jesus is a gift, we know he's a surprise because he comes in weakness. Because Jesus is a gift, Christianity is all of grace. Salvation is all of grace. Do you understand that? Are you receiving that? Now the last thing I want to point out is gifts tell you as much about the recipient as the giver. does it tell us about the Giver? But here, let's also consider this. What does the idea of Jesus as a gift, what does the gift of Jesus Christ tell us about ourselves? It tells you a lot. You know, every year you sort of lay out a bunch of gifts in front of your children, and some of the gifts are gifts that they're really going to use. Some of the gifts are gifts that are going to have a big impact. You know they're going to be using them for a long time. And some of the gifts you know will be broken weeks. And you can very often tell something about the character of the maturity of the child by the response of the gifts. And very often the more mature the child the child goes after the one that you know is the least important the least significant the one that will be broken in two weeks and they're very excited about that and they virtually ignore the other ones you response to you the certain gifts tells you a lot about the character of the person, right? All right. How do you respond to the gift of Jesus? See, Jesus Christ tells you that your response to this gift will tell you everything there is to know. How you handle yourself in battle. A lot of people say, you don't really know yourself until you're out on the battlefield. You don't really know yourself until you're married, some people is a lot like a battlefield. You don't really know yourself until you get into these situations. You don't really know yourself until you're tested. But this is the ultimate test. Jesus tells this wonderful illustration in the book of Matthew. He says the kingdom of God is like a pearl of great price. And the pearl merchant finds the pearl of great price and willingly sells with joy everything he has in order to get it. And here's the story. great story. In fact, it's a very important story for us this morning. The idea is this. Here goes a pearl merchant, and he's an expert, and he knows how to tell a good pearl from a great pearl and a great pearl from a world-class pearl. He knows the difference, and he goes into the harbor towns, and he sees where the pearl divers and the wholesalers, I guess, come up with all of their pearls and he's looking through the batches and because he's an expert he spots a world-class pearl. He spots a once-in-a-lifetime pearl. He spots a pearl that is worth infinitely more than virtually all the pearls in the batch and he alone can see it. He alone can appreciate it. He alone can tell the value of it. So he pulls it out and he says to the store owner, how much do you want for this one? Well the store owner knows that it's a good pearl, you can see that you can see wants it, so he asked for a pretty high price. But you see, only the pearl merchant really understands the value of it. So the seller says he asked for a high price, and it's actually the same sum as the net worth of the merchant. The merchant is only worth so much, this is his net worth. What does the merchant do? The Bible says he gladly gets rid of it. He gladly gives the seller everything. You know why? Because he knows that the pearl is worth a thousand times more than his net worth. And he knows that if he impoverishes himself and has nothing else but the pearl, he's made the deal of his life. And so he goes away with joy, not with sadness, not feeling poor. He says, if I could just get that pearl, I realize it's worth more than I am, it's worth more than all these other things, because he can assess the value of it. and so he walks away with that pearl in his hand with joy now contrast that on the other hand you have a lot of people who have looked at wonderful works of art masterpieces and they can't see it's very interesting very often uh you know to listen to the history of music and art and of literature and if you've ever studied that you'll realize that again and again great masterpieces that today we consider one of the masterpieces of the ages, was poorly received by the critics. And today, 500 years later, everybody listens to that music and we don't remember any of the names of the critics that said, trash. You see, time will tell you what is a masterpiece. Now, I want to ask you this. The gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel is that Jesus came in weakness, not in strength. He came to die. He came to die for your sins so that you could receive him as Savior and you could be brought into, by sheer grace, the family of God. That's the gospel. How do you react to it? Do you know that 500 years ago, there were thousands of churches everywhere that you could have gone into and heard the same message you're hearing this morning? And if the world is still here 500 years from now, you'd be able to walk into the churches that you're hearing today. The same one. Even though most people reject it. Why? Because the Gospel is a masterpiece. Because the Gospel is the pearl of great price. You can reject it now, but 500 years from now it will still be preached and your name will be forgotten. The Gospel is the pearl of great price. How you respond to it tells you about you. It tells you who you are. It tells you whether you really are an expert. And this means that if you are indifferent to the Gospel, or you don't like it, you don't like to hear about sin, you don't like to think that you're a sinner, you don't like to think that Jesus had to die for you, you think the whole thing is a lot of malarkey, or maybe it makes some sense, but it doesn't really grab you, you're kind of indifferent to it, then you are like one of those critics that doesn't know a masterpiece when he sees it. You would be somebody who would go past wouldn't see that it's worth everything you've got. Here's what you have to do. You have to recognize the value of this thing. And the price of it is everything you've got. Oh yes it is. And yet if you recognize the value of it, if you recognize it as the masterpiece that it is, you will see that it's worth everything. You have to sign everything over. You have to be willing to give up your life. You have to be willing to say Jesus Christ comes first. And once you do that, there'll be a joy because you will know you've done the deal of your life. My Christian friends, here's how I want to end this. And here's how I want to help you. Do you have the joy of the pearl merchant? Now, what I mean by that is this morning, it's one thing just to say, oh yes, the gospel, what Jesus has done for me is very great. But the joy of the pearl merchant means that you are so enamored with the value of it. The watches it, and he looks at it, and because the glory of it fills his heart, because the glory of it fills his mind, he is able to part with everything. He is able to part with anything. Why? Because he knows the value of it. So he has this unusual new perspective. If you, here's what I'm trying to say, so, if you could live in holy amazement for you at Christmas. If you were able to adore with laughter and tears and grateful joy all that he's done for you, if you could look at him with splendor, if you could live in a holy consciousness of it, you would be completely transformed and your problems would be over. I mean it. Look, your loneliness would shrink to manageable proportions, your self-pity would be destroyed, and your anxiety and your restlessness would be crushed under his glory. For example, some of you right now may be facing a cost. Obedience is costly, isn't it? If you were to obey everything Jesus said, some of you know it means it will probably cost you a relationship. Some of you know it may cost you money. Some of you know, for example, you have to be, the Bible calls you to be generous when you feel financially unstable. The Bible calls you to forgive people that you think might misuse you. The Bible calls you to have integrity in relationships, to be sexually pure, to live honestly. And that might cost you money in your profession to live honestly. And the average person who sees what Jesus says and what the cost will be, you're torn to pieces. But if you have the joy of the pearl merchant, if you take a look and see the incredible value God's given you, you find yourself having a power to be obedient, having a power to have character, having the power to have integrity. Because the pearl merchant says, anything is worth this. Anything I have is a small cost to pay because of the surpassing worth of this thing. Any debt, any debt, debit, is overwhelmed by the profit. And that means If you really today are facing some kind of cost and you say, I know what it would cost for me to really be obedient, to be sold out for Him. I'm afraid of what it might do for my reputation. I'm afraid of what it might do to my career. I'm afraid of what it might do to this particular relationship. You simply are blind to the value of the gift. You can't assess it. You don't have the joy or the eye of the pearl merchant if today you can't say, that's a small cost. trouble. The expense is a small expense. Are you following this? You see, if you could adore Him as He is today, you'd have a courage you don't have right now. If you could adore Him as He really is, you could have a power, you could have an integrity, you could have character that you don't have right now. Listen, here's another problem. A lot of you just don't believe God loves you. You don't believe, you don't, you're looking at the way things are happening in your life, and you're saying, I don't see how God could love you. Have you ever received a gift from somebody and were amazed at how expensive it was? You know, here's somebody at the office, and the person's been a pretty good friend, but suddenly you get this unbelievably expensive gift, and you say, I don't know that person that well. Why is this gift so expensive? And the answer is, the person is trying to say, you mean more to me than you know. Well, look at the expense of this gift. This is the most utterly costly gift. Here's God who's opened up his heart and he's given you his treasure. What is he trying to say? He's trying to say you can trust me. There's a bleeding sore in your soul. You don't believe he loves you. You don't believe you mean that much to him. You don't even believe you can really trust him. What he's trying to say here is look at what I've given you. You can trust me. I've given you the package. Am I going to begrudge you the ribbon? Having given you my son, why would I begrudge you what you need. If you have the eye of the pearl merchant, if you see how expensive this gift is, if you see how valuable it is, if you see how wonderful it is, you will be able to obey, you'll be able to endure, your loneliness will shrink to manageable proportions, your self-pity will be gone, your anxiety will be destroyed and crushed under his glory. If you can adore him today, if you can see that his name is wonderful, it's something to be adored. If you can let it wash that you praise him this morning for the gift and the value of the gift, to that degree, you will be a transformed person. Walking out of here or walking out of the Christmas Eve service, in the next two days, you're going to be singing Christmas carols and having family gatherings and so on. If you can adore him the way the hymns say to adore him, you will be utterly changed. When I behold the wondrous cross,

on which the Prince of Glory died. My riches gains I count but loss. The pearl merchant, and I pour contempt on all my pride. Were the whole realm of nature mine, that were present far too small. Love so amazing and so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Give him everything as you adore the pearl of great price and you will have the deal of your life. Friends, I'm about to pray. Here's what I want you to do. As we pray, consider are there ways that you're not obeying him because you don't see the value of this gift? Are there ways you're not trusting him because you don't see the value of this gift? Is there cowardice in your life? Is there a lack of integrity in your life? Is there hypocrisy in your life because you don't see the value of this gift, then give that to him and adore him. We'll take a time of silent prayer, then I'll pray, then during the offering, as you know, when the plate is passed, give yourself to him as you listen to the music. Think, meditate, and adore him. If you have a prayer request, if you're a visitor and you would like to have your name put on the mailing list, You can give us that on those little cards in your bulletin. If you have a prayer request, if you're making a spiritual decision today, you can mark that on that card and put it in the offering plate as it passes by. Give him whatever he has called you to give him this morning. Let's pray. Our Father, we're grateful to you that on this day, the gift of your Son is so radiantly valuable, extravagantly costly, is so great in its expense and so great in its provision. We see now that if we would only realize it, we would be completely changed people. We'd become the people that we want to be. We're so... Father, we find ourselves so cowed by the obstacles in our life. We find ourselves so anxious about the troubles we see looming ahead. We find ourselves so guilty trodden down because we don't feel we're righteous enough. And Lord, we see today that if we could just adore you for your son as a gift, all these problems would be healed. Now we give ourselves to you. As we pray, we give ourselves to you. We ask that you will enable us to worship you. It takes your spirit to do that. And we pray that through Jesus we can come right into your presence. for tonight and for the Christmas season, but we pray that you would give us the joy and the eye of the pearl merchant for the rest of our lives so we can know the joy and freedom and release of those who worship you with their whole hearts. And now we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
