Tonight's scripture is from Matthew chapter 9, verses 9 through 17. As Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector's booth. Follow me, he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him. While Jesus was having dinner at Matthew's house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples. When the Pharisees saw this, they asked his disciples, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners?

On hearing this, Jesus said, it is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick.

Then John's disciples came and asked him, How is it that we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast? Jesus answered, How can the guest of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them. Then they will fast. No one sews a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment, for the patch will pull away from the garment, making the tear worse. Neither do men pour new wine into old wineskins. If they do, the skins will burst, the wine will run out, and the wineskins will be ruined. No, they pour new wine into new wineskins, and both are preserved. This is the word of God. It's a simple fact that between Thanksgiving and Christmas, we do a lot of eating together. In the Bible, Jesus does a lot of eating. There's a whole lot of places and accounts where Jesus is eating. He's at meals. And they're important to look at because the way Jesus eats with people, why and how he eats with people is actually a very important part of his message. And to understand it is a very crucial way to understand who he is and what he came to do. That's why we're looking at some of the meals during this December that Jesus ate with people. Now, this one is about the newness of life that Jesus brings. The image there at the end about the new wine skins and the old wine skins and the new cloth is saying I bring a newness of life that is so new that it bursts the old categories and it bursts through the old structures and forms. They can't accommodate the newness of life. So what is this newness of life, and what do we learn about it from here, from this passage? And I would like to show us that the new life consists of three things, a new priority, a new proximity, and a new power. We can just move right through the passage and take a good look at it. Let's look first of all, the new priority. The new life begins with a call. See, as Jesus went on from there, he saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector's booth. Follow me, he told him, and Matthew got up and followed him. Now, over the years, Kathy and I have noticed that there's a kind of person when you take them out to eat or you do something with them, if they're doctors, you never know whether you'll finish the meal because they get paged and they jump up and in the old days they ran to a phone in the new nowadays they pull out their phone and they call and they suddenly say oh I got to go to the hospital I got to go to the clinic who are these poor people that don't have control over their lives they are on call if you're on call you can't just do what you want you don't have control of your schedule and time if you're not on call of course then you've got complete control The Bible says that every Christian has been called. You know, there's a passage that everybody loves. It's Romans 8.28 that says, All things work together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. Now, we always, whenever anybody ever talks about that verse, they always look at the first part. And not tonight, I'm not looking at the first part. I'd just like you to consider the second part, which is overlooked. Synonyms. all who love God are called according to his purpose everyone who loves God has been called every believer every Christian is someone who's called now there's a whole lot of things you could say about that but let's just let's just notice the one theme here to be called means you're no longer in control now you have to be careful Matthew is called once and he gets up and he his tax collecting booth and his life is totally changed. And we have to be very careful not to overemphasize the details of any one particular call experience because now this is very sudden and very dramatic, but if you actually go through the Bible, you'll see that there's all kinds of call experiences. In fact, if you actually just go through John, the chapters of John, you'll see the variety. Jesus meets in John chapter 3 with Nicodemus, and almost before Nicodemus is finished this opening question, Jesus says, you must be born again. John chapter 4, woman at the well, he's much more indirect, he's much more gentle, takes a lot more time before he calls her. And John chapter 9, Jesus heals a man born blind, and it's only in subsequent meetings with Jesus that Jesus gives him a call, which shows that you have to be careful not to take the details of one person's call experience and make it normative for everyone. But there is a theme. What does it mean

theme is. You may have believed in Jesus and Christianity all your life. You may have gone to church all your life and not be called. Real change, real new life happens with a call. And what is the call? When you start to feel someone or something from the outside pressing on you that Jesus has got to be central, that your relationship with him has been on the periphery and it's now it's got to go into the heart, that nothing is more important than your relationship really got to start giving him control and give him centrality. Taking Jesus home, we talked about this last week, whenever you took Jesus home to eat with you in that time and place, the evening meal was the very heart of family life. And to take Jesus home to eat that evening meal was to bring Jesus into the warp and woof, the very center of your very life. life, here's how you know you're called. When you start to find, willingly or not, a sense growing on you that Jesus has to be the most important thing and his relationship with you has to be the ultimate thing and everything else has to take back seat. Everything else has to come second. When you begin to feel like that, that's the pager going off. That's the call. The call is always a sense of priority. It's not just a matter of, oh, I didn't believe in Jesus, believe in God, and now suddenly I believe. You may believe, but are you called? And priority is the mark of that. So the new life always starts with a call. Secondly, the new life continues through a new proximity. Now let's go on through the passage. Jesus comes close to Matthew. It says, while Jesus was having dinner at Matthew's house, many tax collectors and sinners came and ate with him and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this, they asked his disciples, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? Now, what the Pharisees were concerned about was contamination. Now, we all know about contamination. Contamination happens through proximity. So, for example, physically, if you are healthy and you come into connection, Connection, if you come into contact with something, with germs or with viruses, if you come into contact with an object or a person that has germs and viruses, you may be healthy, they're unhealthy, the unhealthy makes you unhealthy. Contact means the germs come onto you and you're contaminated and it attacks your health and you get sick. So contaminations, by the way, because New York is such a densely populated place, you need to be very aware of that. Do you know, I was reading a study, do you know what the most germy contaminated objects in all of New York are? Hmm? No, no, no. It's not subways. People think that because it's all gleaming silver. It doesn't. It's the door, it's the armrests on the door of taxi cabs is the most germ infected. And so when you get into a taxi cab, sit in the middle of the back seat,

yelling, unclean, unclean, which is very biblical, kind of Old Testament. Or if you get into a cab with three people, you sit in the middle and you don't tell them about the study that you heard it here. But see, the Pharisees and the religious leaders believed that worked morally and spiritually as well. So they believe not only will the healthy become unhealthy through contact with the unhealthy, the pure, the clean become unclean through contact with the unclean. They didn't just believe that happened physically. They also believe that happened morally and spiritually. And so by Jesus eating, coming into proximity, coming into contact with people who didn't live the right way, who cheated people and who didn't obey the Mosaic law and didn't follow God and didn't worship, people who are morally and spiritually corrupt, Jesus was going to be defiled. He was going to become corrupt. And now, why? I know what you're going to say. You're going to say, okay, I can't wait for, as usual, we're going to beat up on the Pharisees now, I want to surprise you and say they have a point. And the reason why they have a point and that we can't see very well is that we still live in a society that believes that we are all basically the result of our own individual choices. And we, again, as I often seem lately to be able to say, we underestimate the power of community for character formation. You see meals are incredibly relational modes They are modes of intimacy They are personal The barriers come down This is New York so people are constantly having business meetings so you're having lunches and dinners where you're trying to do business but do you ever notice you never get as much done There's something personal about it You can't just plow on through your points as well Very difficult There's something relational about meals is down, meals are intimate, meals are personal, and let me go so far as to say, you will become like the people you eat with the most. For example, I mean, when Kathy and I think about how we've become who we've become for good and ill, for example, I think of at least two situations. When I was first coming to Christian faith in college, I joined my first small group Bible study a long time ago. And we had an evening meeting, a Bible study, you know, one evening a week. But I was not changed very much, I don't think. I was changed enormously by that group experience, but not so much by that evening study. For whatever reason, somebody thought this idea up, was our small group would meet 20 minutes before supper every single weeknight. We'd meet for 20 minutes. We'd pray for each other, having to do with the day, how'd the day go? And then we'd go into the cafeteria and eat together five nights a week for a year or more. And when I look back on that, it wasn't the Bible studies, it wasn't classes, it was eating with people that had an enormous impact on me. That really shaped me. Or seminary, I go to seminary. Kath and I went to seminary together. And of course you say, oh, that's how you learned under the teaching of the lecturers and the professors. That's where you became the minister you are. That's where you learn how to do what you do. No, I'll tell you where I learned, not in the lecture room. I didn't really become... Kathy and I really didn't get formed in the lecture room. We got formed in the cafeteria. Twenty percent of what we are today came from the lectures. Eighty percent from the people we ate with after the lectures. Why? Because that's how we process the lectures. Friends got together, day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, saying, what did you think of the talk? And how did that fit? And what do you about that and how would you do that and how does it fit over here with the other lecture we heard? That's what formed me. That's what forms you. The people you eat with the most, you will become like. And so it wasn't nuts for the Mosaic law to be what it was. Go back to Leviticus and take a look at all those dietary laws. Look at the old Jewish dietary laws. They were so detailed. There were so many things that they couldn't eat and they had to eat that you could never actually sit down and have a meal with anybody who wasn't compliant with that code. In other words, you could never eat with a pagan. You just couldn't do it. And as a result, the Jews were not infected by the beliefs and the practices of the pagans century after century after century. It wasn't nuts. But Jesus comes along and just smashes the dietary law. He ignores the clean laws and unclean laws. The things that made you clean, He ignored the dietary laws. He ignored all kinds of those laws. And that just infuriated and shocked the Pharisees. They said, you're being defiled. You're being tainted. You're going to be spiritually contaminated by these people. Well, then what does Jesus say is the reason why he just blows off the clean laws? He says right here, having heard this complaint, Jesus says, it is not the healthy who need a doctor, but the sick. on the surface that sounds wonderful. Here he is. He says, I am the great spiritual doctor. Look, you know, you know yourselves. Spiritually and emotionally and psychologically, we're sick. We're angry. We're scared. We're anxious. We're divided. We're proud. We're not proud. We're, you know, we're superior. We're inferior. You know, we're sick. And here's Jesus, and he comes from heaven. He says, I'm the doctor for your soul. Wow, how exciting. But realize what he's saying in the context of this discussion about contamination. If a doctor wants to help people with typhoid fever, he or she can't just simply come in to contact because the worst thing you can do, you'd think, for people who have got typhoid fever is to get typhoid fever yourself. the Pharisees' whole problem, the proximity, the contamination, absolute contact. Jesus is not like they are, walking around with, you know, with masks on and with, you know, with rubber gloves on. He's just in there. It doesn't seem like his metaphor works. It actually does work, but he bursts the banks of it, and here's what Jesus is saying. Matthew chapter 9 makes a lot more sense if you read it right after Matthew chapter 8. You know, most people, you know, that's how we ought to be reading right through. And in Matthew chapter 8, there's a remarkable incident with a leper. In Matthew chapter 8, a leper comes and throws himself at Jesus' feet. Lepers were absolutely contaminated. They were totally unclean physically and morally. Physically, they had a skin disease. People were afraid of contagion. And almost every society, not just Jewish society. They were unclean. They weren't allowed to come into towns. They weren't allowed to approach people. It was illegal for them. Of course, in Israel, they weren't allowed to come to the temple or into worship, largely because they were believed to also be judged by God. Leprosy was a judgment of God. They assumed they must have sinned in some way. So they are morally and spiritually and physically in every way unclean. And this leper comes and throws himself at Jesus' feet, which actually was illegal. And he says to Jesus, you will, you can make me clean. That's a remarkable request because first of all, it shows the leper knows that Jesus just has to want him clean. Jesus doesn't have to mumble some incantation. He doesn't have to snap his fingers. He doesn't have to blink three times. There's nothing he has to say. If Jesus just wants him clean, he can make him clean and whole and healed. That's what leper knows. What does Jesus do? He says, I will be clean and touches the man. Now the man just said, and we all know, that Jesus does not have to do that. Jesus can just want it. Jesus can just speak it. So why does he touch? When he doesn't have to, there must be a meaning. And here's what the meaning is he touches the man, which is illegal. It's against the clean laws. But when he touches him, the man is healed. And Jesus does not go off as he was supposed to the ceremonial cleansing and go to the priests and the Levites so they would go through all the kind of cleansing rituals so he could be made clean. What is he saying? He's shattering all the categories, and here's what he's doing. Throughout all of history, when the infected comes into contact with the healthy, the healthy gets infected. Unclean comes into contact with the clean. The clean becomes unclean. All of religion is based on this. You work very hard to become good, and you work very hard to be good enough for heaven. If you're going to be good enough for heaven, you've got to stay away from the defiled. You've got to stay away from the immoral. You've got to stay away from the people who are unclean. Jesus Christ touches that man. Here's what he's saying. Nothing, he says, can make me unclean. Anything and anyone that I touch, anyone that I touch, anyone who I connect with, relationship with, no matter how defiled you feel yourself to be, no matter what your record, no matter what you've done, no matter how ashamed you are of yourself, no matter what's been done to you, no matter how stained, no matter how low you feel, no matter how ashamed you are, no matter how guilty you are, no matter how defiled, I make you instantly clean. You cannot defile me, Jesus is saying. My holiness will overcome your sin. because I'm not another religious leader just telling you how, by obeying the rules, you can make yourself fit for God. I make you fit on the spot. I am cleanliness itself. I am fitness itself. And when you come into a relationship with me, infection itself begins to work in reverse. The clean begins to infect the unclean with cleanliness. And that's the reason why when you come into contact with Jesus, changes the way in which you relate to the world. It's a completely opposite dynamic to the dynamic that works in every other religion. Because notice in verse 10, it's not just Jesus that goes to eat with Matthew and the sinners and the tax collectors. It's his disciples. Why? Religion creates a fragile holiness. Oh, we're working so hard. We're working so... You don't even have to be religious, by the way. Everybody is trying to earn their self-worth. Everybody's trying to perform. Everybody's trying are trying to feel good about themselves and religious people are trying to get God's favor by living a very good life and if that's the case your holiness is always fragile you're never sure you're good enough you're never sure you're doing well enough there's an insecurity so you have to stay away from the defiled you have to stay away from the sinners and you have to draw a bright line and whether you're a liberal or a conservative a secular person a religious person there's a bright line and there's the good people and there's the bad people nothing to do with the bad people because you're so insecure in your own holiness because they will defile you because when the clean comes into contact with the unclean, the unclean makes the clean unclean. But Jesus changes it all. And Jesus says, you become clean in me, on the spot, no more codes, no more regulations, and that gives you an industrial strength self-image. You are in a position now to know that I love you and I and you are you are clean in me and you are fit before God in me and now you move out in the world differently different what you can move out in the world with the same non-condescending confidence that I have that through contact and community my love and grace can infect other people and undefile them and through your love and through your community the same thing can happen you reach out to people you're not afraid of them now how do you get the power to live like that to reach out to people that in the past before you meet Jesus you would never want anything to do with economically socially politically morally religiously nothing to do with Jesus says the mark the mark that you have really contact with God through me is mercy not sacrifice what's that mean well they sacrifice he means the system. He says if you want to know whether you've connected with God, don't look at how compliant you are with the codes and whether you're getting to the services all the time and whether you're giving your offering and whether you're doing your sacrifices and whether you're observing all the holy days and all the festivals. Don't look at that. It's mercy. And mercy in the Bible means love, service, and compassion to people who are not like you if you find yourself able now to deal with people, the bright line between the good and the bad people is gone you are becoming like Jesus you're becoming merciful people, now where do you get the power to live like that it's nice for me to talk about it sounds so humble it sounds so wonderful. It sounds so different, but how do we actually get that way? I mean it when I say religious people and irreligious people, secular people and moral people and Christian people. Everybody has that bright line between the righteous and the sinners, and we don't go over that line because we don't want those people to defile us. And Jesus says, I am completely turning that upside down. And where do you get the power to live like that? Here is where you

John's disciples go after Jesus and say, how come we fast, the Pharisees fast, we stick with the dietary laws, all the rituals, all this stuff, and your disciples don't do it? And Jesus said, how can the guests of the bridegroom mourn while he is with them? The time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and then they will fast. What's he saying? Well, two weeks ago, we talked about this marvelous and wonderful image in some length. calls himself the bridegroom. Jesus does not want to have a relationship with you just the way a king relates to his subjects or a shepherd relates to his sheep. He wants to have a relationship with you so permanent and so intimate that it is analogous to the relationship of a husband to his wife. And if Jesus is saying that, that's why he says, look, if you know you have a relationship with the that's that permanent and that intimate, there's going to be joy. It's going to change the way in which you go about your religiosity. That's why the clean laws are obsolete. That's why all this stuff is obsolete. But then he says, and why does he say it? He says, however, the bridegroom will be taken from them. What is he talking about? He's probably quoting Isaiah chapter 53, verse 8, talking about the suffering servant where it says, by oppression and judgment, he was taken away. He was cut off from the land of the living. Now there's the answer to the whole riddle. How can he make the unclean clean? How can his holiness be imputed instantaneously to us? And the answer is because our sin was imputed to him. him. He took our diseases. By his stripes we are healed. He became an outcast. He was driven out of the city. He was crucified outside the gate. He became the leper. He became the excluded. He became a curse for us. He was the pariah. He was beaten and driven out. Our holiness that comes to him, us from him, comes because he got our sin. 2 Corinthians 5.21, God made him sin who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. And does that change everything? Of course it changes everything. On the one hand, it melts you emotionally. How, when you're a recipient of that grace, can you have that line drawn anymore between the good people and the bad people? As we have often said in the past, line anymore between the good people are in and the bad people are out, where the open-minded enlightened people are in and the bad, bigoted, narrow-minded, self-righteous people are out, moralist people are out. Or the other way around, the moral people are in and the relativists are out. No, the Bible says if there is a line, the humble are in, the people who know they're hypocrites, they know they're inconsistent, they know they're sinners needing grace, and the proud are out. And now, you don't go out into the world with that fragile, self-achieved self-image, that fragile, self-achieved moral character that you have to walk around as if it's a Ming vase or something. You're always afraid it's going to be broken. You move out into the world knowing that in him, you're beautiful to your spouse, that you're dressed in the robes of his righteousness, gown of his righteousness, and you move out into the world now to do mercy. That's what the diaconal work, by the way, is about. It's taking a look at people who are on the other side, people who have been hurt, and you reach out and you pour your life out to them. Jesus says, that's how you know. When you're living the way I live, then you know you're a recipient of my grace. And the great thing about this is what Christmas is all about. Think of what Christmas is all about. God is not a remote God who up in heaven gives us a code of rules and says, if you're very, very good, you become clean and you can escape this contaminated world and come live with me. Instead, Christmas is about God coming down into this contaminated world, taking on a human nature, taking on a body, and infecting us with his life. C.S. Lewis has got a terrific chapter in Mere Christianity called The Good Infection. He explains Christmas perfectly, and it's a good way to summarize what we're talking about tonight. He says, the words, God is love, have no real meaning unless God contains at least two persons. Ever thought of that? If God was a single person, then before the world was made, he was not love. That is perhaps the most important difference between Christianity and other religions. Christians believe God is not a static thing, not even just one person, life and love that has been going on forever and has created everything else. He is almost a kind of drama, almost, if you will not think me irreverent, God is a kind of dance. What does it matter? It matters more than anything else in the world. The whole dance, the whole drama, the pattern of this three-personal life must be played out within each of us. They are the great fountain of energy and beauty spurting up at the very center of reality, and there is no other way to the happiness for which we have been made. How is that to be accomplished? This is the second great difference between Christianity and every other religion. The Lord of the universe came into this world and became human in order to spread to humans the kind of life he has by what I call a good infection. Good things as well as bad, you know, are caught by a kind of infection. If you want to get warm, you must stand near a fire. If you want to cool off and get wet, you must get into the water. And if you want joy, power, peace, eternal life, you must get close to or even into the thing that has them, the Lord of the universe. Christmas is about the way in which he comes close, proximity, and then gives you the power to live that pattern out in your life and the rest of the world. Just two comments to close. I would like you to... here I know who are in process, and you come week after week, and you're learning more and more about Christianity, and you're wondering quite, you're still trying to get your hands around it. Don't worry too much about Matthew. Matthew seems like he gets it the first time. You know, follow me, and Matthew follows. Here's a little bit of hope. In verse 13, Jesus says to the people who are questioning him, go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. I love that. Go and learn. Homework. Jesus gives them homework. He says, go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. Well, that's kind of a cryptic statement. What is that? Where is that in the Bible? I want you to realize that Christianity is for thinking people. Christianity doesn't just us hit you out of the blue. Oh, I believe. Jesus is always saying, go think about it. Take this home, think about it, chew on it, give it time. So keep on thinking. If it doesn't make sense yet, go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. For those of you who have grasped the gospel, I just want you to keep this in mind. When we talk about the fact that we can stop the anxious striving that comes merit, trying to merit God's love. That doesn't mean we stop striving. Oh my goodness, no. There's another kind of striving, the striving that wants to get close to the one who did all of this in order to get close to you. It's not the anxious striving. It's the striving to resemble and get close to the one who at infinite cost to himself ended our anxious striving. But think about this. God of the universe became a wiggling baby in order to get close to you. Now what are you going to do to get close to him? Think of anything that's keeping you from being close to him. Let's get real practical. Those of you who just aren't taking the time to pray, you're just not taking the time. Those of you who have got a practice or a relationship or something in your life that you know he's not happy about, and so that's keeping you from him. When you see what he did to get close to you,

pay any price to get closer to him and I can tell you one thing it'll be nothing, nothing, nothing, nothing like what it cost him to get close to you claw, scratch, fight and love your way close to him because of what he did for you that's the meaning of Christmas let's pray Father we thank you that you've shown us here a new way of living that comes from a whole new life we thank you for the uniqueness Christmas as a whole new way of thinking about life. We pray that you'd make us Christmas people. We pray that you would make us gospel people. We pray that you would help us to go and learn what this means. I desire mercy, not sacrifice. We thank you for the mercy that you have been able to show us. We thank you for the ministries of mercy represented by the diaconate and so much that's going on in this city. We pray that you would continue to support it. Most of all, we pray that you would make us into the image of your son, Jesus Christ, who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life a ransom for many. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
