Finish the lecture from last night, which basically means recap, summarize it. Then I'm going to give you sort of three sermons. I hate this in a way because, A, I memorize, I kind of memorize my sermons and therefore I don't, I get up there and as Ed likes to laugh at my notes, my notes really aren't very helpful if you haven't already memorized the sermon. Say, wait a minute, if you've memorized the sermon, why do you need the notes? blanket. I take the notes up there. Unless I've memorized it and looked at it, and like I said, it's also pretty tough. You don't really preach in a clinical situation like this. When I got a bunch of preachers just like me, it's hard to get excited about you, frankly. On the other hand, what I'll do is I'm going to try to give you some case examples of what we've been talking about. But when you turn to the place where we left off, just to give you a couple more examples, we're talking about entering and challenging a worldview. You can't just do NIF-NARFI application anymore. Go to page, when I say NIF-NARFI, get to 73. Let me make a summary. Some of you might have had to leave early. What I mean by NIF-NARFI, applying the text is not just, oh, here's a practical way to, you know, let's apply this text to how you deal with worry or how you deal with raising your children. increasingly the country is marked by people with a sort of traditional moral worldview which there's absolutes there is such a thing as truth and another worldview that's radically individualistic very secular sometimes called post-modern and you know if you're in any way doing a good job of getting people to bring folks to church you've got to be careful very careful that you're not actually working on there you have to enter and challenge their worldview not just sort of apply the text in the most pragmatic way. And so I've been saying, here's how you do it. Now, as Steve asked me, he said, I'm not here to talk about apologetics, but I'm here to show you how to do it. In fact, I'm a kind of untheoretical person. If you show me it, I understand it better than if you tell me about it. And so what this is, as I said, this is presuppositional apologetics, at least the way you preach it. And here's how we go. we say, enter the worldview, then challenge it. You enter the worldview through plausibility and credibility. You show the people you understand their worldview, you understand their point of view, you use their language, you're careful about the non-verbal communication, you show that you actually can sometimes state their position better than they can. But here's the key. What we said last night is, you have to choose one of their commitments, something that they feel very deeply, that you can affirm biblically, too, we're really committed to the idea, philosophically, that the unbeliever's knowledge and your knowledge are identical. We're not talking about stuff like that. For example, if the unbeliever is committed to justice for the poor, I can affirm that from the Bible, even though I know technically what they mean by justice as non-Christians and what I mean by justice is probably different to some degree. If they love the idea of a personal, intimate relationship with God, they don't like the idea of a holy God, but they love the idea of a loving, gracious, intimate, personal God. Their understanding of that and the biblical is not quite the same. Nevertheless, what I am saying is you identify their commitments. You affirm them. You show how they are biblical too. And we are all kind of happy together. We are saying, yeah, justice for the poor, personal relationship, whatever. And then suddenly say, however, I want you to see that you really can't hold that commitment with integrity. You can't hold that commitment with consistency. with even with, ultimately, you're not even going to be able to practice it unless you accept the biblical God. And that's how you do it. Now, what do I do? For example, here's one thing. I'm not going to redo it. How do you argue for the authority of the Bible with postmodern people? The traditional way is to sort of assume that they're rational like you are. And you say, well, you should believe the authority of the Bible because, you know, look at the, what was the traditional way? You could say, look at the fulfillment of prophecy. You know, that was one way. When I was a kid, people used to argue for the authority of the Bible. Or they would say, look, here's F.F. Bruce. The New Testament documents, are they reliable? Well, yes, there's internal evidence, there's external evidence, there's Craig Blomberg, Historic Reliability of Scripture. It's a very helpful book. Is that what you do in the sermons? No, because the people aren't rational or empirical. They really aren't. I want you to know something interesting. thing. About three years ago, I was preaching on Jesus feeding the multitude. And I said, now look, I imagine there's some of you out there. And if you're about my age or older, you're having a real problem with the very idea of miracles. The very idea. You say, this can't have really happened because miracles can't happen. We just don't believe that anymore. But I said, I know that probably for most of you, this isn't a problem, even if you don't believe in God. And therefore, I'm not going to spend any time on it. But here's what I want you to know. After each sermon today, I'm going to have a question and answer time. And if you have any problem with the very idea of miracles, I'm all ready for you. I went back and studied some books and, you know, sort of boned up on this. And I'd be very happy to talk to you about whether miracles can really happen or not, whether supernatural can really happen. So I said, come afterwards. I was preaching to 3,200 people that day in three services. And I said, come afterwards and sit down and ask me any question you want about miracles. I'm all ready for you. And I had three Q&As. Every one of them had 100 to 200 people in them. Not one person asked me anything. I asked them to ask me. I said, if anybody here has any problem with it. Now, one of the reasons why is it's New York City, and the average person that comes to my church is under the age of 40, and they are not troubled by this. Because there's two ways. One is some of them actually are superstitious. They believe in New Age stuff and the occult and all that. They say, hey, yeah. a lot of the other people are just really kind of, how do I put it, they really buy quantum physics as a worldview. In other words, what they say is, anything could happen. That's their view of life. Anything could happen. So if I'm going to argue for the authority of the Bible, I've got to not think about them as if they're rational people or they're not empiricists or not rationalists. So what do I do? I say, first of all, and I mentioned Number one, do you want a personal relationship with God? If there is a God, wouldn't you want a personal relationship with him? You can't have a personal relationship with him unless you believe in the complete infallibility and authority of the Bible. Why? Because you can't have a personal relationship with God if he can't contradict you, if he can't outrage you sometimes. Remember Star Trek? Harvey Mudd? Don't you remember that? I, Mudd, which is one of the most famous of the old Star Trek episodes, where Harvey Mudd creates a robot of his wife, who's always saying, Harcourt Fenton Mudd, have you been drinking? Is that alcohol I smell in your breath? And he can just push a button and she goes, breath, breath, breath, breath. In other words, he creates a robot of her because he doesn't want a personal relationship with her. He wants somebody who can absolutely do what he wants. Shut up, Mildred, or whatever. What was her name? Yeah, shut up. And she has to shut up. And everybody laughs at that, or the Stepford Wives, the men that are killing their wives and creating these robots, women who say, yes sir, yes sir, yes sir. If you don't have an infallible Bible, you have a Stepford God. In other words, you say, oh, I don't believe that, I can't believe that. That part of the Bible is primitive. So I've created a God. You're never going to have a living relationship with that God. That God is not worthy of a personal relationship. He can't contradict you, he can't outrage you. So unless you have a Bible, unless you accept that as the Word of the Lord and as His way of communicating with you, He can never outrage you, He can never contradict you, you can't have a personal relationship with Him. I'm trying to say, I want you to know you can't have a personal relationship with God without believing in an authoritative revelation. But I'm saying at this point, I want you to know you're not going to have a personal relationship with God unless you accept the idea of authoritative revelation. The other way of saying, well, how do we know that Jesus Christ was really born in a manger really rose from the dead, and as you heard me say last night, what I would say is, if the stories of Jesus in the Gospels are just stories, nice legends, in other religions, I say, the stories about Buddha's life and the stories about Muhammad's life, it doesn't matter whether they're true or not, because they're there as examples of how I live my life, and in those religions, your relationship with God is based completely on your merit and your performance. Wouldn't it be nice to have a radically different kind of relationship with God, where you're accepted on the basis, not of what you have done, but on the basis of what Jesus has done? Then He has to actually have done it. If the stories of Jesus in the gospels are just nice stories, then they're examples for you to follow, and it's just one more moral paradigm to crush you. But if they happen, then there's a possibility, at least, for you to have a relationship with God, based on grace, because Jesus Christ came and actually lived a life and you should have lived and died the death you should have died. So what I'm trying to say is it doesn't matter for the other religions whether the stories of their founders' life happened or not because those are moralistic religions. Would you like a relationship with God based on grace? See, postmodern people like the idea. I say, well, then you have to have an authoritative revelation and you have to believe that it actually happened. That is vastly more powerful an argument. Now, what did I do? I did presubstantial apologetics. a commitment they have that I can affirm and then show them that unless you take the biblical faith, you can't keep your commitment. You're living as if the biblical God is there and yet you're not acknowledging him. That's Romans 1. You're not acknowledging him. You're not giving him glory. You're really being a hypocrite. You're lacking integrity. Let me give you a couple more examples out of this text and then I'm going to give you some sermon case studies. Turn over to for hell. Now, don't forget, I said yesterday, I said, if I'm preaching on a passage where Jesus, in fact, actually, I just had a Bible study with three women, most of whom were not Christians and pretty radically liberal people. And we got to the place where, you know, Jesus says, you know, it would be better to pluck out one eye than go with both eyes into hell. And they said, wow, hell. You know, do you really believe in hell? Now, the one thing I can always say is if they say, believe in literal flames? I can always say, oh no, I don't believe that. And then they go, so I'm sure it's a lot worse than fire. I mean, that's what I always say. I said, I don't believe in literal fire because I'm sure the fire is just a metaphor for something considerably worse than real flames. But actually, that's not bad. That sets people off. You know, I didn't say this. It was in the syllabus. One of the ways you enter and yet

in your response. I mean, if you just throw them off like that, sometimes that's good. But how do you argue for the reality of hell? And you have to. It's in the Bible with postmodern people. Well, here's the entry point. Look at the second entry point, okay? Not the Lewis one. You know, Lewis doesn't do a bad job. Lewis, in a sort of wonderful Arminian way, argues for hell as the price of freedom. You know that? He says hell is the greatest monument to human freedom there is. roially and eternally, you have the power to do it." And, you know, some people I've found that's OK, some people actually like that. There are some people that are that radically committed to human freedom, that I can use that, even though I kind of don't believe it. Some of Lewis is, because he's not Reformed, there are things that Lewis says that kind of theologically I don't like, and yet I know it works on certain people, so I use it. But my favorite, that's not my favorite, here's my favorite argument, Entry point is finding a commitment of theirs that I can affirm biblically. Love of God. Right? Do you believe in a loving God? A God who just loves me? Okay. Here's the challenging point. I don't believe God, they say, would let anybody go to hell. I don't think hell is the consequence of sin. So ask them this. What did it cost your God then to love us and embrace us? You know, I've had people say to me, I believe in a loving God, I just don't believe in hell. and I believe in a loving God, but I don't believe in a God who would send people to hell. So I say, well, what did it cost your God to love you and embrace you? Where was his agony? Where was the nails and the thorns? What did he have to do in order to love us? And usually the answer is, oh, I don't think that was necessary. Well, this is very ironic. In the effort to make God more loving, by removing hell as a punishment for sin, you have made him less loving. The worship of any God without hell will be an ethical, cognitive, impersonal thing. You can be grateful that he is so accepting, but you will not respond to him with any passion and intensity. His love is not so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Because you don't believe that Jesus Christ actually took hell on the cross. You don't believe in a wrathful God who sends people to hell. Then what Jesus did was maybe just be a nice moral example. Or what God does is He just accepts us. Your life will never be changed. In other words, in... this is the great irony. In your effort to create a more loving God, you get rid of hell and you have a less loving God. You've got a God who just sort of loves everybody. He'll never change your life. If that's what you want, that's what you've got. You want to have a God who would suffer for you, who would sacrifice for you, then you've got to have a God of justice, and of wrath, and of hell. They come or go together. And I had a lot of people say, oh, huh. I mean, that doesn't mean on the spot, they say, okay, I'll be a biblical Christian, but what it means is, it throws them into consternation. The heathen go into consternation. So, the sensitive approach to hell makes God impersonal. The classical Christian God has to suffer on the cross, save us from the inevitable constant hell? Let me give you one more. Do you see what I'm doing? You've got to know the people well enough to know what their commitments are. But I have to say, the average evangelical either doesn't talk like those people are out there, you might preach on hell and just assume everybody... If you get to hell or justice or judgment, you've got to stop and say, I know there's people that are really struggling with this, and I can understand that. And if you don't do that, those people will never be back. And if there's anybody out there who is struggling with that and you act like, well, of course, All rational people know there is God of justice. All people who really understand these things we all know that. There are out there in the culture, there are people who don't even believe in God of justice anymore, but not us we understand this. And if there is anybody like that out there, there will never be back. There are all sorts of little sneering ways that you can make these kind of statements. You have to stop, you have to enter the worldview, you have to say, I understand why you struggle with it, but let me urge you to consider the fact that you may be really mistaken by thinking that by getting rid of the idea of justice, you're going to have a more loving God. You will have a less loving God. And you have to stop and do it. Uniqueness of Christ. Here's one more. Look at the second entry point. Humility. You may have heard this, but, you know, people say, how can you say that your way, your Christian way is right and everyone else's way is wrong? How can you say Jesus is the only way? How can you say that your take on spiritual reality is superior to everybody else's take? That's just not right. What do you do about that? You say, oh, yes, it is. Which is kind of, I think, a fairly typical sermon, really. But, okay, let's start with what's the entry point? The entry point is they want to be humble. They say, we need to be humble and respectful to other people and not be arrogant. Now, here's the challenging point. You're doing the very same thing that you just told me I'm not allowed to do. Only you're actually, if anything, you're being, you're worse. example are all the religions of the world this is from Michael Polanyi Leslie Newbigin makes good use of this in the gospel and the pluralist societies are all the religions of the world like the blind men describing the elephant each one sensing only part of the elephant but no one sees the whole truth or are all religions like the road to the top of the mountain taking different paths but everyone reaching the same summit the only way you could say all the religions of the world are like blind men only seeing part of the elephant is if you assume that you can see the whole elephant. There's no way to say all religions of the world can only see part of the truth unless you are assuming you can see the whole truth, the whole truth. You could not know that every religion only has part of spiritual reality without assuming you see all of it. The only way you could say, oh, I know that all the roads go to the summit, is if you're at the summit. All the rest of us, even us Christians, we're saying, no, this is the way to the summit, this is the way to the summit. We don't even really say we see all of spiritual reality. know is that Jesus Christ, all I know is once I was blind, now I see. I have experienced this man. I see this man. He says he's the Lord of all. I accept that. It doesn't mean I know all about spiritual reality. But for you to say that every religion has only got part of the pie is only possible if you assume you see the whole pie. So in other words, what you're saying is my relativistic way is right. My take on spirituality is right. And your take on spiritual reality is wrong. In right this very second. To me, the very thing you forbid me to do to anybody else. And you're actually doing it doubly, triply, ten times more. Your position assumes greater spiritual knowledge than any of the world's religions, including Christianity. You're saying my take on religious reality is right, yours is wrong, and yet you tell Christians they can't say the same thing. At least Christians are being honest about their exclusivism, and you are not. And that gets you, because the postmodern people say, got to be honest, got to be above board, got to be humble. So anyway, let's look at a couple passages of Scripture. Here's one you might find interesting. Let's do John 2. These are sermons, but they're not going to be very good. Let's do John 2, 15 to 21. I'm going to have to get down here so I can actually look at my notes, which is an awful experience because they're terrible and illegible. Let me just read the last part of the cleansing of the temple. Verse 15.

from the temple area, both sheep and cattle. He scattered the coins of the money changers and overturned their tables. To those who sold doves, he said, Get these out of here. How dare you turn my father's house into a market? His disciples remembered that it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. Then the Jews demanded of him, What miraculous sign can you show us to prove your authority to do all this? And Jesus answered them, saying, Destroy this temple, and I will raise it again in three days. The Jews replied, It's taken 46 years to build this temple, but the temple he had spoken of was his body. Let me stop there. I originally was preaching on this in a series of hard sayings, and so I introduced it like this. I said, you know, for the last three or four weeks, we've been looking at hard sayings of Jesus. We're acknowledging the fact that Jesus says a number of things that are hard to understand and hard to accept. And we're looking at this place where he says, destroy this temple, and I will raise it up again in three days, but the temple he had spoken of was his body. Some of you are out there saying, this doesn't seem to be anywhere near as hard as the others we have looked at. Jesus said, you must hate your father and mother, or you can't be my disciple. And right away, you say, wow, what does that mean? Jesus said, if you speak a word against the son of man, it will be forgiven you, but if you speak a word against the whole the spirit of God, that will never be forgiven you. And we say, well, well, wait a minute, what does that mean? Or Jesus says, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to get in the kingdom of God. And you go, hold it, wait a minute, hold it, hold it. So this doesn't seem nearly as difficult. But I want you to know that when Jesus was killed, when Jesus was executed, the main charge in Matthew 26, 61 was that he said he would tear down the temple. You guys here in the 20th century, or now it's the 21st century for sure, Sure You guys here Think of all these other statements Like I have to hate my mother and father And all that And you say wow that's really weird But I want you to know That what he said right here Is the hardest saying of all The most incredible saying of all Because this is the one that got him killed Now the reason you don't understand that Is because we've got to do A little bit of translation I'm going to do a little bit of translation But I'm going to show you That even though we have to do translation What he's saying is That every bit is relevant today Every bit is relevant today As it was then Let's just ask this question, what is the Temple? Then we can ask ourselves what Jesus meant when he called himself the Temple? And then lastly we can ask ourselves what difference does that make to us today? What is the Temple? What did Jesus mean when he said he is the Temple? And what does that mean for us today? And that is how the sermon would go, but here is the gist of the first point. So what is the Temple? The reason that you are not all excited and upset or concerned or kind of engaged by this is because for modern people today, temple means almost nothing. Let me tell you what temples were to everybody, not just to the Jews or to the Bible, it's just, everybody had temples one time. All the ancient cultures and groups had temples, and here's why, a temple was a place where heaven and earth, where the temporary, the temporal and the eternal, where the supernatural and the natural, intersected. A temple was a crossroads, between the eternal and the temporal, the supernatural and the natural, heaven and earth, it was a crossroads. It was a place, could come to grips with the divine impenetrable absolute and have the gap bridged between you and that. In other words, everybody did understand this. All ancient people understood these two things. Number one, that behind everything there's an ultimate mystery. There's an impenetrable divine the divine realm. Behind all the nature, there is super-nature, behind the temporal there is the eternal, behind the here-and-now there is the ultimate, the imperishable mystery. Everybody understood that there was something like that. And secondly, we also understood we were cut-off from it, we were cut-off from it somehow, there is a gap that needs to be bridged, there is a barrier that needs to be broken-through, there needs to be mediation, everybody understood that, not just the Jews, everybody understood that. Of course, there were as many different kinds of temples as there were different kinds of religions and philosophies and the mediation was done all kinds of different ways there were all sorts of rituals and sacrifices and priests and incantations and approaches and prayers and transformations and consciousness and all that but they all had temples because everybody knew that there really is some impenetrable mysterious inexplicable absolute supernatural divine ultimate out there and there is some way in which we are cut off from it there kind of gap that has to be bridged, there is some kind of barrier that has to be broken through we need mediation and the temples were places where you could come into contact through mediation with the divine now, why is it the temples mean nothing to us today? Why is it when you think of temples you think of Masons maybe? hocus-pocus Weird head dresses woo-woo-woo-woo, why is it all kind of sort of hilarious? Why is temples, you know something? that's almost kind of silly. I'll tell you why. Because of the last two or three hundred years, for those of you who remember your lessons in college, there was something that arose in the Western world called the Enlightenment. Those of you who really, really, really remember your lessons, it was sort of a conflation of French rationalism, and English empiricism, and German idealism. But, basically, what actually happened was, the intelligence of the Western the whole Western world said, you know what? Everything has a natural cause. Everything is just really a natural scientific factor. There isn't anything impenetrable, there isn't anything out there we can ever- we can see through everything, everything is just really this. There is nothing divine and impenetrable- everything-everything- everything has a natural cause, everything has a natural explanation, everything is just really this. And as a result we didn't need temples. There isn't anything out there we have to- we have to use our minds, and we've got to figure things out. We can predict things, we can control things, we can solve all of our problems. Everything is just really a product of some scientific, empirical, natural cause. And that's why the whole idea of temples has gotten to be almost hilarious and the reason why the thing has almost died out and that's the reason Jesus is talking about a temple means almost nothing to you, but the times are changing. And some of you may be behind the times and I want to help you. Okay? Have not you noticed that there's this Increase of not just old religions, but new religions everywhere? There is spiritual seeking going on everywhere? Almost anybody can hang out a shingle and say, I'm starting a new religion and have millions of people start coming? That is an exaggeration, but haven't you noticed the change? Haven't you noticed that old religions are increasing in their adherence and new religions are coming up all the time? Haven't you recognized that? Why is it going on? When I was in college, everybody really talked about how religion was eventually going to begin dying out, we got and that is absolutely not true. There are tons of sociologists who are just hoping to God that nobody reads their books from the 70s and 60s because they all said that this is what happens is that you get more scientifically advanced. People don't need the God hypothesis anymore because everything is just really. It's just really this. We can see through. We don't need to have any mediation to the divine ultimate. We can really handle life just by, we just have to we have to find the scientific explanation. What's going on? That whole idea is falling apart. It's falling apart on the intellectual level, it's falling apart on the popular level, and here's why, let me just tell you couple reasons why. Number one, the pragmatic problem is destroying this whole idea that we don't need Temple. The pragmatic problem is if every, if this thing, if some scientific natural cause is the bottom of everything, if everything is just really that, all the problems of the human race are social problems, like crime, violence, warfare, racism, poverty, poverty, oppression, and our psychological problems like guilt and depression and emptiness and anger. We should have made some progress in the 20th century. These problems should be getting better. But they're not. And what's going on is more and more both at the intellectual level and the popular level people are coming to realize the human heart and the human soul behind them and behind the whole world are all kinds of deep mysteries that we can't crack with a scientific method at all. That there is something impenetrable out there. that there is something mysterious, that there is something spiritual. We're coming to realize that. The just-really approach, we don't need temples, there's nothing out there, everything has a natural God, that just-really thing is just falling apart, we haven't gotten any better, we really haven't. Medicine has gotten us better, that's great, but almost nothing else has. But there's a logical problem, and here's what the logical problem is. There's an enormous logical problem to say, there's no ultimate, divine, impenetrable mystery that we are cut off from. Everything has really just got a natural explanation. There is a logical problem. C.S Lewis put it perfectly at the end of the book Abolition of Man, this is what he said, he says, you cannot go on explaining away, forever, where you will find that you have explained the explanation itself away. You cannot go on seeing through things, forever, the whole point of seeing through something is to see something else through it. It is good that you can see through the window, because the garden beyond is opaque, but if you see through everything, then everything is transparent, and the whole transparent invisible world. So to see through all things is the same as not to see. Now that's, you know, I just read that to you and you say, wow, I know that's wise but I can't quite get my handle. Let me explain. Let me show you the problem with the just everything is just really this. If Nietzsche says all truth claims are really just really power grabs, then so is his. So why should we have been listening to him. Shut up. If Freud, as Freud says, all views of God are really just psychological projections to deal with your guilt and insecurity, all religious views are just psychological. Well, then so is his. So is that. So why should we listen to him? Just shut up. Or if as the sociobiologists say, the evolutionary psychologists say, that what my brain tells me about morality, love, beauty, isn't real. These are just chemical on my genetic code, then so is what their brain just said. So why should I listen to it? Shut up. To explain away everything is eventually to explain away your explanation. To see through everything is not to see. And more and more, people are coming to say, wait a minute, the just really thing, everything just, it doesn't work. There actually is something, there must be something, we can't see through. There must be something real capital-R that can't be reduced to a sociological cause or psychological cause or physical cause or physiological cause, there must be an ultimate, there must be spiritual ground, there must be something we are cut off from, and there is nobody better, we put it better than CS Lewis, in his address the way to glory he says this, and listen to this, tell me if this is not true, don't tell me if you don't know this, the inconsolable secret in each of you, the secret that hurts so much calling it names like nostalgia, romanticism, or adolescence. Our lifelong nostalgia, our longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off, to be on the inside of some door which we've always been seeing from the outside, is no mere neurotic fantasy but the truest index of our real situation. The sense that in this universe we are strangers, the longing to be acknowledged, to meet with some response from that ultimate reality, to bridge some chasm that yawns between us and reality as part of our inconsolable secret. It's to please God. It's to be a real ingredient in the divine happiness. It's to be loved, not just pitied, but delighted in, as an artist delighted in their work. Acceptance by God, response, acknowledgement, wisdom, welcome into the heart of things. Someday, we hope, the door on which we have been knocking all of our lives will open at last. You can't do without a temple. The ancients had it right. We're going back. After 400 years of trying another way, we're finding out they had it right. There is something that you can't see through. There is something real, something that cannot be reduced. If not, all of our explanations get explained away. To see through everything is not to see. cynical all the way down to the bottom is really stupid, because if you're not cynical about your cynicism, then you're being completely unfair, and of course if you're cynical about your cynicism, you won't be cynical anymore. To see everything is not to see, we can't do it without temple, there is an ultimate reality out there, there is a divine reality out there, and at both the intellectual and the popular level, people recognize that, and that means there is a gulf between us, there is something, we're cut off from it somehow, and we need mediation, We need a temple, and people are trying to find it in all sorts of ways. They're not going to buildings anymore, but they're going back. Now, if you realize that, and you see what that means, now you see what temple means, now we can look and see what Jesus Christ said, and we realize why he got killed for it.

First of all, Jesus Christ, when he says, tear this temple down and build it back up again,

God is God Because now we have to think about what are the Jews? What does the Bible mean by temple? That's a little different. Here's what the Bible means by temple. 2 Chronicles 7, verses 1 to 5, we read this. They dedicated the temple, and Solomon prayed a prayer and asked God to come down into the temple, and this is what we read. And after Solomon finished praying, fire came down from heaven, consumed the offering, and the glory of the Lord filled the temple, and the priests could not stand or enter the temple because the glory filled it. And when all saw the fire come down and the glory over the temple, they fell with their faces to the ground and they worshipped, giving thanks to the Lord, saying, For he is good, and his steadfast love endures forever. The Jews understood that the temple was the place of the raw power, the glory of God, the Shekinah glory of God, where his presence dwelt. When that presence came down on Mount Sinai, there was like an earthquake and the people ran away. They could hardly stand it. and a tornado and a flood and a typhoon all put together. When Moses said, let me see that Shekinah glory, God said, I can't, it'll kill you. When Solomon prayed and it came down into the temple, everybody hit the deck. Nobody could even stand on their own feet. The priests couldn't even stay on their feet. And Jesus Christ says, I am that. When he says, I am the temple, he's saying, I'm the God on the other side. The word became flesh and dwelled among us Glory, that's what the Bible says. For you modern people, glory, okay, glory. Gridiron glory, glory, okay. Do you understand what he's saying when he says, I'm the temple? I'm talking about that. I'm talking about the thing that everybody deep down in their heart knows I'm cut off from. But the Jews said, here's what the temple means. Jesus says, on the one hand, I am the God on the other side of the gap. But when he says, I'm the temple, he's saying the other thing. The other thing is, you see, the temple is two things. The temple is where you meet the divine and where the divine is mediated to you.

I'm the God on the other side of the gap, he's also saying, when he says, I'm the temple, that he's the bridge over the gap. He's not just saying, I'm the God you find in the temple, he's saying, I'm the temple. What is the temple? The temple is the way I meet God. And so what that means is, if you look carefully, and I have never seen this till recently, he doesn't just say, I'm the temple, he says, my body, in verse 19, torn down and raised up is the temple. You see, we don't just need God to show up.

God, we need a temple. We need a way to bridge the gap. We know there's something wrong with us. We know we can't stand before him. We know there's things we've done that are wrong. We know that if we say, I just want to get in front of God, God, are you there? Give me what I deserve. We know we can't do that. And therefore, this is the reason why Paul says, once you were alienated from God, there's the gap, we sense, but now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you perfect in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation. Now, what is Jesus Christ saying? He's not just saying I'm the God in the temple. He's saying I'm the temple. He is saying there is a way for you to get into God because I have died and I was raised again. If you believe in me, your sins are put away. So Jesus Christ is actually saying, I am the temple to end all temples. I am the temple to destroy all temples, to replace all temples. I am not only the one you seek, I have provided the way to get to the one you seek.

That's his claim. Do you see why that got him killed? Do you see why maybe some of you right now are so outraged that you just say, I just can't believe that. But that's good, that's good, that's good. You're outraged, now you get it. What we're trying to do here is saying of Jesus. Why this is the most, the hardest saying of Jesus in some ways. Why it's the most radical. Now, I want to do another sermon, and you say, well, what was the third point? I'm sorry, I'm preaching a little bit, and you're kind of with that. You know what, what's interesting is here, what? Aren't you worshipping a little bit? You see, you are all in the demon program, where your auditing writes, I'm not telling you anything you don't know, am I? Well, what happened? Why were you engaged? You were pretty quiet. Do you really need to know this? I mean, are you cut off from him, and you need salvation? I mean, who knows? I mean, yeah, but I mean, what were you going on? You're getting sanctified right now because you're worshiping. Do you see that? Your faith has been strengthened by the act of preaching. And you'll live better for it. But now, here's what I would do. I'll just do this real quickly. The third point, remember the three points? What is a temple? Why? Now, what does Jesus' claim about being a temple mean? Thirdly, what difference does it make? Now, here's what I'd do. I would say I'd go back to the place Where he starts to cleanse You can't miss the point That because Jesus is the temple He's cleansing the temple And what I would do Is I would say If you're a searcher For truth here If you're one of those people Who senses that Lewis is right Here's what you have to do What you have to do Is you have to see That you need to base Your relationship with God On grace By believing in what Jesus did You can't try to earn your way in Because if you try to earn your way in

girl, studying your Bible, coming to church, coming to Redeemer, taking notes, I even take notes at the sermon, that won't help you. You're turning the house of God into a market. See, that's what I would do. You're turning the house of God into a market. You can't buy your way in. Get rid of your money. Stop it. Am I allegorizing? Sure. Come on. Let's face it. It's not really allegorizing. That's an analogy. You're going to go buy real quickly. The sermon is not going to be based on that. that's an application allegory, that's all right. You know that. And I would do it quickly and on I go. I mean, I don't think in any way that's violating the text. Okay? But here's the second thing I'd say. I'd say, if you're Christians today, here's what's interesting. To those of you who aren't sure whether you're Christians or not, I say to you, the temple is a person, not a place now. So go to him, and don't try to earn your way in as turning God into a market. But now I'll turn it around over here to you, as Christians. I say, if Jesus is the temple, it's not just that now the temple is a person, not a place, but it's a person, it's a people, not a place. When you unite to Christ, your life become, you become part of the temple, you know that. Jesus has replaced all other temples, Jesus is the temple to end temples, and that means now, look at John 2, the first part, the first part, Jesus shows up at somebody's house, where he's the guest, and he sees a problem and he fixes it. But in the second part of John 2, Jesus Christ shows up in a house where he's the host, where he's the owner. And instead of adding, he's subtracting. He's throwing things out. And I said, I want you to realize that when you become a Christian, it means zeal. You know the place? It's not here. Is it here where it says? Oh, yeah. Zeal for your house will consume me. Well, now, God, zeal for the holiness and purity of your life, consumes him because you're the temple And I might say a few things about that but the main thing I'm going to say is unless you're letting him you know move the furniture around your life unless you're letting him say no at certain places I'm not sure you're taking seriously what it means to have the Holy One of Israel living in the middle of your life now and I say in other words I got good news for people who are on their way in. I've got some hard news for people who are in, but I also want you to know it's good. In other words, can I do another one? Let's do another one. Go to John. That was too fast. I would do it better than that. But Genesis 29, a whole different way. Now that one was really, really, really, really overtly evangelistic, was it not? And kind of a little bit more for the non-Christian and the Christian. The Christian gets worship and the Christian in the very end gets a punch in the gut. Zeal for your life now consumes him. What's going on in the courts of life because this incredible glory of God, that when it came down on Mount Sinai, it created an earthquake, and when it came down, and Moses, can I see it? No, it'll kill you, it's so holy, it's in you now. That Shekinah glory is in you now. Are you living as if it is? Are you living with a confidence? Are you living with a humility that's consonant with that insight? No, okay. Genesis 29, verse 15. Laban said to him, just because you're

Now Laban had two daughters. The name of the older was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. Leah had weak eyes, but Rachel was lovely in form and beautiful. Jacob was in love with Rachel and said, I'll work for you seven years in return for your younger daughter Rachel. Laban said,

So Jacob served seven years to get Rachel, but they seemed like only a few days to him because of his love for her. Jacob says to Laban, Okay, seven years are up. Give me my wife. My time is completed and I want to lie with her. Cut to the chase. You like that? My time is completed. Time for sex. Okay. So Laban brought together all the people of the place and gave a feast. By the way, I wouldn't do that.

I'm not... Pardon me. Don't take everything I'm doing here. So Laban brought together all the people of the place and gave a feast. his daughter Leah and gave her to Jacob, and Jacob lay with her. And Laban gave his servant girl Zilpah to his daughter as her maidservant. And when morning came, there was Leah. So Jacob said to Laban, what is this you have done to me? I served you for Rachel, didn't I? Why have you deceived me? Laban replied, it's not our custom here to give the younger daughter to them in the older one finish this daughter's bridal week then

we'll give you the younger one too but you have to work another seven years seven

years per daughter two daughters fourteen years and Jacob did so he finished the week with Leah then Lamin gave his daughter Rachel to be his wife and Lamin gave his servant girl Bilha to his daughter Rachel as her maidservant Jacob lay with Rachel also he worked for Laban another seven years. And when the Lord saw that Leah was not loved, he opened her womb, but Rachel was barren. Leah became pregnant and gave birth to a son. She named him Reuben, for she said, It is because the Lord has seen my misery, surely my husband will love me now. She conceived again, and when she gave birth to a son, she said, Because the Lord heard that I am not loved, he gave me this one too. So she named him Simeon. Again she conceived, and when she gave birth to a son, Now at last my husband will become attached to me because I have borne him three sons. So he was named Levi. She conceived again. And when she gave birth to a son, she said, This time I will praise the Lord. This time I will praise the Lord. So she named him Judah. And then she stopped having children. Now, traditional family values. On the one hand, you've got Bush country. On the other hand, you've got Gore country.

the conservative approach is family is what life is about Asian approach family is what life is about Latin American really all traditional cultures family is what life is about Republican approach family is what life is all about you marry and you have your children and you have your white picket fence and your home and all that on the other hand the other country the other country the Gore country You know, the Northeast, the West Coast, places like that. Family is seen as an oppressive structure, very, very cynically. There's, you know, prenuptial agreements everywhere, you know. I mean, if you're going to do that at all. What's the Bible's attitude? I guess you want to say, well, sure, it's like bush country. I don't know. I don't know about that. I believe that there is no book less sentimental about marriage than the Bible. I want you to know that the Gospel doesn't really look at marriage either way. It's another way. Let's take a look at this story. Let me show you the background of the story, the substance of the story, and the meaning of the story. The background of the story, I mean, this story just preaches itself, by the way. You know, just reading it, everybody says, Wow, what's going on here? Here's the background of the story. Two features to understand the story. Two backgrounds. Jacob came from a family chosen by grace, and Jacob came from a family filled with brokenness. Right there, by the way, that kind of gets rid of this idea the Bush country or the Gore country, Jacob came from a family chosen by grace. Jacob's grandfather, God shows up one day, and here is the gist of what he says, he says, Abraham, I'm going to save the world through your family. Do you see the brokenness of the world? Do you see all the suffering, the misery? Do you see all this? I'm going to change the world, I'm going to save the world through Messiah, and he is going to be the descendant of yours, and what that means is, at every generation of your family, one child will bear the Messianic seed,

One prophet will be the prophet. One priest will be the priest. One king will be the king of kings. Lord of lords. So Jacob came from a family chosen by grace, but Jacob also came from a family all screwed up. You know, we like to think, oh, chosen by grace, happy? No. I mean, let's go back. I mean, Abraham had two kids, Ishmael and Isaac, and I'm not even going to get into that one. There was all kinds of problems and alienation and rivalry. But let's get down to the next. Next, Isaac had the Messianic, the bearer of the Messianic seed from Abraham, Isaac had his wife, Rebecca, and when she was pregnant with twins in her womb, an oracle came, a prophecy came, and the prophecy from God said, the elder will serve the younger. Now, that's pretty easy to see. God was telling Jacob and Rebecca which one had the Messianic seed, which one was the seed. The elder will serve the younger. The younger one is the seed-bearer.

Isaac immediately proceeded just to ignore it Isaac's heart went to Esau, the older he favored Esau and both boys were screwed up royally by this Esau became devoid of self-control proud, willful Jacob became a manipulator, bitter a con artist, a liar of course we know since I'm still trying to preach to you and you know because you're all preachers what happened Jacob lies, dupes his father, but as a result of that has to flee for his life. And he goes to the other end of the Fergal Crescent. And let's face it, when he gets there, he's not dead, but his life's ruined. How is he ever going to be the Messianic seed? How is he ever going to fulfill his destiny? Maybe Isaac screwed up, or Rebecca screwed up, or I screwed up, or God screwed up, but it's screwed because I'm penniless. Esau's the head of the family. I'm out here. how am I ever going to fulfill my destiny? And so what we see is, before this happens, before the story starts, is that Jacob comes from a family chosen by grace, but also a family that's all broken up. Broken, messed up, badly. And that's the background of the story. Now, what's the substance of the story? The substance of the story is also best understood through two poles. Laban's plot and Leah's lot. Laban's plot. Jacob did some shepherding work, and what we see at the very beginning is Laban realizes he could become an incredibly wealthy man if Jacob works for him for a real low price. If Jacob works for him for a real low price, his flocks and herds will expand like crazy and he'll be a wealthy man. He decides, well, how am I going to get Jacob to do this? But Jacob really makes a big mistake because in verse 18, Jacob missteps and he shows him by the way in which he speaks about Rachel that he's really hooked on her. Now, that's a misstep because in Laban, Jacob has met his match. They're both swindlers, but Laban is a better swindler, a bigger swindler, an older swindler, a more experienced swindler. And he sees the weakness, and he knew he had him. He realized, here's a guy who will do anything to get Rachel. Anything. So he's determined to solve his two problems in one stroke. What are his two problems? Well, the one problem he's got is, how do I unload Leah? Now, Leah and Rachel, two daughters, but the older daughter, is Leah. How am I ever going to get her married? And here's the reason why. Notice something interesting. It says now, where are we here? Verse 17. Now, Leah had weak eyes, but Rachel was lovely in form and beautiful. Now, what does that weak eyes thing mean? Every translation I've found renders it differently. Every translation has a different reading. Because the original, it's, which whenever that happens, you know, it's not an easy word to translate. It's a word that

but here's what's stupid I think about the NIV translation. It translates weak, it looks like bad eyesight. It doesn't say, however, look at the grammar, look at the sentence. It doesn't say Leah had weak eyes but Rachel could see a long, long way. It doesn't say that. It says Rachel, you see the part of the sentence we understand perfectly well, Rachel was absolutely beautiful, which what does it mean? eyes were either wall-eyed or her eyes were protruding or they were impaired or she was cross-eyed or something like that. But here's all we know. Leah was ugly and Rachel was gorgeous. Leah was homely. She was the ugly duckling. Rachel was a swan. Her sister was stunning. And the problem is, how in the world am I ever going to get her married? I got it. I got a way to unload Leah and still get an unbelievably high quality manager for my company at practically no price at all. And I could be rich. And so he does it. Notice it says, I'll work for you seven years in return for your younger daughter, Rachel, verse 18. And Laban said what? Basically Laban says, not okay. He says, it's better that I give her to you than to some other man. Stay with me. In other Yes! Jacob says, I'll work seven years, you give me Rachel, okay? And what does Laban say? He says, well, you know, it's better, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, and Jacob says, all right, but Laban never said yes. He never shook on it. You know, he didn't agree. His words sounded like yes, but he legally never agreed. So after seven years, Jacob asked for a wife. After a week of married festivities begin, the wedding begins, and everything went cultural custom. A, everybody got drunk. B, in comes the bride completely veiled. C, they immediately go to bed and have sex. D, in the morning. Now here's what's interesting. Derek Kidner says, literally, he says the Hebrew reads this way when you get down to verse 25. Literally it says, says, but in the morning, behold, it was Leah. Behold, it was Leah. Jacob runs to Laban and says, holy smoke, what's going on here? And Laban says, surely you understood. Surely you knew the custom. But okay, I'll tell you what, I'll throw in Rachel too. And just another seven years, you know, seven years for a girl and he had it. Laban had him over a barrel. Jacob is so lovesick, He says, all right. And Laban's got his wealth. He's on the load of Leah. Everything's fine. And who is really out? It's Leah. It's not Jacob. Leah has now been plunged through the conniving and greed and foolishness of these two men into a kind of hell. And it says, I've got to turn over here, and Jacob loved Rachel more than Leah. Now, she has something far worse than being single. She has something far worse than being a homely, single old maid.

to not just have a husband who doesn't love her, even that would be worse, of course, than being single. To be married and unloved is certainly much worse than being single and unloved, but it's worse than that. It's not just that her husband doesn't love her, but the person her husband is just madly in love with is right in front of her, right there with her. And so, a dungeon with chains would be a picnic after this. So finally, in one of the most plaintive and tear-jerking passages in the Bible, we see Leah turns to God well, actually Leah doesn't, Leah starts having children, and we see first of all Leah becomes pregnant, gives birth to a son, and she named him Reuben, because, you see, and then she names him Simeon, and names him Judah, and these words are actually ways of saying, now I'll be visible, now I'll finally be visible, I won't be invisible to my husband, but now my husband will love me, now my husband will love me, third child, now my husband surely will love me, and every time it doesn't happen, and then suddenly, the end, almost inexplicably, though I'm going to try to explain it, something incredible happens. Because you know, at this point, she doesn't just say, at the very end, she doesn't just say, this time I'm going to look to God. She says, this time I will praise Yahweh. She uses the covenant name. The first three times she says, now maybe my husband will love me. Now maybe my husband will want me. Time after time after time, she has children. I've given him three sons. Surely my husband will love me. And finally at the end, she takes her life back. And there's a sudden kind of brilliant stab of light at the very end. And she suddenly says, This time, I will praise the Lord. Now, what do we learn from this? Three things. Here's the meaning. The first thing. Do not make family your ultimate hope. This is an incredibly unsentimental book. about the family? First of all we have Jacob who says if I have Rachel finally I have some consolation, finally my life will make sense, everything in my life sucks, everything in my life has gone wrong, everything in my life has been bad but this will fix it, if I have this beautiful babe, if I have this gorgeous wife, this will finally fix it, and Leah was saying if my husband loves me, I'm going to have kids, if my husband loves me then I'll be okay, then I'll be visible, then I'll be visible, Then I won't feel like an idiot. Then I'll feel like my life is worth nothing. Then I won't feel like I'm just spit. If I have a husband who loves me, then I'll be significant. Then I'll be secure. And Jacob says, if I have a gorgeous wife, then I'm significant. Then I'll be secure. And it didn't work. It didn't work. Things got worse. They made an idol out of their family. And the Bible says, that will destroy you. Listen, Stanley Hauerwas has a very interesting, I couldn't find it, But Stanley Hauerwas has a very interesting point when he says that Christianity was the very, very, very, very first religion that holds up singleness as a valid, permanent lifestyle. Paul does it. Jesus himself, of course, is not married. Stanley Hauerwas says it's astounding the things that Paul says. He says, you know, if you want to get married, that's fine, but it's just as well if you didn't get married. He says, do you realize how revolutionary that is? Do you realize how incredibly revolutionary that is? the history of the world that would say you know, to be single and to be single all your life that's a valid way to live you don't have to be married to be visible you don't have to be married to be a person you don't have to be married to be real and every other traditional culture we live in a very

individual

family announcement value, family will not define you, if you make your husband, you make your wife, you make your children the ultimate source of happiness, if you say, if I've got a great wife, I've got a great husband, my children are okay and they love me, then I'll know my life is worthwhile, you will destroy them or they will destroy you, there is no human being that can possibly hold up those kinds of expectations, if you say, I know I'm visible, I know I'm alright because my husband loves me, If anything goes wrong with your husband, if he has a bad day, if he gets depressed, your self-image goes in the toilet and you have nothing you can give him. You yourself will go down with him. You can't be of any real help to him. It will destroy you. No human being can bear the freight of that kind of... In other words, your soul is too great to put on him or on her. It will crush them with your expectations. They will need you. In other words, if you say, you're what makes me know that I'm okay, then you will need that person to always be loving always be happy always be alright as soon as that person gets depressed as soon as that person gets too tired stops giving you that affirmation instead of saying well how do I help you'll say you've got to get better and you'll just make it worse or if your life is your children I live for my children at the very best they're going to hate you they're going to want to get away from you they're going to want to get their own life they're going to want to get away from you because you're just living out your expectations through them, the very best, the very best says something that just has helped me so much, not just understand this, but just helped me understand everything. Derek Kidner says, at the place where verse 25 says, but in the morning, behold, it was Leah. This is what Derek Kidner says in his commentary. But in the morning, behold, it was Leah. This is a miniature of our disappointment, disillusionment experienced from Eden onwards. Here's what he means. Every single thing in the world is like that. Now, listen, I want you to know that I love Leah, I'm very protective of Leah, and I'm going to show you that when I get to the very last point, but for the minute, I want you to realize what the fundamental fact is. Anything in this world, you think, this will now make me happy, this will make my life right, if I get this job, if I get this spouse, if I get this kind of life, if I finally can get out from under this, then I'll be OK, if I'm able to have two homes, if I'm able to finally have my dream house, make me happy if you make anything like that in the morning it will be Leah at night you will go to bed with it and you think it is Rachel in the morning behold it is Leah in the morning it is always Leah in the morning it is always Leah Lewis puts it perfectly well when he says this is classic he says most people if they really learn to look into their own hearts, and that's what I'm urging you to do right now, would know that they do want, and they want acutely, something that cannot be had in this world. There are all sorts of things in this world that offer to give it to you, but they never keep their promise. The longings which arise in us when we first fall in love or first think of some foreign country or first take up some subject that excites us are longings which no marriage, no travel, no learning can really satisfy. I am not talking about what ordinarily would be called successful marriages or holidays and so on. and I'm speaking of, I mean, called unsuccessful marriages or holidays and so on, I'm speaking of the best possible ones. There is always something we grasp at in that first moment of longing that just fades away into reality. The spouse may be a good spouse. The scenery has been excellent. But in the morning, it's always Leah. Always. It will always be Leah. Right now, there's some job, there's some life, there's some person that you went to bed with thinking it was Rachel in the morning. with Leah, what are you going to do about it? Are you going to say, well, I just got to go get another one. It will be Leah again. So what should we do? You should make the ultimate family and the ultimate bridegroom, your ultimate hope, or else you're going to be going down the same paths and the same brokenness as this family has. And I think actually Leah understood that. What do I mean by that? Well, here's what I'm talking about. God listens to Leah. When the Lord saw that Leah was not loved, God opened her womb. Now what's so intriguing about this, why did he do that? Here's two women, Rachel and Leah, and Leah is unloved and Leah is ugly. And the Spirit of God comes toward her and opens her womb. And for a while she's stuck in the idolatry. If I have children, my husband will love me and then I'll be visible. If I have children and my husband loves me, then I'll be audible. Then I'll be somebody. Then I know I'm somebody. But at the very end, suddenly, she takes upon herself the covenant name and says, this time I'm going to trust the Lord. And I don't know, and this is certainly speculative, but you know what? Back in those days, how many people knew that term? How many people knew the covenant name? I mean, the covenant name was really only known to people who knew the promise to Abraham of the Messianic seed. And surely she must have found out about it from Jacob. but why? I mean, and how? I mean, was this just a complete, you know, out of the middle of the air? No, here's what's pretty intriguing. When she has Judah, maybe, surely she doesn't know this. Here we go into, by the way, authorial intent. She doesn't know this. And maybe, maybe even the writer of Genesis doesn't know this, so he probably does. The Genesis writer in chapter 49.10 knows that the scepter will come through Judah.

God is attractive to plaintive people the mother of our Lord. Leah becomes the mother of our Lord. Who is Judah? He is the seed. Leah gets the seed. Why? Because the Lord doesn't just say, Oh, I like ugly people, but he is the true bridegroom. Look, he says, when the Lord saw that Leah was not loved, when the Lord saw Leah did not have a husband, he became her husband. And what does that point you to? And I will tell you what it points you to. In general, it says the Bible teaches us he is not just the shepherd and we the sheep, he is not just the king, and we're the servants. He's the bridegroom, we're the bride. God wants a personal, intimate relationship with us. However, we're also told here that he is the true bridegroom that points us to Jesus. Because here's what's so intriguing. In a sense, you can see Jesus here, and I'm rushing to the end, because we've got to take some time to do some questions here. On the one hand, we see Jesus in the Lord, saying, if you're not going to be a husband to her, I am. That's our God.

God works through the outsider God works through the weakness God works through the cross God works through the crucified God works through the suffering servant but we also actually see Jesus coming out of Leah's womb we actually do, because that is who it is Leah becomes the mother of Jesus God chooses the weak and the foolish things of the world to shame the wise and the strong what does this mean? wouldn't you want to make this person the ultimate hope? here is the real husband you need you need. Here's the real hope you need. Everyone else in the morning will ultimately be Leah, but here's the other interesting thing. If you give yourself to him and you put trust in him, even though you know you're Leah, you look like Rachel to him. You know, even though you may be ugly in the eyes of the world, you're beautiful to him, just like with Leah. So here's the application real quickly. If you're a seeker, don't read the Bible as a book of virtues. Don't say, well I understand when I read the Bible that we have all these Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. We live up to what they have done. Live with faith like they do. And then God will take me to heaven. Uh-uh. Jacob, the bearer of the Messianic seed. What an idiot. What an ass. What a mess. What does this teach you? It teaches you'll be saved by grace. It teaches you that God works through weak people and in the lives of weak people who get the grace and are still not even grateful for it. And yet he continues to work through weak people through grace. So if you want to know him, God is God

God is your life. It doesn't matter how well your marriage goes. It doesn't matter how well your career goes. In the morning, it's always Leah. If you don't know him, you are not going to have a happy life. Get over it. Stop blaming everything around you. And lastly, if you feel ugly, in the eyes of the Lord, you're beautiful. His heart goes toward the girls that nobody wants. Now, that is also an evangelistic sermon, but it also works pretty heavily for Christians, you see. But you know what? The first sermon was kind of a, the first sermon was really kind of an anti-postmodern, you know, deconstructing deconstruction. But the second sermon is just an extended example of, C.S. Lewis calls the argument from desire. But they're both combinations of evangelism and edification for Christians and non-Christians. worldviews. They're both Christocentric. You do have to believe, you have to believe, that even though the author of Genesis does believe somehow that, you know, Judah is the bearer of the Messianic seed, and therefore probably the fact that she trusts the Lord as she has Judah is probably significant in some way to the writer. It's a little tough to say the writer intended to point us to Jesus, you know, to the Messiah, the way you can look at David as a type of Christ and so forth. Last year I got flack for trying to preach Christ out of this passage. I've thought about it for a whole year and I said, no, no, as long as you still see the idea of the seed, when she gets the Messianic seed. Rachel does not. That's gospel. You see? See? The younger brother, the rejected person, not the older brother, not the loved one. This is the way Jesus works. This is the way salvation works. Don't you want a God like that? Make him your ultimate hope and nothing else. Okay.

Thank you.
