Ephesians chapter 2 verses 14 to 22.

For he himself is our peace, who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations. His purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, thus making peace. And in this one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their hostility. He came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Father by one spirit. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household. Build on the foundation of the apostles and prophets with Christ Jesus himself as the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. The word of the Lord.

We're looking at this passage for three weeks. About the church. Last week we talked about the fact that the spirit of God, the life of God coming into our lives as believers, creates a tie stronger than any other tie that can exist between human beings. It's a tie that transcends the deepest differences that can exist between human beings: differences of family, race, culture, and class. The church has a unity and fellowship, a solidarity that the world has been seeking between human beings for years in vain. Tonight we're going to look at how the same principle relates to our worship. Last week: fellowship and unity. This week: worship.

There's volumes in one verse here. Verse 18. In fact, all we're going to look at is verse 18: For through him we both have access to the Father by one spirit. Every word is loaded. The hymn writer once talked about a verse like that: A box in which sweets compacted lie. That's what it is. Every word is sweet. Look at the first one: For. It's a sweet word. Why? Look at what comes before it-all of Paul's discussion of how Jesus Christ died on the cross to reconcile people to God and to reconcile people to one another. But what is the point of it? It all boils down to verse 18: For through him we have access.

Access is the bottom line of the Christian life. You may be religious. You may have experienced forgiveness. You may have experienced changes in your life. You may have overcome habits. You may have experienced a certain amount of peace. All those things are great. But that's not the bottom line of the Christian life. Those things are symptoms, sparks, results. The bottom line of the Christian life is access. Through him we have access. Getting in. The bottom line is: Are you in near God? Are you out on the periphery? Are you in close? Do you experience access to him? Do you enjoy him? Do you know him? Or flip it around: Is he in the center of your life? Or is he out on the periphery? Does he have absolute access to you?

Are you in his center? Is he in your center? Access. That's what the Christian life is about. All three members of the Trinity are involved in bringing us this great gift. Through him-Christ. We have access to the Father by the Spirit. Three prepositions: Through Christ. To the Father. By the Spirit. Three little words on which you can build your whole life, your whole civilization.

Let's look at each one of them. This gift of access is to the Father, through the Son, by the Spirit. Let's look at what this gift of access is: it's to the Father.

The word access, in Greek literature, means to have an introduction to a VIP, a very important person. Paul is drawing a specific picture. Imagine there's a great man coming to town, a man of the greatest importance, the greatest significance, the greatest fame. You admire him mightily and you're willing to go out into the crowd, just hoping you'll catch a glimpse. You're behind the police line when the entourage comes. All of a sudden, you recognize somebody in the entourage. They come over and say, Oh, I can't believe you're here. Would you like to meet him? You're on the outside, behind the police line, just hoping for a glimpse through the door, through the window. When the limousine comes by, maybe you see a silhouette. Suddenly, the friend takes you and leads you in. Not just inside the police line, but inside the house. Not just inside the house, but inside the room. Not just inside the room, but right up to his chair. You sit down, and the man gets the introduction from your friend. He turns to you and says, Why, this is marvelous. I'd love to get to know you better. Could you come back for dinner? Just you and me and my wife. You're in. You've experienced access.

Is that far-fetched? Let me tell you something, friends. If you think that's far-fetched, the reality that Paul is pointing to is as far greater than that story as an ocean is greater than a dewdrop. Every person who's received Jesus Christ as Savior has an introduction. Not to a VIP in a limo. In New York, limousines are dying a dozen. Anybody in a limo might happen once a year, twice a year. But here, it's every day.

You have an irrevocable, permanent introduction into the courts of the King of the cosmos, the Lord of all life and love and power. He takes you into his heart, into his secrets, into his counsel, into his confidence. You're in.

This is important because many of us are really dominated by a deep need to be on the inside. Our lives are run as much by that as they are by a fear of being left out. There is no worse fear than being left out. Human society is full of inner circles, and the worst thing in the world is to be outside one. The most famous inner circle is high society. A lot of us want to be in high society circles. We don't admit that to ourselves until we get near one and then we go wild over it if it happens to us. Those of us who are most disdainful of social climbers are just as consumed by a need to be in some other inner circle. Oh, no, we don't want tall ceilings and chandeliers. We want a cozy little studio or attic with just four or five friends and the delicious knowledge that we, even we, just we four or five, are the ones who know. Know what? It depends.

It depends if you're a Republican or a Democrat. There are all these inner circles and we want to be in there. Before any of you say, I'm not dominated by that kind of thing, realize, think about it. We are. It's one of the great main springs of human behavior. Why is it that most kids have sex the first time? Why is it that most kids use drugs the first time? Is it their hormones? Ridiculous. Those of you who remember realize you're too scared to have your hormones involved at all. It's the desire to be in. It's the fear of being out. It's one of the main springs of our professional lives. It's one of the reasons we get galled if we're not brought in. It's true in any profession. I know there's a particular friend of ours, a pastor friend, who's gotten up and up in the world. Over the years, he's really developed an inner circle.

And I've never been invited in. There have been many times in which I was rankled by that. It's the same cancer. When you start a new church, there's tension between the people who perceive they haven't gotten into the pastor's inner circle and those who are in. I read a very interesting biography not too long ago of a man who had been gloriously converted to Jesus Christ after a career as a very highly successful female impersonator. After all his life being marginalized, always on the outside, always mocked, the first time he got onto the stage, he wrote, I went into my act. They demanded encore after encore. I was in. For once in my life. All those normal people out there clapping. The power that lifestyle had for him was that need to be in. It wasn't about his hormones, it was he was out and now he was in. You can't sniff and say, I won't let that happen, because then you look around for other people just as sensible about inner circles and next thing you know, you've got one. You have to acknowledge the fact that this is a need for access.

The only way it will not run your life is if you fill that need with the only thing that can truly satisfy it: access into the circle of God, the Trinity. He takes you all the way in. It says in the Psalms, the secret of the Lord is with those who fear him. That's a big part of being on an inner circle. The Lord tells you secrets. It says in Revelation 2 that to those who overcome he gives a white stone and on it is your name written, a name that is known only to you. God, the longer you work with him, the more he shows you who you are, what gifts he's given you, what your purpose is. He brings you all the way in. Therefore the only thing that is going to satisfy the need for access is access to God. What is that access? It's knowing God. The word for access and the word for knowing God is the same. Knowing God is eternal life. John 17:3, Jesus says, this is eternal life: that they know you, the only true and living God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent.

What knowing God means is critical to understand. The word knowledge in the Bible always has two layers: informational and personal. You can know something at the informational level or at the personal level, and those two things are intertwined. In John 14:9, Jesus says to Philip, Philip, have you been with me so long and still you do not know me? You have a lot of information about me. You've been living with me. You've heard all of my words. You've memorized all of my teaching, but you still don't get it. Philip had informational knowledge, but he was missing something else. Or in Matthew 7, on the last day, people will come to Jesus and say, Lord, Lord, didn't we do great deeds in your name? Didn't we cast out demons in your name? Didn't we prophesy in your name? And Jesus will look at them and say, I never knew you. He's talking about personal knowledge, not informational knowledge. He knows everything about you. He knows the number of hairs on your head.

But I never knew you-he's talking about personal knowledge. You can know something at an informational level, not personal. My brother-in-law hated to wear seatbelts. One day when I visited him, he had a seatbelt on. I joked about it, and he was very serious. He said, I went to visit a friend in the hospital who was in a fairly minor accident and went through the windshield without a seatbelt. He had 30 stitches in his face. Ever since then, I put on my seatbelt.

Did Jim get any new information about seatbelts? He already knew all this stuff about seatbelts. He knew the statistics. So what made the difference? Though he got no new information, the information became new. It moved down from the informational level to the personal level. It affected him as a whole person. His mind, his will, and his emotions were engaged. He saw how he related to seatbelts personally. And now it changed him.

In the same way, it's possible to have a lot of knowledge about the Lord, about scriptural teaching, about God. But the question is, has that knowledge ever come down and become personal? Have you ever actually met him? Paul says in Ephesians 1:18, I pray that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened, so you might know the hope of your calling. These are Christians, they know about their calling, they've heard it all. But he's saying, you don't really know it, do you? At the deep level, at the personal level, you haven't really encountered it. When the truth begins to shine,

because of what God's doing to me, when the truth begins to shine, truth that's always been there, the eyes of my heart are enlightened, I begin to know that truth.

There's a place where the Bible says, oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. A lot of you believe in the goodness of God. You know that He's good. But is that truth shining at you? Are you experiencing access to the goodness of God? Is it thrilling you? Is it comforting you? Is it changing you? I've had people come to me eaten up with worry. I would open the Bible and read places where it talked about God being good. Worry is a complete mistrust, a throwing out of the whole idea of the goodness of God. You can't worry without denying it. I would say, you know that God is good. And people would say, I know that, but it doesn't help. But if you say, I know about the goodness of God, but it doesn't help, you're contradicting yourself. If you really knew it, you wouldn't be worried. Christians worry because of a lack of access. If the truth begins to shine, if the eyes of your heart are enlightened, if you experience access to the goodness of God, it wipes out that anxiety. To the degree you have access, there's peace. The truth shines.

There are two opposite errors that churches fall into about knowledge. Some churches put all the emphasis on informational knowledge-learning the doctrine and understanding it, mastering it, being accurate. But without a commensurate emphasis on working that truth into life before God in repentance and prayer, so the truth shines and changes you. Put too much emphasis on informational knowledge, and you develop a legalistic, authoritarian, heresy-hunting church. On the other hand, if a church puts much more emphasis on experience and actually eschews dogma, saying, we don't believe in doctrine, we just want to bring you to Jesus, that's silly. As soon as you say, I don't believe in doctrine, just Jesus, I ask, who's Jesus? And they respond, son of God, fully God, fully man, savior, mediator. But I don't believe in doctrine. You can't. You can't have personal knowledge without informational knowledge. Real knowledge, real access, is based on informational knowledge. It's more than informational knowledge, but it's never less.

If you sit down with somebody and try to get to know them personally, you ask for information: where they live, what job they have. You use informational knowledge to build personal knowledge. Christian experience is utterly different than Eastern experience. Eastern mysticism frustrates the rational side of your brain through meditation on paradoxes like "what is the sound of one hand clapping." That's absolutely unbiblical. Jesus said you must worship in spirit and truth with your left and your right brain, with your analysis and your intuition. Knowledge is always more than information, but never less.

How do we get access? The last two prepositions answer this: through the Son and by the Spirit. The gift is brought by the Son and delivered by the Spirit. It says, through Him, we have access to the Father.

Why did you get in to see the man? It was the friend. That friend had to have tremendous standing with the VIP. A great person who doesn't know you has to trust the introducer. If you try to introduce yourself, that's tremendously arrogant. The only way to get in is to have an introduction by somebody who a great person trusts.

Who is Jesus Christ? He is the one who stands before the Father. We're told in verse 13 that we're brought nigh by His blood. He died in our place. He took our punishment for our sins. The Bible says He stands before the Father. Hebrews 7:25 says He lives to intercede for us. He stands as one making our defense. We have a permanent, irrevocable introduction. Anyone who approaches God through Jesus has access. And only through Jesus. If you try any other religion, you'll have to introduce yourself with your own reference. You are your own reference. Do you realize how arrogant that is? It's insulting to the other person. You'll never get a job that way. You can't go see the President of the United States without an introduction. You have two choices: introduce yourself or go through Jesus. When you go through Jesus, you don't have to introduce yourself ever again.

And then we're told, by the Spirit. The Son has bought it, the Spirit has actually brought it. John 17 says, the Spirit will come and take of mine and show me to you. He will glorify me. The Spirit's job is to melt you under the truth. In the old days, you sealed an envelope with wax, a seal (usually a signet ring), and a flame. The flame softened the wax and made it susceptible to the seal. Without the flame, the seal could break the wax or just leave a superficial outline. But if the wax is softened by the flame, the seal changes it into its image.

The wax is your heart. The seal is the truth, the word of God. The flame is the spirit. When the spirit is giving you access to the truth of God, what happens? You can read about the power of God. Without the influence of the spirit, you say, oh, God's powerful-a superficial impression. But when the spirit of God is there, you read about the power and there's access. The truth begins to shine. It begins to change you. When you read about His goodness, it develops in you peace. When you read about His forgiveness, it develops in you relief. When you read about His holiness, it develops in you conviction of sin and humility. Real access happens only when the spirit of God is doing that.

By looking at these two propositions-through Christ and by the spirit-we can understand why some of us are not experiencing access. Do you know why?

A lot of us are saying, I've been trying to do a good job. I've been working at being religious. I've been coming to church for a number of years. I've never had anything like what you're talking about. Never! The answer is there's no influence of the spirit. There's no softening. Because the more you try so hard to be religious and to be moral without the influence of the spirit, you push that away. You push that seal in the wax again and again. All you get is a superficial outline. And eventually you crack it. That's why we have people running around forming fundamentalist anonymous groups-people who have been cracked under legalism, cracked under the word without the spirit.

Why isn't the influence of the spirit in my life? The only answer could be you're not coming through the Son. It's the only possible answer. You might say, well, I believe in Jesus. But are you trying to introduce yourself? Are you coming to God making yourself your own reference? Are you coming to him and saying, Father, I've had a hard life, so I deserve? Or are you saying instead, Oh, Lord God, the audacity of someone like me to come to you, you have the right to just throw me out?

But the gospel is this: Jesus has paid it all. Now he stands before the throne for me. He is my introduction. He is my reference. All the other things I've ever done are worthless in your sight. Save me for Jesus' sake. If you've never done that, you've never come through him. For as hard as you've tried to be a Christian, if you've never done that, if you've never stopped your introductions, you never come through him. And therefore, you've never really had access to the Father by the spirit.

Where does this leave us? Let me just finish by applying what we've learned. Access to the Father through the Son by the spirit. To three kinds of people here.

Number one, there's those of you who know about this access because you've experienced it but don't experience it that much. Some tests of the experience: when you have access, when the spirit's working on you, when the truth is shining. When you go to God in prayer, you feel the burdens come off. Come unto me, all ye who labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. You feel the needs and the troubles come off when you're praying.

Another mark of access is there's confidence and boldness. Instead of saying, Oh gosh, why would God even listen to me? There's a boldness. There's an eloquence.

The real mark of access is surprise. There's that hymn writer that wrote, Some time a light surprises the Christian as he sings. It is the sun who rises with healing in his wings. When you're looking at the word of God and it begins to sparkle out truth, your mind gets eloquent. That's access. You start to see new beauties that you hadn't seen before. They sparkle out like sun on the water.

Another mark of access, and the most important one, is that you find that it really changes the way in which you live. Every real Christian knows about it, but also says, I wish I had more of it. I'm really missing it lately. What can you do? Here's what I tell you to do. Even you need to make sure that you're going through the Son by the Spirit. Through the Son means, do you rejoice in the access you have through the Son? Do you rejoice in it? Or do you run right into God's presence with your Gimme Prayer list? Or do you walk in, recollecting, thinking about the fact that the only reason you're not struck dead is because of your coming through the Son?

You have to say, Oh Lord, look at the standing I've got. Even you can't bring a charge against me because of the great salvation you've brought for me in Jesus Christ. To the degree that you rejoice in that access, to the degree you'll experience that access. Do you reflect on what you've got? When the Bible says again and again, you must pray in Jesus' name, do you know what that means? To come in the name of Jesus means you know the only reason God will hear you is because of the irrevocable, permanent introduction you have before the throne of God. And you relish that, and you revel in that.

And then the other thing, of course, is you have to be by the Spirit. Many of us are not experiencing access not only because we're asking the Spirit for that access but because a lot of us are grieving the Spirit in our lives. If access to God is by the Spirit, and yet in our lives, by sins of omission or commission, by unrighteousness, a lack of Christian duties, or by breaking God's commandments, you grieve the Spirit. Then you wonder why there's no access. My friends, sometimes God doesn't give you high access, and it's a way for Him to test you. Because God

values obedience given when there's very little feeling in the heart, when you don't feel close to Him, but you obey. He knows how hard that is and how valuable that is. But God wants us to have that access. The reason many of us don't is simply because of our disobedience and our laziness. You have to recollect coming through Jesus, you have to go by the Spirit.

The second group of people are those trying to start a new church here. An alive church experiences access to the Father. That means an alive church is just as big on defending the faith and truth as spreading it. An alive church is not afraid of surprise. Because access means surprise. An alive church is creative, not rigid. An alive church is ready to expect great possibilities because they have access to God.

The last thing I wanted to say is there are those of you who have never experienced access and you know it. In New York City, it's possible to be in some mighty elite circles. I don't care what kind of circle you're in. If you've been in there long enough, you're sure that this is going to satisfy that need for access. No matter what circle you're in, you're in nowhere unless you're in God's circle. And the only way to do that is to come to the Father through the Son by the Spirit.

Psalm 84 says, How lovely is your dwelling place! My soul yearns, even faints, for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cry out for the living God. Everybody in this room, whether you admit it or not, that is the language of your deepest self. And the door is open. Let's go in. Let's take time to pray silently.

Lord, here's what I've got to do to put into practice what I've learned tonight. Let's pray.

If you're a believer who is really dry, come through the Son. Remind yourself of who's there for you. Stop trying to introduce yourself. At the same time, be willing to quit with those things that you know grieve the Spirit and have blocked off your access.

If there's anybody here who knows that you've got no access, that you really need to receive Christ as Savior, pray this prayer with me. Lord, I've tried off and on to reach you, but I see how it's all been my own efforts, really, to introduce myself to you. I thought that many things I did could get me in, but only Jesus Christ and his work can get me in. Now I receive him as Savior, Master. Accept me for his sake. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.