The passage on which the teaching is based is found in your bulletin. Now, I made a mistake. This is the RSV version of 1 Thessalonians 4, verses 3 to 8. And I sent over my RSV version. I typed it out. I sent it over. I said, print it just as I said. And I actually made a typo and missed a phrase. And you have to listen, please, as I read, because it's very important. What I left out was very important. important. First Thessalonians, we're moving through this summer Paul's two letters to the young church, the young converts at Thessalonica, where he had planted a church. And he's now traveled away from them, and he's writing these two letters to him. We're going through the letters in series. And today we come to First Thessalonians 4, 3 to 8. And I will add a phrase that I left So listen carefully. but to holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man but God, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. This is God's Word. Chapter 4 begins a new section in which Paul gives directions to the Thessalonian converts in three very practical areas of living. Sex, work, and death. Sex, Sex, work, and attitude toward death. And over the next three weeks, we're going to take a look at each of these sections. Paul says in verses 1 to 2, he says, I want you to live in such a way that pleases God. And then here in verse 3 and following, he shows how to live in a way, how Christians are supposed to live distinctively in the area of sexuality, in the area of work and making money, and thirdly, in the area of attitude toward death and dying. something we should keep in mind right here at the very beginning is the reason that Paul stressed these three things is because the early Christians were radically different than the people around them in these three areas their lifestyles their attitudes their behavior was revolutionary it was completely different all their neighbors understood that the early Christians were different in these three areas for example the pagans were extremely Paul calls them the heathen the translation here, but the pagan, the Greek and Roman citizens around the Christians were amazed at Christians' attitude toward death. Christians, when they went to their execution, they went singing hymns. This stunned the pagans. But then, most interestingly enough, their attitude towards sex and making money that Christians have was not just a little bit different, but it was diametrically opposed to the attitude of the pagan culture. And that's why one of the earliest writings we have after the Bible. One of the earliest Christian writings we have. The letter to Diognetus. Has a very interesting. And famous phrase in it. Diognetus says about Christians. We share our table with all. But not our bed with all. Get that. We share our table with all. Not our bed with all. You see. The pagans. Did not share. Their money. They didn't share their table. They didn't share. They held on. The money was sacred. They freely, their sexuality, they freely gave all over the place. Christians were the opposite. For Christians, it's not that money was sacred and sex was mundane. But sex was sacred. They cared for that. They guarded that. Their sexuality. But money was mundane. They freely gave that all over the place. That's the reason why Diognetus says. We don't just have slightly different attitudes here. Our attitude towards sex and money. Are utterly different. Than yours. We share a table with all. But not our bed with all. and not your table withal. And the thing that's important to remember is that there must have been something wholesome. There must have been something joyous. There must have been something clearly wise in the way in which the early Christians lived in these areas because, as we know, a sheer historic fact is that though at first the pagans laughed at the Christians for their attitudes towards sex and money and death, in the end, the Christian way swept through the Roman Empire. Why? pagan approach to money and sex, sharing your sex with everybody, but sharing your money with nobody, destroyed that society. And eventually, people saw the wisdom and the joy and the wholesomeness of the Christian approach, and the Christian lifestyle, the Christian ethic swept the Roman Empire. Now, here's the reason that Paul is so careful. He says he knows that these new converts are in a dominant society, which is going to laugh at the Christian approach to sex and the Christian approach to work and making money. And so he's very careful. He says, remember what I told you. You must live in this way or you lose your revolutionary impact. Now, how about you? Western culture today thinks it's very modern and liberated, but frankly, Western culture is just going back to the way the Roman Empire was in sex and money. Hey, I can prove it. Everybody, all the statistics show that people give far less of their money away than they used to, and people have far more sex than they used to. We're just and don't you think if these attitudes towards sex and money eroded and eventually led to the collapse of that society they're not going to lead to the collapse of ours of course they are my question to you is are you being squeezed into the mold of the dominant culture or do you have a revolutionary impact

Paul was very careful and today what we're going to see is Paul lays out three very important principles about the Christian understanding of sex you three things. He tells us, and just in this little space, he touches on all the basic themes that the Bible touches on when it comes to sex. He shows us the goodness of sex, the context of sex, and the purpose. And I'm just going to push that, those three buttons too. The goodness of sex, he shows in this little passage, the context of sex, and the purpose of it. Now look. First of all, The goodness. Now, when I... You say, where does it say anything about the goodness of sex? Oh, my. You have to stand back and look at this. It does not say, God's will is your sanctification. Now, that's a big word. What does sanctification mean? God's will is your sanctification. He wants you to be holy. He wants you to be glorious. He wants you to be great. He wants you to have his character. He wants you to be a partaker in his nature. How does it say? God's will is your sanctification. Therefore, abstain from sex. No. It doesn't say that. It doesn't say abstain from sex. It says abstain from immorality. We'll get back to that in a minute. Of what that word is. That great word. So important. That I left out. No. What it says is. If you stand back. He's saying. That sex improperly used. Will undermine. Your holiness. And your sanctification. But sex. Properly used. Is a way. To be holy. Now, listen. Throughout history, there have always been two basic approaches to sex that religions or philosophies or cultures have taken. And sometimes these two approaches are battling inside of culture, like in ours. First of all, you have the approach that deifies sex. Deifies it. I mean, back in those days, you had the mystery religions in which sexual acts were part of the actual ritual of worship because sex was deified. Now, that still happens today. read a great interview with Helen Girly Brown. You know, 73 years old. Editor of Cosmopolitan for years. And she says, I've always said that the three best things in life. One is sex. And the interviewer says, what are the other two? She says, who knows. And the interview. And that, of course, that's her way of saying sex is the most important thing. And when the interviewer says, well, don't you think love is one of the other three? One of the other two. She says, love. She says, love is impossible to define and even more possible to have. It's very difficult. She says. Very difficult. No. Cosmopolitan. I don't mean read it. If you look at Cosmopolitan and any of the magazines that have basically been inspired by it, there you have it. You have, look, nobody looks like that. Even the people who are photographed don't look like that. Just go meet them. Occasionally some of you come to church and you know you don't look like that. It's not the deification of the model that's happening. It's the deification of sex. Sex is the way to wisdom. Sex is the way to joy. Sex is the way of happiness. Now, the other side is an approach in which sex is degraded. Sex is debased. And listen, I think it's important, you know, judgment begins with the house of God. There's a tremendous number of conservative people, conservative Christian people, who hold on to the traditional and classic understanding of biblical sexuality, but very often you can see that their motivation is not so much fidelity to the word of God and the will of God, but it's a disgust over sex, period. You can just see it. I can see it in the way they talk. I can hear it. It's the undertone. There are plenty of people who I think adopt what the Bible says about sex, but out of a non-biblical understanding of the nature of sexuality. A lot of people consider sex degrading and kind of disgusting. When you go to the Bible, you don't see this at all, either. In fact, the Bible is very, very confusing. If you read it, you'll see some sections, like the Song of Solomon and places in Proverbs, that are incredibly erotic. There's places in the Bible that will curdle your hair if somebody translates the Hebrew and the Greek properly for you. Even you, yes, even you living in Manhattan, it would curdle your hair. in New York? Yes, because the Bible, there's a bare-faced rejoicing in erotic married love in many places in the Bible. On the other hand, you've got other places that talk about flea sexual immorality. What's going on here? Here's what. The gospel first demystifies sex and then remystifies it. First of all, the gospel demystifies sex. The Bible, you never see the Bible talking about sex in whispers. You never see it glorifying sex. You certainly never see it lifting it up and saying this is the way. On the one hand, the Bible de-centers sex and says this is not salvation. This is not the way to wisdom. This is not the way to sophistication. This is not the way to joy. But then, having demystified it, it turns around and says, but this has got a power in it that can lead way beyond anything you can imagine. The Bible says most people's understanding of sex most people's understanding of sex is so abysmally small. The average person, the Bible says, is using sex and doesn't understand its potential. Most people are using sex the way a person who would be using a jackhammer to open a walnut. Most of you, the Bible says, has no idea what sex is really for, what sex can really do. It can bring you to glory. It can sanctify you. It can make you holy. That's the point of this passage. God's will is your sanctification. How? By abstaining from sex? No. By understanding it and using it and embracing it, you can be holy. This word sanctification. The Bible demystifies sex, gets rid of the glorification, the mystification of it, gets very matter-of-fact about it, and then turns around and says, but you have no idea, in another sense, in its proper subservient position. Sex. has a power that you can't even dream of. Does the Bible have a positive view of sex? Are you kidding? There isn't any other religion, there isn't any other philosophy that even claims anything like this, that sex is for your sanctification. No. Sex is good. The second thing Paul tells us, though, is, since I've already hinted at it, that sex has got to have a context. This wonderful, wonderful, wonderful power of sex has to happen in a context. And what is the context? Well, take a look. What does it say? It says, now again, here's a place where my omission here is going to be difficult unless you remember what I said. It says, for this is the will of God, your sanctification. But now let's go on. It says, to abstain from immorality, that each of you know how to take a wife. Now, Paul says there's two and only two alternatives. or taking a wife. Now this word immorality is a Greek word that many of you are very familiar with even though you don't know anything about Greek. It's the word porneia. Porneia. And the Greek word porneia simply meant sexual immorality in general. The misuse of sex. Immoral sex. In general. It's a very general word. It can be used to mean almost any kind of sexual violation, sexual abuse, sexual twisting, sexual misuse. It's a very general word. very clearly says, in order to not be involved in porneia, you must be married. And what's that mean? There's two alternatives. You can have sex in marriage, or you can be misusing sex. So Paul is saying, and this is very, very simple, very simple. And some of you, I know this is controversial, but I'd like to spend a little bit of time responding to the questions that I anticipate a rise in your mind. The biblical sex context is easy. The Bible says throughout that sex is for marriage. It's not for before marriage. It's not for outside of marriage. It's only for inside of marriage. Sex is for marriage, period. Sex is for the person you're married to. Between you and the person you're married to, period. No exceptions. No ifs, ands, or buts. There it is. See how easy that is? that's the only context that Paul says that the Bible says you can have sex in now and as we'll get to in a second for our last point in other words the Bible says marriage is the only place where sex works we'll get back to what that means okay first of all let me just respond for a couple of minutes whenever people in New York City hear somebody with more than a third grade education get up and say sex is only for inside of marriage There are a number of responses. First of all, the first response that comes right up is, I didn't think anybody believed that anymore. Now, one thing that I have been told, and this is a great contradiction to me, I was told ever since I've been coming to New York that it's very narrow-minded of Christians to lift up their Christian doctrines. It's better for us just to say, well, let's just stick with what all religions believe in general. what we should be seeking for in religion. What do all religions say? All religions say you need to be good. All religions say this and that. All right. Let's stick with what all religions say. Do you realize that this sex ethic, no sex outside of marriage, before you look at me or look at anybody saying this and say, I can't believe anybody believes that. All, for centuries, all the Orthodox Christians, all the Roman Catholic Christians, and all the Protestant Christians for centuries have all been unanimous about

Judaism, Hinduism, Islam have all said the same thing. This is one of the few things that every religion, all the major religions for centuries have had consensus on. So before somebody says, well, you know, all my friends, you know, think this is ridiculous, just realize what you're putting yourself up against. That's, you know, the accumulated wisdoms of all the world religions of all the centuries. Now, why? And, you know, it's very, very easy to say, guess the reason why is it's impractical. You see, over the years, I've heard people say that the reason you shouldn't have sex outside of marriage is because it's impractical. And by the way, it is. First of all, for example, sex outside of marriage is always, always, always bad for women. It's always been bad for women. Much worse for women than for men. I don't have much time to spend on this, but I'll tell you this. Some people have looked at what Paul says here and been irked because you notice it's speaking to men. Paul is saying, brothers, now you don't see that unless you go up to verse 2, and I didn't print that for you, but he says, brothers, you must abstain from immorality and take a wife. Well, someone says, well, he's just talking to men. Yeah, but let me tell you why. In that culture, Paul is telling the men to do something that is absolutely subversive to the power and privilege that they had in the pagan culture. Because every man in a pagan culture with three or four women. Every man had basically this approach. First of all, every man had his wife. Your wife had to be a respectable woman, a woman who brought money to the family, who managed your affairs, and was the mother of your legitimate heirs. And that was what, in the Greek, was called your gine, your wife. But secondly, men also had their mistress. Now, a mistress is not what you think it is today. A mistress, and there was a Greek word for this, your haitara. mistress was somebody, of course, you had sex with, but basically had to be your intellectual equal. You didn't necessarily need to get your intellectual equal with your wife. You just had to get somebody who had status. And somebody who had money. And somebody who kept you where you were in society. But with your mistress, that was your companion for recreation and intellectual stimulation, as well as sex. But that wasn't all. Then thirdly, almost every man had your palake. And your palake was your concubine. Some woman servant that you had. That you had sex with all the time. And had nothing else but sex. And then on top of that. You also had prostitutes. It was normal therefore. For a man to have sex. With at least three or four women. All the time. And therefore be responsible. To none of them. This one's my friend. This one's my wife. This one's my caretaker. This one's my. My sex toy. Paul says. we're done with that brothers you're going to have sex with one woman and that woman is going to be your wife you know what he's saying he says your best friend your sexual playmate the mother of your children you see your most trusted counselor your recreational companion has to be the same woman why? because it's the only way to empower women oh my don't you understand that extramarital sex, when it's rife, has always, always, always benefited men. It's never benefited women. Even when the women are allowed to do it, it always ends up benefiting men. And therefore, is it impractical for society? Not only that, extramarital sex also destroys the thing that children need most, which is a long-term, single, stable relationship. There is nothing you can do more for children than to give them that. But the Bible is not saying here, here. Therefore, premarital sex is wrong because it's impractical. The Bible always, always says things are impractical because they're wrong. And you know why they're wrong? Because they violate God. This is your, this is God's will for your sanctification. Look at all the things he says. You're violating God. If you, look at down here, he says, not in the passion of lust, we'll get to that in a minute, like the heathen who do not know God, who do not know God. What is he saying? Hom Homagains do not combine sex. Whole body commitment. With marriage. Whole life commitment. Because they don't know God. Now this is the biblical sex ethic. You must not. Separate soul and body. Whole. Body commitment. Has to go along with whole life commitment. If you hug and kiss. That's a certain amount of body commitment. If you take your clothes off. And have sexual intercourse. That's whole body commitment. And Paul says. commitment, that kind of intimacy must go along with whole life commitment. Why? Because that's how God does it. You notice he doesn't just say, don't know about God. He says, the pagans do not understand the need to have intimacy and commitment utterly together because they don't know God. They know God means to have a relationship with God. He says, because they haven't got a relationship with God, therefore they think it's okay to have intimacy without commitment. But one thing you will learn with God is, if you have intimacy, you have commitment. If you want total intimacy, you must have total commitment. And why should it be different with people in the image of God than it is between you and God? This is amazing. This is the ultimate, ultimate case for why you must have sex inside marriage. It's theological. Of course it's but it's not wrong because it's impractical, it's impractical because it's wrong. It violates God. Please don't anybody get upset when I say it this way, because this is the way God puts it. In the Old and New Testament, God says, I will come down. I will penetrate you. I will put my love into you. But you must commit yourself to me wholly. There can be no other gods. long commitment. There can be no other gods before me. Why? I sent my son, Romans 12, 1, to be a sacrifice for you. Therefore, you must make yourself a living sacrifice to me. There is never intimacy without commitment, and there's never total intimacy without total commitment. Can you imagine? Doesn't it make perfect sense? it's either immorality or marriage sex must be inside marriage deep in your heart you know that deep down you know that the modern approach to sexuality is violent because it violates it rips soul and body apart i can be one physically with you but i'm not one in every other way I'm not I committed myself bodily to you but I haven't committed myself legally or economically or socially or maybe even emotionally maybe

it's violent it's disruptive it's fragmenting it's not whole it's not coherent

therefore don't you see every religion and every sensory has at some level sensed that to destroy soul and body To separate soul and body will hurt. Hurt you, hurt the people around you, hurt your relationships, hurt children, hurt everything. But Christians understand why. The Bible shows why. Because you don't know God any other way either. And you won't know each other, really know each other any other way than this too. But now lastly, the most interesting thing is, I've just said, the Bible says sex is good. And then secondly, that sex is a context. but you notice I said the reason for the context of marriage is because outside of marriage sex doesn't work and somebody has got to say and I hope you will say in your mind you have to say what does that mean now I'd like to show you that right here in this text Paul shows us that sex has a purpose and that even inside marriage you can fail to reach that purpose And here's why. This phrase I've been thinking about for all week now. It says, I want you to take a wife in honor, not in lust. What in the world does that mean? First of all, let me just show you that it says, Paul is saying that it's possible to be guilty of lust in your marriage. How could that be? B. It shows also it's possible to abuse and take advantage of your partner in marriage. It's not true that once you're married, anything goes. It's not true that once you're married, there's nothing wrong with what I do. Paul actually says, he says, in paganism, the marriage itself and the sex inside marriage is characterized by lust. I won't have you do that. Now, what in the world does that mean? Paul is saying there's a purpose for marriage and you can even fail to realize that purpose in marriage. And here's what it is. Look at these two words with me. And these are both words that you're probably familiar with, these two Greek words. The first word, let me just look at lust with you, and then honor. You notice they're contrasted. Take a wife in honor, not passion of lust. Actually, that's one Greek word. The word lust is a word that's, it's an old friend for those of you who come to Redeemer. It's the word epitomeia. It's the word epidesire, which means an over-desire. It means idolatry. The other word, honor, is a word that's very important to me, and that is, it's the Greek word timon, from which my name is taken. It's the word that means reverence. It means trembling awe. Now, here's what he's saying. He is saying it's possible to have sex be only an expression of idolatrous lust. You can use it for that, or you can use it as a way of honoring, of showing reverence for, of building up. You can either use sex inside marriage to make a person be more objectified and dehumanized, humanized, dominated, used, or you can have sex be a way of making a person feel humanized, built up, honored, respected. Well, you say, how does that work? Like this. Don't take a spouse in lust. Well, let me just give you three examples of how that can happen. For example, you might say,

I'm going to take a spouse because I'm a mess and this person is my salvation. You're nobody until somebody loves you. And somebody finally loves me. So you get into marriage and this person is your God. This person is your worship. This person is your salvation. You know what you're going to do? You're not in that marriage for that person. You're in that marriage for what that person can give you. And you're going to need to have that person always love you always be on, always be okay. Never be grumpy with you. Never be unhappy with you. You will go to pieces every time that person looks at you funny. You will be so needy. You will be so emotionally dependent on that person. And that person will not in any way feel honored by you at all. That person will say, You're just using me. I can never have a bad day. I can never say anything wrong. I can never look any... You'll be jealous. You'll be possessive. lust, idolatry and as a result you will strangle that person. You will strangle your marriage. But I'm going to give you another example. Getting married in the passion of lust could mean get this, that you actually are only sexually attracted to that person. You don't respect them. Now this happens quite a bit. You get married to somebody who's sharp. Somebody who gives you all kind of sexual arousal. The sexual chemistry is great. You don't respect them. You can't talk

you don't admire them. You don't look up at them. You don't say how important... That person's not your best friend. Couldn't be. You get married and you'll find that though that person looks awfully good on your arm, and people say, what an incredibly good-looking couple, and maybe for a while at least there really is good sex, but you'll have to talk to other people about your problems. You don't admire, you don't honor that person. And as a result, your sex is not an expression of honor. You're not using sex to honor. You're using sex just to have pleasure. Generally, you're using sex as a consolation prize because that person isn't somebody that you really honor and really admire and really respect. You can also get married in the passion of lust. If you marry somebody who you... Not just somebody that you need, but somebody who needs you. married to men who they always have to fix. Some men marry women who they can dominate. And if you do that, sex again will be lust, not a way of honor. What does Paul say the purpose of sex is in marriage? You know what it is? There is nothing that makes you feel more cherished. There is nothing that makes you, that builds up your dignity. There's There's nothing that lifts you up and exalts you more than to have somebody first of all say, I take off the rest of my life and I've committed my whole life to you and you alone and no one else. And now, I take off all of my clothes too and I commit myself to you. I am attracted to you and I am committed to you. And you see, sexual friendship. Sexual friendship. Not just friendship without the sexuality. but you never have tremendous sex in marriage or if you have tremendous sex but you clearly don't honor each other, you have missed the power of marriage. The thing that's going to sanctify you, the thing that's going to bring you to God. There is nothing like it. They have to go together. You've heard, if those of you who've come with me to any of the weddings I do, I very often tell a true little way of putting this. The Bible says that marriage has got this ability. If you use the power of sexual friendship properly to heal your spouse of anything, and the way I like to put it is, if your spouse, if the world says to your spouse, you're ugly, but you say you're beautiful, your spouse will feel beautiful. It doesn't matter what anybody else says. You can build that person up. You can honor that person. do you honor inside your marriage? Do you have somebody that you admire and respect that you can affirm and that you can take your clothes off for as a sign of that? They go together. There's nothing that builds up like that. Now, I get to the end. What is this telling us? That's the reason why sex, if it can do that, if it can build you up and if it can turn you into a glorious thing, It says, husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church. What is Christ doing? He gave himself for it that he can present you to the Father, holy and without blemish. And in marriage, you get married because you see somebody and you say, I see what God's doing in your life. I see the glorious thing that God is making you. I want to be part of that. I want to honor you. I want to build you up. I want to affirm you. And you do it with sexual friendship. That's the purpose of sex. Nothing makes a person feel more honored than that. Do you see why it only works inside marriage? Because if somebody has taken off all their clothes and says, you mean the world to me, and the person says, okay, well, you say, then why won't you marry me? Oh, well, that gets pretty complicated. In other words, I don't mean the world to you. In other words, you haven't honored me. You don't honor me. The whole purpose of sex is to reverence and honor somebody else. And the only way you can do that is in context of marriage, or it's a lie. But in the context of marriage, when you marry, not because he's a basket case or you're a basket case. Not because you want to have 2.2 children and a happy life. Not because just you're sexually aroused. But because you say, I see what God's doing. I want to be part of that. I admire you. I can learn from you. I want to be partners with you. If you do that and use sex to express that, the sky's the limit, literally. Somebody says, let me finish here. in your marriage, if you're married and you're listening to this, what I'm telling you is it's not enough to be friends

and not be sexually responsive to each other. And on the other hand, I'm saying it's not enough to be sexually responsive to each other and not admire each other, not affirm each other, not find the things in the other person that you respect and admire and bring that out. They have to come together. They have to go together. What am I saying to single people? I'm saying to single people is, this is what your goal should be. This is the thing you should be looking for. But I need to say this as well. If the main thing that can screw up your sex life and screw up your marriage is idolatry, then the only possible way you will ever be ready for marriage is if you are not burning up and in despair because you're not married. You see, if you just say my life is ruined because I'm not married. Your life will be ruined if you're married then. Because you see to say my life is ruined if I'm not married is to be guilty of the very thing the passion of lust. You won't marry somebody else because you want to honor them and you want to build them up. You will marry them because you've got to have them. Jesus Christ is the true lover of our souls. Even the best marriage on earth, o' single people, is just a foretaste of that. And even the best marriage on earth can never really scratch the itch that you feel. You've got to believe me. And therefore, the great wedding dance, the great wedding feast is the one you should look to. And if you look to it, then this wedding feast on earth, if it ever comes to you, won't destroy you. don't miss the great dance for any dance on earth seek first his kingdom and its righteousness and everything else you need will be added to you as well let's pray our father if Jesus is the lover of our souls

then what we need right now is to renew our covenant with him and we ask that you would help us do that as we go to the Lord's table we pray in Jesus name, amen