The scripture reading for today comes from 2 Samuel 12, verses 13-25 and Psalms 39, verses 7-13. Then David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. Nathan replied, The Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die. But because by doing this you have made the enemies of the Lord show utter contempt, the son born to you will die. After Nathan had gone home, the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife had born to David, and he became ill. David pleaded with God for the child. He fasted and went into his house and spent the night lying on the ground. The elders of his household stood beside him to get him up from the ground, but he refused. and he would not eat any food with them. On the seventh day, the child died. David's servants were afraid to tell him that the child was dead, for they thought, while the child was still alive, we spoke to David, but he would not listen to us. How can we tell him the child is dead? He may do something desperate. David noticed that his servants were whispering among themselves, and he realized that the child was dead. Is the child dead? He asked. Yes, they replied, he is dead. Then David got up from the ground. After he had washed, put on lotions, and changed his clothes, he went to the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he went to his own house, and at his request, they served him food, and he ate. His servants asked him, Why are you acting this way? While the child was alive, you fasted and But now that the child is dead, you get up and eat? He answered, While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept. I thought, Who knows? The Lord may be gracious to me and let the child live. But now that he is dead, why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I will go to him, but he will not return to me. Then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and he went to her and lay with her. gave birth to a son, and they named him Solomon. The Lord loved him, and because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jedidiah. But now, Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. Save me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of fools. I was silent. I would not open my mouth, for you are the one who has done this. Remove your scourge from me. I am overcome by the blow of your hand. You rebuke and discipline men for their sin. You consume their wealth like a moth. Each man is but a breath. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Listen to my cry for help. Be not deaf to my weeping, for I dwell with you as an alien, a stranger as all my fathers were. Look away from me, that I may rejoice again before I depart and am no more. This is the word of the Lord.

we're looking at The Life of David, the great presentation of a single human life in all of ancient literature. And that means each week we're looking at or we're learning something. We're learning what the issues are, the things are, that if you have them, it makes your life. If you don't have them, it breaks your life. We're looking at the things that make or break a human life. life. Today we come to one more. If you have it, it can make your life. If you don't have it, it will break your life. The ability to face and process suffering and tragedy and difficulty without being turned bitter, hard, and despondent. The ability to process and face tragedy and suffering without becoming bitter, hard, and despondent. If we want to learn how to do that, all we got to do is read the narrative. What we have here is a section out of one of the Psalms that tells us something about how David processed suffering. But the narrative is really, there's three parts of the narrative. It's David falling to the ground. It's David staying and wrestling on the ground. It's David getting off the ground. And only when we see those three things and we follow along with him, will we get this ability to face suffering. He falls onto the ground, he wrestles on the ground, and he gets up. Let's look at this first. First of all, we see David, verse 15, fell on the ground. He spent his nights lying on the ground. The elders of his household stood beside him to get him up from the ground, but he refused, and he would not eat any food with them. David's infant son, by his wife Bathsheba, has been struck with an illness, and he's dying. And David falls to the ground. Now, what is he doing on the ground? Why is he on the ground? Well, part of the reason, of course, is that's a posture for prayer. And he says that's what he's doing. He's praying. But that's not the only reason he's on the ground. Notice the elders are trying to get him up. That certainly doesn't mean they're trying to get him to stop praying. There's a lot of ways to pray. pray. He's on the ground because he's crushed down. Sometimes the suffering and the pain and the grief of life is so great that it literally physically crushes you to the ground. Have you ever been so struck with horror? Have you ever been so sick with grief that you literally couldn't stand up. That's where David is. That's how bad life can get. There's a woman who wrote an article some years ago now. In 1988, Pan Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, Scotland. 259 people in the plane were killed, 11 people on the ground. And one woman lost her only daughter in the plane crash. And she wrote a short essay for Time Magazine some years ago that I saved remarkable. She wrote this actually 10 years after it. And she says, when she learned what happened, she says, all I could do is cry, scream, and crawl along the floor of my motel corridor.

Crawl on the floor. She couldn't get up. Now, let me tell you something about life. If you don't die young, and if you do die young, that's a tragedy in itself, right? But if you don't die young, you are going to have on the floor suffering. you're at least going to be facing the death of spouse, siblings, parents, children, at least. No matter who you are, there's going to be on the floor suffering for you, crushed down suffering. But what's interesting about this woman's article is that she says 10 years later, she's still on the ground. Because what she said is, and this is from the article, she says, no good has come out of this. I'm suffering. My grief has not gotten any better. my life has been destroyed and I say that very openly there is no way out of this is a life sentence and that's why it's so important to prevent tragedy and not allow the public to think that well it isn't so terrible because you know it's all going to be okay in the end she literally says in the article I'm still on the ground I was pushed down onto the motel corridor all I could do is crawl along my motel corridor and I'm still there but in this text David gets up. He doesn't only get up, as we're going to see, but it's a shock that he gets up. The servants don't believe it. They're amazed, but so are the readers. The readers of the narrative have no reason to expect that he would ever get up again, but he does. Why does he get up? See, the Bible says, on the one hand, you can never avoid, no matter how hard you try, you won't ever avoid falling onto the ground and suffering, but it's possible to get up. Well, how does he get up? You get up depending on what you do down there. Your ability to get up depends on what you do down there. What are you doing on the floor? How are you wrestling on the floor? There's three things that David seems to grasp when he's down on that floor. We learn it from the context. We learn it from the text. And we even learn it from this section out of one of his lament psalms. David wrote many, many psalms of lamentation. Psalms of crying out in the middle of suffering. The first things that he grasped on the ground when he was wrestling down there, that because he grasped them, he was able to get up. And if you don't grasp them, you won't be able to get up. Here's where the three things are. The first thing that he learned was that this suffering wasn't punishment. That this suffering was not payback. The suffering wasn't retribution. Look. We saw this last week. David had an affair with one of his best friend's wife, Bathsheba, and she got pregnant. And in order to cover it up, he arranged to have her husband killed in battle along with a bunch of other people in order to try to make it look like it really was the fortunes of war. But God saw it, and he sent Nathan the prophet to tell David about his sin, and David repents. It's interesting how verse 13 compresses all of Psalm 51 in one statement. against the Lord. But then what? Then the baby, the boy, the infant child who has been born to David and Bathsheba is struck by God with an illness. And right away, I think a superficial reading of the text, and I'm sure many people have read it this way, you read it and you say, that's because God is seeking retribution. He's punishing David for what he's done. And a lot of people read this and say, this is one of the reasons I don't like the Bible. reasons why I can't take the Bible. This is one of the reasons why I think I've got to get past the Bible. I just can't handle a God like this. But read more carefully. Look, in verse 13, in the clearest and most direct possible way, God says through Nathan, the Lord has taken away your sin. You are not going to die. But that can't be clearer. First of all, in the Old Testament, in the Hebrew Scriptures, when it says the Lord has taken a very specific meaning. The meaning is God says, I don't see your sin legally. I don't remember your sin. Now, of course, God can't forget anything. But what does he mean when he says that? I don't see your sin. I don't remember your sin. I don't hold you legally liable for it in any way. I am not going to exact any payment, any retribution at all. That's what he's saying. And then to make that doubly clear, he adds, you are not going to die. Because in every single moral legal code in the world at that time multiple murders was a capital offense so first he says you are not being punished i've taken away your sin and secondly he says you're not going to die and thirdly to make it triply clear the word but at the beginning of verse 14 it doesn't say and he says but which means he says you have been forgiven you are not going to be punished there is going to be no retribution. But in spite of that, your son will die. See, the word but means that this is not a punishment. So over and over and over again, we are being told, David is being told, you are forgiven. You are accepted. You are pardoned. But you're going to suffer horribly. Now, this immediately strikes us as what? I mean, this shocks us. You're loved. You're forgiven. You're accepted. are going to suffer. And we say, what? And yet the Bible, do you know how much the Bible hammers over and over and over again that this is the way things are? The Bible hammers that over and over. The whole book of Job, very famous book. The whole book of Job is to refute the worldview or the view of suffering of Job's friends. Because Job's friends have this view of suffering. Good people good people have good lives. Bad people have bad lives. Good people have smooth lives. Bad people suffer. And therefore, if you're having a good life, you can assume that you must be living right. On the other hand, if you're having a terrible life and everything's going wrong, God must be punishing you. And that was the view of Job's friends. And the entire book of Job is there to refute that very thing, to refute that view. The entire book of Job is there to say

right, people that God loves, can suffer horribly. And then the whole New Testament, by the way, is the book of Job. Because in the New Testament, we have the ultimate Job, Jesus Christ, who absolutely lived a right life and was utterly loved by the Father, and who suffered more terribly than anyone else. I mean, in other words, from the beginning to the end, the Bible says, no, that's not how life works. It's not like good people have good lives And therefore, if you're suffering, God must be doing something to you. Why did David need to know this? I mean, right up front, this is critical. And David would never have gotten off the floor if he didn't know that this suffering is not punishment. He never would have gotten off the floor. And here's the reason why. If you assume the viewpoint of Job's friends, which is pretty common, and that is that if you live a good life, you should have a good life. And if you have a bad life, it means that God's punishing you. If that's your assumption, then what happens when crushing horror comes into your life? What happens when suffering comes into your life? There's only two possibilities. One is you will conclude, on the basis of how you've been living, that God's suffering in your life is justified, and therefore you'll hate yourself. And you'll be crippled with self-loathing and self-hate. or you look and say on the basis of how you're living that God's suffering is not justified and then you'd be mad at him. In other words, if you have Job's friend's approach to suffering that if you live a good life you ought to have a good life and if you live a bad life then and only then should you suffer. If you believe that anyone who suffers it must be God punishing me you're either going to hate yourself or you're going to hate God or you're going to do a little bit of both and you'll be crippled for the rest of your life. You'll never get off the ground. Never, never, never.

but David believes. We'll see at the end here. David believes what he says, what Nathan says. This suffering is not punishment. Okay, well, if it's not punishment, then what is it? The second thing he learned when he was down on the floor was that this suffering was not punishment. It was surgery. It's not punishment. It's surgery. Now, verse 14, you know, I must tell you I'm remiss. Verse 14, the translation of verse 14 isn't the clearest, and I probably should have chosen. There's so many other English translations that I could have used that I wouldn't have to do this. But the word contempt in verse 14 is a word that literally means to take God lightly, and it's the antonym of glory. It's the antonym of glory, kabod, the infinite importance and weight of God's reality. Glory is to sense God's reality, his infinite importance. To take God lightly is to make God an abstraction. And what actually, what Nathan is saying to David is, you have, and you have led others to, treat God lightly. Now, this is the analysis of where David is spiritually. He believes in God, but everything about God, his wisdom, his power, his love, concept. It's a mental abstraction and not a living reality to his heart. So for example, what kind of man so wants the love of a beautiful woman that he takes his kingdom to the precipice, that he kills for it? I'll tell you what kind of man. A man who may believe in God's love is a mental concept, but a man for whom God's love is not a spiritual reality flooding his life with joy, or he wouldn't be that needy. He wouldn't be that empty. You see, he's taking God lightly. God's love is only something he believes. It's not a reality to his heart. And if it's not a reality to your heart, if it's not pressing down on you, if it's not a real experience, you're going to look to something else. His need for power, we looked at this last week. He felt significant when he exercised power, when he sent men to their death, that he wanted no matter what. In other words, what David was doing was because God wasn't the fundamental source of joy in his life, the real source of significance, love in his life. He was a slave now. He was looking to power. He was looking to Bathsheba. And whenever that happens, you become a slave. When you make other things your fundamental trust, you become a slave. Because anything that you make your emotional God, You've got to have it. And that makes you subject to uncontrollable fear if something threatens it, to uncontrollable rage if something blocks it, and to uncontrollable despair if you lose it. You're a slave. In other words, David didn't look at Bathsheba and say, beautiful, but goodness, I'm not going to ruin my entire life and my kingdom and my people's life for that. that. He could have said that if God was his fundamental trust, if God was his reality, but he wasn't. It was a mental concept. And as a result, he's a slave. Now, you know, something like this, interestingly enough, happened to Abraham. Abraham's the only other person, actually, that God ever came to and said, through one of your descendants, I'm going to heal and save the world, like he did to David. But something happened to Abraham. Abraham had a little boy born named Isaac. And Isaac was Abraham's child of his old age. And because Isaac was his child of his old age, Abraham came to not just dote on Isaac, but essentially to build his entire life around Isaac. He was obsessed with Isaac. He was his emotional God. And every counselor will tell you that when you take a child and make that child the very center of your entire life, all of your joy, all of your meaning, that child under the weight of your expectations and needs. And Abraham, if you know the story, Abraham was already doing that, already poisoning his family with the favoritism. And so God has to come to Abraham and say this, Abraham, redemption in your life and in the world will not be able to move forward unless we do some radical surgery here. Surgery is always radical. surgery takes a knife. The difference between surgery that heals and a blade that kills is a matter of millimeters. So surgery is always scary. It's always radical. It's always bloody. It's always bad. God says, your son Abraham has to die. The only way redemption is going to go forward in your life is if your son dies. The only way redemption is going to We've got to do something. You're going to ruin him, he's going to ruin you? You're going to ruin everything! We've got to do something! Your son has to die." And Abraham must have fallen to the ground. That put Abraham into amazing suffering, but here's what we know. He wrestled and he wrestled under that knife. Enormous surgery was being done, and when he stood up, he said, God, I put you first. And the minute that false God, Isaac, Isaac, that pseudo-savior, that the lock of Isaac on Abraham's heart was broken, God says, okay, you can have him back. Now, why didn't God do that with David? Don't you see the same things happening with David? David's lost his freedom. David's a slave. David's on the precipice. And God forgives him. He forgives him, but he needs surgery. He hasn't changed. He's just been forgiven. He's just been pardoned. That's not enough. He's still got the emptiness. He's still got the neediness. So what God does is he comes to David. He says, David, if redemption is going to move forward in your life, if redemption is going to move forward in the world, your son has to die. Now, why didn't, and maybe David knows the story of Abraham. That might've been one of the reasons why he was down on the floor praying. praying. But in this case, who knows why God says something like this. Probably he says, David, you're going to build your whole life on this child and he's going to ruin you and you're going to ruin him. So I'm going to take him. He's only an infant. He's not going to suffer and he's going to be with me. So he's just going to be, I'm just taking him into infinite bliss. But though this is going to cut you to the heart, you'll find your freedom. You'll find yourself again. And did it work? It did work. Because when he gets up, it's interesting, Robert Alter and Eugene Peterson, my two conversation partners, have written commentaries. Eugene Peterson says, up to this point in the story, for chapter after chapter, we see this. David has used everyone, says Eugene Peterson. Bathsheba is an object. Uriah is an obstruction. Joab is a tool. David is not a server of people, he's a user of people, but from this moment the rest of his life changes. And Robert Alter says when he gets up and he says, can I bring him back? He says, can I bring him back again? And here's what Robert Alter says. He says, David speaks not out of political motivation. For the first time in chapters, he speaks not out of political motivation, but out of existential nakedness. In place of David, the wielder of power, we now see a vulnerable David, and this is how he will chiefly appear through the rest of his life. He won't be using people anymore. It was tough. It was hard, but he changed. Now listen, I want to move on. This is one of the worst parts of the sermon, okay? This is the hardest part of the sermon, maybe. And it gets better. but let me tell you, it's a fact. Anyone who I've seen, anyone who's really had some experience in spiritual growth, that there is some kind of link. Redemption doesn't move forward in your life without, there's a tight link between your wisdom, between your growth, between your character, between your compassion, between even your joy and suffering. That's how it works. comes over and over and over again and says, I hate to do this. But there's going to have to be some surgery. Or you're in trouble.

So the first thing we learn here, he learned is, that this suffering isn't punishment. The second thing he learned here is that this wasn't punishment. It was surgery. Surgery on his false trust. But there's one more thing we learn here. And that is that when you're actually going through suffering, suffering, you have no idea what exactly the surgery is on. You see, when you look back, sometimes months later, years later, you can look back and you say, I see how God worked on the fundamental issues of my heart and all that. I see myself being able to be more understanding of people. I see myself having been broken in my pride or my self-sufficiency. I see myself having gotten rid of things that were ruining me, et cetera. That's years later. But when you're in the midst of it, you never have any idea about what he's actually doing. And one of the ways I can see that is, look, this Psalm 39. This is a David Psalm, a Psalm of David. It's one of the many Psalms that tell us the sorts of things he went through when he was in despair during his times of suffering. This is one of the most remarkable Psalms because when you get to the end of it, it doesn't end in a note of joy. It doesn't even end in a note of hope. In fact, do, saying, oh Lord, I'm suffering, but let me just see your face. Look what it says. Look away from me that I may rejoice again before I depart and am no more. That's the end of the psalm. That's the end of the prayer. You know what he says at the end of the psalm? Get away from me so I can have a little bit of peace before I die.

A psalm? That's the psalm? I want you to know that this hopeless psalm has been one of the for years because it tells us a couple things. First of all, the fact that it's included in the Bible shows God understands how we speak when we are desperate. It's not right to say that, God get away from me so that I have, you know, it's not right, but he understands it wouldn't be there. The inclusion of this psalm shows God's compassion. He knows how we speak when we're But the other thing we see here is that even though this psalmist, which is David, even though David does not have spiritually correct feelings, he doesn't say, oh, I just know things are going to work out. He says, I'm just praising the Lord. He does not. The emotional realism is incredible. He will not paper over how he feels with pious platitudes, not at all. And yet, he never stops praying. He's complaining. He's saying, get away from me. But he's talking to God with all this stuff. And you know what this is? This is the perfect balance of emotional realism, emotional reality, and intellectual humility. Please keep these together in your mind. Emotional reality, intellectual humility. When you look at the Psalms of David during his suffering, the emotional reality is he doesn't say the right thing. He doesn't even feel the right thing. And he doesn't try to make himself feel the right thing. He just feels. But the intellectual humility is he never stops praying because if in your suffering you turn away from God, it's arrogant. You know why?

If you turn away from God in the midst of your suffering, what you're saying is, I can't see any reason for this suffering. And because I can't see any reason for this suffering, there can't be one. But of course, that's not only fallacious, but it's proud. How could that be? Because you can't see one. There can't be one. If you've got a God great enough and infinite enough that you can be mad at him for allowing this, you have a God at the same moment great and infinite enough to have some reasons for this that you can't perceive. You can't have it both ways. And here we have it. What was he doing on the floor? In summary, he knew that this wasn't a punishment. Instead, it was surgery, surgery on the fundamental issues of his life, surgery that will make him, in the end, wiser, richer, deeper, and even happier. But it will only do that if, while he's on the floor, with emotional reality and intellectual humility, he holds on to God in spite of the fact he has no idea what God is doing. And there they are. That's it. And because he does those three things, because he knows those three things, he gets up. But when he gets up, he tells us the secret. You know, you say,

I don't know that I can. In fact, some of you say, I'm still on the floor. I've been on the floor for a long time. That's very nice. I've written these three things down, but I still don't know that I can do it. But when he gets up, he tells us the secret. The secret. How does he really know that this isn't punishment? How does he really know this is surgery? How does he really know that in spite of the fact that there's absolutely no way that he can tell what God is doing, that ultimately in the long run it's surgery on his false trust and it's going to lead him to greater joy? How? How does he know that? that. Two words of grace. God specifically comes into his life and says two things that assure him. Now, you've got to have these words, too. This is the key. This is the dynamic. God gives him two words of grace. He assures him that he's forgiven. He assures him that he's accepted. He assures him of his grace. And those two words are actually in the very end. Verse 22, two, he will not come to me, but I will go to him. And verse 25, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jedidiah. Now, here's what those two are, and you've got to have them too. The first is, I will go to him. He will not come to me, I will go to him. Now, when you read that as a kind of modern person, you immediately tend to read it through the filter of what you understand the Christian, perhaps, view of the afterlife is. And certainly, from Jesus on, biblical writers are pretty obvious about heaven and afterlife, etc. But you must keep in mind that the biblical writers before Jesus had very little information about the afterlife. And you can't read this saying, oh, everybody back then believed that infants, when they died, they went to God, and that when you die, if you're a believer, you go to God. No, they didn't. They weren't sure about that. Then why does David have this comfort? Why is he able to get up and say, I will go to him. I will be with him. Psalm 16, another Davidic psalm, tells us that David got a word that other people of his time didn't have. Psalm 16 says, my heart is glad, my tongue rejoices, my body also will rest secure because you have not abandoned me to the grave, nor will you let me see decay. You have made known to me the path of life. You will fill me Only with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. God has come to David and he's assured him something that a specific word to David. He's assured David, I have accepted you. I have pardoned you. You're going to be with me forever. And your son will be with you forever. And so he can get off the floor. That grace. Ah, you say, well, that's nice. but I don't have a word like that. God has not come and whispered to me in some unmistakable way that I'm just filled with, that I'm his love object and that he accepts me. Yes, he has given you a word better than David's, a better word than David's. When God comes to Abraham and David and says, redemption is not going to go forward unless your son dies.

That's the only way I'll get you back. That's terrible. but unlike any other religion, the God of the Bible does not ask us to do anything that he hasn't done himself because only the God of the Bible has said to himself, if redemption is going to go forward in the world, my son has to die. That's the only way I'm going to get them back. But he did. And look, when God says to Abraham, for redemption to move forward, to die, all Abraham does is offer him up and he gets him back. And when God says to David, for redemption to move forward, your son's going to have to die, all he loses is a child that he doesn't even know, never got to know, and who goes into infinite bliss. But when Jesus Christ came to earth and died on the cross to pay the debt of sin, and that debt being separation from which is the ultimate agony for a soul. On the cross, the Father and the Son experienced endless separation. They experienced endless separation, which is the punishment. They experienced, Jesus Christ experienced hell. Hell, the infinite agonies on the cross. No one ever lost a child like God lost a child. No one. and that's your word of grace. Look, that utterly changes your view of suffering, utterly. It has to. Even Albert Camus, which amazes me, this is one of his essays. I can't believe he said this, but here he did. Albert Camus thinking about suffering from a Christian perspective. He wasn't a Christian, but here's what he says in one of his essays. He says, the Christian solution consisted first in that God, Jesus Christ, experienced suffering. The God-man suffers with patience. Evil and death can no longer then be entirely imputed to him since he suffers and dies. The night on Golgotha is so important in the history of man only because in its shadows the divinity ostensibly abandoned its traditional privilege, lived through to the end. Despair included the agony of death. Thus is explained the lama sabachthani and the frightful doubt of Christ in agony. There's your word of grace. That's far better than anything David had. What is the word of grace? A believer says, this can't be punishment because all my punishment fell into the heart of Jesus. And when you say that, you're so humbled by the knowledge that he had to die for you and so lifted up by the love and value that he showed that he was glad to die that completely changes your way of looking at people in the world. Without the gospel, you'll still look at the world the way Job's friends did. lives. Bad people have bad lives. Of course, that's not the way things are. And that just confuses you, upsets you. But if the gospel comes into your life, you'll suddenly realize there's really two kinds of people in the world. Both sufferers. There's the people who build their trust on things beside God so that when suffering comes, it takes away the sources of your joy and you become sadder and sadder and madder and madder and worse. And then there's the people who suffer who seek to build their trust on God on the basis of his infinite suffering for us on the cross so that God becomes the source of our joy and that when suffering comes into our life it drives us into deeper joy it drives us more into God and so suffering makes us better and better and more like Jesus there's only two kinds of people in the world they're all going to suffer there's the kind of person that suffering makes worse because the source of your joy being taken away and there's the kind of person who suffering makes better Because the suffering is pushing it toward the one source of joy that is not subject to circumstances. Jesus Christ suffered, not that we might not suffer, but that when we suffer, we can become like him.

There's your word of grace. That's what gets you off the ground. Suffering is not a punishment. But there's one more word, one more word of grace. The other thing is, then David comforted his wife Bathsheba, and he went to her and lay with her. She gave birth to a son. They named him Solomon. Lord loved him. Because the Lord loved him, he sent word through Nathan the prophet to name him Jedidiah. Now here is something really amazing. David's had many wives. David's had many marriages. David has many children. And yet what God does is astounding. He gives them a child, another child. David names him Solomon, meaning I'm at peace. But God says, I can do better than Jedidiah, which means the Lord loves and delights in him. Of all of the marriages, of all of the children, this is the one through whom the Messiah comes into the world. This is the messianic seed. This is the one through whom the Christ comes. And do you know what that means? Bathsheba, the scarlet woman, David and Bathsheba, who murdered in order to have this marriage, God brings Jesus out of that. God makes her the mother of Jesus. God makes her the bearer of salvation. What does that mean? It means this. It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter what you've done. It doesn't matter whether you have committed adultery. It doesn't matter whether you're a hit man for the mob. In Jesus Christ, you are Jedidiah. The Lord delights in you. Do you know the genealogy of Jesus in Matthew 1? There's a genealogy. See, genealogies in those days were like our resumes. What do you put on your resume? Things that you're proud of. Back then, you had your genealogy. You dropped out the things that you weren't proud of. And you put on the things you were proud of. And on Jesus' genealogy, Matthew 1, it says, Uriah's wife. It doesn't even say Bathsheba. Uriah's wife. What does that mean? Embrace Jesus Christ. And no matter what you've done, he's proud of you. You're Jedidiah. It doesn't matter what you are. doesn't matter. Colossians 1.22, we are holy and blameless in his sight. But not only that, it means there's no plan B for you. This was a terrible sin. This screwed everything up. This was a horrible thing that David and Bathsheba did. And yet God brings the Messiah out of that? What does that mean? It means if you sin, there are consequences. There were consequences in David's life, the rest of his life. God is saying, don't sin. If you sin, there are consequences, and the consequences can be long-lasting. But don't you think, no matter what you do, you can put your life on plan B. I am so powerful in my love and grace that I will weave even your failures into plan A. I can work even more through you after your failures if you repent. Don't you understand? There is no plan B. David would have come to Bathsheba and said honey we're going to have a child and it's going to be the one we've been looking for the one the world's been looking for and Bathsheba must have looked at David and said are you kidding after all we've done what kind of God would give us that the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ let us pray We thank you, Father, that if we know these things and we hear your word of grace in our hearts,

suffering, which is inevitable, can make us more like your son. We ask simply that you would help us to take hold of the emblems of his death as we take the Lord's Supper, and that you would make yourself a living, bright reality to us, filling our hearts with the reality of what you did for us, so that we may find that we can get up off the floor. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
