Tonight's scripture reading is from the book of John, chapters 15 and 16. If they obeyed my teaching, they will obey yours also. They will treat you this way because of my name. For they do not know the one who sent me. If I had not come and spoken to them, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have no excuse for their sin. Whoever hates me hates my father as well. All this I have told you so that you will not fall away. They will put you out of the synagogue, in fact. is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God. They will do such things because they have not known the Father or me. I have told you this so that when their time comes, you will remember that I warned you about them. Word of the Lord. So these chapters of John, in these chapters of John, it's the night before Jesus is about to die and he's training his disciples to be sent out into the world to represent him. And through these texts, we also are being trained by Jesus to be sent out into the world to represent him. But now tonight we come to a passage which is filled with warnings, actually one warning, but he mentions it over and over again. He essentially says, you will fail in your mission if you don't remember this. And he warns three times. Notice in verse 18 he says, you must keep this in mind. In verse 20, he said, I want you to remember what I told you. Then down here in verse 4, he says, I've told you this so that when the time comes, you will remember that I warned you. So over and over, he says, I'm warning you, you need to understand this or you're not going to, you're going to fail in your mission. What is this one thing? This thing is that if you are Jesus' disciple, you will be hated and persecuted. And in fact, if we look at it more carefully, we'll see what he's actually saying is, number one, you need to see that you will be hated and persecuted. You also need to understand why you will be hated and persecuted. And you also need to know how you should respond when you're hated and persecuted and why you'll be able to. Got that? It's all here. That we, we, disciples, will be hated and persecuted, why we'll be hated and persecuted, how we should respond when we're hated and persecuted, and why we'll be able to. Now, first of all, the simple categorical fact, and I don't think we have to spend too long on it because it's actually said a lot of places in the New Testament, but we need to understand it and come to grips with it. Notice he says, not in verse 19, the world might hate you. He says, that is why the world hates He doesn't say in verse 20, the world might persecute you. Depends on your country and depends on your century. He says they will persecute you. Matthew 11, very famous passage. Maybe the most famous one about this is in the Beatitude where Jesus says, Blessed are you when you are insulted, when you are persecuted, and when people speak all vile manner of things against you for my sake. He doesn't say, blessed are you if this happens. He says, blessed are you when it happens. And 2 Timothy 3.12 comes right out. Paul says, all who live godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So it's categorical. It's not like maybe it'll happen to you. Depends on your time and place. No, it'll happen to you. Now, keep this in mind. First of all, even the word persecute here, In English, that word is really strong. The Greek word that is translated persecute here is a word that means to harass. And the word hate, actually, is a word that means to detest, disdain, and show contempt for. Now, we can't, Jesus is obviously not saying that in every society, in every century, Christians will be thrown to the lions. He's not saying that. On the other hand, we do know in this very world today, are being beaten up and their churches burned to the ground just because they're Christians. In other parts of the world where Christianity is rather accepted, nevertheless, people who are too devout and too serious about their Christianity are seen as fanatics. What Jesus is saying here is don't use the word persecution, which in English means basically be beaten up and thrown into prison or something like that. Don't use the word persecuted when you're just being despised and hated and disdained, and maybe you've lost a client, maybe your reputation's hurt. Don't call that persecution. But what he's saying is, in every time, in every place, categorically, if you're living a consistent Christian life and you're not hiding who you are, you will get contempt. You will get flack. You will get insults. You will get mocked. you will get people who detest you and who disdain you and show you contempt. And here's the question. If that's the case, then here's, let me ask you a question. Is this happening to you? Does it ever happen to you? And if it doesn't happen to you, are you living a consistent Christian life and are you hiding who you are? So there's the first point, categorically. By the way, this is a real upbeat sermon, isn't it? You know, you look exactly like they did at 9.30 and 11.30. Kind of like, all right. But there we go. That's the wonder of expository preaching. This is not an upbeat text. Sorry, you know, so sue me. So anyway, just telling you what it says. Don't worry. It always can get upbeat. All you have to do is get to you know who. Anyway, we will be hated and persecuted. what this passage shows us better than some of the other ones that i uh mentioned even though there's others in the new testament that are a little more well known this passage explains why is it that any christians anytime any place who are living consistent christian lives and are just not hiding who they are will get contempt and get disdain and flack and the answer is two it's partly because of something in us, Christians, and it's also partly because of something in Jesus. Something in us and something in Jesus that makes the world detest us and show contempt for us. So first of all, something in us. He says right directly in verse 19, it's pretty interesting. In verse 19, he says, it is because you do not belong to the world, that is why the world hates you. Because you don't belong to it, because I've chosen you out of the world, you don't belong to the world, and that's why it hates you. That's a really interesting statement. Kathy and I had a teacher years ago named Elizabeth Elliot who once wrote a book or an article that was called, the title was the question is not who are you, but whose are you? And her point is this, was this, and this is what Jesus is saying here. We people in Western culture like to think, no, we belong to ourselves, but actually you have to live for something. You've got to base your life on something. You have to have something has to give you your life meaning. Something gives you life purpose. Something gives you a decent self-image. It's something you point to and say, because of that, because I'm doing that, that I feel good about myself. And whatever that is, you belong to it. It owns you. So you might say, I'm an accomplished academic, or I make good money, or I have a family who loves me, or all good things, by the way. But if they're the primary thing that gives you meaning and hope, if that's the primary thing that makes you feel good about yourself, it owns you. You've you've got to have it. It controls you. But Jesus says the moment I choose you, the moment you experience my grace, you don't belong to those things. Now that doesn't mean, well, when you become a Christian, you don't leave your profession, you don't leave your race, you don't leave your family. But those things are no longer your primary identity factors. They're no longer the main thing that gives you the self-image and the main thing on which your identity and self-regard art is based on, your purpose and meaning in life. None of those things do you have to have. They're good things, but they're not ultimate things. And so they don't own you. And if they don't own you, you're suspect. See, because the other people in the family, other people in the profession, other people in your race will recognize that the allegiance that they have to those things is not there in you. A good example of this was some years ago,

Those of you who are younger may never have heard of him. C. Everett Koop was the Surgeon General of the United States in the 1980s, and he was appointed by President Reagan. And when he was appointed, the New York Times ran an editorial calling him Dr. Unqualified, in spite of the fact that he was the leading pediatric surgeon in the country. Dr. Unqualified. You know why? Because he was an evangelical Christian who opposed abortion. And therefore everyone on the right, you know, this is Ronald Reagan who appointed him, everyone on the right, he was a hero, and everyone on the left, he was horrible, he was terrible, doctor unqualified. But he was appointed, and a couple years in, I guess, he was studying the health issues of the United States, and he discovered the seriousness of the AIDS epidemic. And he came out with his famous, I should, some people would say infamous AIDS report, in which he said, basically, this is a health crisis that is being ignored. It's being ignored by the Reagan administration because at that time, almost all the people who were suffering from it were gay men. And he says, we have to put millions of dollars into research and into treatment. And suddenly, as you might guess, the New York Times and everyone on the left said, oh, he's an enlightened person. And everybody on the right said, Benedict Arnold, Judas Iscariot. And they were all wrong. Why? Why were they wrong? He had not been a man of the right. He had not been a man of the left. Why? Well, he had read something called the Good Samaritan Parable, which says if a man is somebody's dying and laying in the road, whether that person is of your religion, whether that person shares the same beliefs or behavior or not, you help. That was it. And at the end of his time as Surgeon General, even though you can go look him up, would be considered probably the most game-changing, important Surgeon General that the country's ever had. At the end of his tenure, he had thought maybe in the next administration, he might get a cabinet appointment, you know, like Health and Human Services, something like that. And somebody came to him and said, forget that. There is nobody, neither Republicans or Democrats, nobody's ever going to appoint you to anything again because you are too independent. But that's exactly what Jesus is saying. If you're a Christian, the company is not first. The party is not first. The family is not first. You're even your race is not first. It's what it's because it's Jesus love of you, which is the foundation of your life. And what Jesus thinks of you is the foundation of your life. And that changes everything. Look in a minute, the other shoe is going to drop. So don't get scared. But let me just say, I have talked to people who became Christians who were up in the and who told me they had to get out of the company because once they became Christians, they couldn't push against the boundaries the way everybody else had done and the way they had done. And once they saw that, they realized the person to become a Christian, the company wasn't first in their lives anymore. And therefore, they were kind of dangerous. I knew, again, a guy who had been a New York City cop 40 years ago now, but a New York City cop who had become a Christian and he no longer felt he could take the money that all the pimps gave everybody else in the precinct to look away from the prostitutes at a particular part of the precinct that everybody got that money and they just let the prostitutes go and when he became a Christian he couldn't take the money anymore and everybody started looking at him because what happened is Allegiance has changed Look, I am not against cops I am not against private equity

political parties. But when you become a Christian, you change because those things aren't first anymore. You don't belong really to them. That is to say, they don't own you. They don't own you. And everybody else who they do own looks at you and says, wait a minute, you're not one of us, are you? And you're not. You're suspect. You do not belong to the world. I've chosen you out of the world. That is why the world hates you. But the other reason why the world tends to hate and persecute is not just something changed in us, not just something in us, but also something about Jesus. Because in verse 20, he says, if the world hates you, keep in mind, it's because they hate me. Now, why does the world hate Jesus? There's no better way to explain this than St. Augustine and the pears. And some of you know, this is a great illustration because you can use it in so many different kinds of sermons, going to test. But in St. Augustine's Confessions, he reflects on the fact that when he was a young man, when he was an adolescent, he and some other teenage friends broke into an orchard and stole pears. And afterwards, you know, many years afterwards in the Confessions, he's reflecting, you know, why did I steal the pears? In light of the fact that number one, I'm not poor. Number two, I wasn't hungry. And number three, I didn't really like pears. Why, then, did he steal the pears? And he actually says he realized the reason why he wanted to steal the pears was that it was forbidden. He says, if nobody had ever said, don't take those pears, I would have had no interest in pears. But as soon as people said, don't touch those pears, I wanted them. And you know what? He said, it's because deep in every human heart there is something, some impulse that says, nobody tells me what to do. Now, anything that triggers our deep desire for self-sovereignty, anything that punctures the illusion that we are competent to run our own lives, because we so deeply desire. Nobody tells me what to do. Anything that comes along and threatens that elicits a response of hostility. And here's what Augustine would say, I think. If the prohibition of pears gets that kind of hostility, what will Jesus Christ do? Who comes and says, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but by me. Just go out there and say that. Just tell people about that in New York City and people will get angry. See, religion, general religion, which says, well, if you live a good life, then God will take you to heaven. Even that does not get the human heart angry because you're still in control. See, God owes you. I'm living a good life and God owes me. It's fine. But the idea that no, no, no, your goodness is not enough. Uh, God never owes you. You're going to be saved by grace. You're going to be saved by me, Jesus says, and then you owe me everything. And boy, the human heart absolutely hates that. Absolutely hates it. Anne Rice, who wrote the book Interview with a Vampire, tells how at one point many years ago, she was getting ready to write a book in which Jesus was a historical character in the book. And like all historical novelists, she was doing her research, and she was shocked. Now, when she was doing this, as she would say, in her own words, she said, I was a secular person, And she was just coming to the books written by historians about Jesus, and she was shocked, and this is what she was shocked about. She says, people go to Elizabethan studies not out to prove Queen Elizabeth was a fool. So if people go into Queen Elizabeth studies, they don't go to say, I'm going to prove that she was a fool. They don't make snickering remarks about her and try to pick apart her historical reputation. Even if a historical scholar studies a real villain, Usually, they will argue for the importance of his or her place in history. But in general, scholars do not spend years and years of their life studying historical figures that they openly despise and do everything they can to pull down. And yet, the Jesus scholars do. In other words, she was a kind of an objective observer. She was coming from the secular world. She came in and she was studying. She'd done this before. She'd done historical research before. she'd never seen historians and people who had actually were top scholars in the top universities of the world and they were writing about Jesus and how much they despised him

now she doesn't she didn't know why and I she didn't give an answer but I can give you an answer if Queen Elizabeth is who she said she is it doesn't change your life a bit does it doesn't affect you. But if Jesus Christ is who he says he is, if he really is the resurrected son of God, then we lose control. And the human heart hates that. And therefore, there are plenty of people, as she discovered, in the world doing everything they possibly can to avoid that conclusion. They are not objective. Nobody can be objective. Because our heart, if a prohibition of pairs gets that hostility, what will Jesus Christ do? And he does. And he says, if you're connected to me, they'll hate you too. Number three, what do we do? When this happens, what does Jesus Christ say should be our response? Now, he doesn't exactly lay out a detail set. He gives us a principle, and I think we can, I think, pull out some of the implications. But the principle is in verse 20, when he says, a servant is not greater than his master. So in other words, now that is, by the way, a remarkably, that's a remarkable principle because what he's saying is

when hatred and persecution comes to you, just remember, a servant is not greater than his master. What does that mean? Well, it means first, let's do the implications. First of all, at least it means that when you receive opposition, you need to make sure that you're you're receiving opposition for him, for your master. In other words, if you're being opposed, make sure you're suffering for his sake, not yours. You say, what? Oh yeah. Look, Matthew 5 says, blessed are you when you are persecuted for Jesus sake or for righteousness sake. Blessed are you when you're persecuted for righteousness sake. It does not say, blessed are you when you're persecuted for obnoxiousness sake. I want you to know that If you're intemperate, if you're abrasive, it doesn't matter whether you're Christian or not. It doesn't matter whether you're trying to talk about Jesus or not. If you're abrasive, if you're culturally inappropriate, if you're tactless, if you're haughty, if you're arrogant, and people get mad at you, there is no beatitude for you. God is not there to... I'm sorry, if you're being obnoxious, God is not going to bless you in that. He's gone. He's not there. He's watching from a distance and say, well, you're going to get what you deserve. So, he's not standing beside you. You have to be absolutely sure. That you don't just say, oh, I'm suffering for Jesus, when actually you're suffering for your own sake. Which means this. The reality is that it's usually not just for Jesus' sake or for our sake. It's something in the middle. In other words, we're pretty imperfect as followers of Jesus. And we often can get into a situation where we may be taking flack and our Christianity has something to do with it. But it's also true that we didn't do it well either. We didn't conduct it well. speak well. Here's the point. When somebody criticizes you and they're partly right and partly wrong, what do we usually do? When someone criticizes you, by the way, this also works in marriage, FYI. When someone criticizes you, they're almost always partly right and partly wrong. The part that's wrong is maybe exaggeration, maybe a little bit of misinformation, but when someone criticizes you and it's partly right and partly wrong, what a relief. We can yell at them over the part that's wrong and just sort of ignore the part that's right. I'm here to tell you that if you wanna make sure that you're suffering for Jesus' sake and not for your own sake, that if somebody accuses you and they're 90% wrong and 10% right, go to the 10% and admit it. If they're 90% wrong and 10% right, see that 10% and bring it up and say, well, now you know what? I shouldn't have done this. And you know you're right to complain about this. Why, you say? Well, number one, it's the way you grow. It's the way you learn so that you don't ignore the parts that you have done wrong. Number two, it actually usually lowers the temperature of the conversation. It makes it easier to go on. But number three, it's the way to honor Jesus, that you're not hiding behind him when actually you're getting a flack that actually he doesn't deserve. Only you deserve. And therefore, make sure that if you suffer, you are suffering for him and not for yourself. But also, if you suffer, you need to suffer as he did. See, when he said, a servant is not above his master is a way of saying you need to take hatred and persecution the way I did. What does that mean? It means that when it comes to you, you should take it without enjoying it, without avoiding it, and without being at all surprised by it. First of all, What, you say? Yes, look. I've already talked about this. Maybe I should, okay. When somebody gets after you and starts to criticize you and slander you and come after you and all that, the terrible temptation is you use it to feel noble about yourself. And we happen to live in a society, which is the first society in history, in which the only high moral ground that exists in our society is if you can prove you're part of a persecuted group. So you have to prove that you're a victim, that you are a persecuted group and then and only then have you got power over the people who oppose you. Then you can vilify them. Then you can castigate them. Then you can denounce them but you have to prove that you're persecuted. So the reason I'm saying what I'm saying is that Jesus Christ, however, did not enjoy it. Jesus didn't do that. Why? He prayed for his enemies. He loved his enemies. When they came after him, when he was reviled, not again. That's why Jesus would never be on Twitter. When he was reviled, he reviled not again. He prayed for, he never said, I am a victim and therefore I'm going to be able to castigate those of you who are taking, you know, who are doing this to me. We live in a society in which people enjoy being persecuted because it's the only high moral ground there is. Christians must not go there ever, ever, ever, because Jesus didn't. So you must, when hate and persecution comes, don't enjoy it, number one. Number two, don't avoid it. Don't avoid it. When he was being tried before the Sanhedrin, they said, who are you? And he said, well, I'm the son of God, and you will see me coming, you know, in clouds with angels. And that was, he knew what would happen if he told the truth. He knew they'd kill him. But he told the truth. You know, he didn't seek persecution, but he did not shrink from it. And we should be the same. Which, let me just ask you a question. The people know you're a Christian. You realize if Jesus is at the very center of your life, so he matters to your decisions, and he matters to the way in which you handle your problems, and he matters to you emotionally, and he matters to you personally, and the people around you who work with you and know you, do they see that? Do they even have any inkling you're a Christian? if Jesus is central to your life and they don't know that, then you are hiding who you are or he's not central to your life. Don't avoid it. There's plenty of people who tell me they do hide their Christianity in New York City because they're afraid of being asked one or two questions they feel like they can't answer. And I can tell, here's what I want you to do. Write those questions down and do some research and talk to people till you have some way of answering them and then go follow Jesus. Jesus, but don't let the fact that you can't answer those questions keep you from following Jesus. Don't enjoy it. Don't avoid it. And then lastly, don't be shocked by it. Don't be surprised by it in any way. I've had people, if Jesus Christ helped people and he witnessed the truth and some people had their lives changed and other people crucified him and same thing will happen I've had some people tell me, I tried to help this drug-addicted person, and he yelled at me. Fancy that. A drug-addicted person is struggling. A drug-addicted person has got denial. You try to help a drug-addicted person. Yeah, that may happen. But you see, according to the Bible, all human beings are in denial about their need for God. All human beings are in denial about their sinfulness. You try to talk to them about the gospel. You try to help them in the way Jesus helped them. Some of them are going to have their lives transformed, but some of them are going to try to crucify you. And Jesus says, follow me. Okay, how? Where are you going to get the power to do this? I mean, I told you it was kind of a downer of a sermon because it's a warning. And I didn't even get into the point. He says there will be societies and there will be centuries which the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they're offering a sacrifice to God. And by the way, it's happening right now in the world. You know that. So how are we going to be able to face it? But how do we even deal with the loss of reputation, our name, our reputation? And if I'm too known as a Christian, I'm going to lose that. I'm going to lose clients. I'm going to lose face. I'm going to lose reputation, you know, especially in a sophisticated place like New York. Of course, I don't want to be known as a Christian. Well, look, years ago, Dick Kaufman, who was an executive pastor at church for many years, years ago, 20 years ago, he told me a story that kind of answers the whole question and basically makes this point. He had been vilified by somebody. He felt his reputation had been hurt. He had lost his good name. He felt he was never going to get his reputation back, and it was galling him. And Now, most of you, if you read Philippians 2 in modern translations, will say, Jesus Christ, though he was God, he emptied himself of his glory, and he came to earth, and he became a servant, and he went to the cross. But in the old King James Bible, it says that Jesus Christ, though he was equal with God, made himself of no reputation. And when Dick read that, he said it went through him like a knife. and he suddenly said Jesus Christ had the ultimate good name and the ultimate reputation and he made himself of no reputation and he took all the shame and all the vilification that I deserve so that I can have glory and my name's written in heaven so that if he was willing to suffer lose the reputation for me I can certainly lose a little reputation for him when I see what he did for me then I can do this a little bit for him 1938 movie angels with 30 faces jim cab james cagney uh playing rocky patrick o'brien playing jerry rocky and jerry are two tough kids living in a tough urban neighborhood and they grow up and one becomes a gangster and one becomes a priest and the gangster jimmy cagney of course the movie you know follows his life and he's killing people and all that in the end he's He's captured. He's put on trial. He's found guilty, and he's sentenced to death row to the electric chair. And just before he's supposed to go to the electric chair, he's a hero to all the poor kids of the parish where Patrick O'Brien, Jerry, is the priest. And he comes in to see his old friend. So Jerry comes to see Rocky, and Rocky has this little sneer on his face saying, are you here to put up a little prayer for me before they fry me? And this is what Patrick O'Brien says. No, he says, he says, I want you, Rocky, that when you go in there, I want you to die a coward. I want you to die screaming for mercy. I want you to destroy your reputation. I want you to die in shame because all these kids, you're their hero. And unless you do that, they're going to go right into a life of crime. And Rocky says, are you crazy? In my courage,

left. And this is what Jerry says. I got this off the screenplay. Jerry says, this is a different kind of courage, Rocky. It's the kind that, well, that's born in heaven. Not the courage of heroics and bravado, the kind that only you and I and God will know about. I want you to let the boys in my neighborhood down. You're going to be a glorified hero in death, and I want to prevent that, Rocky. They've got to despise your memory. They've got to be ashamed of you. And Rocky says, away the only thing I got left. But then when he actually walks in, just before they get to the chair, he starts to scream and cry out for mercy. And they put him in the chair and they electrocute him. And the next day, the headlines are, Rocky dies a coward. And all the boys are disillusioned and say, they kind of follow the priest after that. You know why? What Rocky did was this, and it was a courage made in heaven. He gave up the only thing he had left to save the boys because if he died in honor, they would die in shame. But if he dies in shame, they'll be able to live honorable lives. You know what that's called? It's called substitutionary atonement. And the reason, listen, if you watch the end of the movie, you'll see Patrick O'Brien, you know, Jerry, crying when he sees what Rocky's doing and you're gonna cry too that comes from heaven because it's exactly what Jesus Christ did. He came and took shame. He took no reputation. He took the insults

and they fell on him so that we could have the name which is above every name so our names could be written in heaven. Who cares what the world thinks because now you've got your names written in heaven. You've got the reputation that will last forever. You've got his glory because he took your shame. Yeah, you'll be able to handle it. when you're hated and persecuted. If you see what he did for you, let's pray. Thank you, Father, for all the ways in which you show us

what you took from the world in order so that we don't have to be controlled by it. We don't have to be controlled by what it thinks about us. We don't have to be controlled by its social pecking King order, and yet we can love it like you loved it. God so loved the world, didn't hate the world. The world may hate us, but we don't hate the world. We don't hate the world. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Teach us how to love the people around us and not be afraid of them, and love them no matter what they do to us. We pray, Lord, that you would help us to walk in the footsteps of Jesus Christ and not fear any darkness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
