Ephesians chapter 1, verses 15 through 23. The eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him in his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given. Not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet, and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. The word of the Lord. I keep reading articles and books about New York. This week I read, that whereas New York has to compete with Los Angeles as media capital of the world, and while it has to compete with Tokyo as what? Financial capital of the world, while it has to compete with London as theater capital of the world, and while it has to compete with Paris as fashion capital of the world, there's one area where there's no competition. And the article said, New York is the power capital of the world, not just because it's the only city, that competes in all those categories, but because this is the place where people who want power, and where the people who have power come to live. And when I looked up the word power in the dictionary, I found that all the dictionaries say the same thing. Power is the ability to act. The ability to do. And this week again, I saw an interesting quote, that said, People do not come to New York City, to think, or to reflect. They come to do. In fact, when I read the interviews of famous people around here, and I listen to what they're saying, you know, the interviewers are basically trying to find, what makes you tick? And when it comes down to it, though there's hundreds of different answers, I think you can reduce them. Basically, the people are saying, You know what makes me tick? Power. Why do I, why do I build this skyscraper? Why do I throw this party? Why do I hold this concert? I want to show you what I can do. Look what I can do. Look at the power I've got. Look at how I count. You see. Paul here talks about a power, that makes all the power of New York, combined, look like a pop gun. A power that makes all of the power of New York, comparatively, look like a soggy paper airplane. It says here, and this is what the passage is about, God has, in verse 19, it says, incomparably great power. That's a great phrase. You know, great power, in Greek, is completely understandable in English. Did you know that? Because the word great is the word megatos, and the word power is the word dunamos. And so what you have there is, the megaton dynamite of God. And you see, it's a great phrase, and everybody knows what it's talking about. It doesn't need translation. It talks about the megaton dynamite of God. But the real kicker word, is the word incomparably. And if you have an older translation, it might say the exceeding power of God. But the word incomparably is a good word. What Paul is saying is, it can't be compared. Ordinarily, the way in which we would measure, or try to describe power, is we try to describe it by comparing it to something else that you know. So you can say now, a nuclear warhead has one thousandth of the power of a hurricane. And a hurricane has one millionth of the power of an explosion on the surface of the sun. And the sun has one billionth of the power of an exploding supernova. Now,

how do we describe the power of God? Do we say, ah, his power is the power of God. Or, the power of a hundred supernovas. A million supernovas. A billion. And Paul is saying here, no. God's not at the top of a scale. God's never been on the scale, so he's not even off the scale, you see. He utterly transcends scales. And the reason for that, we're told again and again in the Psalms. The Psalms tell us, power belongs to God. Now look at that. And look and wonder. Power belongs to God means, not that God has more power than anything or anyone else, but that anyone or anything that has even an atom of power has it because God's delegated it to him. God has all the power. Now this is a very practical, hey, this is an extremely practical teaching. How could Jesus Christ look Pilate right in the eye with calmness and with serenity? Hmm? When he knew Pilate was about to tear him apart, he had the power. Did he have the power? You see, that's what Pilate was saying. I've got the power to crush you. And Jesus looks at him calmly, not flippantly,

because he knew Pilate had power, but he said what? Hmm? Where did he get his calmness? He said, you have no power except that, which has been given to you from above. See, Jesus says, I know you've got power, and I respect that power, but you don't have one atom more of it than what has been given to you. You see, all power belongs to him. All power belongs to him. And that's what we're being told here, his incomparably great power. Take a look at all the big power brokers of the world. I don't mean the ones even now. Look at Alexander the Great, absolute monarch of all the Western world. Look at Caesar, all the Caesars. Look at Hitler. Look at the incredibly wealthy people that we've had in the history of the world. Do they really have power? Can they really determine the course of events in the world? It says here what? Jesus Christ is above every title. Isaiah chapter 40, he brings the rulers to nothing. Now that's power. That's power. Friends, my question to you here, do you believe that? Now, most of you have backgrounds where you've heard this. I think many of you probably do. If your background is Jewish, if your background is Roman Catholic, if your background is Protestant, you've heard this. But that's not what Paul is praying for here. You see what Paul's praying for? He's saying, I pray that the eyes of God and the eyes of your hearts may be enlightened in order that you may know the hope, the riches, and His power, His incomparably great power. You see, you might know about this power, but do you know it the way Jesus knew it? Do you grasp it? See, has it sunk in? Do you act on it? Does it affect the way in which you deal with powerful people? Does it affect the way in which you deal with your fears? Has it radically changed your priorities? Even further, is it flowing through you? Because you see, it says here in verse 19, His incomparably great power for us who believe. For us. It's a little Greek word, which means through or within. The power of God means that, Paul here means that it can come through us. You can thrill under it. It can surge through you, and you can become effective. Because that's what power is. The ability to act, the ability to bring about effect, the ability to bring about impact. Now the question is, do you know this? Not just know about it. That's a pretty good question. Could you look a Pilate in the eye like Jesus did? Now, if you're going to know it, you need to take a look at it. You need to take a look at the passage. And the passage tells you, at least, it tells you a lot, but it tells you three things we're going to look at tonight. And those three things are, first of all, this is resurrection power. And secondly, it tells us this is headship power. It only comes to people through the headship of Jesus. First of all, it's resurrection power. Secondly, it's headship power. And thirdly, it's power that only comes to people born again by the Spirit. Resurrection power, it's headship power, and it's spiritual power. I'll explain that as we go along. Let's roll. Number one, resurrection power. Paul says, let me tell you about the great, incomparably great power of God. And he says this is the power that he used to do what? To raise Jesus Christ from the dead and sit him at the right hand, seat him at the right hand, above all rule and authority and power and dominion. Now, why does Paul use that illustration? After all, why didn't he say this is the great power that God used to put the planets in orbit? Now, that's pretty powerful. This is the power that God used to scatter the stars across the heavens. That's pretty powerful. No. He goes to the resurrection of Jesus, and here's why. Because of all the power that you can, all the powers you can find in the world, there's no power like death. Look, why does a hurricane have power at all? Why do we say a hurricane is powerful? Because it has some of the power of death. It can kill. And mankind can harness some of the power of creation. We can split the atom, we can do all that, but we will always die. And don't you realize, therefore, that death is the main power that is arrayed against us. The Bible calls it the last enemy. If you could lick that power, the power of death, don't you realize there'd be nothing, no other power that would be a match for you? If you could lick the power of death, you want a sunny vacation? You could go to the sun and camp out there, you know, for the weekend. If you lick that, there'd be no other power. And that's exactly what God did. He snapped the power of death. In Acts chapter 2, Peter says, but God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the bands of death because it was impossible to keep its hold on him. It was impossible. That's why Paul can say, oh death, where is thy sting? Oh grave, where is thy victory? That's a taunt. And that is incredible. That's absolutely incredible. That someone can taunt death. There's all kinds of other things which are very, very powerful. Supernova is nothing like death. This is a letter from a German minister, a young Lutheran minister who was put to death in a Nazi death camp. This letter was published after the war. He's not famous. You've never heard of him. His name's Herman. But this is what he wrote to his parents the day he died. Now listen to this. When this letter comes into your hands, I shall no longer be among the living. The thing that has occupied my thoughts for a number of months is now about to happen. And if you ask me what state I am in, I can only answer, I am first in a joyous mood and secondly filled with great anticipation. God will wipe away every tear from my eyes. What consolation, what marvelous strength emanates from faith in Christ. I am amazed. In Him I put my faith and precisely today I have faith in Him more firmly than ever. My parents look up the following passages, 1 Corinthians 15, Romans 14, 8. Look anywhere you want in the Bible and everywhere I find jubilation over the grace that makes us children of God. What can really happen to a child of God? Of what indeed should I be afraid? Everything that till now I have done, struggled for and accomplished has at bottom been directed to this one goal whose barrier I shall penetrate today. Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for them that love Him. For me, believing will become seeing, hope will become possession, and I shall forever share in Him who is love. Should I not then be filled with anticipation? What's it going to be like? The things that I have done, that up to this time I have been permitted only to preach about, I shall now see. No more secrets, no more puzzles. Today's the great day. From the very beginning I have put everything into the hands of God, and now He demands this end of me. Good. His will be done. Until we meet again above in the presence of the Father of light, your joyful Herman. I don't know. I hope I could write a letter like that. But you see,

what kind of power can enable a human being to laugh in the face of death when Paul says, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? That's mockery. That is scorn. That's humor. That's incredible. That's the power of God. That's the miracle. That's why Paul picks out the resurrection. And now here's the weird part. And here's the staggering part. He is trying to show us that the power that is working in us, remember, through us, it's surging through us, if we have Jesus Christ as our Savior, is this resurrection power. What Paul is saying is, this is the way you measure it. This is the unit. The resurrection is the unit by which you can measure the power in us. And that is incredible. You see, a unit of measurement is important. If I say, you know how much this book weighs? And you say, how much? I say, it weighs five. That doesn't help you much, does it? Because you say, I want to know what are your terms of measurement. You mean five ounces? You mean five tons? Wow. You mean five pounds? Hmm. You say, you've got to know what the unit of measurement is. And Paul is saying, right here, this is the unit. This is the only way you can measure it. Death-breaking, resurrection power. The same stuff that raised Jesus from the dead when death itself, with all of its fury and all of its power and all of its inevitable strength, tried to bind Jesus up. He broke the bands of death like a thread. And Paul says, that's what's in your life now. And that's the only way to measure it. And that means, that means the things of death in your life, the decay, the destructive emotions and habits, you see, the addictions, the confusion, the brokenness. Even though the power of death is gradually being broken, so that sometimes it's here and sometimes it's greater and sometimes it's less, yet eventually the power of the resurrection will be ascended in your life, will be ascended in your life. Why do you think Paul can write the Philippians? The whole Philippian church, and he can say, I am sure that the good work he began in you, he will bring to completion on the day of Jesus Christ. How can he be so sure about that? A lot of you aren't sure at all about that, are you? He said, I know God began a good work in me, but I have screwed up so bad. How could anybody? I don't have the confidence that God will ever bring it to completion. You know why? You know why Paul is sure and why you're not? Because Paul knows the power of God, the incomparably great power of God, and you don't. At least you're not thinking it out. You might know about it, but you don't know it, you see. Do you rejoice in that? Do you understand that? Do you realize that's what's in you? Death-breaking power? Okay. The second thing we're taught is not only that it's resurrection power, but it comes through Jesus' head. Now you see verse 22. Read this. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. If you look carefully, you'll see something very interesting. Jesus is said here to be a head over the world and over the church. Now listen carefully. It says here, he is ruling over everything. He's head over all things for us. So there's a sense in which he's directing everything for us. And yet it's also this verse that tells us that we are part of his body. And that means that Jesus Christ is the, it's talking about the very important Pauline teaching that Jesus is the head and we are part of his body, the church. And so we see here two kinds of power. There's a power that God exercises for us by ordering everything in the world for us. And there's a power that God exercises in us. There's an external kind of power and there's an internal kind. There's a power that he operates in the world and there's a power he operates in us. Now look at those. And they're both kinds of headship. First of all, you see what it says? Let's drink this one in. God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church. This is nothing less than Romans 8, 28. That great promise, all things work together for good to them that love God and are the called according to his purpose. All things work together for good. This is saying that if you belong to him, everything that happens out there, everything that happens is happening F-O-R-U. For you. Now it's very seldom that we can see how that works. Occasionally God pulls a curtain back and we get a glimpse of it. I remember when I first came to my first church in Virginia, which is a little Presbyterian church and it was struggling and they were so happy to get a pastor. And I was so desperate that I took the church. And they were just amazed that they got a pastor. And of course there were just one or two desperate enough people to take it. But I remember one day getting up and saying, trying to explain this passage and saying to them, listen friends, you know why I'm here? I'm glad I'm here. You're glad I'm here. I'm glad I'm here. It's worked out beautifully. It was because at the very end of my seminary career, I decided to become a Presbyterian. That's why I could go to a Presbyterian church. You know why I decided to be Presbyterian? Because I fell under the influence of a particular teacher, who was a pastor. He was my teacher my last semester at seminary. Do you know why I fell under that man's influence? Because he came from England after having tremendous visa problems and probably wasn't going to get there until the following year. But at the last minute somebody cut through the red tape and he came and I fell under his influence. Do you know why the red tape was cut? Because the dean of my seminary was on his knees praying about how are we going to get this guy over here? When Mike Ford walked in, Gerald Ford's son, and asked him what he was praying for. And Mike Ford was a student at the seminary at that time. Do you know why Mike Ford was able to cut the red tape? Because his father was the president. Do you know why his father was the president? Because Nixon had resigned. Do you know why Nixon had resigned? Because of the Watergate scandal. Do you know why there was a Watergate scandal? Because one day a guard noticed in the Watergate building a particular door, ajar, that should have been closed. And who knows why? Maybe that day he took a drink at the water fountain, you see, that he shouldn't have, and he just happened to notice it. And I looked at my people and I said, what am I doing here? I said, you know, Watergate was for you. See, Watergate was for me. And occasionally, now you see, occasionally God says, you know, I'm going to do this. And you see, God rips aside the veil and you begin to see this very fact. All things happen for you. All things. Everything is knit together. But now look, Christianity is a unique religion. And the Bible tells us that the way in which God operates is utterly different than what either Western religions or Eastern religions say. Let me just say a minute, just give me a minute about this. That's all. Western religions in general have said, you are in charge of your own destiny. You make your choices, you see. Your good choices you ascend. If they're bad choices, you descend. And you know, the people who really like that approach to life say, yeah, I get where I get because of my choices. The successful and famous and well-off people have always believed that. And of course, poor people have always been uptight about that. Have any of you been reading the New York Times Magazine recently? There was an interesting article about Ophir Winfrey a few weeks ago. And she says, I, you know, I got up there because I made the right choices. I got in touch with who I was, you see. And just this week, there's already been letters saying, she's giving us the impression that those of us who haven't come to the top just weren't as wonderful and as in touch with themselves as she was. You see, the people have always hit that free will stuff and said, yeah, it's all a matter of free will. And the people are always the ones on the top. And the people who underneath realize an awful lot of it seems to be breaks, an awful lot of it seems to be who you know and where you were and where you were born and who your parents were and all that. And they get irked at that theory of why some people are on the top and some people are on the bottom. But Eastern religions have always been very fatalistic. And they've always had a tendency to say, look, there's this great thing called fate. And nobody can do anything about it, you see. And all your choices are for naught because where you go is just determined by the faceless fate. Christianity will have neither of those things. Christianity says the answer to what Oprah Winfrey is talking about, the answer to what the Eastern religions are talking about, the thing that liberates and brings it all together is the incomparably great power of God. God is so great that he works out a plan, a plan to work everything out for you. He works out for your good if you belong to him and his glory, which takes into consideration your choices and still works his plan out infallibly. Look, Jacob lied to his father Isaac, wanted his birthright, cheated his older brother out of it. And because he cheated, because he lied, he had to flee from his family. Was he guilty? Yes. Did he experience pain in his life because of that choice? Yes. Was he punished for it? Yes. But because he sinned, he went and found his wife Rachel, through whom the Messiah came. Was it all right then that he sinned? No. But don't you see this? Because Jacob sinned, though God held him responsible for that choice, did that put him on an eternal plan B? Did he say, I've ruined it from now on because of this sin, God will never give me the best? My friends, no. When he sinned, he went into the best for him. See, God is far greater than your stupid choices. Look, it says in Acts chapter 2 verse 23, Peter says to the people he's talking to, he says, Jesus Christ was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreordination, and you with wicked hands put him to death. Now wait a minute. You were wicked for putting him to death, and yet it was all purposed by God. How could they both be? Because we don't have a man. We don't have a mechanistic, impersonal universe. We have a God who's infinitely wise and incomparably powerful, who is able to work all things together for you. Now my friends, don't you see? Yeah, you can scratch your head a little bit and say, I don't see how it all connects, but this liberates. Because if I really thought it was all a matter of my choices, and that all of my destiny, everything that happened depended on my good choices, I wouldn't get out of bed in the morning. I'd be afraid, which side of the bed should I get up out of? You know? I mean, that guard, you know, that found the Watergate door open, it was just because maybe he was ten seconds later that day or something. I'd be scared to death. And if I thought that it was all fate, why get out of bed? If I feel like killing and maiming and raping, why not do that? I mean, who cares? But don't you see? And by the way, those famous people, when you see them interviewed, they go one side or the other. They either say, it was because I was so brilliant and I made the right choices, or they'll say, eh, I was destined for greatness. But now listen, neither of those is a Christian understanding. Neither of those takes into consideration the incomparably great power of God, and fear gnaws those people. Yes, because you see, if it was because of your great choices, you ought to always be scared because what if you can't keep it up? You know, if you've made it as a great comic, you ought to be always gnawed with fear because what about tomorrow? You can't think of any good, more good jokes. On the other hand, if you think it's just destiny, you'd be always gnawed with fear because what happens if fate just turns you away? Is it me or is it impersonal fate? It's the incomparably great power of God. And that power, you know, is the power of God. That power is bent on your joy and benefit. All things work together for good. That gives us responsibility, but man, does that give us security. Do you know the power of God? Do you not just know about it? Do you build your life on it? Do you draw your strength from it? That's what Paul's talking about here. Do you see that he's head over all things for the church? You got that? But then there's also another kind of headship. We are his body. And that is something amazing. You see, this image is this. My head, my body. I know it's not a real good example, but it's the one I've got at hand. The word head, the head relates to the body, first of all, in the sense of authority. Of course, your body does what your head tells you. If it doesn't, it's a disease. It's a pathology, you see. But that's not all that headship means. Headship doesn't just mean authority, it also means intimacy. Because the body and the head participate in the same life. A head is not sewn onto the body, or a body sewn onto a head. It's not stapled together. But it's combined by living tissue. Now this gets to the essence of what a Christian is. I don't know what you think the essence of a Christian is. I'll tell you what it's not. Some people say the essence of being a Christian is being American, or European, or Western. There's international people that come here all the time to study. They come to church. Why? Because they're studying American culture. And they say, well, I come from a Muslim land, or I come from a Hindu land, and you're in a Christian land. And so if I want to understand your culture, I have to understand your religion. Because they see Christianity as being an aspect of culture. Not at all. Christianity is not about religion. Christianity can be the heart of any culture. But Christianity is not simply a sociological phenomenon. Some people think the essence of Christianity is to believe the truth. And of course that is a big part of being a Christian. But there's plenty of people that are orthodox in their doctrine. All for the wrong reasons. I know plenty of people that were taught good theology and doctrine as children. And they grow up. And the reason, I believe, that they adhere to that doctrine is because of nostalgia. It reminds them of a time when they were cared for. They think of their parents. And so they just feel good listening to the words come out. I believe in the Ten Commandments. I believe in the Sermon on the Mount. I believe in the Bible. There's no power in the person's life. Some people say being a Christian is following the ideals of Christ. And that's part of it too. But none of these things get at the essence of what it means to be a Christian. It's silly to say a Christian is someone who follows Jesus' example. Or who believes Jesus' words. As to say a doctor is somebody who wears a white coat. Now that's true that a lot of doctors wear white coats. But that's not the definition of a doctor. Because there's a lot of other people that wear white coats, you see. Besides doctors. It's an incidental thing. The essence of being a Christian is this. You're in the body. Or I'll put it another way. There was an old Scottishman named Scougal. Who wrote a book 200 years ago called The Life of God in the Soul of Man. And that is the essence of being a Christian. The essence of Christianity is the life of God. The power of God. The nature of God has actually come into your life. It says in 2 Peter 1, verse 4. We are made partakers of the divine nature. Now that's incredible. That's the lifeblood of God comes in. That's the reason that the Bible sometimes talks about Christians being people who are reborn. Regenerated. Living. The lifeblood, the life substance of God come into our life so we're renewed. It's so stupid as some people do. To do what some people do. And that is to talk about two kinds of Christians. You've got the kind that believe and they follow the teachings of Christ. And then there's the born again variety. And you see the born again variety are the intense type. That insist on an emotional experience. My friends, the Bible says you're not a Christian at all unless he is your head. And that means his life has come into you. So his heart now beats through your heart. So that you feel what he feels and you love what he loves and you hate what he hates. His mind penetrates your mind so you see what he sees with clarity. His character comes in so you begin to act like him. He's your head. The power comes through. And that's the only kind of Christian there is. And that's the essence of it. The life of God in the soul of man. And that's the reason why you have this incredible word right here. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Do you know what that is? The fullness? It's the word pleroma. And the best way I can do this quickly. Is to tell you this. Fullness means. It really means we are his glory. It really means. One of the best ways to translate it is to say. He comes into his own through us. When you say a ball player has come into his own. What you mean is. His talent was always there but now everybody sees it. You see. He's come into his own. What this is saying. Is that Jesus Christ is glorified by revealing who he is. Through us. And that is a remarkable statement. That means. That's scary. Look it. The best illustration I can give you. When your children. Do something that's praise worthy. Now if you haven't had children you have no idea. When your children do something that's praise worthy. It astonishes you how good you feel about yourself. It's totally irrational. But you feel. Hey. It makes me feel great. They're beautiful. I feel beautiful. And when your children do something shameful. You're so cast down. Because you see. If your children are ugly. It says to the world. He's ugly. If your children are beautiful. It says to the world. He's beautiful. There's that link. You see. They're my fullness. And this claim is both exciting. And also scary. It means on the one hand. God can reproduce. Jesus glory in you. Breath of spirit. Infectious joy. Nobility. Love. Can happen in you. But it also means. That the way in which you act. Tells the world what Jesus looks like. He chooses for it to be like that. And that means when you're ugly. You're saying to the world. This is what Jesus is like. And let me underline something. You know. Let me even say it loud. To the extent. That you grasp this truth. You will receive power. Not to sin. To the extent. You hear it. I got to get your attention. I know it's late here. To the extent. That you understand that. And grasp that truth. You receive power. Not to sin. Fullness. Well look. Here. We are at the end. Jesus. Paul says. I don't want you to just know about this. I want you to know it. And you know how you know something? You work it in two ways. Number one. You work it in by thinking it out. Living in a holy consciousness of it. Praying over it. And reflecting it. Until your heart gets big with it. But I'll tell you. Another way in which you know something. Is you step out and act on it. Philippians 2 says. Work out your salvation in fear and trembling. For God is at work in you. To will and to do is good pleasure. And what that means is. Don't sit here and say. I'll do it. As soon as I feel the power surge. It says. Work out. For God is at work. It says. Go do it. Step out. And the power comes in the doing. Don't wait to feel the power. The power comes in the obedience. You see. In Romans we're told that when. And in Hebrews. We're told that when. Abraham. Was told by God to offer Isaac up. We're told that Abraham looked and he was persuaded. That God had the power to raise Isaac up from the dead. So he gave glory to God. And he did not stagger at the word of God. Now what do you think Abraham did there? Do you feel like Abraham got up that morning. Ready to sacrifice his son. And says. I just feel the power of God surging through me. I can't wait to get up there. And see what God's going to do in the mountain. No. What he did was. He thought about it. And this is what you've got to do. There's no excuse here. Don't you dare go away saying. Look. This is a lot of great talk. But frankly. I know about the power of God. It's all abstract. But I don't know this kind of power in my life. And I guess I'll just have to wait around until the bolt hits. No. We're told Abraham got up. And he was persuaded. He thought it out. He saw how God's power bore on his situation. And he acted on it. You think he felt good? It wasn't until he got to the mountain. And you know. When he got up there. And he was about to sacrifice Isaac. And God showed him the provision. And he gave him a ram to sacrifice instead of Isaac. They named that place. The Lord will provide. What is that? Jehovah Jireh. In the mount of the Lord it will be revealed. You won't find the power until you get to the mountain. You've got to be willing to go. You've got to be willing to act. Stretch. Act. You see. And if you do. You'll know an honor. You'll know a place. You've never known before. You'll see growth you've never known before. This is the power of God in you. And it's got his holiness in you. I don't care how bad your problems are. I don't know how bad your habits are. This life that comes in is potent. It's omnipotent. It's like acid. Acid must turn whatever it touches into its own image. And the holy life of God must overcome the distorted and the evil parts of you. Friends. Listen. This only goes to people. This power belongs to those who do what I've said. But also it belongs only to people who are born again by the Spirit. And let me just read you that verse 15 and 16. Paul says, Since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus, I have not stopped giving thanks for you. And I'm asking that the Father, the Lord our God Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of grace. He says this in Revelation. Do you see He doesn't pray for them and He's not praying for you until He heard about their faith in Jesus Christ? Don't you see this is only for people with faith in Jesus? What does that mean? It's nothing mysterious. Some churches teach if you want to be right with God, you need Jesus and the sacraments. Some say you need Jesus and good works. Some say you need Jesus and my course on how to be filled with God. But Paul says it's faith in Jesus. A Christian is somebody who says Jesus is my all. The reason I belong to God is because of what Jesus did for me and nothing else. And if that's your condition, Paul says this is available. It's available. Not one of His promises will fall to the ground because of His power. And you know, His promises are so strange. It's so strange. They say I'll give you the bright morning star. They say all things work out together for good to them that love you, God. They say anyone who gives up lands and family and riches on earth, I'll give you land and family and riches here and in the world to come eternal life. All these promises are incredible and frankly, I don't know what the heck they mean. But who cares? We'll never find out what they mean until we trust. And the reason they look so strange to us is because we're sitting back and waiting. Do you know the incomparably great power of God? Let's pray.