Tonight's scripture comes from the book of Job, chapter 38, verses 1-3, chapter 40, verses 8-12, and chapter 42, verses 1-10. Then the Lord answered Job out of the storm. He said, Who is this that darkens my counsel with words without knowledge? Brace yourself like a man. I will question you, and you shall answer me. Would you discredit my justice? Would you condemn me to justify yourself? Do you have an arm like God's, or can your voice thunder like his? Then adorn yourself with glory and splendor, and clothe yourself in honor and majesty. Unleash the fury of your wrath. Look at every proud man and bring him low. Look at every proud man and humble him. Crush the wicked where they stand. Then Job replied to the Lord, I know that you can do all things. No plan of yours can be thwarted. You asked, The Temanite. I am angry with you and you are two friends because you have not spoken of me. What is right as my servant Job has. So now take seven bulls and seven Rams and go to my servant Job and sacrifice a burnt offering for yourselves. My servant Job will pray for you and I will accept his prayer and not deal with you. According to your folly, you have not spoken of me. What is right, as my servant Job has. So Eliphate the Temanite, Bildad the Shuite, and Zophar the Naamathite did what the Lord told them, and the Lord accepted Job's prayer. After Job had prayed for his friends, the Lord made him prosperous again and gave him twice as much as he had before. This is God's word. there's nothing more inevitable in life than suffering and the book of job faces this issue in a way that no other part of the bible does and maybe no other work of world literature does and each week we've been looking at this book and it's about job a devout believer pillar of his community a very good father a good man in many ways and yet suddenly and inexplicably from him his health, his wealth, his family, everything. He's plunged into agony. And for chapter after chapter, you know, this is the very end of the book here, 42 chapters, chapter after chapter, we've been seeing Job confused and angry, crying out to God in prayer, arguing with his friends. And two things keep coming up through all that. Job says, He says, I don't want to suffer without explanation. And I don't want to suffer without vindication. Those are the two things he demands. He says explanation. He says, okay, I'm suffering. But what are the reasons? What good reasons could God possibly have for letting this happen? I don't want to suffer without explanation. And then secondly, I don't want to suffer without vindication. He says, here's my friends over here telling everybody that I must be a bad person. That this is happening to me. to vindicate me and show that I'm an innocent sufferer. I don't deserve this suffering. And because he wants an explanation and because he wants a vindication, he continually, a number of places, in all of his struggles, through his confusion, his anger, through his prayers and his arguments, he keeps saying, I want to appear before God. I want to talk to God. I want to meet God, face to face. And because he's asked for it, and because as a reader you know he's asked for it, if you're reading through the book of Job, you know the only way this story can end is for God to actually show up and to respond to Job. And in chapter 38, 39, 40, and 41, and then Job's response 42, he does. This is the climax of the whole book. But if you're reading the book and you start to read God's response to Job, his speeches to Job. They are absolutely unexpected. Let's take a look quickly at them. I mean, I've just taken little slices of them, but I can give you the gist of them. There's three things we're going to learn about this final climactic appearance of God before Job, and these are the three things we're going to see. Let's look at the argument of God, what he says, the silences of God, what he never says, and God's wonderful, terrible storm. Okay, the argument of God, the silences of God, and God's wonderful, terrible storm. First, the argument of God. Now, there's an argument, and I'm going to have to read you some sections to give it to you, but here's what God is responding to. It's very typical, not only in ancient times but today, to look at evil and suffering. You see a particular horrible thing that's happened. And to say, if God were all powerful and all good. If there was an all powerful and all good God. He would never have let that happen. And therefore, since the Bible says. God is all powerful and all good. The God of the Bible can exist. That's the objection. Still around. And here's the one place in the Bible. Where we actually get God's own answer to it. Now this answer is eloquent. And at first, maybe not all that easy to discern. The point of. Like right in the beginning of the very first speech to Job, God starts talking like this. He begins talking about the natural world, the wonders and immensities and intricacies of the natural world. So he says right away, this is chapter 38, verse 4, Where were you when I laid the earth's foundations? Tell me if you understand. Who marked off its dimensions? Surely you know. Who stretched a measuring line across it? On what were its footings set? cornerstone on the day that the morning stars sang together and all the angels shouted for joy. Who shut up the sea behind doors when it burst forth from the womb, when I made the clouds its garment and swaddled it in thick darkness, when I said, thus far you may come and no farther, here is where your proud waves halt. Now, by the way, this is incredible poetry, and this is a remarkable verse, and we could look at it just on the basis of that. You can even tell palates eloquence, even in my kind of English quick translation. However, you see how God is talking? He says, for example, He wrapped the vast oceans of the world in a mantle of cloud the way a midwife wraps a newborn baby in swaddling clothes. He says, I've done all this. See, I've picked up the stars. In fact, there's a really great ironic spot where in verse 35 of God says to Job, he says, you know, the lightning bolts report to me before they go. They show up and they say, here we are, before I send them. Do they report to you? Surely you know because you're so smart about the course that the world ought to take. Now, what's the point? The point is in verse 3, the point that chapter 38, which we had read. Who darkens my counsel with words without knowledge? See, counsel is a plan. A plan. And what Job's been saying is your counsel, your plan, why you're letting these things happen is very dark. It doesn't make sense. But you're darkening my counsel with words without knowledge. He says, let's take a look at your knowledge for a second. How much do you really know compared to what I know? That's what God is saying. Like, for example, if a seven-year-old shows up, you know, know, before a rocket launch and says to the physicist that built the rocket, this thing will never get off the ground. It's too heavy. I can just tell. What do you say to us? You don't enter into a dialogue and say, well, now let me explain propulsion. No, wait a minute. Nevermind. Sit down is what you want to say. You're a seven-year-old. I can't even begin. And see, here's what God is saying. You have a major knowledge problem here. You have a major knowledge problem. I built all this. See, if you have a God who is big enough and powerful enough to be mad at because he's not stopping the suffering, then you at the same moment have a God big enough and powerful enough to have reasons for why he allows it that you couldn't possibly conceive of. So you can't have it both ways. You can say, oh, there is no God, which means everything is a crap shoot anyway. Or you can say there is a God. But if there is a God and you say, but I can't happen. Does that mean there can't be a good reason because you can't think of a good reason? Of course, that's ridiculous. That's like a seven-year-old trying to talk to the rocket scientists who are actually quite a bit worse than that. And yet we do it. And what God is saying, if you believe in me enough to be mad at me because I haven't stopped things, if I'm that big that you're mad at me, then I'm that big to have reasons that you couldn't possibly conceive of. You can't question my counsel unless you're in the same ballpark with knowledge, and you're not. Now, by the way, that actually is a powerful philosophical argument, and in the areas of high-level philosophy in the last 20 years, this argument has been put forth, this very idea that to look at evil and to say there can't be a God assumes that because I can't perceive as a human being any reasons why God would allow it. Therefore, there can't be any good reasons. And that, of course, is a non sequitur. It doesn't work. It's a powerful philosophical argument, but it's a lot more than a philosophical argument. When Kathy and I were in seminary, we came under the ministry of a woman named Elizabeth Elliot. And Elizabeth Elliot was a sufferer. She was an author and a writer. But when we met her, she was only in her mid-40s or late 40s, and she'd already been widowed twice. And Elizabeth Elliott was a writer, and she wrote a novel called No Graven Image. And that novel is about, it's a fiction, of course, it's about a woman who's a linguist and who gives up marriage and family, gives up career, gives up money to move into the rainforest of South America in order to live amongst primitive, remote tribes who had an oral language that wasn't written and to write down the language and to also translate the Bible. So she goes in there, and she finds one man who knows three languages, knows an Indian language, knows this particular tribe's language, and who knows Spanish. And is the only person in the world that can help her do it. And they go in there, and they spend some years. But here's what happens near the end of the book. She accidentally kills this man, her friend, by giving him an injection of penicillin. The penicillin is bad. against her and all of her years of work, all of her little note cards and that sort of thing are thrown by the tribe into the river. Literally everything she's ever worked for goes down the drain. Everything she's ever lived for is gone. Her entire life has been a disappointment. And that's how the novel ends. I remember her talking about this once to some students and she said that when this happened, when she got the book out there, she got hate mail from all over, from Christians. She got hate mail from ministers. In fact, the president of our seminary at that time very smugly told her at one point that he had personally kept her book off of all kinds of, you know, notable books, you know, of 19 whatever it was. Why? Because here's what they all said. no way would God let a dedicated servant experience such a thing. No way would God let a absolutely dedicated servant go through such a disappointment. And I remember she said, not only in their theological righteousness, had they obviously not read the book of Job. Since that's the whole point of the book of Job, that dedicated servants can go through stuff like this. That's the whole point. But basically she said, you know, what was so weird was it really wasn't that much of a fiction. It was based almost completely on what she'd experienced herself. And so she knew they were absolutely wrong. But at the end of the book, there's a chilling line. And then after that, there's another statement, which I'll put together. There's this chilling line that really had a huge impact. You know, as a pastor, I realize that when you're in the midst of suffering, it's too late almost to get a hold of a theological principle like this. You've got to let it sink in now. got to be something that you burn into your heart so that when the time comes, it'll be an anchor. And here's what she said. This is the woman, you know, the person, the character in the book, who's a Christian and who's facing absolutely everything in her life that she had, you know, wanted, lost. And here's what she says. Now in the clear light of day, I see that God, if he was merely my accomplice, had betrayed me. If, on the other hand, he was God, he had freed me. For God is God, and if he is God, he is worthy of my worship and my service, and I will find rest nowhere but in his will, and that will is infinitely, immeasurably, unspeakably beyond my largest notion of what he is up to. Did you hear there's two words in there? If God was my accomplice, he had betrayed me, but if he was God, he had freed me. It's an assistant. Do you know in chapter 38 it says God picks up the constellations? Do you know in Psalm 147 it says God determines the number of the stars and calls them each by name? Do you know how many stars there are? You know the sun, you can't even look at it. It's so powerful all by itself. Do you know a galaxy, one galaxy can have up to a trillion stars? ours? And do you know that there's a hundred billion galaxies that are visible to our telescopes and from what we can tell, we can only see an infinitesimal little slice of the universe. And the Bible, Hebrews chapter 1, says Jesus Christ holds this universe together with the word of his power, his pinky. Is this the kind of person you ask into your life to be your personal assistant? Is this the kind of person you treat like an accomplice? But we do. Is this the kind of person that you get really huffy when he's not answering your emails quickly? See? So you don't do that to a great woman or man that you are so glad that you even have his or her email address and that you feel, I know I'm not worthy. I'm so sorry that I even emailed you, but would you ever? If he doesn't get back to you, you know, oh well. But then there's other people. you email them and they didn't get back to you. Hey, what's going on here? See, here's what Elizabeth Elliott was saying. Your God is too small and therefore you don't have any rest. Rest. So I will find rest in nothing else but his will. If you know that his will is infinitely, immeasurably, unspeakably beyond the largest notion of what he is up to. See, then you have You can say, I don't even know. He knows. But if you say, how dare he do this? And what's going on here? And how could it have happened? Your God is too small and you're nervous and you're upset and you have no peace and you're not going to have any peace until you see the size of God, until you get a God-sized God. And that's his argument. That's God's argument. Now, the second thing we have to see here, it's as significant to look at what God doesn't say when he shows up to talk to Job, as what he does. And here's what he doesn't say. He doesn't say anything about what Job wanted him to show up to say. Because what Job has all along said is, I want explanation. I want to know what these reasons are. Can't you? You must have some. And what's so extremely important to see is that when God shows up, he never says a word about them. Now, the reason why it's so puzzling, if you read the book through, is because as readers, we know what the reasons are. As readers, we've been through chapter 1 and 2. And let me recap this. This is very important. You know, if we didn't have chapter 1 and 2 and we get to the end and God never again answers Job's questions, well, you know, you might say, well, well, you know, it's mysterious. But see, we deliberately, the author of the book of Job deliberately tells us the reasons and then shows us that when God shows up, he does not breathe a word to Job about what those reasons are. And you remember what the reasons are? God is having a dialogue with Job. Job. No, God is having a dialogue with Satan. I do it all the time. I would think by the sixth sermon, you know, you get this right. But anyway, it's called a malapropism. All right. God is having a dialogue with Satan. And Satan says, this Job, ah, have you seen my servant Job, says God. There is none like him in all the earth. And Job, a servant, Satan looks at him and says, God for nothing. What Satan is saying, Job is a phony. Job looks like he's serving you. And he looks like he's serving the poor. And he's serving other people. But he's really serving himself. He's doing good things for you. He's doing good things for others. But only for his benefit. So bring suffering into his life. And this will expose him to be a fraud. And so Satan wants suffering to come into Job's life in order to discredit him and expose him as a fraud. fraud. And what does God do? God allows only so much suffering, if you were here, you remember, only so much suffering as to completely refute everything Satan wants to do. God only gives Satan enough rope to hang himself. God only allows enough suffering into Job's life as to actually accomplish the opposite of what Satan wanted. And what is that? Satan wanted to discredit him. Satan wanted to expose him as a fraud. But God only allows enough suffering into Job's life so that today, as we all know, Job has literally a name that will never die. Job was one of the most famous figures in the history of the human race. Millions of people have been helped and inspired by his example of bravery and of patience and of pathos. So we know the reason, but when God shows up, he doesn't give Job the reason at all. And here's what I want to show us tonight because this is our last time on the book of Job. God can't show Job the reason because you say, oh, well, why doesn't God just say to Job, I'm bringing suffering into your life to turn you into a great man who will have a name that lives forever. If God tells Job that, he will never become a great man whose name lives forever. And he can't tell you either. How so? You know the play and the movie Amadeus by Peter Schaeffer? In the play and in the movie, there's a young boy named Salieri, remember? And Salieri at one point offers up this prayer to God. Lord, he says, make me a great composer. Let me celebrate your glory through music and be famous through the world. I will give you my chastity, my industry, my deepest humility every hour of my life, and I will help my fellow man all I can. Amen. Now, he begins life after making that prayer with this deal he's made with God, and he starts to serve God in all the ways that he knows. He keeps his hands off women. He works hard at his music. He helps the poor tirelessly. He gives his musicians' lessons for free. He goes to church all the time. And for a while, it looks like God is holding up his end of the bargain. His career starts to go. He starts to move. He becomes a court composer. Everything's going well. And if you know the movie or the play, you know, until he comes. Who's he? It's Mozart. And when Mozart comes to Vienna, everything starts to change for Salieri because Mozart's massive genius shows up Salieri's mediocre gifts. And Mozart's success begins to eclipse Salieri. And Salieri can't understand it. And here's the reason why. Because according to the play, I know it's not necessarily true according to history, but according to the story, the narrative, the play, the movie, Mozart is the very opposite. He is vulgar. He is immoral. He is irreligious in every way. And yet God keeps blessing him. him. And there's one point, you know, in which he's actually watching Mozart cheating on his fiance. And in the play, I don't think it's in the movie, in the play Salieri says, it was incomprehensible. Here I was denying all my natural lust every day to deserve God's gift. And here was Mozart indulging his in all directions without a rebuke from God, nothing but success. and Salieri begins to burn with anger at the injustice of the way God is allowing life to go. And, you know, there's one place, as you might remember in the movie, where finally Salieri picks up the crucifix off the wall and throws it into the fire. Remember, the first time I ever watched this movie in South Philly in the 1980s, everybody gasped. It was sort of a conservative Roman Catholic neighborhood, if I remember correctly. directly, he takes off the crucifix, he throws it in the fire, and he says, from now on, we are enemies, you and I. And Salieri becomes so bitter that he murders Mozart. That's how the story goes. Now, what does this mean? Salieri would certainly say, I was a servant of God. In fact, he actually does this in his confession as an old man to the priest, and that's how you get flashbacks and hear this whole story. Salieri says, I was a servant of God. I served my fellow man. I served the poor. I served God. And God made me this murderous wretch because of his absolute injustice. But you see, Salieri is exactly what Satan said Job was. Salieri was telling himself, I'm serving the poor, I'm serving God. But he wasn't, he was serving himself. self. He was only, God and the poor were useful commodities to get the glory he hungered for. And as soon as God, who he believed owed him because of his good works, as soon as God stopped running history the way he, you know, salary thought he should, he turned and so quickly became far more capable of evil than the vulgar irreligious Mozart. Far more. Now what are we supposed to learn from this? Here's what we're supposed to learn. When God shows up, he says in chapter 40, verse 8, it's written down there, he looks at Job and he says, you're trying to justify yourself. This is a very important verse. Notice he's not saying you sinned and therefore you're suffering because we know that's not the reason for the suffering. But what he is saying is in your suffering, you are trying to justify yourself. You are saying this isn't fair. This isn't right. God owes me. Right? And yet, here's what's important. Even though Job has been struggling, and we've seen this, and even though he's yelling and he's saying this isn't right, this isn't fair, how dare you, this is unjust. And yet, guess what? Job never throws a crucifix in the fire. Not that he had one, but you know what I mean. Job never turns and tries to kill one of his friends, though, as we've been looking at it. They're really asking for it. He hangs on. He never says, we are enemies, you and I. He hangs on. Why? And here's the conflict. Listen, Christianity is not easy. This is complicated. He is not a salieri. Job is not a salieri. Why? What makes you a salieri? What makes you a person who demands that God owes you and cannot handle suffering and injustice because it'll turn you bitter and despondent and maybe be even evil. What makes you a salieri? A person who believes you're saved by works. A person who believes, well, if I live a good life, then God owes me. A person who doesn't understand the gospel. A person who doesn't understand grace. And Job understands basically that he, and you can see this as you go on, because he does not turn away the way a salieri does. He does not say, we are enemies, you and I. Because he basically understands that his relationship with God is based on grace. And yet there's a salieri in him. him. He's not a salieri through and through, but there's something in him. And there's something like there's a salieri in you. Because the default mode of our heart is to say, well, if I do this for God, he owes me here. You know, we may say, oh, we believe we're sinners saved by grace, but deep in our heart, we still want to say, but if I live a good life, and that's what will destroy you in suffering. See, salieri did not love God for himself alone. Salieri loved God as long as was paying off. And if God shows up and says to Job, now Job, you're going to suffer terribly. But you know, 2,000, 3,000 years from now, they're going to be talking about you in New York City. You know, five o'clock. I mean, thousands of people will be talking about you. You will have a name that lives forever. Then Job said, oh, well, okay, well then I'll put up with the suffering. And what do we got? We got a bigger salieri than we had before. A person who's in it for himself. don't you want to be loved for yourself? Do you want somebody to love you for your money or for your looks? You say, well, that won't be a problem. Not a problem with me. Nevertheless, every single one of us want to be loved for who we are. That's right. And it's wrong not to love somebody for who they are. And it's wrong not to love God for who he is. And the only way you will ever learn to love God for who he is in himself, for himself alone, not for the benefits you get, is that when suffering comes, take it. And you rely on the grace of God instead of saying, oh no, you owe me, you owe me. And you rely on the size of God and you say, you know, and I don't. And that will turn you into a great heart. That will turn you into somebody who can help others. That will turn you into someone wonderful. But then we're not quite done. One more, but very important point. We said that Job not only wanted an explanation, he wanted vindication. Remember? And he wanted the world to know that he didn't deserve this, that he's an innocent sufferer. Here's what's very important. God shows up as a storm. Now, a storm is one of the most terrifying things possible. This word storm means a hurricane force storm, a hurricane force tempest. And in chapter 9, Job actually says, chapter 9, verse 17, he actually says, I'm afraid that if God would actually show up, he'll crush me as a storm. And he does. He shows up as a storm. There's nothing more crushing than a storm. You know, the average hurricane has as much power as a 10-megaton nuclear warhead going off every few minutes. And God shows up in his infinity and his majesty and his justice and his holiness. is. But this is the first place, and yet it's repeated over and over in these chapters. It's the first place where God is referred to not as Elohim, God, which is the generic Hebrew word for divine being, but Yahweh. See, it says in chapter 38, verse 1, it's striking, Yahweh spoke out of the storm. Yahweh is the personal name that God gives to Moses in the burning bush. It's his personal name that he only gives to people that he already accepts. steps. Not only that, this word answered Job is a very important Hebrew word. When God talks to Satan, there's a word that says God spoke to Satan, and it's a Hebrew word that means one-way communication from a superior to an inferior. But when God speaks to Job, he uses a word that means reply or answer. It literally means to dialogue, dialogue between friends. This is a deliberate juxtaposition. This is a deliberate, it's supposed to deliberately startle the reader. On the one hand, God is saying, I am infinite, I am majestic, I am powerful, of course you should be crushed by my power and my holiness and my justice. And yet out of that storm comes a voice of love. Because God is counseling Job. Yeah, it's strong counsel. You know, where were you? Do the lightning bolts report to you? Of course it's strong counsel, love. It's counsel. He shows up in all of his infinite holiness and power, and Job is not destroyed. And Job actually was afraid it might happen. Why doesn't it happen? I'll tell you why. Look at verse 8, right in the middle. You see the place where God answers this question? Literally, he says, must I be condemned so you should be justified? See that? Must I be condemned That's a question where he's coming after Job, is he not? And he's saying, how dare you vilify me and say, well, I'm living a good life, so I don't know what the heck God's doing here. See, in order to justify yourself, you're condemning me. And he says, must I be condemned for you to be justified? In the micro, at that moment, the answer, of course, is no. Job needs to be quiet. Job needs to rest in the will of God. But in the macro, in the long run, the most amazing answer possible, the Bible says, the gospel says, Jesus Christ says, the answer to this question, must God be condemned for you to be justified? And the answer is yes. Yes. Unless Jesus Christ came to the cross and was condemned, you can't be justified. Do you see what happens? Jesus Christ, when he went to the cross and died for our sins, this means that the infinite stormy justice of God is satisfied, but also the incredible love of God is satisfied at the same time. And you've now got a terrible but wonderful God, a God who's so holy and yet is so loving. So holy, Jesus had to die. So loving, Jesus was willing and glad to die. and the cross makes God able, you might say, to be both holy and loving toward us, infinitely so, infinitely holy, infinitely loving at the same time. It's because Jesus Christ bowed his head into the ultimate storm of divine justice and let it crush him. He was condemned in your place that now out of the storm of God's holiness all that comes for you, like Job, is a voice of love. And that is your vindication. Who cares what the world thinks? God loves you. God knows you. And that's all Job needed. You know, because what's amazing here is Job actually says, do you see? When he says, I heard of you with my ear, but now I see you with my eye. You know what he's saying? He is saying, I had an abstract idea of the greatness of God, but now I'm having the experience of the might and wonder and size of God. And so I don't need an explanation. And secondly, I kind of understood the grace of God in general, but now I actually see the infinite power of God. And somehow, see, Job didn't understand how. Somehow, in spite of this infinite power and infinite holiness, you still love me. And therefore, I don't need any other vindication. And when he says, I repent, literally the word means. I take back. I retract what I said. I take back my demand for an explanation. I take back my demand for vindication. Because as I see the size of God, I don't need an explanation. And as I see the grace of God now, I don't need a vindication. It's enough that he loves me. And I know that he knows what he's doing. And I don't have to. And he's healed. And it's content. And it'll heal you to. Because you see, what you have to do the next time this happens, and it will happen, the next time you say, I am suffering and I don't deserve it. I'm suffering and I don't deserve it. There's a little Salieri in you that wants to go evil. And here's how you can avoid it. You have to say, well, guess what? I was saved by a man who suffered and didn't deserve it. and he did it for me. And that innocent suffering redeemed me. And now what I'm going to do is I'm going to suffer innocently for him. I'm going to be faithful and trust him in it. And I know that's going to work his redemption more and more into my bones and into my heart and make me something more like him. For after all, Jesus Christ suffered not that you would not suffer, but that when you suffer, you'd be like him. And by the way, here's one more little thing at the end. Do you notice something? Job forgives the friends that let him down. If you've gone through suffering and people have, you know, some of your friends have let you down. Some of your friends have actually been trouble for you when you went through your hard times. What are you going to do? Drop them? See, that's just making you harder. The suffering is making you worse, not better. Forgive them. Pray for them. Do what Job did. And notice God gives them back all kinds of good things. Why? Because they're not safe to have until you're willing to serve God without them. blessings are not safe for you to have until you are willing to serve God without them, because otherwise they'll become pseudo-gods, ways of salvation, things you put your hope in instead of God. Wow. At the very end, it seems to me that Job could have written this hymn. He didn't, but he could have. God moves in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform. He plants his footsteps steps in the sea and rides upon the storm. Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take. The clouds you so much dread are big with mercy and shall break with blessings on your head. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for the patience of Job. We thank you that he wasn't a saliary through and through. we thank you made him into a great heart, somebody who retracted his demand for explanation and vindication and rested in your grace, and then someone who was able to turn around and be forgiven, and then to whom you could entrust blessings. Oh, blessings, Father, will be our death if we don't go through something like this. So we serve you for yourself alone. Oh, Father, I just pray that you would help us also to understand what Jesus Christ, the ultimate Job, the perfect innocent sufferer, did for us, how he took the wrath of divine justice so that now you can be both holy and loving, both just and justifier of those who believe. And we need to cling to that in our suffering, and that'll make us into people who can really reflect you more and more and walk in the footsteps of your Son, in whose name we pray. Amen.