I'd like to call your attention to the words of Jesus in John chapter 16, and I'm going to read from verses 16 to 22. Moving through the book of John, as you know, and I'm going to read what Jesus says in verses 16 through 22. In a little while you will see me no more, but then after a little while you will see me. Some of his disciples said to one another, what does he mean by saying, in a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me, because I am going to the Father. They kept asking, what does he mean by a little while? We don't understand what he is saying. Jesus saw that they wanted to ask him about this, so he said to them, asking one another what I meant when I said, in a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while you will see me? I tell you the truth. You will weep and mourn while the world rejoices. You will grieve, but your grief will be turned to joy. A woman giving birth to a child is pain because her time has come. But when her baby is born, she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. So with you, now is your time of grief. But I will see you again, and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. This is God's Word. You know, Bernard Goetz said, I've been pushed around too much. I'm not going to take it anymore. And he came out shooting. And in New York, there's a sense that the old, old tension, the bristling hostility between the classes and between the races and between the genders and between labor and management and so on that's been here for years, there's a definite consensus that it's getting worse, that it's growing. And everybody sits around a lot, you know, both on the buses and in the subways and in the editorial pages, wringing their hands and saying, what's wrong with us? What's wrong with New York? What's wrong with us? Now, the Bible is much easier on New York than it is on itself. Surprise? The Bible says that the problems, the bitterness and the envy and the hostility is not created by the pressure cooker of New York. It's just revealed. The Bible says the troubles between us by and large are actually due to already existing trouble within us. Or put another way If you are arguing with yourself You'll argue with other people If you're accusing yourself You'll accuse everyone else If you're lying to yourself You'll lie to everyone else If in your central self you're unhappy You'll be unhappy with everyone else You can see it On a good day When you got a raise Or a good performance report Or you lost weight And everybody notices it On a good day you can overlook things. You can forgive. You can take criticism graciously. When on the inside you feel rich, but when you on the inside feel poor on a bad day. You see, when you feel that internal unhappiness in your center self, the fur flies. You can't overlook anything. What the scripture says very, very clearly is that human beings, like New York, do not find themselves going off into hostility and envy and bitterness and anger because New York has done something to them. No, no, no. What the Bible says is basically we're like little bombs. What is a bomb? A bomb is something that's very irritable. It's a very irritable mechanism. It doesn't take much of external prodding or jostling to make it explode. Why? Because inside it's got an unstable compound in it. And in the same way when we come into New York with that unstable compound, an internal unhappiness, we find that the only difference between New York and other places is there's more things to jostle you around. A bomb, you know, can sit underneath the ground for years and years and years. A live bomb with that unstable compound in there. But if nobody touches it, if somehow nobody prods it, it doesn't go off. And yet years later, somebody might dig it up and hit it and prod it, you see, and all of a sudden, bam. And a lot of us actually keep that unstable compound. We think we're pretty good until we come to certain places where there's a lot of jostling. Oh no, friends. Some of you come to New York and you detonate it, or some of you feel like you're about to detonate. The strain of life is a very serious thing. If any of you see some of your friends just breaking apart, don't think that you're superior to them. Don't think, well, they just must be the weak types. It just hasn't come to you yet. The Bible says that all Ourselves are unstable compounds. Now, what do you mean by unstable? You say, all right, would you quickly, I know this will take some of your breath away, mix your metaphors and run over for a minute and say, well, what makes a building unstable? A building is unstable if it is built on a foundation that's too weak or too small to hold it up. And the Bible says, in ourselves, we are all built on a foundation so that we are teetering. We're precarious. We're all leaning towers of peace, except that we're considerably less stable than that. We're all unstable compounds. It's very easy to prod us because in our inner central self, when there's something wrong within us, then we find ourselves at war with people around us. Now, what the scripture teaches is that there is only one way, truly, to put yourself right inside. There's only one thing that will really change that inner instability, compound. It's what the Bible calls the gospel. And I'm going to show you what that means. The gospel means literally joy news. The word, the gospel is the message about what Jesus Christ has done. But literally the Greek word for gospel means joy news, news that creates joy. The only thing that can possibly, in that sense, you ought to think of the gospel as a bomb squad. It and it alone has the expertise to pick you up so gently and sensitively. You know, Jesus, it's a bruised reed he will not break and a smoking flax he will not quench. Jesus himself and Jesus alone can pick you up and open you up

and defuse the internal, unstable compound in there that will detonate. Only the gospel and Christian joy can put you right within. And if you're right within, everything else will be fine. You can handle the things around you. Now let's take a look at this Christian joy. Jesus teaches us about it and he teaches us four things. And we can only look at, since there's four things he teaches us and not two or three, we have to be fairly brief about each of these points, but they're all here. Jesus Christ teaches that Christian joy, gospel the thing that can come inside and defuse us. Gospel joy has four characteristics. It's inevitable. Christian joy is inevitable. Secondly, Christian joy is continual. Thirdly, Christian joy is transcendent. And fourthly, Christian joy is possible. It's inevitable, it's continual, it's transcendent, and it's possible. Let me just show you how the text teaches each of these. First of all, it's inevitable. What does it say? I'm going away. I'm going to die, but I'll be back as your risen Lord. And when you see me, you will have joy. It doesn't say may have joy. The first point is that if you've got Jesus in your life, you've got to have joy. Joy is an inevitable mark. I'm not saying it's an immediate mark, but the Bible says that joy is inevitably true of a Christian. If you're really a Christian, Eventually, joy has got to take you over. Eventually, joy has got to swallow you up. Eventually, it has to. It's inevitable. It doesn't say, when you see me, you may have joy. It says, when you see me, you will have joy. To receive him, to know him, to see him, to apprehend him, to personally know him is to have joy. Why? The reason that Christian joy is inevitable is this. First of all, the Bible says that joy is one of the main attributes of God. So if you have God in your life, you have to have joy. It's one of the main attributes of God. Creation. You artist types know what joy there is in actually creating something beautiful. So imagine what creation was. Creation, the Bible says, was an act of joy. The moon, the sun, the stars. Singing, the Bible says. Reveling in their own freshness. And in Proverbs 8, it tells us about creation. In Proverbs 8, we're told that God says, every day as I was creating, I was delighting in mankind and I was filled with delight every day. And what that means, the word for delight or joy that is used of God in creation is a word that means to jump or to dance. Now, if there's anybody here who says, that's strange to think of God jumping and dancing. I never think of God that way. He's holy. He's majestic. Sure, it's holy joy. It's majestic joy. It's a joy as far above giddiness as a waterfall is above a dewdrop, but that's what it is. God is a God of joy. So if you have God in your life, you've got to have joy. If you don't have joy, if it doesn't inevitably grow, you don't have God. Or here's another way to put it. Christian joy is inevitable not just because God is a God of joy, but because the gospel is a message of joy. Now, I already referred to that. I've already referred to that, but here it is again. The message of the gospel, literally, the Greek word for gospel, evangel, eu means joy, good, and the angel means message. There is a message that can actually bring joy. The very nature of the message is that it brings joy. So if you say, I believe the gospel, but there isn't a growing joy, a happiness that people discern in you. Have you got the message? Put it this way. I think the Bible would say that if your heart was a musical instrument, a stringed instrument, if your heart was a musical instrument, there is a very low, huge string. ring. That if you pluck it, the entire heart would reverberate with the sounds of joy, but nobody's strong enough to pluck it. I've often looked at the cables, these huge, huge, huge cables, these wires, but they're monstrous, you know, they're as big as this, on the suspension bridges. And I've often thought, if somebody was strong enough to pluck it, I wonder what it would sound like. You know, to a termite looking at the great strings on a bass fiddle, they would say, boy, I wonder what that sounds like. But you see, there are people who can pluck it. But the Bible is saying that there is a cord in your life which is as thick and as big as a huge suspension cable. And nobody, nothing, no message but the gospel message is strong enough to pluck it. But once it's plucked, once it starts to reverberate, the entire heart reverberates with the sounds of joy. You see, when you go into a movie, a great movie, or you read a great book, or you see a great painting, anything that beautifully depicts stories of love and of joy and of victory snatched from the jaws of defeat and of hope from beyond the borders of despair. Whenever you see a really good story, either written well or depicted well or painted well or something like that, there's a joy and an exhilaration that lifts you up for a moment, but then as you walk out of the theater, it's gone. It's scratched at that cable. It's scratched at that string, but it can't pluck it. Remember we said last week, Was it last week? Leonard Bernstein says when he really hears great music, he feels like there's love triumphing in the world and there's something really right. And there's hope for the world. And there's truth and justice. Bernstein doesn't believe there's such a thing, but when you hear great music, you feel that way. Why? Because great music, like great art, great literature, a great play, it scratches at that chord because it sounds like the gospel, but it can't pluck the chord. The Bible says that when someone grasps the gospel, which is the ultimate story, which is the ultimate piece of art, the gospel is that God's Son has broken through and has actually become a human being. He came to earth, and through the crazy upside-down strategy of dying and suffering an apparent defeat, he's actually turned the tables on evil, and he's leading a revolt, the evil and suffering of the world, the gospel story, when you actually believe it, when you realize it's true, when you take hold of it, it inflicts upon you, it inflicts upon your heart a joy that you did not know you were capable of. In other words, the string is finally plucked. Only the gospel message can pluck that string. That's the reason why the gospel message is called It's called joy news. And until it begins to pluck that, you're not a Christian. You haven't gotten it. You haven't grasped the gospel. Do you see? History proves it. Throughout history. You know, the earliest Christians in Acts chapter 2 were told that the early Christians were marveled at by the people around them. Because it says, they broke bread together and they ate together with glad and generous hearts. They were characterized by remarkable joy. Okay, we've got to move on. See, the first point Jesus says is, when you see me, you will have joy. And all I can say to you is this. Christian friends, if there's a lack of joy in your life, don't ask God for more joy. It's there. You have to ask yourself, what am I doing to stifle it? Instead of you saying, I really wish I had more, I really wish I had more. If it's true that God is joy, it's himself. And if it's true that the message of the gospel that you've got in your life is designed strictly for joy, then if you don't have joy in your life, you are doing something active to stifle it. You're doing something active to smother it. Instead of saying, oh God, give me some more joy, what you need to say is, what the heck am I doing to clog up this fountain, which is in the middle of my soul, where I wouldn't even be a Christian? What are you doing? Well, let's continue, and maybe you'll get some insight. Secondly, so Christian joy is inevitable. Secondly, Christian joy is continual. Now, Jesus has this incredible illustration, which in some of your cases is extremely relevant and sort of immediate. It's a woman in labor having a baby. It does seem to be something that's been happening around here a lot lately. Now, what's interesting, Jesus says, is very, very, very interesting to show you the structure he gives you the picture of a woman in labor about to have a child. And he says, A woman giving birth to a child, verse 21, has pain because her time has come. But when her baby is born, she forgets the anguish because of her joy that a child is born into the world. So with you. Now, how is you, how are we like a woman in labor? Now, the answer is this. We all know that when a woman is in labor, way, this is before epidurals, anesthetics. I know some of you are going, I can't imagine. But anyway, it's before all that. The woman's in pain. And then he says, but when the child is born, she forgets her pain. Notice, he does not say, men, he does not say that when the child is born, the pain's over. It's not over. It doesn't mean when the child is born, suddenly her body immediately feels just fine. That's not what happens. It says she forgets it. Now what that means, and I've watched this happen at least a couple of times, is not that the pain is gone. You know, when the Bible says God remembers your sin no more, does it mean that he's not conscious of your sin? Does that mean he looks down at you and says, oh yeah, that person sinned, but I can't remember what it was. I've forgotten now. It was pretty bad, but for the life of me, I can't quite put my finger on what it was. That's not what it means. What could it mean when he says he remembers your sins no more? It means he refuses to be dominated by it. He refuses to focus on it. He refuses to be controlled by it. And what happens to a woman when the baby is born is furiously, her mind goes to that child and she looks at it. She wants to see what gender it is. She wants to see whether it's healthy. She wants to see who it looks like. She wants to see it. And you see, what happens is, her mind is captured by it. It's not, Jesus says, that the joy this woman has in her child eliminates the sorrow and the pain of her body, but it overwhelms it. It overshadows it. This is the structure of Christian joy. In the world, joy and sorrow cannot ever overlap. They are mutually exclusive, you see. If you have sorrow and you want joy, what do you have to do if you're not a Christian, if you don't have this particular joy? You either have to eliminate the pain. Now, there's three ways to do it that I can think of. Maybe there's more. One of the things you do is you try to forget the pain. You can do that through chemicals. You can do it through narcotics. You can do it through drinking. You can do it through various sorts of pleasure. So you can try to forget the pain in order to have joy. The other thing is you can try to avoid the pain. That means you just break your commitments. You just leave. You say, I don't have to put up with this. I can't handle it. So in other words, you can avoid the pain in order to get joy. Or thirdly, which is the most pathological, you can deny the pain to get joy. You can say, oh, it doesn't bother me. No, I'm just fine. Everything's fine. No, no, no. Oh, it's all right. You can forget the pain in order to get the joy, or you can avoid the pain, or you can deny the pain. But in every case, what you're doing is you're actually having to turn your brain off. You're having to numb it or medicate it. You're actually divorcing yourself from reality. You tell yourself cute little things like, it'll get better. It can't stay like this. In every cloud, there's a silver lining. This is just an aberration. My life's got to get better. You can say all those things. All of those things are just ways of turning your mind off to reality. The structure of Christian joy is completely different. The structure of Christian joy

You see, a Christian is very odd. On the one hand, a Christian is incredibly realistic. A Christian will never, if you really understand the Bible, be shocked at evil and pain. You expect it. Nor do you tell yourself little stories like I see editorials all the time saying, you know, if this person did this, he must be crazy. People are basically good. The world's basically a nice place. This is just an aberration. Christians are far more pessimistic than other folks. In other words, they're far more realistic about evil. They're realistic about the suffering in this world. They're realistic about the fragmentation, the brokenness of it. They're never surprised. They never have to tell themselves little stories to say, well, this is just an anomaly. They know that this is exactly what life is made of. But on the other hand, Christians have got a truth that overshadows it. That when they focus on it, like the woman looking at her baby, when they focus on it, it overwhelms it. You see, a Christian says, well, look, the world is just as bad as this. I'm not going to try to numb my mind to it. I'm not going to tell myself little stories to try to get out from under the weight of it. But I've got a truth. I've got the gospel, the message of Christ. What is that? Is it true that God's son came to earth? Did he die to pay all my debts? Does he now live to put his glory in me? Does he now reign in heaven to control all things for me and all of history? Is he returning to judge the living and the dead and to put everything right? If that's true, then I've got a truth that overshadows the problems. These problems, as bad as they are, are going to end someday. troubles, as bad as they are, have a consolation that's stronger than them. Don't you see? Are Christians more pessimistic or more optimistic than everybody else about life? Yes. Christians are far more pessimistic and far more optimistic at the same time. The structure of their joy is different. Don't you see? And that's the reason why Christian joy is so different than other kinds of joy. It stays in touch with the sorrow. Christian joy has always got a solemnity about it, never a frivolity. Christian joy keeps in touch with it. Christian joy says, what I'm going through right now is bad. What these people here are going through right now is bad, but the Lord Jesus has been through this. He suffered it a million times over, and he has dealt with it, and he's going to eliminate it. You see, that's the reason why a Christian, on the one hand, is in touch with the truth that overshadows the joy, but at the same time does not have to forget or deny or avoid the pain. When you're around a real Christian who's really, if you're suffering and you're around a Christian with real joy, you're not repelled by it, you're lifted up by it. Do you see how different this is? There's a sense in which the new birth makes the heart bigger. Conversion makes the heart big enough that both peace and pain, hope and desolation, pain and joy are able to live in there together. That's the reason why Paul says in 1 Corinthians, he says, always rejoicing and yet full of sorrow. And a non-Christian looks at that and says, I can't get that. I don't get it. Of course not. The structure of Christian joy is different. Christian joy is continual. Makes a Christian joy. Joy is not the absence of pain, but rather you've got something that overshadows and enables you to come up over the pain. Okay, thirdly, we said Christian joy is inevitable. Secondly, Christian joy is continual. Thirdly, Christian joy is transcendent. You see, there's a sense in which sorrow and pain not only don't eliminate Christian joy, they almost enhance it. Christian joy is like a furnace with a thermostat on it. That the colder it gets outside, the more it kicks on that thermostat and the more it kicks up the furnace. There's almost a sense in which that sorrow actually increases Christian joy, whereas sorrow eliminates the world's joy. And here's why. Because Christian joy is transcendent. Christians are very complex people because Christians both, put it this way, the world's joy rests on circumstances and the Christian's joy does not. See, the world's joy is fairly simple. If you have good circumstances, you're happy. If you have bad circumstances, you're sad. And that's pretty simple. The trouble with Christians is this. If we have bad circumstances, we're sad. We feel the sadness. But at the same time, a Christian's joy is not based on circumstances. It's based on something infinitely higher. It's based on something above and independent of circumstances. It's based on what Christ has done for us. See, here on earth, what are your circumstances that bring you joy? If you know you're loved, that gives you joy. If you don't feel like anybody cares about you, if you don't feel like when you have a problem that anybody's bothered by it, joy. Here on earth, the circumstance of love is important. A circumstance of, do you feel like you're doing something productive? Do you feel like you are, are, do you feel like there's possessions that you have? You know, see, what gives you joy is knowing that you own things that are worthwhile, knowing that you're doing things that are worthwhile, knowing that you're loved. When you look at Christian joy, it's completely different in that it is based on something above. We know that God loves us with a love that is infallible. We know he loves us with a love that no one else has ever known. We have a place like where Paul says, I count everything else's loss for the surpassing worth of knowing Jesus Christ and making him known. Here what Paul is saying is, once I became a Christian, I got something new. It was a glory. It was an inheritance that now is growing. It's getting broader and it's getting deeper and it's getting richer. eternity, and it's so much more valuable. My new job in Christ, I feel more productive, I feel more loved, I feel more secure than I ever did looking at my circumstances. And that's the reason why a Christian is actually a very complex individual. When your circumstances are bad, when you've lost human love, when you've lost human productivity, when you've lost human security, do you feel that sure. Are you sad? Of course. But you can't lose the divine love. You can't use the divine security, the divine safety. And if you don't have, if you have that, when you have that, when you're holding on to that, you've got a transcendent joy that's not based on circumstances at all. And that's the reason why Jesus Christ is able to say, no one takes it from you. Do you see that? that the joy I give you he says you will have joy and no one will take that from you if you are joy is based on circumstances anything can take it from you if your joy is based on Christ nothing can take it from you now just before I get to my final point let me just ask you a question is there anybody in this room who is basing your joy on a lack of thinking remember I said the structure of Christian joy is it makes you think more. Things are really this bad, but we've got something more. The structure of circumstantial joy is to not think too hard. Are you joyful today? Are you pretty happy today? But is it all based on a refusal or a failure on your part to analyze your true condition? You know, you're going to die. It's inevitable, and many of you do not have the assurance or the comfort or the joy with which you can meet that. Some of you have no idea. You're very busy, but you don't know what you're living for and what you're doing all these things for. Many of you have no way of dealing with the guilt that you feel for things, but you stay busy. In other words, you're happy because you're sitting on a volcano and it just hasn't erupted. But I tell you something, anybody can take your joy away. Think about the things that your joy is based on. Think of the fragility of them. Think and get this new joy. Get this new structure. Get this Christian joy, which is transcended, which is continual. All right, lastly, a lot of you Christians are out there saying, okay, joy is inevitable, all right, and it's continual because it's based on transcendent truths. Okay, I got that. Then what's wrong with me? What's wrong with me? really have any more joy than pretty much anybody else. What's wrong? Here's the answer. Lastly, joy is possible because it's a discipline. Now, let me tell you what I mean by a discipline. There are two things you've got to do, and I've got to close up here. And if you fail to do them, you're actually stifling the joy in your life. The first thing you're supposed to do, do it, the positive discipline and the negative discipline. The negative discipline is you've got to keep your conscience clear. Do you know there was a British author once last century, I guess, well, anyway, there was a British author once who lived about a hundred years ago that as a joke one day in London, he gave, he sent an anonymous note to three of his friends and the note said, flee at once. All is discovered. It was just a joke. It was just a lark. It was anonymous note. To his absolute shock, all three people within 24 hours left town. They had bad consciences. He never found out, nor does any of us, do any of us really know what was wrong. A bad conscience will shut down your joy. A bad conscience will smother your joy. forever. You cannot not only do things that you know are wrong, you shouldn't even do things that you're not sure are right. The Bible says if anyone does something and it's not a faith, it's not something you can do with a clear conscience, for you it is sin. And therefore don't shut down your conscience. A lot of your joy is being shut down because your conscience is bad. But the positive discipline is you have to meditate. Jesus says, I tell you these things so you might have joy. I tell you these things, these things. Some of you say, I read my Bible and I pray. Okay, but then what do you do? After you've read your Bible and after you've prayed, then you have to sit down and you have to rejoice. Now rejoicing is very much like learning to play a musical instrument. On the one hand, you can't be totally passive. On the other hand, you can't be totally active. You can't be totally passive. If you want to play a musical instrument, you don't just sit there and wait for it to happen to you. You have to practice. the other hand, you don't expect, if you just picked up the piano for the first time this week, that you're going to be able to play great music by next week. Christians, you have to avoid, on the one hand, thinking that joy just happens to you. But on the other hand, you've got to avoid thinking that you can force yourself to it. It's a very, very dangerous thing. Christians say, I'm a Christian. I need to have joy, so I'm going to act as if I'm happy. That's the right thing to do. That's wrong, too. What you have to do is you have to play the gospel. You have to practice it. You have to recollect it. You take these truths out. The love that we talked about. The things that we talked about earlier in the worship service. He's your father. You don't live in his house as a boarder, someone that has to pay rent and obey the rules, or you're out. You're a child. You're in. He loves you. You think about the safety. No one can cast you out. Him who comes to me, no one can cast me out. You think about the inheritance, what it means to have glory. You think about these things and you meditate on them just the way you learn to play a piano. It may take a long time before you're able to have the joy of making great music. But I tell you this, if you meditate on those things, rejoicing means thinking about them without forcing your feelings. Rejoicing means thinking about them until the fire awakens. Rejoicing means thinking about them until your heart starts to soften. Not trying to soften your heart. Don't work directly on your emotions. Go to the truth. The positive discipline is to think. The negative discipline is to keep your conscience clear. And Christian friends, if you do that, I tell you there's a joy that's inevitable. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes in the morning. And for a Christian, morning is now if you do those two disciplines. And maybe there's somebody here today who's very resentful at me talking about joy being for anybody who comes to Christ. I know that when you're emotionally hurting, you really are sure that joy is not for you. And you may feel like, you may be angry at me for raising your hopes and talking as if joy is something for anybody. Well, I refuse to apologize for what I've done because you cannot live without it. You will die without this joy. Come get it. Joy is not an abstraction. It's a person. When you see me, you will have joy and no one will take it from you. Let's pray. Father, now as we receive the offering, we pray that we might give you our hearts. I pray that everyone here might know the structure of Christian joy as they set their minds on things which are above. I ask that you would enable us to do that now. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
