Tonight's scripture reading comes from the book of Galatians, chapter 5, verse 26, through chapter 6, verse 5. Let us not become conceited, provoking and envying each other. Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourself, or you also may be tempted. Carry each other's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. If anyone thinks he is something when he is nothing, he deceives himself. Each one should test his own actions. Then he can take pride in himself without comparing himself to somebody else. For each one should carry his own load. This is the word of the Lord. Each week we've been saying that beliefs don't automatically change your life. They have to be drilled into, instilled into your heart through spiritual disciplines or what we're calling Christian practices. And I'd like to talk tonight about a Christian practice that you probably don't think of as a discipline or a practice. And that is the practice of friendship, especially friendship between believers. We don't think of it as a practice, but the ancients understood it was. In fact, there's several Greek words we talked about last week, if you were here, that describe the different forms of love relationships. Storge was a word for family bond love relationships. Brother, sister, father, mother, child. Eros is the word for romantic or sexual love. and philos was the word for friendship. And what the ancients knew was that the first two kinds of love relationships kind of happened to you. You don't choose brothers, sisters, fathers, mothers. There they are. You have those relationships, you know, whether you seek them or not. And even romance, in a sense, to some degree happens to you because we use the term you fall in love, attraction comes upon you. But friendship doesn't happen unless you work at it. Friendship only happens to the degree you work at it. And that's the reason why the ancients put it up on a pedestal and considered it the most virtuous, in some ways, of all the loves, because it was the most deliberate. And Lewis, C.S. Lewis, in his famous essay on friendship says that's probably one of the reasons, because it's so hard and because it takes so much work, that in the ancient times, the friendship was raised up on a pedestal and there were many, many great works of literature written about it. Like Cicero wrote an entire book on it. And today, it's relatively, you know, it's almost ignored by literature and movies. He actually says at one point, Lewis says, It says, Tristan and Isolde, Anthony and Cleopatra, Romeo and Juliet have innumerable counterparts in modern literature. Pilates and Orestes, Roland and Oliver, Amos and Amelie have not. And some of you are saying, Pilates and who? I rest my case. The point is that friends are not famous the way lovers are famous in our era. understood, like all ancient people, how important friendship was. And now, with the background of the significance of friendship in ancient times, realize what it means when Jesus says to his disciples, you are not just my disciples, you are not just my followers, you are not just my students, you're my friends. And when Paul and the writer of the Hebrews and Peter write invite entire churches and refer to them or address them as dear friends. For us, that's just a sentimental statement, dear friends. But for them, it meant something. What it meant was that the practice of friendship was something that Christians were to extend to everybody else in your Christian community. Now, that didn't mean that there weren't levels of intensity. I mean, Jesus said to his 12 disciples, you're all my friends, and yet John was his best friend. Peter, James, and John were close friends. You can't practice the discipline of friendship as intensely with a group as you can with a few. Some people you practice more intensely. But the Bible says that all other believers in your Christian community must be friends. You must practice the disciplines of friendship. What do you mean by that, you say? There were two great features, two great qualities of friendship. And in this passage, even though it doesn't tell you, it doesn't have the word friend in it, it tells you what those two features are and the power to do them. The constancy of friendship, the intimacy of friendship, and the power to fulfill them. Constancy and intimacy, those are the two things. What do I mean by that? First of all, constancy. A friend is someone who always is there for you. you. So verse 2 says, carry one another's burdens. If you see a guy struggling along with a 100-pound object on his, you know, back, how do you bear that burden with him? The answer is, number one, you have to get right in his shoes, practically behind him, in front of him, or right alongside of him. You have to go right to where he is, get very close. And secondly, you have to let some of the burdens slide onto you. Now, what does that mean? If you have a person who has an emotional burden and they're weeping and they're crying, you don't want to go over there and spend an evening listening to them. You don't want to go over there the next night and over there the next week. You know why? It's draining. But they feel better when you listen to them. They feel affirmed. They feel like they're not facing this alone. You're getting drained, and they're being built up. What's happening? You're bearing their burden. Some of the weight is sliding onto you. Some of their suffering is sliding onto you. You're standing in their place. And since you're a substitute for them, you're standing in their place, and you are experiencing what we could call a substitutionary sacrifice. Some of their suffering is sliding onto you, and you are losing some emotional resources in order to help them bear their burden. Or what if it's a financial burden? What if you have somebody here who's got a financial or economic problem? There's no way to help them bear that burden without you opening your wallet. Without you sharing your possessions. The only way to help them, relieve them of their economic burden is if some of the suffering falls onto you. You have to let some slide onto you. up without you losing some resources. You know, Jonathan Edwards, when he wrote a very well-known treatise on why we need to help with our funds, we need to be generous to people who've got material needs, the poor, the needy, the people around us. And often Edwards would preach about this and people would say, well, I know I probably ought to help people with needs, but I can't afford to. I have nothing to spare. And Edwards replied in this treatise, in many cases we may, by the rules of the gospel, be obliged to give to others when we cannot do it without suffering ourselves. How else will we bear one another's burdens? If we are never obliged to relieve others' burdens but when we can do it without burdening ourselves, how do we bear our neighbor's burdens when we bear no burdens at all. See what he's saying? When you say, I would love to help but I can't afford it. What you mean is, I can't help without burdening myself. I can't help. I can't afford to help without really hurting myself. And Edward says that's exactly what you're being called to do in Galatians 6.2. When you say, I can't afford to help. What you mean is, I can't afford to help without suffering myself. But that's the whole point. To be a friend is to let some of the suffering of the other person slide over on you. That's why we say a friend sticks with you, is always there right next to you, and let some of your suffering fall on him or her. And if a person doesn't do that, they may be an acquaintance, but they're not a friend. And Proverbs, in fact, they may even be a spouse and not be a friend. Proverbs 18, 24 says, a man may have many companions and still come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. Isn't that interesting? What do I mean a friend that sticks closer than a brother? The essence of friendship is these two factors, and the first one is constancy. You stay with your friend through thick and thin, even to your own hurt. You're there. You stand close enough so that some of will slide onto you. If you stay away from a person who's really sinking because you don't want to have to listen one more night to all their problems, you're standing far enough away that none of the suffering's falling on you. Okay, but you're not a friend. You may be an acquaintance. And when the Bible says there's a friend that sticks closer than a brother, you know what that means? You may have a brother or a sister, even a spouse who's not really a friend. the New York Times, you can find it today, go to the front page of the Sunday Style section, and it talks about what it's like to be less rich. And it talked about a man who came in to see his financial advisor, and because he lived in New York City, and because of the turmoils of the economy right now, he used to be worth $20 million, now he's worth $8 million. And he said, the problem I've got is that I can't bear to tell my wife, because she's still spending as if I'm worth 20 million, but I'm actually still worth this much. And the financial advisor says, you've got to just tell her. She can't keep spending like this. You can't afford it. You've got to tell her. And the guy said, I don't think I can tell her because, and this is on the front page of the New York Times here,

because she'll leave me. Now, what that means is, you know, we can make fun of that, but here's what it means. This woman might be his spouse. But she's not his friend. There's a friend that sticks closer than a brother or a spouse. What that means is. You know. If your brother or your sister. Or your spouse. Is not there for you. Will not stand. Under your burden. Will not stay close enough. So that some of the suffering. Falls on you. If your brother. Or your sister. Or your spouse. Doesn't do that. That person is still a brother. Or a sister. Or a spouse. But they're not a friend. This is the essence. Of friendship. friendship. A friend never lets you down. That's only the first one. Here's the second one. The second feature of friendship is not constancy, but intimacy. And in this passage, we don't get the full range of that intimacy, that vulnerability, that transparency that you must have with in a friendship, but we get a case study of it, an example of what happens if you have the intimacy of friendship. And the case study is in verse 1. Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently, but watch yourself or you also may be tempted. This is so great. First, look at this case study. What is this describing? First of all, it's describing a person who's caught in a sin. Confrontation happens because the person's caught. do not read this verse as saying that it would be normal for Christians to see somebody sinning or doing something wrong. And if you see somebody sinning, you've got to tell them about it. The Bible does not say that's right. The Bible does not say when you see somebody doing something wrong, you've got to tell them about it. First Peter 4.8. Love covers a multitude of sins. First Corinthians 13.5. Love is not easily angered. Does not keep a record of wrongs. 1 Corinthians 13, 7, love hopes all things, endures all things. What does that mean? It's the mark of spiritual maturity to always have to be telling everybody where they're wrong. But this says the situation is a person is caught in a sin. That's the key. What does that mean? To be caught in a sin implies several things. One, it implies that there's a pattern here. The person is trapped and the person is doing something repeatedly. That's what trap means. Secondly, it indicates that the person is harming. To be trapped or caught means they're harmed by what they're doing or they're harming other people. And the third thing it implies is that they're stuck so they can't get out of it themselves. So we're talking about a situation where a person is doing something wrong, doing it repeatedly, doing it to their hurt and the hurt of others, and they can't stop on their own. Then, we're told, there's two things you've got to do. gently. Restore gently. What does the word restore mean? Whenever I see this word, by the way, it kind of gives me chills because the word actually means, it's a Greek word that means to take a dislocated bone and put it back into the socket. To take a bone that's out of joint and put it back in a socket. Have you ever had a bone go out of joint and have to be popped back in? My next door neighbor, the family next door to us when I was growing up, one of the boys, that we used to play with over there. He used to constantly, his arms would come out a joint. And if you were wrestling with him or playing with him or anything like that, sometimes suddenly he'd start to scream because his bone had popped out. His arm would pop out a joint. But his father was particularly good at this because this was something that was chronic with his son. And when he would hear the son scream, he'd come running out of the house, running down the hill. And with his right hand, he'd take the kid's elbow. go. And what was interesting was the boy would be screaming. And then to snap it back in a joint, he'd be really screaming. And then he'd be smiling. And the only way to get from screaming to smiling was to really scream. Because the only way that you could possibly get him out of the pain of dislocation was the greater pain of relocation. Because relocation is more painful than this. I mean, it just, it's like pulling a tooth. It's like surgery. It's inflicting healing pain. And if you're a friend, you'll do that. But gently, and you know what this word is? Gently means humbly, and then it even explains it. But watch yourself or you also may be tempted. You know what that means? You are not able to correct somebody gently. if you look at them and you say in your heart, I would never be tempted to do that. See, if you see somebody doing something wrong, caught in a trespass, caught in a sin, stuck, and you think, well, I'm going to go help them. If you think that somehow you are made of better stuff than they are. If you feel superior in any way. If you feel like you would never be capable of anything like that. Keep your mouth shut. You are not qualified to do this. And you won't be a good friend. You'll be abrasive. You'll be haughty. You'll be clumsy. But a real friend neither enjoys confrontation, because you're doing it gently, nor avoids confrontation. Because if you're spiritual, and that word spiritual means anyone with the Holy Spirit, anyone who thinks they're a Christian, anybody trying to live a Christian life, this is what friendship means. And it's scary. You know why it's so scary? Because, first of all, it's scary. because it might not work. And that person may no longer like you or love you, and then that'll hurt. But you know what's even more scary? That it might work. Do you know why? Because when you do that to somebody else, you're giving them a warrant to do it back to you. You're inviting them. And who wants that? You know what friendship is? A friend is someone who always lets you in and never lets you down. Intimacy and constancy. vulnerability and transparency and sticking closer than a brother. Always lets you in, never lets you down. And we need this so badly. Oh, we need it so badly. There's an interesting, you know, in the sequel to Frankenstein, 1935, Boris Karloff, the sequel to Frankenstein was The Bride of Frankenstein. And in that movie, there's a famous scene in which the monster, Boris Karloff, of course, finds this cottage in the middle of the forest with a blind man in it. And when the blind man comes to the door and the monster is growling, the blind man can't see he's a monster. All he can tell is that he's a man who's, you know, unable to speak. And instead of getting scared, here's what the blind man says. He says, are you afflicted as I? I cannot see and you cannot speak. Perhaps we could help each other. Yes, we could be friends. And so, then he gets down on his knees, by the way, the blind man in the movie, and prays, finally, gracious Lord, you have heard my prayers and you have sent me a friend to heal my terrible loneliness. And over the next three or four days, the blind man brings the monster in. And he says, well, you're afflicted, I'm afflicted. You can't speak, I can't see. We'll be friends. And they do chores together and they eat together. and the movie shows the monster beginning to learn to speak and to say things like food and good and friend. And you also see the monster begin to smile, the only place where Boris Karloff lets the monster smile. But, of course, it's a horror movie, so what ended up happening is some hunters come to the door, they look into the door, they see the monster, they try to attack him. The cottage burns down. man dies, the hunters die. At the very end, the monster is groping off into the forest, crying, friend, friend, friend. And what's the point? Nothing is more humanizing than friendship. Even Frankenstein was turning human under friendship. And there is nothing that you need more than friendship. But there's a problem in our hearts. I'm scared of friendship for two reasons, and I think you are too. My natural self is such that I'm afraid of the transparency. I don't want criticism. And my natural self is also selfish, and I don't want the constancy. See what I mean? In other words, on the one hand, I'm afraid of having somebody tell me about my faults. I don't like that kind of transparency. It scares me. So the intimacy is scary, but the constancy seems onerous. I don't want to have to be there night after night for the person. I don't want to have to have some of their suffering slide over on me. I'm too selfish, honestly, to be a friend. I'm too scared, honestly, to be a friend. And actually, what's interesting is that in verse 26 when he says, don't be conceited lest you provoke or envy others. Do you know what that means? The word conceited is a unique Greek word that actually means to be empty of glory, to be hungry for glory. It means to need approval, to need glory, to need strokes, to need acclaim. And what he says, if you're hungry in the center, if you're not sure of your own value, if you're needing of approval and acclaim, you will either provoke, which is a word that means to lord it over someone that you feel is beneath you, or envy, which is to feel inferior and resentful toward people that you feel are above you. You'll always be needing in all of your relationships to be saying, am I getting enough? Am I getting enough acclaim? And that doesn't... you can't have it because if you're glory hungry

You can't have the transparency because you can't take criticism. And you can't do the constancy because you're really too selfish. You're looking for yourself. You've got to go wherever, you know, your own needs are met. Paul says a Christian actually can overcome that. Because in verse 3 he says a Christian knows he's nothing. And yet is proud of himself. Isn't that interesting? In verse 3 he says you're nothing. And in verse 4 he says be proud of yourself. And you read that and you say what? what? Well, you see, if you're glory needy, if you're out there trying like you can to get from the world your self-image, you need people to tell you're good. You need a claim. You need success. Then you'll either be up here feeling proud of yourself because you're living up and you're getting a claim. Or you'll be down here because you feel like you're failing. But a Christian is both down here and up here. Why? Because a Christian knows you're sinful and nothing, and yet in Jesus Christ you're everything, and that gives you what you need to be a friend. Because if you really know you're a sinner, that humbles you out of your selfishness, and if you really know you're loved by God, that affirms you out of your fear of transparency, and you can become a friend. Well, how do we get such a self-image? And the answer is in verse 2. It's right under our noses. Paul does not say, bear one another's burdens because I say so. though. He said, bear one another's burdens, he says, and thus fulfill the law of Christ. What is the law of Christ? The word law here probably means a pattern of Christ. And you know what he's saying? Bear one another's burdens because Christ bore your burdens. And there's the secret. Do you know what it means to bear burden? It means to get in the person's shoes and let some of the suffering slide onto you. But at the incarnation, Jesus Christ didn't get near us, he became a human being in that manger. And on the cross, Jesus Christ didn't let a little bit or part of our suffering slide onto him, but all of it. And do you know what happened to him? Isaiah 53, excuse me. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. He was crushed. Why? There's the ultimate burden bearing. Jesus Christ took all of our sins, all of our punishment, all of our guilt, see, all of the human races on himself, and he crushed him, and he did it gladly. You know why? Because he's the ultimate friend. And he says what he did on the cross was the ultimate act of friendship. He says in John 15, I no longer call you servants because a servant does not Instead, I have called you friends. Greater love has no one than this, that he lay down his life for his friends. Therefore, love one another as I have loved you. And there it is. A friend always lets you in, vulnerable. How much more vulnerable could you get than be nailed to a cross? A friend never lets you down, constancy. How much more constant can you have than somebody who is willing to go to hell rather than give up on you? seeing Him doing that. When you see Him loving you like that and bearing your burdens like that, then you can get out there. And even though they're painful, you can bear the little burdens because He bore your infinite burden for you. That affirms you out of your fear of transparency and that humbles you out of your need for selfishness. And you can be a constant. You can be a constant friend. If you have never given your life to Christ, really put him in the center of your life, you are like Boris Karloff,

knowing that you haven't really become all that you should be, groping through the forest looking for your friend, and guess what? In Jesus Christ, here he is. And by the way, if you're a Christian, I want you, as you do the Lord's Tupper, to thank God for the friends that God has put into your life. Because as C.S. Lewis says beautifully on friendship. He says, we think we have chosen our friends. In reality, a few years difference in dates of our birth, a few more miles, the choice of one school rather than another, the exit of a topic being raised or not raised at a first meeting, any of these chances might have kept friends apart. But for a Christian, there are, strictly speaking, no chances. A secret master of ceremonies has been at work in your life. Christ, who said to the disciples, you have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, can also say to every group of Christian friends, you have not chosen one another, but I have chosen you for one another. At this feast, it is He who has spread the board, and it is He who has chosen the guest list. It is He who sometimes does and always should preside. Let us not forget our host as we eat. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the ultimate act of friendship in Jesus Christ, we can be your friends and we can be one another's friends. And we pray that now we would partake of the bread and cup. And as we do it, we would celebrate and become better friends of one another and of you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.