Tonight we're going to read the famous story of Cain and Abel. We get to that story in Genesis 4, 1 to 16.

I'm going to read it for you.

God's Word.

Now you know, the word Genesis and the word genetic are the same word. You know why? All of your growth and all of your life history is nothing but a kind of playing out of your genes. You see, everything that you are is in your genetic code and it plays out. And everything in all the rest of the Bible and everything in all the rest of history is right here. This is the genetic code for all the rest of history. There's nothing new after the first few chapters of Genesis. Everything is just a playing out. That's one of the reasons why it's hard for me in these Genesis accounts to be concise. There's just so much to look at. And really, every verse, almost every phrase is pregnant because it's a genetic code. And there's all this DNA in every little word. But we can't look at it like that. I'm just going to take a look at three things. Three very important things that the text teaches us. The course comes up all the way through the Bible and all the way through your life. But here they are. And they all start with S. What a coincidence. At least I worked it out that way. The three things the passage tells us about is the seriousness of sin, the sweetness of God, and the significance of sacrifice.

The seriousness of sin, the sweetness of God, and the significance of sacrifice. Let's look at them in order.

First of all, the seriousness of sin. In one of the most vivid verses in the whole Bible, verse 7, God says something to Cain about the nature of sin. It's one of the most vivid, one of the most artistic, I think, phrases. It's so incredibly metaphorical, but packed with incredible insight. What does God say to Cain? Verse 7: "If you do not do what is right, sin is crouching at your door. It desires to have you, but you must master it."

What? Here's what it teaches us. It's teaching us about the hiddenness and the power of sin. First of all, the hiddenness. Now, this is a picture. What is it a picture of? Well, we have a cat. And whenever she's anywhere around a window and a pigeon flies, I mean, it's so interesting to watch my cat when a pigeon gets near. Because when a pigeon gets near, suddenly she disappears. She crouches. And she is absolutely motionless. She gets down or she gets behind a corner or something. She like disappears. Where is she? If I see a pigeon out on the window or out on the windowsill or something like that, I know that. Because what an animal does, and particularly-we understand that the word that is used here in Hebrew is a word that usually was used for leopards or tigers. And that is a predator. When it sees its prey, it crouches down-which is get out of the field of view. And what God is saying here, what we're being taught, is it is the nature of sin to hide itself from you. To crouch. Sin crouches. It gets out of your view and it insists that it's much smaller and much less there than you think it is. That's the nature of it.

Now, how does that happen? How does sin crouch? How does sin hide itself? Well, there's a lot of ways. Sin hides itself intellectually. In modern times, sin hides intellectually. The very word sin-some of you are here and you're saying, he's talking about sin? Is this one of these kind of conservative churches or something? Sin? You know why you feel that way? Because sin is crouching in the 20th century. It's crouching intellectually. The whole idea of sin-I mean, when we talk about sin, that sounds so primitive. People say, you're calling me a sinner? I'm a sinner? How would you use terms like that? What is that? That's sin crouching intellectually. Out of sight. I mean, if you don't believe in it, you're going to get it. If you don't think a predator is crouching at the door, you're definitely dead meat. If you think a predator is crouching at the door, you're only possibly dead meat. That's sort of like walk and don't walk. See? Walk means you may be killed. Don't walk means you will definitely be killed. See? If you think a predator is crouching at your door, you may be killed. But if you don't even think it's there, you will definitely be killed. It'll slay you. See? It's crouching down.

Not only does it crouch down intellectually in the 20th century because we say, ah, you know, who believes in sin anymore? But it also crouches down because of the way in which we deal, one of the ways in which we deal with human evil is whenever we see it crop up in somebody, in our minds, we insist that they're monsters. We would never do anything like that. Now, you know this-two people have really put this beautifully. One was Hannah Arendt. But the other one was Wednesday Adams. Remember the Adams family? In the second Adams movie, little Wednesday Adams comes to a costume party. It's Halloween. Everybody's dressed in these incredible costumes. And she walks in just wearing her regular everyday dress. She says, somebody says, Wednesday. Why didn't you wear a costume? She says, I am in costume. Well, what have you come as? She says, I've come as a homicidal maniac. They look like everybody else. See, they just look like everybody else.

Hannah Arendt, though, put it better. She went to see the Adolf Eichmann trial. She was a Jewish intellectual. And when one of these great Nazi fiends, one of the last of them, somebody that was just capable of such incredible evil, she wanted to see him up close. And she went to see him during the trial. And when she did, she came to the conclusion. And then she wrote about it. And she got plastered all across the world because she wrote an essay called "The Banality of Evil." And in that essay, she said, you know what, he looks ordinary. He looks just like us. He doesn't look evil. He looks just like us. You know what that means? He is just like us. And see, the way we hide, the way sin crouches down intellectually for most of us is when we see somebody like the Nazis and we say, aha, we would never be capable of that kind of arrogance. We would never be capable of that kind of delusion, we would never be capable of that kind of pride. We would never be capable of that kind of violence and that kind of cruelty. Hannah Arendt says, why not? You see, we are just like them. They are just like us. We must be capable of it. Of course we're capable of it, she said. If they are sub-people and we treat them that way, that's exactly what they did to the Jews. And if we don't treat them as sub-people, then we have to admit that we're capable of it too. See, sin crouches down intellectually. But that's really not the most important thing to talk about tonight. In the 20th century, sin is crouching down. It's getting out of view. It's, I'm not here. And of course, if you believe that, if you buy what the average person says, we're not really that sinful. We're basically pretty good people. There's no such thing as really radical human evil. We don't believe in original sin anymore. You will definitely be killed.

But sin also hides personally. And that's the most important thing to talk about here. Now, what do I mean by that? It says here, sin is crouching at the door, but it will spring. It crouches down as a way of saying, I'm not that big. I'm really not here. I'll just be over here in this corner. But if you allow sin in the corner, sin is never sitting in a corner. Sin is crouching in a corner, ready to spring and take your whole life over. Do you see the image?

If you leave sin alone in any part of your life, sin is not this. Here's what sin is doing. Sin is saying, oh, I'm just over here. Don't mind me. I'm just fine. Turn your back on it. It's on you. Now, I made a list of about 23 examples just because I'm afraid there's somebody who's going to say, I wish so-and-so were here. I don't want you to say, I wish so-and-so were here. I want you to be glad that you're here. Look, for example, you have a grudge. You have a grudge. Now, here's what the grudge will do. It'll crouch. That means it'll get over here and say, well, I'm not a bad grudge. I'm not a big grudge. I'm not real bitterness. Besides that, I'm righteous indignation. And, you know, I'm not a bad grudge. You know, most people have never been treated the way you have. Of course you're going to be angry. You're sitting over there. But it's saying, I'm fine. I'm not that big. It's crouching down. I'm way over here in the corner, but you turn your back on it. No. Every sin wants to have you, wants to have your whole life, and will have your whole life. And if you think, if you let a grudge alone, it will not poison your whole life, you are wrong. First of all, you may not-you cannot maintain a grudge without feeling superior. And that generalizes. If you feel superior to somebody enough to stay mad at them, you will feel superior to other people too. It generalizes. And it's not just your pride generalizes. If you maintain a grudge against, if you're a man and you maintain a grudge against a woman, it will generalize and you will not like women. Or if somebody hurt you in a dating relationship and you stay angry at that, it will generalize and you won't date. Or if you have a grudge against somebody of a different race, it'll generalize, and you will think ill of the whole race. Sin will never stay in a corner. It says, I'm over here. I'm just fine. Sin doesn't sit. It crouches. The minute you turn, it wants your whole life.

That's just one example. Let me give you another one. I'll give you a bunch of them, but actually these are the only two I'm trying to show you. Sin will always say, I'm over here, but they're really crouching. It's really there, and it'll poison your whole life. It'll take your whole life of fantasies. Now somebody says, oh, well, yeah, there's sexual fantasies, yes, where you're fantasizing about a kind of situation that makes you feel good, but I'm not even just thinking of sexual fantasies. Some of us spend a lot of our time fantasizing how our life really should be going. You fantasize about career success. You fantasize about certain material conditions. You fantasize about how this would happen, that would happen. And see that the sin is over there, and it's saying, oh, I'm just a little bit of a release valve. There's nothing wrong with visualizing your future. Doesn't Mark McGwire visualize hitting a home run every time? And you say, I'm just visualizing your future. But no, here's what you're doing. What you've done-it's crouching. It's not sitting there. It'll take your life over. It's made of self-pity. And it'll poison your life. You will be unable to just be grateful for what you've got right now. You'll always be living in the future. You'll never be living in the present. You'll always be grumpy. You'll always be out of sorts. You'll always be upset. You'll always be kind of driven. You'll always be kind of itchy. And you'll be addicted.

Why could the Nazis eventually do the things they did? Little sins become only huge sins if they're planted in self-pity. And if you sit around, self-pity always doesn't look like anything big. In fact, when I say self-pity, you don't get upset about self-pity, but you ought to. Why do you think the Nazis could do what they did? Because they wallowed in pity. They wallowed in self-pity for 20 years as victims. They felt like victims. If you feel like a victim all the time, and you fantasize how much better it would be if I got out here and if I did this and if I did that, self-pity will poison your whole life. It'll make every other sin huge.

Now, you know, I made my list. You see, some of you are driven to work, and it crouches down and it says, I'm not workaholism. I'm just a work ethic. But it'll poison your whole life. Some of you are obsessed with a diet or with your appearance, and it crouches down and it says, oh, I'm just a concern for my health. I'm not an idol of beauty and trying to cover over my sense of inadequacy without an experience of the love of God. I'm just sitting. I'm not crouching. I'm not going to ruin your whole life, but yes, it will. You know, some of you are worried about money. You worry about money a lot, and it just crouches down and it says, oh, I'm not stinginess or materialism. I'm just prudence.

Here's one, especially in New York. It is very easy in New York, without being dishonest, to be ruthless in work. Cutthroat. Merciless. Really kind of stepping on people. Taking credit for things you shouldn't take credit for. Cutting people off at the pass. And if you think that is something that will just stay in a corner, and it won't generalize to all your other relationships, you are wrong. Sin always says, I'm not very big. I'm down here. I'm very small. I'm really not as big as you might see. I'm just over here in the corner. Sin will never stay in a corner. It's crouching. It wants to come out and take your whole life over. It will take your whole life over.

Now, what are you going to do about it? Somebody says, okay, okay, what am I going to do about it? Well, one of the things is, first of all, a general attitude. Do you know about your hidden sins? You know, the psalmist says, "Oh Lord, cleanse thou me from hidden faults." Do you know they're there? Everybody in this room has got some. You've got some things that you are allowing to sit in a corner, but it's crouching down. You know, I want to get over that. That's not good. It's a little bit of a flaw. Do you realize how serious? Do you realize all sins crouch?

Would you please understand your danger? Get a general attitude. One of the reasons why I cannot stand going to horror movies is not because of some kind of prudishness-oh, I don't want to see horror movies. Horror movies-there's no horror movie that would be a horror movie. There's no plot that would create a good horror movie without stupid people. I mean, they take a candle. They hear a noise in the basement. There's a thunderstorm outside. All the lights have gone off. There's been three slayings in the neighborhood. I hear something in the basement. They get a candle, they open the door, they go down. You know, you want to say, I'm not horrified, except by your stupidity. There wouldn't be a horror movie without stupid people. But you know what? What God is saying to Cain, what God is saying to all of us, is we're just as stupid. Do you not know your danger? Do you not know there are things down there crouching ready to spring on you? What is the matter with you? Why are you playing with fire? I mean, the first thing you're going to do about this is you've just got to get a sense of it. Look at the things in your life that you consider small sins, things that you know that really aren't right, that you consider them small things. I can guarantee you they're much, much bigger than you think. I guarantee you that's what God is telling us.

So get a general attitude. Well, what else can I do about it? All right, number one, I'll give you three quicks. Number one, you have got to have very close Christian friends that you spend enough time with that they can see the sins that hide from you. Let me tell you something that's an open secret about missions. If any of you have been involved in missions, I have, as a pastor, talked to many, many people who went overseas or went into some great endeavor and went on some great endeavor and they went on a missionary team and the team broke up after a few years. It broke apart. Why? And I'll tell you a reason why. Because usually one or two members had some kind of sin that they'd never been close enough in community. They'd never been in an intimate enough community for it to come out. They either had trouble with their tongue or they had a selfishness or they absolutely went berserk. Whenever somebody criticized them or evaluated them at all and you get on the mission field and you say, what in the world? It just wreaks complete havoc. It also wreaks havoc in marriage, by the way, which is the same thing as being on a missionary team. Okay? It's the same thing. And one of the reasons why so many marriages break up is this: You have never been in close enough community. You have never been accountable to other mature people so that they could see the things that were hidden from you. I mean, how on earth-somebody says, wait a minute, how in the world am I going to see something that you say, by definition, is crouching away from me? Well, here I am about to go out my door and sin is crouching on the other side. Of course I can't see it. I'm going to be killed. But somebody on the outside with a different perspective can easily see it and say, don't open the door. You have to have somebody who's not standing where you are or you'll never see all the places where sin is crouching. And you see, one of the things that is very, very bad is that, I mean, especially in a place like New York we're just here and we're there. We're happy we see each other at all. You have got to have some people that you spend enough time with that they can see the things that are wrong and tell you about them. I mean, you know, have you heard the old, there's a new book out or maybe there's no such thing as quality time. You know, this stupid idea that parents used to have and they say, well, I want high quality time. I don't have a lot of time. I'm doing a lot of things. When I'm with my children, I want quality time. You can't have quality time without quantity time. Quality time shows up in the midst of quantity time. You spend eight hours with a kid in a row and you'll probably have 20 minutes of decent conversation. And you're not going to say, well, I'm going to spend 20 minutes with a kid and I'm going to have decent conversation. It doesn't happen that way. It just doesn't. You'll never get quality time without quantity time and you will never have friends who can blow the whistle on you and tell you about these things who aren't married. You're not married to them. Therefore, it's not as explosive and you're not on a missionary team or something like that. It's not as explosive. But they can tell you because they see. You've got to spend time with them. You've got to spend a lot of time in Christian community, a lot of time in deep Christian fellowship. You've got to have Christian friends that know you or you are toast. Sin will have you. Its desire is for you. It will take you out. All right?

Secondly, you have to have a general attitude of the danger of sin. You have to have close Christian friends that you just don't have quality time with, but you have plenty of quantity time with them. And number three, assume criticism is partly right.

This has actually been very helpful for me, and I don't think I've ever shared this out loud, but whenever criticism comes, assume that it is distorted to some degree but has a core of truth. Now, often that's not true. Often criticism is either completely distorted, and there's no truth in it at all, just a complete misunderstanding of what you did. On the other hand, sometimes the criticism is 100% true without distortion, but that's not usually what happens. Almost always, I would say, 90% of the time, when I get criticism, there is distortion with a grain of truth. And the book of Proverbs, which is all about wisdom, is continually saying, please, over and over and over again, what's the book of Proverbs say? "Despise not correction." In other words, when anybody comes after you, unless they are raving lunatics, unless they are absolutely, very clearly, completely off their rocker, if somebody comes and says, I've got a problem with something you've done, do not lash back, but sit down and say, I really want to listen. I really want to find this out. And if it doesn't seem true, go home and sit and pray. Be very open to criticism. Be very open to correction. Why? Because you know sin is crouching in your life. And you know you're in danger. Okay?

Now, the other thing that it tells us, but I'll just say something very brief, is it also talks about the power of sin. I'm not going to take this out, but here I'm giving it a temptation a little bit and trying to hit every little genetic issue. But when it says here, in addition to the hiddenness, it also says, "It desires to have you." That is really spooky. And what this is telling us is this: When you sin, your sins do not just pass away. They take shape, and they assume an actual consciousness almost, an intelligence, a presence, and a being in your life. Paul talks about it in Romans 7. It sounds weird. It sounds Jekyll Hyde. It sounds schizophrenic. He says, "I very often do the things that I don't want to do, but that's not really me. It's the sin in me." And it's not me. He says, "I don't do the things I want to do. I do the very things that I hate." You know that? What's happening? It's the nature of sin, the power of sin. When you do a sin, it doesn't go away. It develops a power in your life.

Haven't you seen that? The first time you break a promise to your spouse, it's very, very hard, very difficult. There's a barrier or something. And when you shatter through it, you realize it's going to be awfully easy. It's going to be awfully easy the next time. You know what that is? There's a man that used to teach at Union Seminary here in New York 150 years ago. No, more than that. A guy named Shedd, William G.T. Shedd. And he once said, "Sin is the suicidal action of the will against itself." Every time you sin, what you do is you stab your will in the heart and make it very, very difficult for it to resist. There's a lot of other things I could say about this, but the fact of the matter is sin has got a power. I probably should have said that first. But sin's got a power. It has a springing power. It has a ricochet effect, by the way. It springs. It's very, very interesting.

But in general, I think this is fair to say that liars get lied to. And haters get hated. And gossips get gossiped about. And he who lives by the sword shall die by the sword. And cowards are deserted. And why is that? Because there's something about the nature of the fabric of the universe that sin has a ricochet effect. When you sin, you actually create a power in your life that will come and get you. And that's the reason why we shouldn't be playing with it. That's the reason why we shouldn't be casual about it. That's the reason why we should do what we can possibly do to get people in our lives to listen to correction, to go after the Lord and to say, I want to deal with these things, which I know, in my mind, I'm seeing as much smaller than they really are. Okay.

Secondly. Got it? Secondly, not only do we learn about the seriousness of sin, but we learn about the sweetness of God. Now, there's a-when I was a young man, I bought a couple of little commentaries that are not really. If you're going to buy commentaries on Genesis, for example, the one by Derek Kidner is not the one you should own. It's too small. If you're only going to have one, don't buy it. But he was a man that's helped me a great deal. And he has a wonderful insight about what goes on here. If you look carefully at how God treats Cain, you will see tenderness, sweetness. It is unbelievable. Let me give some things out here briefly.

For example, I mean, we see God here as the wonderful counselor, not a cosmic policeman. First of all, he intervenes with Cain early. Look, it says, verse six, "Then the Lord said to Cain..." The Lord does not wait for Cain to actually do the bad deed. He comes down to Cain when he's even just gotten depressed. It says, look, it says, "Cain was very angry and his face was downcast." Now, that's an old Semitic way of talking about depression. And he basically comes down and he tries to intervene early, like a good counselor. He's not up there tapping his foot, waiting to see, is Cain going to come through? He comes on down. Secondly, he not only intervenes early, but he intervenes tenderly. Look, he does not show up and say, how dare you question how I handle offerings? Do you know who I am? Grovel before my glory? No, he comes in with questions. Look, he says, "Why are you angry?" He says, "What right have you got to be?" He says, "Why are you angry? Why are you downfallen?" He comes in so tenderly and so intelligently. Do you know what he's doing here? What's so interesting is he does not-God does not jump and say, do right. Before he gets to this idea of doing right, he says, but first of all, I want you to get underneath and look at the motives for why you're angry and why you're downcast. I want you to get behind it. Do you know what's going on? God is a counselor. God is a tender counselor coming in, not with commands and not with directors, but with questions. And he does say do the right thing, but he doesn't say just do the right thing. He says, I want you to first understand what's making your heart tick. I want you to understand what's going on. Look at that, how early he intervenes, how tenderly he intervenes.

But one last thing on this, because I really do want to, you know, move on and show you, give you an overview rather than stay on too long. When Cain in verse 13 and 14 says this: "Cain said to the Lord, 'My punishment is more than I can bear. Today you're driving me from the land. I will be hidden from your presence. I will be a restless wanderer on the earth and whoever finds me will kill me.'" Look at that. And the Lord said, "Not so. If anyone kills Cain, he will suffer vengeance seven times over. And then the Lord put a mark on Cain so that no one who found him would kill him. So he went out from the Lord's presence."

This is absolutely amazing. And this is what Derek Kidner said. He says about it, by the way-now, you know, I told you there's a zillion little things in here. One of the things that people always say is, who would Cain be meeting? And who did he marry? And look, I don't know all about that, but I do know one thing. He indicates here that anybody he meets would know who he is. He's not talking about thousands and millions of people out on the earth from all over. He figures that anybody he meets will know who he is, which means anybody he meets could be a relative, even though a distant relative.

But this is what Derek Kidner says about what God does to Cain. Listen. Quote: "God's concern for justice for the innocent is matched only by one other thing: his care for the sinner. Even the querulous prayer of Cain had contained a germ of an appeal. God answered his pledge, together with this marker sign. It was not a stigma, but safe conduct, and it makes God virtually Cain's goel or protector. It is the most mercy can do for the unrepentant."

Now, I'm sorry. I read that so stupidly. But it's just filled with insight. First of all, look at three things quickly. First of all, this tells us that God is not just concerned for the innocent, but he is so merciful on the unrepentant. Cain is not repenting. Verse 13 is not repentance. First, the mark of a repentant person is you're more concerned with the sin than the punishment. But the mark of a person who really doesn't repent-Cain is basically saying, all I really worry about is the punishment. And the mark of a repentant person is always to say my punishment is just. But the mark of an unrepentant person is to say my punishment is more than I deserve. He is actually kind of blaming God. He's saying this isn't right. This isn't fair. So, and yet how does God respond? Does God say, insubordinate? Does he say, you are in contempt of court? What does he say?

Derrick Kidner says, in this ridiculous, unrepentant, self-defensive plea, there is a cry of please pity me. And God responds. Now, this is amazing. God cares for the unrepentant. God cares for the people who will not repent, not listen to him. He cannot bring him into his presence. Do you see that? But he protects him when he sends him out. Now, this is the most important thing for us to understand under this point. And I'll really run on real quick. And that is this: If you're a Christian, I want you to know that non-Christians certainly don't do this, but unfortunately, most Christians don't do this either. We do not ever combine this justice and mercy. God says, "I must tell you what you've done is wrong. We cannot be intimate, but on the other hand, I am not disciplining you in ill will. I protect you. I want you to repent." The Cains in your life will not want you to do both. The Cains in your life will come to you, and they will say, accept me completely or reject me completely. And almost everybody does that. You either accept someone or else you're hostile and you send them out. Cains hate the idea of you saying, you're doing wrong, but I love you. They say, you don't love me. If you love me, you'd accept what I'm doing. They'll push you, and they'll make it very, very hard. And this is one of the greatest challenges of being a Christian in this world: to say, on the one hand, this is wrong, but I bear you no ill will. I care for you. I want to protect you. I really care about your best interest. Wow, this is amazing. One of the things that scares me is that not only non-Christians don't do this, of course, but the average Christian doesn't either. I don't know if you've ever heard of a Christian who doesn't do this. The average Christian says, that person's a sinner. That person rejects the Lord. I don't have to be kind to them. I don't have to embrace them. I don't have to bring them into my life. I don't have to care about them. I guess you do. And one more thing. If God is this merciful to Cain, who shows no repentance, if God doesn't give up on Cain, if God is protecting Cain, we don't know what that mark was. We don't know. What we know is a mark of safe conduct. If he cares that much for Cain, he cares for you.

No matter what you've done, if you're here and you're repentant, you're way ahead of Cain. And yet he cared for Cain.

Okay, lastly, and this is the last, the significance of the sacrifice. I got to do this kind of quickly, but here's the important thing. Do you know what the difference between Cain and Abel really is in the offering? It doesn't tell us very much, does it? But one of the things that we know from Hebrews chapter 11 is, Hebrews chapter 11, verse 4 said, "Abel offered in faith and Cain did not." And that makes perfect sense. Here's what happened. Abel offered in faith. What does that mean? In the Bible, faith always means a response to God's grace. And Cain did not. So here's what we have. Abel knew the promise of Genesis 3:15. Abel knew the promise that was given to Adam and Eve. Certainly he knew it. Adam and Eve would have told him. And that promise was this: that someday, some descendant of Eve, would show up and not just hate sin and death, but struggle with sin and death and wrestle with sin and death. And even though he would be wounded, he would triumph and kill sin and death. And therefore, Abel comes and he makes a sacrifice as a response to salvation. He says, because you are going to save me, because of this great grace, I give a response. But Cain comes and he makes his offering, not as a response to salvation, but as a means of salvation. Cain brings the things that he's done. And you know what that means? He comes and he brings the things he's done. And he says, look at what I've done. I'm a good person. Look at my sacrifices. Look at my goodness. Look at all the things that I've done. But he gets really angry when God does not show him favor. What does that mean? Do you think it means that Cain was offering up his produce and suddenly a voice came from heaven, no good, Cain. No, I don't think that's what happened. I'll tell you what happened. Cain is an elder brother, just like the elder brother in Luke 15.

Here's how you know whether you're more of a Cain or more of an Abel. Here's how you know whether when you come to worship, when you live a good life, whether you're more like Abel responding to God's grace, or whether you're more like Cain trying to earn his favor. Here's how you know. When your life doesn't go well, do you get bitter and angry at God? That's the way you can tell. You may say with your lips, I believe I'm saved by grace. But whenever the Lord says, I'm going to serve you, you're going to serve me. And you pray and you pray and God doesn't answer your prayer. And you get mad and you wonder whether you're even going to be a Christian anymore. You know what that means? That shows that you believe God owes you. That shows that you are trying to earn his favor with your offerings. You're not responding to God's grace. You're trying to be a me. You're not responding to his salvation. Your offerings are a means of salvation. And here's the two ways you know whether you're Cain or more of an Abel. One is Cains are always grumpy and always angry about how their life is going. And the second thing is Cains hate Abels, but Abels don't hate Cains. Cains are persecutors. Cains are people that need to feel superior and blame people. And Abels know the grace of God and therefore never feel superior to anybody.

Now, how can you make sure that you're not a grumpy, self-righteous Cain, but a sweet and loving Abel? Look at the real Abel. Ah, you say, who's the real Abel? The one to whom Abel points. To whom does Abel point? Well, many years afterwards, a descendant of Adam and Eve came along. And like Abel, he was absolutely filled with faith and filled with grace. And also, like Abel, he was killed by Cains. Don't forget, Cain is a religious person. Cain is a good person. Cain is a moral person who tried to use God rather than serve God with his good deeds. And the people who killed Jesus Christ were not the irreligious and immoral people. The prostitutes didn't kill Jesus. It was the religious and the good people that killed Jesus Christ. The Cains killed Abel, just as Cain killed Abel. And so, in a sense, Abel looks like Jesus, but there's another way in which Abel is greater. Pardon me, Jesus is the greater Abel. And this is the reason why: When Abel's blood was spilled, spilled blood always cries out for justice. But when Jesus' blood was spilled, Hebrews 11 says,

Now, here's why. Jesus' blood speaks out for justice, because all shed blood-unjust shed blood-speaks out for justice, but it's the right kind of-it's justice for us. When you sin, if you're a Christian, Jesus is standing before the Father, pointing to his blood and saying, Father, I want them acquitted. I want them loved. I want them-why? Because your law demands payment, and I have given it. And therefore, if you do not continually love and embrace them, it would be unjust. You'd be getting two payments. My blood cries out for justice, not against them, but for them. Don't you see? Jesus is the great Abel. If you know what he means to you, if you know what he's done for you, if he knows he came and voluntarily died for you, if you see what he's done for you, and you know how much you are now loved in him, you won't be a grumpy old Cain. You'll be a loving, sweet Abel, like our loving, sweet Abel, the Lord Jesus Christ, whose shed blood speaks more graciously.

Let's pray. Father, we ask you that you would help us to understand these things. Help us to see the seriousness of sin. Help us to live out the sweetness of God, and help us to see how wrong it is to bring our offerings in a way that are means of using you to get your favor or your favor, procure it to control you. But help us to be like Abel, who responded in faith, and therefore was a man of joy, was a man of graciousness, was a man of love. And we pray that you would make us like him, or more importantly, like the great one to whom he points, Jesus Christ, our brother. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.