The passage printed in your bulletin, it's from the book of Acts, and would you turn there with me?

We're reading from Acts chapter 2, verses 40 to 47 this morning.

Acts chapter 2, verses 40 through 47.

With many other words, he warned them and pleaded with them, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted his message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their number that day. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and to fellowship, to the breaking of bread and to prayer. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. All the brothers and sisters of the apostles were baptized, and they were baptized. All believers were together and had everything in common, selling their possessions and goods they gave to anyone who had need. Every day they continued to meet together in the temple courts. They broke bread in their homes and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. This is God's word.

Now, we've been looking at the book of Acts, which is the only, the main historical document that tells us about the earliest days of the church. And on the first day, Peter preached a sermon. Now, we looked at some of that last week. It's written out there in chapter 2 of the book of Acts. And it's eloquent in a way. But there certainly have been more eloquent sermons. And speeches than that. And there certainly have been more eloquent people than Peter. And yet 3,000 people came to Christianity that day. And within a couple days, 2,000 more. Now, we said, it's a historical fact, of course, that kind of explosive growth just continued for decades until Christianity became the most powerful force in the Roman Empire, not through political means, not through administrations, not through the sword, but through pure individual, but through persuasion. What do you believe accounts for that, we asked last week. And even though Peter was probably eloquent, he wasn't that eloquent. I mean, he wasn't a hundred times more eloquent than anyone else. So how do you account for a hundred times more power to this message? It swept the Roman Empire. And the answer, which again we saw last week, was the Holy Spirit came along with the message. And the people were cut to the heart. The Holy Spirit came in, took the message, pushed it down, put it into the core of their souls, applied it to them. George Gallup says that the least likely person in the United States to be in church on a Sunday morning, the least likely person, statistically, is a young, single, urban, educated, professional person who lives in a very large city.

And look around you. I mean, by the way, I'm not one of them, as some of you may notice.

But most of the folks here are. What accounts for that? What accounts for a church like this? The least likely people to come to church on a Sunday. Why? How do you account for that? Because there's a lot of people here who've been cut to the heart. You can't account for it by the eloquence of them. a preacher. They were cut to the heart. Now, how do you know that this new life has come into you? How do you know that it has come to you? How do you know? Life always expresses itself. If a baby is alive, it kicks, it cries, and it sucks. And then you know it's alive. Life has to have signs. And as we read this passage, we see the signs of that new life immediately. And next week, in a way, I'd like to look at the whole of the passage. I'd like to look at all of the signs and sort of see them all and how they interrelate. This week, I would like just to choose one sign and talk about it in isolation. In some ways, it's maybe the most basic, but it would be unfair to say that. But I'd like to just look at it in isolation. And as we look at these signs this week and next week, realize what a practical exercise this is. What if you look at one of these signs and you say, that is not there in my life. That is not there in my life. That is not there in my life. And it's never been. Never. Then you really have to ask yourself whether you're a Christian at all. And that's the purpose of this. That's hard, but that's, I mean, where else do you go? You say, well, who do you think you are saying what you think a Christian is? It's not a matter of me, and it's not a matter of you. If you don't go back to this, if you don't go back to the original documents that describe the very first Christians and how they operated, I mean, what other authority is there? If this sign is not in you, if you don't go back to the original documents that describe the signs are not in you, never have been, you're not a Christian. And if these signs are weak in you, or they used to be there stronger, then you have to say, Lord, by your Holy Spirit, strengthen this.

Now, that's the reason why we're looking. And this first one I'm going to look at is very important. Whenever Christianity is flourishing, whenever the Spirit of God, whenever the Spirit of Christianity is flourishing, whenever there's high love and joy and peace in the hearts of these people, whenever there's society, whenever there's a lot of love and joy and peace in the hearts of people, changing power in the church, this first sign is present. Let's look at it. It says, it's in verse 42, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine. Well, see, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine. That's not exactly what it says, but that's the word, the exact Greek word, doctrine. In the older translation, it says that. They devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine. What does that mean? Let's ask what it is. Let's ask why they did it, what they did, why they did it, and how they do it. What, why, how? First of all, notice what they did. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching or doctrine. Now, I'm going to use the word doctrine. You know why this translation stayed away from the word doctrine, even though that's clearly what the word means, is because modern people really hate the idea. In fact, modern people, conservative and liberal, hate this idea. Doctrine. Dogma. Ooh, who wants to be dogmatic? I don't believe in that sort of thing. We're beyond that kind of thing, we all say. And yet, when the sign of new life was there, they were hungry for doctrine. They devoted themselves to doctrine. Now, look at this. On the one hand, you have conservative people who say a lot. They say, oh, we're beyond doctrine. Here at this church, we just praise the Lord. We just walk with the Lord. We don't talk about doctrine. Doctrine divides, goes the saying. Jesus unites. Have you ever heard that? Doctrine divides. See, people are always arguing over these things, how many angels can dance on the head of a pin. Jesus unites. We're not into doctrine. As soon as you say, oh, okay, you're not into doctrine, Jesus unites. Good. Now, who is Jesus? Oh, son of God, but a human being, die for us. What is that? That's doctrine. How could he unite unless we believe the same things about him? It's doctrine. Ah, somebody says, the most wonderful, verse in the Bible is, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's chock full of doctrine. You think it's wonderful? Fine, then believe it. God gave his only begotten son. That means he's a personal God, so he wouldn't perish. That means he's a just God, a judge. And he gave his son. There's the doctrine of atonement, the doctrine of incarnation. There's the fall of humankind. It's all there. It means nothing. If it wasn't for doctrine. They devoted themselves to doctrine. Now, on the liberal side, people are particularly upset about this idea of doctrine. And they say, we're beyond doctrine now. But you can't get beyond doctrine. These early Christians understood that, and they were able to move into it. But see, you can't get beyond it. When somebody says, for example, you must not be dogmatic about religion. But that is to be dogmatic about religion.

You can't know anything for sure about religion. But you're saying you know something for sure about religion, that you can't know anything about religion. And since you can't prove it, you have, on faith, dedicated yourself dogmatically to something. You have faith, and you have a religious truth, and you're holding it dogmatically. You can't avoid it. When somebody says, you mustn't convert people, what is that? But to persuade people that your understanding of religion is better than theirs? And when you say, you shouldn't convert people, what are you doing? But trying to persuade me that your view of religion is better than mine, you can't get away from dogma. Or I'll go one step. This is very, one step further. This is very, very common. People say, oh, you know, doctrine. You Christians, you say you have to believe Jesus is God. You have to believe in he died on the cross. You have to believe this. You have to believe. I don't believe in doctrine. All you need is to be a good person. It doesn't matter about your doctrinal beliefs. All that matters is you're a good person. Any good person can reach God. So I don't believe in dogma, but I say, wait a minute, wait a minute. You know what you're doing? That is the dogma. That's the doctrine of justification by works. That is the doctrine that says you're not so sinful that God had to do something with Jesus on the cross that you can just by being a good person reach God. Oh, no, you say, I don't believe in doctrine. I'm just saying doctrine's not important. All you have to do is be a good person. But I'm sorry, that's speaking doctrine. Really. There's no way out of it. Everything you say has deep structures to it and you just won't see it. Everything you say assumes and teaches something about the nature of God, about the nature of sin, about the nature of human beings, about the nature of eternity.

You're devoted to doctrine and you don't know it. They were devoted to doctrine and they knew it. That's the difference. But beyond that, they're also, and more importantly, they're devoted to apostolic doctrine. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching.

Now, who are the apostles? Well, if you read, even in that chapter, we didn't print all of it, you know there's a place where Peter in his sermon says, God has raised this Jesus from the dead and we are witnesses to this. Who's we? He's, the apostles were people who had seen the risen Christ and, now there's lots of people that saw the risen Christ, but also the apostles were the apostles who were the people that Jesus Christ came to and specifically authorized to be those who disseminated his truth and teaching. With most of them, not Paul, but with most of them, he lived with them for three years and he trained and taught them. With Paul, he came to him and spent three years giving him revelations in Arabia. You can read about that in Galatians. But the point is, Paul came to the apostles, Jesus came to the apostles, the risen Christ appears to them and he authorizes them to take the truth out. And as a result, he's given them the truth. And as a result, the whole church recognizes that the apostles were the ones who bear the truth about Jesus, about him. And therefore, they dedicate themselves to it. And that's why you see, when the apostles start to die off at the end of the first century, you do not have the church saying, oh, wonderful, now there's room for us. They had their insights into these spiritual matters, now we have ours. No. What did they do? They collected all the writings that were either written by an apostle or by an associate of an apostle. They collected all the writings that embodied the apostolic solid deposit of truth and teaching. And they put it into the New Testament. And that's the reason why Paul can say in Ephesians 2.20, the church is built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, which is the Old and the New Testament and the Old Testament. A foundation has to be solid. Solid. I remember when I lived in Philadelphia, there was some place in North Philadelphia that there was a whole row of houses, the foundation was moving, the whole row. And the foundation under all of these houses only moved a few inches. But you know, a foundation to even move a few inches creates a cataclysm in the house. Because the foundation has to be absolutely unchanging, absolutely unshifting, something that's always there. It can't move a bit. You can't say, well, that was for that group. Now here's, another group. You had your insights, now we have our insights. Absolutely not. You know, we say the Apostles' Creed. We'll say it today. What's the Apostles' Creed? It was not written by the apostles, no. But in the very first couple of centuries, whenever Christians, whenever the church was seeking to make sure that it was on the right foundation, it was dealing with some kind of problem, it didn't say, well, let's us decide what we think God's telling to us, saying to us. It always said, what did the apostles teach? And they would always go back and out of the scriptures, they would cull the essence of the apostles. Why? Because our foundation can't move. We can't have a house unless there's a foundation.

And they went back. In the book of Jude, we read, this is the faith once delivered to the saints. So there's a foundation. And a sign of the new life was they recognized this doctrine. They submitted to it. They hungered for it. They turned to it. They couldn't get enough of it. They met every day to study this, if you look into the passage. Every day, they never stopped doing it. You couldn't keep them away. You didn't have to say, come to the Bible study. No. You couldn't keep them away. Nobody ever needed to lead a guilt trip on the early Christians, but come and study. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching, which is the scriptures. Now, that's what they did. Next question, why did they do it? And unless we understand the why, and unless we go for the apostles' teaching and doctrine the same reason, for the same why, for the same motivation, we will not have the same effect. Why did they come? Now, the only way to find out why is to actually look a little before in the passage. In fact, I noticed that even though in the Greek, the word, verse 42, starts with a little Greek particle which can be translated and or so, it's just to be clean, you know, verse 42, it just starts with the word they. But it actually says, and they, so they. And it means, because of what happened in verses 36, 37 through 41, because of what happened, they devoted themselves to the apostles' doctrine. What happened? Well, we saw this last week. Peter sums up and says, the one you crucified, Jesus, whom you crucified, God has made Lord and Christ, and they were cut to the heart. Now, the reason they went to the apostles' doctrine was because, first of all, they wanted to know more about what cut them. And they also wanted to know more about who cut them. Look what I mean. First of all, they look to see what cut them. You can only be cut by something which is harder than you. For example, you can't be cut by a rubber band, you know. If you try to do surgery with a rubber band, it won't work, because rubber is softer than what you're made of. But a knife can do surgery, a knife can heal you, because a knife is made out of something that's harder. It doesn't yield, you do. Now, what they realized is they were cut by something that would not yield. They had to yield to it. Their feelings and perception, their perceptions had to yield to it. There's a lot of people today that don't believe in this. This is what we would, I guess we can call hard truth, transcendent truth, a truth that's harder than us, a truth that's above us, a truth that we have to yield to. It doesn't yield to us. It's true whether we feel it or not. It's true whether we like it or not. It's true whether we perceive it or not, but we submit to it. And these early Christians recognized the existence of that, because it had to yield to it.

Before I left, I left a position over the George Washington Bridge. He was in a helicopter. And he could see everything that I couldn't see. He could see it all. And I could only see my vantage point. He was in a transcendent position to me, a higher position. And he said, there is a total backup on the upper roadway, so go on the lower roadway. But as I was approaching, you know, there's a place where they start to go like this. And from where I was actually on the roadway, the lower roadway traffic was starting. It looked like to slow down, but the upper roadway was zipping along. What do I do? Do I go with the transcendent truth? Do I go with the one who's higher? Do I yield to it or do I decide to go and make my own perceptions the transcendent truth? Do I make it the one thing that everything else yields to? Me, what I feel, what I see. Or do I acknowledge that there's something to which I must yield? And fortunately, I decided to go with what the helicopter said. And what's amazing is immediately, as soon as you get in to the chute, as soon as I got into the lower roadway chute, I could almost immediately, you can look across between the pylons, you know, and there I could see the upper roadway was hard backed up. But I could not have seen it until I'd already committed myself to the transcendent truth from the man in the helicopter. Now, somebody says, you know, I can believe in a lot of the Bible, but not all of it. So that makes you sound, you say, you know, Tim, you're kind of orthodox. You're very orthodox. I'm semi-orthodox. There is no in between. Either you sit in judgment over the scripture and you decide, there's only two mistakes in it, but you see, that means either you're sitting in judgment over it, or it's sitting in judgment over you. Either you decide that it will yield to you, that you're harder material than it, or you will yield to it, because it's harder material than you. And so, it's higher. It's transcendent. There is no in the middle. There is no in between. Just know what you're doing. And you know what's really bad about you? You know what's really bad about me? We're not hard. We're not like a knife. We are mushy, because the way I felt when I was 30 is very different than now, and it will be very different when I'm 50. When you watch The Merchant of Venice, you'll see that Shylock is anti-Semitic. And you know why he's anti-Semitic? You know why Shakespeare wrote him that way? Because at the time, that was what the sophisticated intellectual people at the height, the elites of Western civilization thought was the smart and wise thing to do. And now we're embarrassed by it. Why? Because it's changing. It's no foundation.

Now, how did Christians know about this transcendent truth? Christians knew about this transcendent truth because they, in cut, and here's what's interesting. Very often, I found this so often in Redeemer, when you come in here from the modern world, you don't believe in transcendent truth. You don't believe in it. You believe it's my feelings and my perceptions. That's the unyielding material. Everything has to yield to me. I have to find out what's right for me. Everything is negotiable but me. Everything is softer but me. And then the gospel comes, and it cuts you. And you just know that there's something about this, which is, which is a sterner stuff than me. It shows you who you are. It shows you your heart. And the gospel itself, that Jesus Christ has lived the life you should have lived and died the death you should have died so God could be both just and punish sin on the cross and yet love us.

You know, the way the one hymn goes, what wondrousness, what mysteries in this appointment shine. My breaches of the law are his, and his obedience mine. And when a person first becomes a Christian, they say, wow,

what wondrousness, what mysteries. They've been cut by something. And even though their intellect may say there's no such thing as transcendent truth, you know there is. And you go to it. And you hunger for it. That's the reason they devoted themselves to the apostle's doctrine. They wanted to know more about what cut them. But secondly, and more importantly, really,

and by the way, one of the reasons why people finally come to believe in the total authority of the scripture, one of them, and I'll show you the other one in a minute, the more important one, but the penultimate one, not the ultimate one. The penultimate one is you wake up to the fact that you've been devoted to doctrine all the time. You've been dogmatic all your life. There's no way around dogma, but you have made divine, you have deified, you have promoted to divine authority things that are constantly changing. And as a result, you've built your house on foundations that are inadequate. And you just realize that. And you come to see it. But the second reason that they came is because they wanted to know who cut them. You remember in verse 36, it was when Peter said, the Lord Jesus that you crucified, God has made him Lord in Christ. And that's when they said, what should we do? That's when they were cut to the heart. And the real reason that they went to the apostles' teaching, because the teaching was about Jesus. And I'll tell you this, if you don't go to the scriptures in order to know him, in order to find Jesus, if instead you go to the scriptures to find principles, to find Aesop's fables, to find morals, it will crush you. Mark Twain used to have a nightmare in which he would be trying to sleep, but there was a huge Bible, two or three times bigger than him, on his chest, crushing him down. Some of you say, oh my gosh, you know, he must have had the same upbringing I did. This huge Bible crushing him down. Why? Of course, because you missed the point. If you miss the point of the Bible, you will be crushed by the Bible. The point of the Bible is Jesus. In Luke chapter 24, the disciples on the road to Emmaus, after Jesus had died, and he'd been showing himself to many the disciples, but these two disciples were still very confused, and they were very upset. And they said, we don't understand what's going on. And a stranger met them on the road, but it was Jesus, but they didn't recognize him. And they were saying, we don't understand what in the world is happening. And he looked at them and he said, oh foolish and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. And then it says, starting with Moses and going all the way through the script, he showed what all the scriptures, had taught about him. You say, what do you mean all the scriptures are about him? That's why you go to the scriptures. They're about him. Starting with Moses, you say, what do you mean? They're about, yes, go to the law. You know what the law is there to do ultimately? To show you that you can't do it. You need some other provision. It points to Jesus. There's the law pointing to Jesus. Well, what about all the ritual? What about all the sacrifices and the tabernacle and the priests and all that sort of? My friends, the Bible says, it's through Jesus you can come into the presence of God. Jesus is the tabernacle. Jesus is the high priest. Jesus is the bread. Jesus is the candles. Jesus is the sacrifice. That's why he's all that. Well, what about all the history of the Old Testament? Don't you know that Jesus is the true prophet that gives us God's word? Jesus is the real priest that brings us to God and stands representing us before the Father. Jesus is the true king that rules us. Not only that, Jesus is the real Israel. He's the real people of God. You know, you've heard, maybe in the Bible, it talks about out of all the people of God, not many have stayed true. Not many have been faithful to the covenant. Not many have obeyed. You know how small the remnant really is? There's only one person. There's only one person that ever came to earth that was truly Israel, truly the people of God, who truly loved God with all his heart, soul, strength, and mind, and loved his neighbor as himself. And there's only one person who ever inherited the promises, promised to Abraham, promised to the children of Abraham, promised to the ones who would obey the covenant. Only Jesus. He's the true Israel. He's the true prophet, true priest, true king. And because he's inherited the blessings of obedience, and only he, and then took our curse for us on the cross, when we believe in him and all the blessings come to us, Jesus says, Moses wrote of me. And if you miss this, you will come to the Bible and you will think by obeying it, I'm saved. And it will be just like that. Mark Twain thought of it. This crushing burden. But it's about him. Don't you, whenever, every text is about him. Every problem is about him. Every story is about him. It all points to him. And this is the reason why we believe the Bible. Look at Jesus Christ. He was devoted to the scripture. When he was in pain, he says, When he's betrayed, he says, When he's facing death, he says, When he's facing the abyss, it is written. He's quoting scripture. What does that mean?

The way he got devoted, the way he devoted himself to you was he was devoted to the word of God. He was only devoted to you because he was devoted to the word of God. He based his entire, all of his teaching on the word of God. Now, you and I come and we say, How can we be devoted to him? Only the same way that he was devoted to you. By being utterly devoted entirely to the same thing that he based his whole life on. If there's somebody here who says, This idea that the scripture is totally true, I have a problem with that. That's just too primitive. You don't have a quarrel with me. You have a quarrel with him.

There's no way you can follow Christ and not follow the truth on which he based his entire life. Not only that, there's no way you can know that you're devoted to him. You don't have a quarrel with him. There's no way you can follow Christ unless the Bible is totally true. If the Bible is written about God and eighty percent of it is true, that means Christianity is just believing things about God and you've gone on a diet. You don't believe as many things as you used to. But if Christianity is really not about believing and about doing, but it's about a relationship,

then unless the Scripture is not writings about God, but writings by God, from God, communicating with each other, then there's no way to you, you can't have a personal relationship with him at all. A lot of you feel like you got a personal relationship with me because I tell you so much about myself. I meet you and you act like I'm a long lost friend, but you know what? We can't really be friends, so you tell me something about you. Until I know something, I'm sorry. It's not a personal relationship. If the Bible is not totally true, it's not written by him. If it's written by him, if it's from him to you, then you can know him. And if it's not totally true, you can't know him at all. If you're up there saying, I like this, but I don't like that, you don't have a real God. That's like being married to somebody who's always saying, yes, dear. You don't have a real spouse unless this person comes at you sometimes and argues with you and gives you, then you know you've got somebody who's really telling you who they are. The reason they came to the apostles' doctrine was they wanted to know him. And there is no way to know him unless you believe in the authority, the total authority of the scripture. And there's no way to know you've got the real him unless you believe in the total authority of the scripture. And there's no way you're not going to get crushed unless you understand the total authority of the scripture is about him. Well, we've got to end here, but I did say there was a third point. How? Fairly simple. You know how they did it? In verse 40, he says, save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Have you been reading stuff about generations? Have you been reading how baby boomers, you know, all the generations, if you went through the depression, that formed the generation. That was the influence. If you went through World War II, that formed the generation. If you were the first TV generation like mine, that formed you, you see. And so we're all part of our generations. We've been influenced by these sociological factors. And you know what Peter is trying to say? If you want to become a

God's word, the transcendent truth, it'll take you right out of your generation. The determining factor in your life will no longer be what your parents think or what your generation thinks or television or World War II or your experiences. Everything will come under the truth. Everything will be judged by that. To become a Christian doesn't just mean you make a couple of changes. You look at everything new. It's a radically examined life. You never do things just because you say, oh, because I'm younger, because I'm older, because I'm richer, because I'm poor, because I'm black, or because I'm white, or because I'm Italian, or because I'm Polish, or because I'm... This is the way we do these things. Never. You're radically reexamined. You come right out of your generation. You're a whole new person because you look at everything through the new truth. Everything. When bad things happen, you no longer look at it the same way. You look at it in the light of Jesus, in the light of the gospel, in the light of the truth. You say, well, this isn't the end of the world. What have I got in Jesus? When good things happen, you don't say, well, how elated? You say, no, no, this isn't the most important thing. Everything has changed. You're a whole new person in a whole new world. You're a whole new generation. Do you have that attitude toward the gospel? Do you have that attitude toward the scripture? Have you ever come to him and said, open them and show me how they show me you, and he will, and your hearts will be on fire within? Because the Emmaus disciples, after he disappeared, they said, we're not... Our hearts burn within us as he opened to us the scriptures. He'll do that to you. If you go to them trusting them, if you go to them looking for him and willing to let it make you an entirely new person, let's pray. Our Father, as we

come to the table, we ask that your son would meet with us as he met with those men on the road to Emmaus. And that we pray that he would open to our view the beauties

of his love, of his grace, of his holiness, of his righteousness. Let us see him as well. Open our minds, not just to the truths of the scripture, but to the central figure of the scriptures, your son, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.