While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. He said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts rise in your minds? Look at my hands and my feet. It is I myself. Touch me and see. A ghost does not have flesh and bones as you see I have. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and feet, and while they still did not believe it because of joy and amazement, he asked them, Do you have anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate it in their presence. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses,

the prophets, and the Psalms. Then he opened their minds so that they could understand the scriptures. He told them, This is what is written. The Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. I am going to send you what my Father has promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high. This is God's word. Amen. As many of you know, we've been looking at the life of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke for a number of weeks, months, and now, of course, you come to the very end of Luke. Jesus, the risen Jesus, does four things, four things in this passage that changes the lives of his disciples forever. And because he's the risen Jesus, he can do the very same thing. He can do the very same things to us. Right now. Four things. He answers the doubts of their minds by arguing with them. He satisfies the needs of their hearts by eating with them. He reforges the direction of their lives by sending them. And then he shows them his hands and his feet. Four things. Let's take a look at them. First. First thing we learn is, he answers the doubts of their mind by arguing with them. Now, you notice how it starts? He's doing it lovingly, but he has to do it persistently. Jesus is debating with them. He's arguing with them about their doubts. See? He says, why are you troubled? Why do doubts arise in your minds? Look at my hands. Look at my feet. It is I. Touch me. Do you have something to eat? Repeatedly, he's arguing with them because, and here's his point. I'm really raised from the dead. I'm not just spiritually raised from the dead. You're not just having a spiritual experience. I'm really here. I'm bodily here. I'm physically here. The resurrection is historically true and real. I have literally, physically, historically risen from the dead. That's gotta come first. If you don't get this down, if you don't let them argue with your mind and deal with your doubts about the resurrection, you can't do anything else in your life with the resurrection. Now, modern people, of course, have a great deal of trouble with this. Most modern people just don't buy the idea of the physical resurrection, a bodily resurrection. On the one hand, they say, well, now look. I really don't believe these are actual eyewitness accounts. This is typical of people to say, these are fictional accounts. These are accounts written many years later. And they're written by people who wanted everyone to believe that Jesus was raised from the dead. Now, I'm gonna use them a couple times here in the very beginning. There's a great new book, the best book I've ever read, on making a case for the historical, the historicity of the resurrection by N.T. Wright. And N.T. Wright, who's a major historian, says, he says, look, I've been, and I'm gonna say this. Anyone who's really an expert on vision literature and legends and all that, this is not the way you would write a fictional account. He says, for example, N.T. Wright says, the only Old Testament reference in all of the Old Testament to a resurrection or a resurrected body is Daniel chapter 12, verses 2 and 3, that actually talks about a resurrection at the end of time when everyone will be resurrected, when the world is renewed. Daniel chapter 12, verses 2 and 3, it talks about people shining, the resurrected bodies shining and radiant. So, if you were going to make up a story about the resurrected Jesus Christ, you would never make up a story like this. Never, says Wright. You might have Jesus, you know, some luminescent, radiant Jesus bursting through the doors, and everyone going like this, but instead, what have you got? Would you? If you were making up a story, would you do this? He just appears in their midst and says, do you have anything to eat? Now, look how magnificent, look what a faith-building experience. And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he ate it. Seriously, if you were making up a story about the resurrected Jesus, you just wouldn't say things like this. What possible... Why would this be there? How mundane, how odd. You see, how completely uninspiring. Why would that be there? The only right answer is, if you're reading literature, is it must have happened. I mean, why else would you put it in? Legends are not like this. Vision literature is not like this. Well, somebody says, okay, look, but here's the problem. We now have a modern scientific worldview that says that resurrection is not a thing. Resurrections are impossible. Dead people just don't rise. We have a modern scientific worldview, and it says dead people are impossible. Back then, the people had a different worldview. They were primitive. They believed in miracles everywhere. So they didn't have a problem with it, but we have a problem. Our worldview says that resurrection is not possible. And again, that does not fit in with not only this text, but with what we know of history. For example, let's look at the text. Is that what you see? When Jesus shows up, do they immediately say, we knew you could do it? No. They're startled and frightened. And here's what's so counterintuitive. If you were making this up, or if these people were primitive people that had a worldview that allowed all sorts of weird things to happen, then when he shows up and he says, it really is me, look at me, touch me, they said, oh, we do believe. But that's not what happens. After he goes through the first line of debate, first line of arguments, what does it say? They still did not believe. Now this fits actually in exactly with what we actually know of first century history. Let me read you a great quote. I actually just read this at Columbia University just two days ago. Some of you may have heard this, but it's a terrific quote by the scholar N.T. Wright, who says this. It cannot be stressed too strongly that first century Jews were not expecting people to rise from the dead as isolated individuals. Resurrection for them, remember, based on the Bible, was not a choice. It was a choice based on Daniel chapter 12. It was something that might happen to all on that great future occasion when God brought history to an end and a whole new world was renewed. It will not do, therefore, to say that Jesus' disciples were so stunned and shocked by his death, so unable to come to terms with it, that they projected their shattered hopes onto the screen of fantasy and invented the idea of Jesus' resurrection as a way of coping with their cruelly broken dream. That has an initial apparent psychological plausibility to 20th century people, but it will not work as serious first century history. There were lots of other messianic and similar movements in the Jewish world, roughly contemporary with Jesus. There were many situations in which a messianic leader died a violent death at the hands of authorities. In not one single case do we hear the slightest mention of the disappointed followers claiming that their hero had been raised from the dead. They knew better. In the Jewish world view, an individual could not be resurrected in the middle of history and history just continued going. It was not something that was possible in their world view. So Jewish revolutionaries whose leaders had been executed by the authorities had only two options. Give up the revolution or find another leader. Claiming that your original leader had been resurrected was not an option, unless, of course, he was. You see, it's a little bit of a twist. It's simple but very profound. It's very easy for us to say in the modern, you know, well back then they had this world view that allowed all sorts of things. So, of course, they wanted him to be raised so they talked themselves into it. N.T. Wright says, look, you have a modern scientific world view that says resurrection impossible. But they had a world view that said so too. The Greeks and the Romans had a world view that said resurrection of the body was utterly impossible. They'd never think of it. The Jews had a world view that said an individual resurrection never existed. And now in the middle of history it was impossible. So no matter how much they might have longed for him, they never would have imagined it unless it happened. You see, you can hear the early Christians saying to you across the years. You can hear Luke saying to you across the years, look, you have a scientific world view that doesn't allow for this to happen. But we had our world views that also didn't allow for this to happen. This was as unexpected for us as for you. Nothing in our philosophy and world view was unexpected. Nothing in our world view led us to expect it. Nothing in our lives led us to expect it. The only reason we're telling you that it happened was because it did. We saw him. There's no other reason why we're telling you this except we saw him. We never would have thought it up. We never would have dreamed it up. If you think we did, you don't understand history. You don't understand. We touched him. See, John the Apostle says this in the beginning of 1 John 1, verse 1. That which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we looked at and touched, him we proclaim. Jesus Christ, the word of life. It's almost like these first eye witnesses are saying, look, you can call us liars or you can believe us and come into a whole new world. But don't tame what we're saying. Don't tame it. Don't say, oh, these are just wonderful symbolic stories. These people were kind of mythologically oriented. And they love to talk about this. Don't tame it. This happened. Call us a liar or believe us, but don't you dare tame what we're telling you. So you see, let the text argue with you if you don't believe the resurrection really happened physically, historically, bodily. If you don't believe that, none of these other three things I'm about to tell you that he did in their lives can happen in yours. So first of all, he deals with the doubts of their mind by arguing with them. He satisfies the needs of their heart by eating with them. Thirdly, he completely reorients the whole direction of their lives by sending them out. Notice at the end here, he sends them out and he calls them, you will be my witnesses. You are witnesses of these things. That's a very interesting word. What he's saying is, I want you to go out and live in the world completely shaped by what you've seen. What have they seen? The resurrection. He's saying, once you know the resurrection, once you know that God has raised Jesus from the dead physically, that God is going to renovate the whole world, this is just the beginning. He's going to cleanse the material world of all of its blemishes, all of its brokenness, of all of its flaws, and of all disease and death and imperfection. Once you know that, he says you must live as witnesses, which means everything in the world, your whole life in the world is utterly shaped by the resurrection. Now let me just give you two examples, or two ways, in which if you're really living in the world as if the resurrection is true, how that completely changes. How that completely changes your life. Let me give you two. They're kind of alternating. On the one hand, if you believe in the resurrection, that means on the one hand, you're free from the material world. Listen carefully to my prepositions. You're free from the material world. Now what do I mean by that? It means as great as the material world is here, it won't have to control you. See, in New York, people are frantic. You know, people, basically this is what they say, I've got so much I've got to do. I've got so much I've got to do. You know, in my life, I want to see the Alps. I want to make a lot of money. I want to get to the moon. I want to sing in the Metropolitan Opera. I want to invent something that no one else has invented. I've got much to do. You see, I'm a talented person living in New York, and you're frantic. I've got all these things I've got to get done. And when it begins to be obvious that there's some things you're never going to get to, and especially when tragedies happen, and some horrible thing happens, you realize, I'm never going to have that career. Or something even worse than that, and says, you know, I've been physically maimed. I'm never going to be able to do this. I'm never going to be able to do that. And there's incredible regret, and there's franticness, or there's despondency. But what if the resurrection is true? Joni Erikson was a Christian woman who was paralyzed from the neck down in a terrible accident when she was 18. So she was a quadriplegic, and she was in a wheelchair. And she writes that one time she was at a meeting in which, and I, the leader from the podium said, let's pray. And she was in part of this large group. It was a, you know, somebody was a speaker. And said, and let's kneel to pray. Let's kneel before God. So everybody knelt down, but of course she couldn't. And because she was raised Episcopalian, she had been used to kneeling. And then she suddenly realized she couldn't, and she would never kneel. The thought came into her head, I'm never going to be able to kneel before God. And she burst into tears. And then, she writes, I remember the resurrection. Just before the party gets going, the wedding feast of the Lamb, the first thing I plan to do on my resurrected legs is to drop on grateful, glorified knees, kneel quietly before the feet of Jesus. And then, I'm going to be on my feet dancing. Can you imagine the hope, she writes, that this gives someone with a spinal cord injury like mine? Can you imagine the hope this even gives someone who is manic depressive? No other religion, no other religion promises new bodies, a new material universe. Only in the Gospel of Christ do people hurting like me find such enormous hope to live. Now, you see what she's saying? You're not going to float in the Kingdom of God. New heavens and new earth. You're going to eat. You're going to drink. You're going to run. You're going to dance. You're going to sing. You're going to hug. New heavens, new earth, new bodies. And what does this mean? Relax. You say, oh, I'll never get to the Alps now. Yes, you will. I never learned to dance. You will. I'm a lousy dancer. You won't be. And even if you were in a wheelchair, there's no reason. There's no reason to despair. You are not going to miss out on anything. And because you're not going to miss out on anything, see, Christianity alone says it's a material universe that's going to be cleansed, that you're going to get. That's the eternal state. Eating, drinking. He eats a fish. Jesus eats a fish. What does that mean? It's a palpable future. You're not going to miss anything. Not a thing. What does this mean? You are free from the material universe. That means to say these things shouldn't control you. If you lose something, so what? If you have to give up something to serve someone or love someone, give it up. If something, some terrible circumstance comes into your life that cuts you off from it, so what? You're not going to miss out on anything. So you don't have to spawn it. You're not frantic. So on the one hand, you're free from the material universe. But on the other hand, the resurrection means you're freed for it. Because the resurrection means salvation is not escaping this material world with all of its troubles. Christian salvation is not us leaving this awful world and going to heaven. Christian salvation is heaven coming down into this material world to cleanse it. Get rid of all hunger, all sickness, all disease, all death, all injustice. What does that mean? Martin Luther was once asked, What would you do if you knew Jesus? Jesus is coming tomorrow. What would you do if Jesus was coming tomorrow? You knew Jesus was coming tomorrow. What would you do today? You know what he said? I'd plant a tree. Now if your first response is, Why? Tomorrow everything is going to be over. Why get started on planting a tree? I would like to challenge you. Maybe you think you understand the theology of resurrection. You don't. You haven't worked it into your thinking in life. You know what Luther is saying? If Jesus is coming back tomorrow, I better plant a tree. Think of what Jesus coming is going to do to that tree. Because you see, Jesus coming is not the end of the world. It's the beginning of the world. Think of what Jesus is going to do for that tree. Think of how it's going to grow. Think of how it's going to blossom. In fact, if you take Psalm 96 seriously, think of how it's going to dance. Think of how it's going to sing. So plant. So go repair a person's body. Go repair a person's neighborhood. Because God's out to do it himself. So we can work to repair the material world with enormous hope. See how unique this is. Please see it. There is a worldview that says, This world is not important. All that matters is heaven and the spiritual. See, that will give you some freedom from the material world, but not freedom for it, not engagement. And then you have the secular mindset that says, This material world is all there is. We better fix it. See, that gives you freedom for the material world. But not from, because if anything goes wrong, if anything goes wrong in your life, your life is over. But the resurrection gives you freedom for and from. It gives you poise. It gives you peace. You can handle anything. You're not going to miss out on anything. But you're engaged. You're involved. I send you, now that you've witnessed the resurrection, into the world to live utterly different lives. It reforges your entire life. Now lastly, He doesn't just deal with the resurrection. He doesn't just deal with their minds. He doesn't just deal with their hearts. He doesn't just deal with their lives. He deals with their wounds, with their sorrows. The last thing I just want to show you is, verse 41, He showed them hands and feet. Look at my hands and my feet. And you see what the response is? Joy and amazement. Now why did He do that? Why didn't He say, look at my eyes, look at me? Why did He say hands and feet? What were on His hands and feet? And why, if His body was glorified, would they still be there? Why would the nail prints be there? Let's answer it by asking another question. What are the very best stories? I mean, we all love happy endings. We all know that. Movies, no happy endings, $20 million at the box office. Movies with happy endings, $200 million at the box office. And a happy ending story is, bad thing, bad thing. Happy ending, unexpected,

unlooked for, but happy ending. And we like that. All the bad things, bad things, in spite of the bad things, something good. But there's even a better kind of story, in which the bad things are part of the deliverance, are the means to the deliverance. In which the bad things are, in a sense, brought up in and subsumed in the joy. Like, for example, the movie Signs. Interesting movie. A lot of bad things. You know, the protagonist, first of all, his wife is killed in a terrible accident. His brother has got his baseball career, his athletic career, in tatters. He's got a little boy, his son, who's got terrible asthma. He's always on the verge of dying. He's got a little girl who's kind of obsessive-compulsive, who, therefore, every time she takes a drink of a glass of water, she doesn't like it anymore, and leaves all these glasses of water all over the house. And then aliens invade the world. Bad thing, bad thing. It's terrible. And then suddenly,

when it looks like absolute disaster, it's a dark movie. I mean, it's nothing but darkness, and nothing, and everyone's losing their faith, and everything's getting worse and worse. And suddenly, at the end, the joy hits you in the stomach. And that's because, not just that there's a deliverance at the end in spite of the bad things, but every single one of those bad things is part of the deliverance. The joy at the end subsumes the other things, explains why they happen, redeems them. In fact, in some... The bad things make the joy possible. The bad things make the joy greater. Now, Jesus Christ, why does he show them those nails, Prince? Do you realize what those things are? Up to three days ago, the disciples had in their mind, when Jesus Christ is president, I'm going to be in the cabinet. My life is going to be great because Jesus is on his way to the top, nothing can stop him, and I'm going to be riding on his coattails. And then those nails. And when those nails went into the hands and the feet, their lives were over. Those nails ruined their lives, right? But Jesus says, no. These nail prints saved your life. The thing you thought was ruining your life actually saved your life. And what is the resurrection? The resurrection isn't joy in spite of the sorrow of Jesus. It's because of it. The resurrection is not... doesn't just make Jesus forget his suffering. His suffering... Why is his nail print still on his glorified body? Because the joy of the resurrection, this is how God's salvation works. The joy of God, the resurrection power of God, will not just make you forget all the troubles of your life, all the tragedies of all your life, all the might have beens of your life, all the terrible things of your life. It will include them. It will explain them. It will redeem them. It will subsume them. In other words, it will turn them into joys. It will turn them into sources of joy. Your glory and your joy eventually will be enhanced because of it. Look, after years and years of being a Christian, I can just start to get a little glimpse of how that's going to be true for me. But it won't be until we actually get there that we'll see how. But that's what he's saying. I've got a joy that will not just make you forget the bad things in your life, but turn them inside out so that they are a source of joy for all eternity for you. I will take your sorrows up in the joy. I will enhance the joy with the sorrows. Look at my hands and my feet. I will show you when I finally meet you in our resurrection embrace that all the things you thought had ruined your life had really saved it. Just like the same things that you thought had ruined my life saved it. Just like the things that you thought were ruining your life saved it. Those great stories, those great movies, those great books, those great stories, when you get to the end and the joy just grabs you and you cry with joy, it's just a glimpse of a joy beyond the walls of the world. But this is the joy that's just a glimpse of. Resurrection. If you believe it, if you listen to him arguing, if you agree with him that he really was raised from the dead, let him come into your life with resurrection power. He can do all that for you. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for Easter. But let us not just think of it as a symbol of hope in some vague general way. We pray that by believing it and receiving it, your resurrection power, your resurrection joy will come into our life and heal our sorrows and reforge the way in which we live and give us the love we've been looking for all of our lives. Thank you that these things are all available for us. Help us to take what you offer, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
