Tonight's scripture reading comes from the book of James, chapter 1, verses 1 through 18. James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes scattered among the nations, greetings. Consider it pure joy, my brothers, whenever you face trials of many kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith develops perseverance. Perseverance must finish its work so that you may be mature and complete, not lacking anything. If any of you lacks wisdom, he should ask God, who gives generously to all without finding fault, and it will be given to him. But when he asks, he must believe and not doubt, because he who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed by the wind. That man should not think he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all he does. The brother in humble circumstances ought to take pride in his high position, but the one who is rich should take pride in his low position, because he will pass away like a wildflower. For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant, its blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way, the rich man will fade away even while he goes about his business. Blessed is the man who perseveres under trials, because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him. When tempted, no one should say, God is tempting me, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anyone. But each one is tempted when, by his own evil desire, he is dragged away and enticed. Then, after desire has conceived, it gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is not, when it is full grown, gives birth to death. Oh, sorry. Don't be deceived, my dear brothers. Every good and perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of the heavenly lights, who does not change like shifting shadows. He chose to give us birth through the word of truth, that we might be a kind of first fruits of all he created. This is God's word.

Don't be deceived, dear sister, by the page turned.

We have a new series. It's called The Book of James. And The Book of James is what's in the New Testament called wisdom literature, which is very, very practical. We have this top-level kind of series, our series on what's the vision of Redeemer in New York. Now we're going to go right on down into a book. We're going to go right through it, chapter by chapter, over the next number of weeks, because it is such a practical book. And right off the bat, it tells us three things. Right off the bat, in this passage, it tells us what we face, how we can face it, and who we get to face it with. What we face, how we face it, and who we face it with. Now, right off the bat, it says in verse 2, here's what we face. Trials of many kinds.

A trial is a trouble. It's a difficulty. It's a problem. And it's also a test. You see this word, testing? You face trials. Trials of many kinds, which is the testing of your faith. That word, testing, is the word with connotations of smelting. You know what smelting is? If you take ore, and you apply enormous heat to it, the precious metals in it, like gold or silver, survive, but the worthless metals are either oxidized or they're turned to slag, which they fall off, or they separate from the precious metal. And not only, James, but 1 Peter and Hebrews talk about suffering as a kind of furnace. And it tests your faith. In other words, I've had people over the years I've talked to as a pastor who have said, oh, I used to go to church, I used to believe in God, and then I went through some time of terrible suffering, and I just walked. I just couldn't believe in God after that. And that's exactly what James is saying, is because suffering is like a furnace that will judge whether your faith in God was real or not. And so an awful lot of people go through suffering and say, you know, I realize I don't really believe in God. So suffering and trials that actually test your very faith is something that the text says will happen to all Christians. Notice it doesn't say, if you ever face trials. Does it say that? If you face trials, then do this and that? No, no, it says when, which means it will happen. And oh, how realistic that is.

Jesus says, a servant is not... not above their master. And because I suffer, you're going to suffer. Because I took it on the chin, you're going to take it on the chin. Pagan religions were always about doing things for the gods so the gods would help you avoid suffering. You scratch the divine back, and the divine helped you. That was what pagan religion was all about, but not Christianity. Oh, no, not at all. Jesus suffered to bring redemption into the world. And in other words, redemption didn't come, just in spite of suffering, but through it. And Jesus says, when you're united with me, and you're seeking to live the life that I have lived, then suffering is almost inevitable. You're often going to take it on the chin. In fact, you know what repentance is? The very way in which you get into the Christian life and become a Christian? Repentance is a form of voluntary suffering. And Paul even, there's a place in Acts where it summarized Paul's sermon, through many tribulations we enter the kingdom of God. And so, James and 1 Peter and Hebrews, these three books back to back in the New Testament have a lot about suffering. Say, if you're a Christian, you expect it. You shouldn't be surprised by it. It's going to happen. It's not if it happens. When it happens, you should be ready. The problem is we live in an American society that is probably the worst society in history for helping its members get ready for suffering. You know that? Because in ancient times, almost all ancient people, believed that this world was not all there was, or this life was not all there was. In all other cultures, all other centuries, most people said, well, you have this life, but then you have the next life. You have this world, then you have the supernatural world. And almost everybody has always believed that this life is nasty, brutish, and short. And so, throughout history, most people in most societies have said is, well, I'd like to have money in this life. I'd like to be happy. I'd like to have love in this life. But, this life is short. And what's important is I live in such a way that I will have love and happiness and joy in the next. So, in other words, this life isn't all there is. And if I don't have many things that I'd like to have in this life, there's consolation of the next life. Well, see, we live in a secular world. What is secular? What's the secular world, you say? This life is all there is. This world is all there is. And you know what that means? If you lose love here, if you lose happiness here, if you lose anything here, there's no consolation. See? You've lost all your life. You've lost all meaning, all happiness, all everything. It's gone. Because there isn't anything but this world. And even if we're Christians, and even if we say, oh, we believe in the Bible, we're also members of our culture. And the culture, culture is essentially invisible to you. I mean, culture is like, you know, don't ask a fish about water because the fish will say, what's water? It just so surrounds you, you don't even see it. And as a result, we are soaked in our culture. And our culture says, if you suffer, you need to sue. Because suffering is absolutely not the way it should be. Somebody has screwed up, and it can't be you. If it's suffering, or maybe it is you, but the point is, no, no, things are supposed to be good. Everything's got to be good because this world is all there is. And if you live in this country, then you're going to be affected by that. And what it means is this culture does not prepare you for suffering at all.

It disequips you for suffering. And therefore, to hear what James says, or what 1 Peter says, or what Hebrews says about suffering, is more important for us probably than their original hearers. Their original readers probably didn't have as nearly the trouble we do with it. We're a crybaby culture. And there's never been a culture like this before. Because there's never been a culture that said, this life is all there is. So anyway, the first point is, you are going to face trials. You're going to face suffering. It's going to happen. That's point one. Point two. We're given here two resources for the suffering. Two resources for dealing with the suffering. Now, partly because we've chosen such a long passage in order to move through the whole book in so many weeks, I can't get down into every little thing that actually it gives us. For example, verses 9, 10, 11 about the poor man and the rich man, we're going to deal with that later, later on in our sermon series. But there's two things. There's two things I want you to see that are resources that you have for handling suffering that are in the first part of the text, and that is a new perspective and a couple of new disciplines with which you can face suffering. So what are they? First of all, new perspective.

Consider it pure joy when you face trials of many kinds. Now, at first glance, it looks like he's saying, be a masochist. Suffering? Live it up. You know, or, you know, what a joyful thing that you're suffering. That's actually not what he says. Would you look more carefully? First of all, he says, consider it joy. He knows that when you're in suffering, the visceral emotion that you have is sorrow. It's not joy. It can't be. It shouldn't be. The visceral emotion that you experience in suffering and trial and trouble is sorrow. But he says, consider it joy. What that means is do a deliberate... I want you to deliberately, in a... conscious way, take a perspective. And what is that perspective? Look at the possible results of suffering. So he says, consider it joy. Why? Because you know the testing and the trials develop perseverance, maturity, completeness, not lacking in anything. So what he's saying is, I want you to consider the fact that suffering, if you handle it right, can turn you into a mature person. And this last statement where it says, complete not lacking in anything means equipped for every job. Now, here's what this means. And some of you might think what I'm about to say. If you're younger, you probably think that this is an exaggeration. And if you're my age, you know I'm right.

And that is that suffering equips you to be a good father or a good mother, a good husband, a good wife, a good man or a good woman. It equips you to understand yourself, and therefore, to make good decisions about yourself, to know your own limitations. It equips you to just make good decisions, period, because you know how things work, and you know the times and the seasons, you know how the human heart works. And it enables, in other words, suffering equips you to do virtually everything you do much better. And what he's saying is, I want you to realize that perseverance, which we'll get back to, and full maturity, can be the result of your suffering. Or, one more way to put it, suffering can turbocharge the ordinary process of Christian growth. Suffering can turbocharge that ordinary process of Christian growth. Suffering can be a furnace that just turns you to pure gold. And he doesn't say that you should be happy when you suffer. There's nothing good about the suffering. You know, even though Jesus is sovereign Lord of heaven and earth, when he was at the tomb of Lazarus, he was mad and he was weeping. Isn't that interesting? Even though he was the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth, he was mad at suffering and evil and death without being mad at himself.

Because suffering and death is not God's original plan. He didn't make the world this way. Garden of Eden, right? He didn't make the world this way. He hates it. But, Romans 8.28, which is, God comes and says, if you trust me in the suffering, if you hold on to me, if you hold me in the suffering, I can work things out. So the suffering becomes like a furnace that turns you to pure gold. So, for example, in 2 Corinthians 4, Paul says, therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we are wasting away, yet inwardly we are being renewed day by day. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that outweighs them all. By the way, you hear that? Our light momentary troubles? You know what Paul's looking at? What he's going through? You know? Thirty-nine lashes, beaten, stoned, left for dead, shipwrecked, running for his life, are slight momentary afflictions. See, it's all perspective. Here's what he says is, as I'm outwardly wasting away, I'm being renewed day by day, and everything that's happening is achieving for me an eternal weight of glory. What it means is, you can lose external wealth and external health, and by holding on to God, that suffering can give you a kind of inner wealth and inner wholeness that is the real deal that lasts forever. And that's the perspective you're supposed to have. You're supposed to realize that's what can happen. Well, you say, well, now how does that work? Well, listen, for example, you see, Paul in 2 Corinthians 12 has a very interesting story he tells about himself. It says he had a thorn in the flesh. Now, we don't know what that was. We don't know. He doesn't say. It was some kind of something bad. It could have been a physical ailment, but we can't really be sure. But he says, I had this terrible suffering in my life, and I prayed for God. Three times I said, please take it away. But God said, no, because the grace I want to get into your life can't get into your life any other way. And Paul was good with that. And you know why he was good with that? Paul was one of the, you could argue, he was one of the most brilliant people who ever lived.

Jesus founded the church, but Paul strategically turned it into the institution that is basically going to last to the end of the world. Paul was so brilliant that he could take the teaching of Jesus and communicate it and put it in a form that had such power. Paul was one of the most brilliant men that ever lived. But he said, the reason why God gave me the thorn was so I wouldn't be too elated. And that word elated does not mean happy. It means swelled head. And here's what he means. He says, you know what? I was brilliant, but I was arrogant. And I'm glad that because of the suffering, I'm now one of the people who's had the biggest impact on the history of the world. I'm delighted that I have been able to serve and change the lives of so many millions and maybe billions of people because God made me suffer enough to get me off of my high horse. And I never would have been that useful to anybody without it. And the fact is that trials come along and they show you your own limitations. They show you your own flaws. They teach you humility and self-knowledge. Also, trials come along and they make you empathetic to other people. If you don't suffer, it's hard to understand how other people, what they're going through. But basically, trials and suffering give you almost all the traits necessary for you to be useful in the life of anybody else.

And trials almost always show you that some things you thought you couldn't live without, you can live without, leaning on God. And that brings freedom. So there's humility and self-knowledge and freedom and usefulness for others. No wonder, James says, that's the perspective. He says, it's not like the suffering is okay. If you just look at it like this, the suffering and evil isn't really that bad. Of course it's bad. It's terrible. It's not supposed to be that way. You know, Jesus snorting and angry and weeping at the tomb of Lazarus. But I want you to see that if you hold on to God, you let God hold on to you, it can turn you into something good and you can defeat the evil because you can bring good out of it, good inside you.

So that's the first resource, is that perspective. But the second resource is a couple of disciplines. And the two disciplines are actually not usually seen as disciplines because we tend to take these verses out of context. Verse 5 to 8 says, if you lack wisdom, ask God and he'll give it to you, but you can't doubt, you can't be double-minded when you do it. Now this is a pretty famous passage and generally people agonize over what does it mean, but people forget, I have forgotten until recently, that this isn't talking about wisdom in general, it's talking about wisdom to help you get through suffering. Now here's why. I read a chapter some years ago in a book by a man who was a Christian teacher, Christian theology teacher, so you know, a strong Christian Bible teacher. And when he was in his early 30s, his wife was diagnosed as having Huntington's chorea, which is a terrible debilitating degenerative disease of the, you know, neuro system, which basically means that she was increasingly going to lose not only complete use of her body, but actually a complete function of her mind too. And he also found out, since it's genetically passed down, that all three of his children had over a 50% chance of having it too. And he was utterly devastated. And he said that for a number of weeks, when he was sitting in darkness, people came by to try to help. And they very often had Bible verses and they had ideas and they had things they said to try to comfort him and things they said to try to give him perspective. And he made a list. He said, well, now when people said this, and this, you know, one, two, three, four, five, none of those things helped me. I hated them. They actually made me feel worse. But when people said this, and this, you know, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, boy, those helped me. So these are the things that really helped me. It helped me get ahead and helped me move on through. In other words, it made him wise. He felt like he got some perspective. He got some distance. He was able to see what was going on and he was able to get through. Now, as a pastor, I know one thing. I've sat through a lot of people who are sitting in darkness and I know a lot of people liked points one to five. I've said points one to five to people and they said, oh, this is what's helped me get through. But points six to ten, they hated. He loved them. They hated them. Okay? And I came to realize this. When you are in darkness, it's a little bit like free climbing, you know, when you free climb over a mountain without equipment. You have to put your foot one place, your foot one place. You get two foot help, you know, footholds. You get two handholds and then you have to, you keep three in place and then you grope for a new handhold. When you find it, very slowly, you know, have you ever seen people free climb? It's very slow. They almost look like flies on the wall, like they're not even moving, but they are.

That's how you get through suffering. You find these toeholds, you find these footholds. They're Bible passages. There's things that friends say. There are new perspectives. There are consolations. There's ideas that come to mind. There are things that comfort you. Ideas that kind of help you see why this is happening. And this is the kind of wisdom, I think, that James is talking about. This is the kind of wisdom he's saying. You have to ask God for it. Because without wisdom, you can't just stew and hold your, you know, close your eyes and hold your, grit your teeth and hold your nose and wait for all the suffering to go away. No, no. Instead, you have to get over that mountain. And the way you get over that mountain is through a process of prayer and reading and thought and counsel with friends. To find those footholds and to find those toeholds. And everybody has to find their own way. You know? Your one, two, three, four, and five is not their one, two, three, four, and five, and so forth. But that's not the only discipline. The other discipline, which is really fascinating, and it's missed as a discipline because we don't know what the word means, is it says, if you want this wisdom that helps you get through suffering, you can't doubt. Now, right away, when you and I see the word doubt, we think, oh, that means I can't have any psychological uncertainty. So I have to ask for wisdom and say, I know, I know you're going to give it to me. No, that's not it. That's not what it means. Because the Greek word for doubt is a great Greek word that even non-Greek reading people know. It's the word di-psychos, dipsychos. A psychos means your mind. Di-psychos means double-mindedness. In fact, it actually says that in verse eight. The word doubt means don't be divided in your loyalties. And the second discipline, which is something that's hard to understand, is that it's hard. If you don't know about this before the suffering hits, it's very difficult to learn to do it. And it's very hard to tell somebody in the midst of darkness. You know, it's one of the things that Kathy, my wife Kathy always says is, unless you get some of this down before the suffering hits, you really are going to be thrown for a loop. But here's one of the things you need to get down. Is one of the reasons why we are thrown by suffering is we're divided in our loyalties. We say, I believe in God, I'm loyal to God. But you're loyal to other things as well. And there's a couple ways of understanding what I mean by that. If you're living for a relationship, a person, and that person is really more important to you than God, then when you lose that relationship, you're kind of godless at the moment. Your anchor is gone. And so you can't persevere. You can't stand fast. This word persevere is, in verse four, which is broken out, you know, the term maturity is a general term. And inside maturity is everything from love, joy, peace, and love for God. But James pulls out this one idea of perseverance. And it's a great Greek word. It means, it's the word hypomone, which means to hyperstand, stand fast. Nothing move you. Because you've got an inner poise and peace that no circumstance out there can shatter. And so nothing can move you. Now that's something we all want. We're not thrown for a loop by anything that happens. We don't budge. We're standing fast. Well, that's only possible if you've got an anchor. And if you're divided in your loyalty, so God and his love is not an anchor. See, God and his love is the one thing that circumstances can't deal with. Nothing out there can get rid of the idea that God unconditionally loves you. But if you have a different anchor, or even another anchor, if you're divided in your loyalty, so the main thing you're living for is the love of this person, and you lose that person's love, you're going to be shipwrecked. You're going to be tossed. You're not standing fast because your anchor is gone. How can it help you if that's what you're living for and you lose it? Or if you're living for power and status in life, and suddenly your career is gone, and you're never going to make anything like the money you made before. And that's the thing that really, yeah, I believe in God, but that's the thing I've really been living for. That's really been the anchor of my soul. Suffering comes along, and it's gone, and it can't help you anymore. And so you're tossed. You're not standing fast. Or here's the other way, the other illustration. It's always a little scary to improve your life. You want to improve on Jesus' illustration? But you know, Jesus gives this illustration, and he says, you should build your house on the rock. You should build your house on him. He should be your ultimate anchor. And don't build your house on the sand. What is building your house on the sand? Well, that's making the foundation of your life anything but Jesus. Making, whether it's your family or human approval or power and status or your job or, I don't know, anything but Jesus more important is your foundation. It's like building on sand. And Jesus says, when the storms come, that's suffering. When trials and troubles come, your house is going to fall because it's built on sand. If you build your life on the love of this person, you lose that person, you fall. If you build your life on the status of, look it, I'm a successful person in your career, and you have a career reversal, you fall. Because circumstances, you know, it's upheaval and you're not standing fast. So he says, build your house on the rock, not on the sand. Nice and simple. Now here's where I'm, all I know is most people I know, most Christians I know, most people in church I know, don't really have their house completely on the sand or completely on the rock. It's kind of, it's sort of, it's on both. And ordinarily, when life is going on okay, you don't feel like there's really anything wrong with you and you actually think, I'm built on the rock. But what actually happens is in comes some real problem. A problem with health, a huge disappointment, a reversal, a loss of a relationship, something really bad. And you are tottering. Your whole house is tottering. You're not standing fast. The suffering shows that it's really, you're melting down. You're coming to pieces. And you know why? Because you're divided in your loyalties. You're double-minded. And you have to learn to look for that in suffering or you're not going to know, there's no way to get through it. Because a big part of the suffering is that your house is too much on the sand. My joke with people is, basically this is the Christian life. Every time a suffering comes into your life and the sand part of the house is taken away, your foundation is taken away and you're tottering. Basically what you do in prayer and in study, the right thing to do is you basically pound your house a little bit like this and you shift it over a few more inches onto the rock until it gets stable and you feel fine until the next suffering comes. And some more sand is pulled away. And as time goes on, you're pushing your house more and more onto the rock. You never get completely there. Do you know how to do that? Would you even think to do that? To see how divided your loyalty is? Now, lastly, this is still not mechanical. It's not a matter of get the right perspective and do the right disciplines. The ultimate thing that you need in order to handle suffering so that it turns you to gold, so that instead of it making you bitter and cynical and more self-absorbed and more unable to have relationships with people because you're so cynical and jaded now,

The last part of this passage, the last half of the passage, from 13 to 18, uses an illustration which I'm going to give you in 30 seconds. It uses the metaphor of spiritual adultery because it says in verse 13, now it'll probably be more than 30 seconds, but not much more, okay? Okay, I just want truth in advertising. It says in verse 13, when tempted, no one should say God is tempting me, for God cannot be tempted by evil, nor does he tempt anybody. You know what that's saying? So often when suffering comes, it doesn't make you a better person. Oh no, it makes you worse. It makes you more bitter, more vicious, more vengeful, more obsessed with yourself, more filled with self-pity. It can make you much worse and in some cases drive you to do addictive things to just try to medicate your pain. And so sometimes we get into troubles and we blame that on God and say, you know, I was overwhelmed by the suffering, and as a result, look what happened. And God tempted me. And they say, no, says James. The difference between suffering that turns you to gold and suffering that turns you to dross has to do with what you do with your desires. Because then it says, here's why sometimes suffering leads to sin and wrongdoing. It says your own evil desires conceive and give birth to sin. And sin, when it is full-grown, gives birth to death. Now, the word evil desires there is one of the Greek words that is our friend because we talk about it a lot. It's the word epithymia, which means inordinate desire, an epidesire. This translation always translates it evil desire, but I'm afraid it's a bit misleading. And what it's saying is, if you love human approval more than God, if you love a person more than God, if you love power more than God, if you love money more than God, and suffering comes, your inordinate desire for those things leads to sin. It leads to bitterness. It leads to self-absorption. And the illustration it uses is one of spiritual adultery. It says your evil desires or your inordinate desires give birth to sin and sin gives birth to death. And it's using the illustration of adultery. If a woman puts herself in the arms of her lover and they unite, then the fruit of that union is born into the world through her body, children. And when you put yourself in the arms, you don't just have a romance. When you live for that romance, when you live for that career, that's inordinate desire. And when those things become a kind of false gods, when they're more of an anchor than Jesus, you put yourself in their arms and the fruit that is born into the world is, you know, the fruit that is born is sin, which is another way of saying the anger, the bitterness, the jadedness, the cynicism, the self-absorption, all the ways in which suffering can make you worse, makes you worse because the true lover of your soul, Jesus Christ, is not the true lover of your soul. You're not in the arms of Jesus. You're not worshiping him and him alone. He's not the ultimate anchor. That's the ultimate anchor. And of course, the very last few verses is basically talking about that, that what we really want is to put ourselves in the arms of Jesus and that will give us new birth and bring, you know, joy into our life and health in your life and perseverance, maturity, and so on. Now, how can that happen? The remedy for spiritual adultery is passionate love for Jesus. How can you get that? Like this. Let me close with a story, but it's not an incredibly short story. This word perseverance, this word hupomone that I love so much, this word that's translated perseverance or endurance, which James says is one of the key things that you get.

It's a great word. It's all through the Bible, but it climaxes, I think. The climax of the word study comes to its climax in Hebrews 12 when it talks about who, do you think? There's a story in one of J.R.R. Tolkien's old myths and legends, and he's written tons of them. It's not in the Lord of the Rings. It's another one about a great warrior named Hurin, H-U-R-I-N. And Hurin, and his friends are in this great battle against the evil forces, and they're losing the battle. They have lost the battle. And the only way that his friends and the majority of his army can escape with their lives is if Hurin and his brother and a small regiment retreat to a gap in the mountains, and they plant their feet steadfastly and say, we're not going to retreat. We're going to stay here. We're going to fight until we die out of love for the people behind. See, that's perseverance. That's hyperstanding. That's steadfast love. It's saying, I don't care what kind of suffering, what kind of pain comes at me, I'm not budging. I'm going to suffer steadfastly for the sake of the people behind me. And the way the story goes is that one by one they died, including Hurin's brother. And the way the story ends, and only Tolkien can say it this way, is that as the sun was going down, it was becoming completely dark, Hurin alone, last one alive, Hurin throws his shield away and wields his axe two-handed. And it said 40 times he swung that axe, and no enemy could get near. He was so powerful and so furious. And every time the enemy came, 40 times he swung the axe and he repelled the enemy. And each time he swung the axe, he said, day will come again. Until finally, the enemy was so numerous that they just stampeded and they just crushed him under their weight. And he was called Hurin the Steadfast. Steadfast love. But I got a better illustration. I got a better example.

Hebrews chapter 12 says, fix your eyes on Jesus, who for the joy set before him endured, that's the word, persevering, hypostatic, endured the cross. Why did he endure the cross? All the weight of eternal justice for sin came down on him. All the punishment that we deserve for everything we ever did came down on him. And as it was coming down on him on the cross, in the greatest act of love in the history of the world, he stayed. He stood fast. He didn't budge. And as a result, God can forgive us and receive us. Now, here's what I want you to consider. When your life is going dark, getting dark, things are getting bad, I want you to stand fast out of love. There's the key. Not just by saying, well, I got to do this so I grow or something, that won't work. See, that's just, that's disciplines. No, listen, you want to stand fast, say, out of love for the one who stood fast for me, I will stand fast for him. Or put it this way, no matter how dark it gets, here's what I want you to say. No matter how bad your life is getting, I want you to say, day will come again. And it will. Either the darkness will lift now or eventually it's going to lift because Jesus is going to make the whole world right. And you know why? The only reason why you can say day will come again is because you're going to stand fast. And know it is because years ago, Jesus stood when the sun was going down, when the sun was going out, and he stood fast for you. So, you know, you need to be so in love with Jesus who stood fast for you that you will stand fast for him. And that will make you a person who stands fast, hyper stands, does not budge. And what does that mean? You know, it's actually pretty simple. It means that when you're suffering, go to church, pray, serve other people, don't turn to the right or the left, just stay. Obedience, stay loving other people, just stay. Don't turn away in spite of the suffering. And it'll turn you to pure gold. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that we have all these great promises and we know that day will come again. And it will come again because your son stood in the gap, saved our lives in spite of what it cost him, took all that suffering without budging. Now help us to take the suffering without budging so that we can become more and more like him. Oh, help us to realize these things in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.