We're moving through the book of Ephesians, and tonight we want to talk about what it means to be filled with the Spirit. And we're looking at Ephesians 5, verses 18 to 21.

Ephesians 5, 18 to 21.

Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. and submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.

Now, let me just give you quickly a couple reasons why this is such a critical text. And then I don't know, you know, how far we'll get tonight. You know how this has been. We're going through the book of Ephesians. But I think it's absolutely critical that we look real carefully at these verses, very carefully at the words, exactly what is said. why it's important, I'll just name you three. One is that we live in a technological society. If anybody wants to read a good book about what technology means, I'm not talking about technology

simply, I'm not talking simply about science. I'm talking about a spirit of technology. There's a great book by Jacques Ellul called The Technological Society You've Got to Look At If Basically, the spirit of technology in the world is this. Let's reduce everything to commodity. The spirit of technology reduces things to facts and figures and to forces and to procedures so that we can control it, so that we can package it, so we can manipulate it and sell it. That's the reason why we have a society in which appearance is far more important than substance. I thought it was interesting to realize years ago, somebody once said that if in the 1850s, if Abraham Lincoln or Stephen O. Douglas, who were two of the great political leaders of the time, if either of those two men walked down the street in the average American city, nobody would know what they look like. Nobody would recognize them. The way you knew who Abraham Lincoln and who Stephen O. Douglas was, you knew them from their ideas. You knew them from their points of view. You knew them from their arguments. That was a different time, wasn't it? Now, what you look like is the most important thing. Why? Because you see, in the society we're in, what you look like can be controlled. What you look like can be projected. You can create beauty and you can photograph it in a certain way and you can create the image, but you can't create maturity. You can't create relationships. You can't create character. So we live in a society of technique. There's an interesting memo from a Nixon speechwriter. I'm not against Nixon, but this is just to give you the idea. Remember how there was a number of books? Some of you aren't old enough to remember the books. somebody wrote a book called The Making of the President 1964, The Making of the President 1960. Finally somebody came along and changed the name to The Selling of the President. And there is in that book a memo from a Nixon speechwriter, it goes like this. This was a memo from the speechwriter to the people who were the president's handlers and he said, remember we have to be very clear on this point, the response of the electorate is to the image not to the man. It's not what's

And we shouldn't be mad at presidents, and we shouldn't be mad at a particular president. We should realize that's the fact. That's the spirit of technique. Now, because of that spirit, there has been a backlash of enormous proportions. It started when my particular generation went to college, and everybody started to talk about plastic culture. Anybody remember that? Plastic. We want authenticity. We don't want plastic anymore, because the spirit of technology had created an emptiness. And so people just rushed on into experience. We want experience, we want reality. And so we got into the drugs, we got into the occult, we got into transcendental meditation, we got into all sorts of what's called today the New Age movement, but all sorts of contextualized Eastern religions, and yes, we got into all sorts of crazy Christian groups, too. too. Anything that emphasized feeling and experience and reality, the opposite of technique. And what's really kind of frightening to a lot of people, not just to me as a Christian, but especially to the secular thinkers who 30 years ago said religion and the occult and all those things are about to die out because we've become scientific. We're a technological society. What's frightening everybody is that there's this tremendous hunger on the part of people because of our technological society, for real experience and real connection. So what do we do? We run off to anything that gives us that tremendous feeling. What's frightening to me is that there's actually a kind of, in Christian circles, there's a lot of people who are willing to rush in to any particular brand of Christianity that provides experience and high feelings. And yet, if you look carefully, you'll see it's actually a technological kind of experience people want. A hundred years ago, nobody, no Christian would ever have thought of writing a book called Three Easy Steps to Being Filled with the Spirit.

Nobody ever would have done that. You see, on the one hand, we've been so affected by our culture that we want to make everything a commodity. Let's boil it down to procedures. I want it now. I want to be able to control it. I want to be in control. I want to be able to do this now. Now, on the other hand, it's the very spirit of technology that's created this great hunger in us. And so there is, on the one hand, this desire for experience, but also a desire for it now, and in a way that I can control and manipulate. And so you really do have, in so much of Christianity today, a kind of... Well, you look at the bookstores very often, and you'll see all sorts of books that commoditize experience. experience, how you can get your healing, how you can get your experience of God, how you can be prosperous. You see, it's a strange and very frightening backlash from the worst of technology to the worst of mysticism, and sometimes a combination of both. This text talks about something that we have got, therefore, to come to grips with. It says, here's how to be filled with a spirit. People in, unfortunately, the Christian faith, Christian churches are very divided on this. People talk about that. That's a spirit-filled church. That's not. That's a person who needs to be filled with a spirit. And people argue over what it is. We can't just throw our hands up in the air and say, who knows? Because Paul, very carefully, before he gets into some of the best teaching on marriage, on child rearing, on relationships with He gets into the areas of marriage and family and work and all this stuff. Before he tells you what to do, he says, be filled with the Spirit. What's the implication? Unless you're filled with the Spirit, you can't do these things. You can't operate properly in these areas. It's very important. And the great danger, I think, is that Christians are polarized over what this means. So we have to look very, very carefully. One more thing of interest. There are a tremendous number of people around Redeemer who took their first steps to God or back to God because they had a drinking problem or because they had some kind of substance abuse problem. I think it's absolutely intriguing that Paul, in order to define what it means to be spirit-filled, talks about drunkenness. He says, do not be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. He expects people that have been drunk to have a particular insight into what it means to be filled with the Spirit. it. And, you know, there's so many of you around that have been brought to Christ or have taken your steps or been brought by other people through AA and through your alcohol problems. You better not feel like you're weird. You better not feel self-conscious. There's a tremendous number of you. And in some ways, I think you will find this particular text very illuminating because Paul says, do not be drunk with wine wherein is excess. Now, in the passage we are He says,

Alright, now let's do as much as we have time for. Let's first of all talk about what the general condition is. What is the general characteristics of the spirit-filled condition? Then we'll talk about the actual, well, let's start with that. What is Paul talking about? How does he describe the spirit-filled life when he says,

Number one, the spirit-filled life, therefore, is a life of tremendous control, balance, discipline, and refinement. And number two, the spirit-filled life is a life of tremendous stimulation. Now, how do you get that from here? This way. Why does Paul even talk about drunkenness? Why does he bring it up? Well, some people say, well, because in the Roman world in which he lived and in the Roman world in which these Christians lived, there was nothing more characteristic than substance abuse. It was absolutely rampant. And so it's very natural that he says, you used to be addicted, you used to abuse substances, but now you're filled with the Spirit. Maybe that's what he means. Maybe he's just saying you used to be debauched persons, but now you're Christians. It's much more likely that Paul has chosen this because there is some similarities as well as dissimilarities between the state of drunkenness and the state of being filled with the Spirit. You must remember that in the book of Acts, and maybe Paul's remembering this, when the Spirit fell on the apostles and they went out and began to speak to everyone and publicly proclaim the gospel in public for the first time, what did everybody say? How did they explain their behavior? The crowd was trying to figure out who they were and what they were doing. What did they say? These guys are drunk. So there must be some kind of likeness or similarity between being drunk and being filled with the Spirit, as well as dissimilarity, because Paul says, don't be. Here's why. First of all, the word drunk that's used here means soaked. It means to be saturated with and it means to be dominated by. And we'll get back to this in a moment. What makes you drunk is not how much alcohol you have, but how much the alcohol has you. Right? You notice some people do not get drunk on ten glasses. And somebody else gets drunk on two glasses. So what makes you drunk? It's not the amount of alcohol. It's the effect. It's not how much alcohol you have, but how much the alcohol has you. That's what drunkenness is. perpetrated. Then, the word debauchery, or if you have an old King James Bible, it's the word excess. This word literally means to be spilled. To be spilled. If any of you remember the parable of the prodigal son in Luke 15, it says he went out and he spent all of his money on riotous living. It's the same word. It means to be wasted. It means to be squandered. It means to dissipate your energy in a way that gets you nowhere. It means the height of inefficiency.

Now, why is Paul talking about drunkenness and how does that tell us anything about being filled with the Spirit? First of all, it means this. Number one, it must mean that being filled with the Spirit is the opposite of debauchery. Debauchery means to be wasted. Debauchery means to be having your energy dissipate in every way. Therefore, the life of being Spirit-filled means a life of absolute self-control, refinement, balance. Have you ever seen somebody whose voice is trained through tons and tons and years and years and hours and hours of practice and experience? How do you know that voice is trained? Because the voice is under total control. He or she can do things with that voice that we can't. Look at that tremendous athlete. Why? His body, her body is under tremendous control. And therefore, the life of the Spirit, A life of being spirit-filled means that you are under tremendous control. I know that's not the first thing that comes to your mind when you think of being spirit-filled, is it? When people talk about that's a spirit-filled church right away, a lot of people say, oh yeah, wild.

That's not the first thing that we get from this text. Don't be drunk with wine, and Paul goes out of his way to say what drunkenness is that is the contrast to being spirit-filled. He says the trouble with being drunk is you're out of control. you're using a lot of energy and you're getting nowhere. Your engine is idling. It's revving, it's revving and you're not going anywhere.

Therefore, if you tell me that you're spirit-filled and yet you're out of control, unless your life is marked by refinement and balance, you've got your time under control, you've got your body under control, you've got your tongue under control, you've got your emotions under control,

you're using your gifts in such a way that you're seeing lots and lots and lots of fruit, You're using your time in such a way that you're seeing lots and lots of fruit. That is what it means to be spirit-filled. I don't care about your high feelings. I don't care about your emotions. I don't care about any of those things. If you do not have that life of refinement and balance, you're not spirit-filled. That's clearly what he's saying because it's the opposite of debauchery. Debauchery means to be wasted. I know that's kind of frightening, but you have to keep in mind. Look at a person who's drunk. I use the word he because it obviously could be a word she. Look at a person who's drunk. He's got all the time in the world. All the time in the world. He's completely unaware of where he has to be. Look at the person who's drunk. Not only does he have all the time in the world, he's squandering that, but he squanders his energy. He'll try to do things that he really doesn't have the ability to do.

He may squander his chastity. the point is that he's got all the time in the world he's not balanced, he's not refined, he's not disciplined he's not under control you've got to look at that and you've got to ask yourself is that true of me? how are you doing? here's another aspect of it the word debauchery also can be translated exhausted oh boy there's a lot of churches that talk about being spirit filled and there's a lot of people that talk about being spirit-filled. And yet what Paul is trying to say is, let me translate it this way. Do not get drunk with wine, for that burns you out, that exhausts you, that dissipates you. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. There's a lot of folks who feel that. They have got to be so busy doing spiritual things that they burn out. Why is that? The Bible says because that was not motivated by the Spirit. Let me put it this way. You know, we looked at this last week briefly, it says, be wise, redeeming the time. There is no way that God would give you more to do in a day, or a week, or a month, than you could do. And if you've got more to do in the day, or the week, or the month, than you can do, that means that you're doing a lot of things that God didn't give you to do. You gave you to do, somebody else gave you to do, there is no way God could do that to you. To be spirit-filled, to be dominated, to be soaked, to be controlled by the Spirit, I mean, you got to remember the Spirit is no fool. The Spirit is not going to give you more to do than you can do. Now, you know, you can, don't anybody say, well, look at you, who are you to talk? I'm not talking for me, I'm talking for the Scripture. All right? You know, don't consider the source, or do consider the source. The source isn't me. It's not my idea. It's here.

If you find, listen, if you find yourself being burned out, wiped out from too much serving, too much Christian activity, too much running around, you were not moved by the Spirit to do that.

Ministries that are not prompted by the Spirit create burnout. out. The Spirit could not give you more to do today or this week than you have time to do. Therefore, if you've got way too much to do, somebody else gave it to you. It couldn't have been him. What is your job? It's fairly simple. You have to sit down and say, all right, what has the Spirit given me to do? What am I commanded to do? What is the right thing to do? What are the priorities of the Word of God? What do I have to do? And all these other things, I can't. And if I've got too much to do, then I'm not under the control of the Spirit. I'm burning out.

Therefore, as we say, the life of the Spirit is one of control. It's one of refinement. It's one of balance. It's one of efficiency. Let me move on to the second point, but just, you know, in passing. I also see Christians who, in the name of being Spirit-filled, force a breeziness. Do you know what I mean? Force an emotion. are always trying to say, oh, praise the Lord for this and praise the Lord for that. They force themselves because they feel that's what it means to be spirit-filled. I've also seen people like that crash because they're working so hard to have that forced kind of breeziness. Now the extreme case, I think I may have told you that, it was an extreme case of a guy who after his, he'd only been married three or four months and his wife of three or four months was killed in a crash, an auto crash, and some spiritual Christian supposedly got a hold of him and said the one thing you've got to do is you've got to praise God for this. Now, you know, see, theologically, there's two sides of this. You know, there's a great place where when Job lost his family, what does Job do when he loses his family, huh? He tears his clothes. He rips his hair. He pours dust on his head. He falls to the ground. Wales, and what does it say? It says, and all this Job sinned not. Now, in a lot of so-called spirit-filled churches, if we saw a Christian do that, we'd say, wow, that person's lost the victory.

That person obviously doesn't trust Christ. And that's what these people were doing to, I mean, that's not what the Bible says. It says, all this Job sinned not. He didn't disobey God. He talked to God. He trusted God. He was crying out to God. He didn't turn away from God.

Now, the point is that there's people who force their emotions to always be breezy and always be high and always be good as a way of, you know, being spirit-filled, they think. That's what they did to this poor guy. It took him two years to overcome that after he'd spent a year praising the Lord and suddenly he said, oh my gosh, I'm sad. And fell apart. You know why? Because he never did go to God. God in the name of being spirit-filled, he never went. Now, what we're trying to say is that there's people who in the name of being breezy and happy all the time are not spirit-filled. They're exhausted and you'll be exhausted because you're forcing you. It's really what's called being in the flesh. Friends, a life of being of spirit-filledness is a life of refinement and balance and self-control first. Then secondly, the second point, this may be all the points I got tonight, is that life of spirit-filledness is a life of stimulation.

Remember I said, if you're going to understand what spirit-filledness is, you have to realize that God is, well, God, Paul is contrasting it with drunkenness, because drunkenness is both like and unlike being spirit-filled. when Paul says don't be drunk with wine but be filled with the spirit he's saying is you get from the spirit the things that other people go to the bottle to get let's ask ourselves this why functionally does somebody drink to excess now you know you can get really deep and talk about the person's family pattern but I'm not talking about that right now Now, I'm saying, why psychologically, consciously, why consciously does the person drink? Some people say, I've got to tell that person something that's very unpleasant. I need a drink.

Here's some of the reasons a person drinks to excess. One is you drink because you've got problems and you can't face them. So what you do is you want to overwhelm your problems. They're looming over you. You can't get your mind off of them. What are you going to do? You drink. So you drink to get meaning and life back because your problems looming over you have just made, you know, your meaning has been lost. So you try to drink to get meaning. Or another reason people drink is you drink to get courage. You don't think as much about the ramifications of what you're doing. You don't think as much about the consequences. consequences. You might say there's certain nerve centers, not nerve centers, but there's certain centers in your brain that are knocked out that are thinking about the consequences of what may happen. You get courage. Some people drink also for vulnerability. You know, one of the sad things, in every small little southern town, there's a town drunk. And the town drunk happened to be related to a family in my church in Virginia. And this poor guy, Kathy here remembers him, he would come around all the time, and what was so sad about it is when he was drunk, he was vulnerable. He would talk about his problems. He would talk about his hurts. He would talk about his past. He would talk about his anger. He would talk about all these things. If you caught him sober, he was wound as tight as a hardball. He would never talk to you anything personal. He was absolutely uptight. Only when he drank was he vulnerable. Only when he drank was he open. People drink for openness and vulnerability. They drink for courage. They drink for meaning in life. But if you go to any book of pharmacology, you will know that alcohol is a depressant. Why? Because how does alcohol get you meaning in life? How does it get you courage? How does it get you vulnerability? By knocking out your awareness of reality, making you see less of it, by narrowing down your vision. You know, here is this, think of it this way. Here is this tremendous problem looming over you. Think of it as a monster with, you know, with claws and with fangs and with teeth about to come upon you and crush your little house. So what does alcohol do? What it does is it knocks out your ability to see the big picture. You're looking straight, you get this astigmatism. All you can see is a little house and you don't see the claws, you don't see the monster, and you say, whoopee.

It's a depressant. Don't be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. It means the Spirit of God gives you that meaning. The Spirit of God gives you that courage. It gives you that vulnerability, not by diminishing your horizon or your field of vision,

it. Here's what happens. You may be losing your job. So what do you do? You drink. Why? Because then you don't think as much about reality. What's the Spirit of God do? It's the opposite. It's a life of stimulation. It heightens your thinking. It helps you see a bigger part of reality. Instead of just the little house and even just the monster, the Spirit of God shows you that the The monster himself is just, in the end, a small thing. Because there's a sovereign Lord of history who loves you and cares for you who's in charge of the monster. If you look at the book of Job, that's exactly what happens. Job, all he sees is Satan coming after and doing all these things. But if you read the book of Job, you'll see that God is always saying to Satan, Satan, no further. He draws lines. He controls things. things. So you get drunk in order to deal with your job problem. You say, oh, I can't even imagine it. But the Spirit of God gives you the same meaning in life, gives you the same courage, not by depressing your understanding of reality, but heightening it by saying there's something bigger than that monster. There's a sovereign Lord of history. All things work together for good to them that love him. He's got you in the palm of his hand. You know, his sheep know his voice, and he has you and nothing can pluck you out of his hand. That's what the Spirit of God does. It shows you a bigger part of reality. And as a result, it's exciting. It's stimulating. How do you deal with worry? Alcohol depresses, narrows your vision. The Spirit of God heightens, stimulates, expands your vision. Either way, your worry is dealt with. But the difference is that alcohol wears off.

What is Paul saying? then. The Spirit of God basically works through truth. Don't be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. Now, look, I have to sew things up here for now. But don't you see, we'll get into this later in detail. It says, do not get drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. Instead, speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Sing and make melody in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to the Lord God for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, what it's talking about,

if you take a look at Colossians 3.16, which is an exact parallel passage to Ephesians, it says, let the word of God dwell in you richly. And then it goes on and says, speak to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always give thanks to the Lord God, your Father, for everything, and submit to one another. The same four things, did you see that? Making melody, always being thankful, always being content, submitting to one another. The same four things that are the result of being filled with the Spirit in Ephesians 5.18 are also the result of being filled with the Word in Colossians 3.16. That is one of the most important interpretive principles that you can see if you want to understand what it means to be filled with the Spirit. To be filled with the Spirit and to be filled with the Word is the same thing. To be saturated and dominated by the truth is the same thing. To be filled with the Spirit is to be melted with spiritual understandings of the truth. How do you deal with your worry? How does alcohol deal with it, depressing you, making you think less and see less? How does the Spirit deal with it? By heightening and melting you, melting away your fears, melting away your resistance and your anger by showing you the big picture. And therefore we say that the life of the Spirit a stimulating life. I better put it this way. The life of the spirit is a life without boredom. If you're bored, you're not filled with the spirit. One more thing, and that is the spirit-filled life is a permanently joyful life. Don't be drunk with wine. It says, but be filled. The word be filled is a present progressive. It's very important to understand that. There is no way that you can stay drunk. Some people try very hard. Some of you have done a very good job. Some of you may even have close to the world's record. But eventually you come up. Eventually you can't. You can't stay there. It can't stay. You can't continually do it. And that's the reason why it says don't be drunk is actually a tense that talks about a crisis, an event. But when Paul says be filled with the spirit, it's a present progressive, it's an ongoing thing. That's the reason why the Bible says, here's how you can tell whether your joy is spiritual joy. It lasts. If your joy is gone when things go poorly for you, I mean, if you are way up and way down, you aren't filled with the spirit. That's what this passage is saying. How do you know if the focus of your joy is on the giver or the gifts? How do you know if the focus of your joy is on the giver himself or on the things he's doing for you? It's simple. How do you deal with unanswered prayer? That's your acid test. If when your prayers aren't being answered, you say, I've had it, I'm going home, I'm packing up my religion and going home, that means you were never spirit-filled to begin with. You can talk to me about great feelings, you can talk to me about high experiences, it was never there.

There's a place in John, Where is it? John says in John chapter 7, he says, My joy I give unto you, and no man can take it from you. It's impervious because it's based on who you are in Christ. It says in Psalm 4, Thou hast put gladness in my heart more than they have when their corn and their wine are increased. What it means is, or the end of Habakkuk, where it says that even if the fig trees don't blossom, where there's no fruit on the vine, where there's no cattle in the stalls, everything is gone, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. Spirit-filled life is three things. Number one, it's number one, a life of balance and refinement and self-control. Number two, it's a life of stimulation, having your mind heightened to the facts, to the truth, being melted with spiritual understandings of who you are. Then number three, it's not a super high life, but it is an unremitting, unrelenting, steady kind of joy. Day in and day out. Not based on what's happening to you, but who you are in him. That's what it means to be spirit-filled. If you see that, rejoice. If you don't see that in your life, then you have to come to him and apologize. Next week, we'll talk about what it means, how you go about actually cultivating the fullness of the Spirit, but I'll just put it this way to you. Number one, the Bible says don't quench the Spirit. You quench the Spirit when you hear Him speaking to you, but you put it off. It says in 1 Thessalonians 5.19, don't quench prophesyings, don't quench the Spirit. That means when you hear tonight something in the sermon that you say, I'm going to do something about that. You know, when I went through you went, all right. Any prompting from the Spirit of God in your heart to amend your life according to His will, if you say, I'm going to do something about that, and you don't get to it, you've quenched the Spirit. You're not going to experience this fullness in your life. If He's telling you something, do it. Don't put it off. Secondly, don't grieve the Spirit. You grieve the Spirit by sin. sin. At tremendous cost, he's come into your life and he's trying to teach you to be holy like Christ. Have you ever worked with a really slow learner? You teachers, you know what it's like to work with a really slow learner? It's awful. The Spirit of God is your teacher. He comes into your life. He's trying to teach you to be holy. It's very, very hard. If you're sinning in a way that you know displeases him, you're grieving him. If you're not following

him. And it also says in 1 Corinthians 6.19, it says, don't join your body with a prostitute because don't you know you're a temple of the Holy Spirit? What Paul is saying is also don't ignore him. Don't forget who it is that lives in the courts of your life. When Jesus Christ saw the money changers, when he saw all the sinners in the temple of the Lord, he said, the Holy Spirit dwells in the temple. He says, My house has to be a holy place, and He cleansed the courts of the Holy One of Israel. And now, don't you think that the Holy Spirit dwells in you? Have you been really impressed with the holiness of the person that lives inside you? Have you been amazed with the glory of the person that lives inside you, who is of pure eyes and to behold iniquity? To the degree you grasp that, to that degree you will receive power not to sin. Don't quench the Spirit by ignoring His promptings. Do it. Don't grieve the Spirit by sinning, Spirit. Be amazed at the powerful and glorious person who lives within you. So what should you do now as you go to the table? You ought to repent and you ought to say, Lord, I haven't been living as if you're there. Forgive me for not seeing the treasure that you are. I should be humbler than I am and I should be more confident than I am. I'm neither. I'm just sort of mystery in between. I should be much more repentant because you're there. I should be much more confident of what you can do through me because you're there. I repent of that tonight. I won't ignore you. I won't quench you. I won't grieve you. I want to be filled with you. I want that life. Can you say that? Let's say that in prayer, and then let's go to the table. Our Father, now we ask that you would give us this, a life of balance. Father, some of us have got such problems controlling our tongue, our body, our money, our time, controlling our emotions. controlling our appetites. Father, we need that balance so badly. Secondly, Father, we want a life of stimulation. So many of us have to agree tonight that we don't have your Spirit showing us new truths. The way we deal with our problems is we don't go to your Word. We don't go to you. Instead, we jog. Instead, we go out and get... Some of us do get drunk. Instead, we go out and we play. We entertain ourselves. yourselves. Father, we are ready to say we quench, we grieve, and we ignore the presence of the Spirit in our lives. Help us to walk in your Spirit. Cleanse us. Ready us to do that now as we meet you before the table. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.