Got a very brief little exposition from Hebrews 13 I want to share with you tonight. I actually walked in and I realized that if you're sitting down front, I sound like I'm in the bottom of a well, and if you're near the back, actually, this sounds a lot better. And if you're actually already eating, which you shouldn't be, then it sounds perfect. Hebrews 13, 17. I'll read it to you twice, just one verse. Verse, obey your leaders and submit to them for they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning for that would be of no advantage to you. Okay, this is, I just want to in about 10 minutes unpack this because even though it's an exhortation to followers, not to leaders, it actually tells you more about what it means Let me read it again. It also, by the way, sums up our theme of stewardship, steward leadership this year. Obey your leaders and submit to them for their keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. Now, here's what we learn about leadership. First, obey your leaders. This is not the typical word for obey in the New Testament. typical word for obey is a Greek word, hupokuo, which actually means it's a combination of hyper and acoustic. You know, it means to hyper here, and it really means to do what you're told. And that's the normal word for obedience. That's not the word that's used here. Literally, it's the word to be persuaded. And what it actually says is, be persuaded by your leaders. And that tells you a couple of things. things. One of the things it says is in the church, we ought to actually seek out people who are more mature than we are. We should seek out our leaders and we should listen to their advice and give it pride of place over public opinion, over what our friends say. We should really seek to be persuaded by our leaders. It's very interesting. And it's very, very different than what we have in our culture where there's enormous suspicion of any kind of authority. But more important for us is leaders are supposed to be persuasive. We're not just supposed to simply say, I'm the leader. Here are the rules I have laid down. Do ye them. That's not, according to this text, the way you're supposed to be doing it. There's supposed to be appeal. There's supposed to be reasoning. There's supposed to be urging. You're supposed to be as persuasive and winsome as you can be Barking out orders. Obey your leader. Secondly, now this is, each of these phrases gets more and more telling. They're keeping watch over your souls. That's what it means to be a spiritual leader. Even if you are just an assistant small group leader, you are keeping watch over the souls. And the word for keeping watch is a military word. It means to guard. It means to be on guard as a soldier. Now, only those of you who actually have been in the military realize how incredibly tedious and incredibly important being on guard is. Do you realize this is a life and death issue? First of all, to be on guard, you're watching for the enemy. You're guarding the city. You're guarding the fort. First of all, it's incredibly tedious. In fact, if it's not tedious, you're doing a terrible job at guarding because you're reading a book or you're sitting and thinking your iPod or something. If you're a good guard, you accept the tedium. That is, you refuse to daydream, you refuse to read a book, you refuse to get involved in anything else, you're watching. Very tedious. On the other hand, as you know, to go to sleep or to slip up as a guard means death. Death, maybe to you, but also death to your colleagues, maybe death to people in the city, it's the most tedious and important job possible. And that is what it means to be a spiritual leader. And over the years, I must say, I've come to see that this is the case. 80%, 90% of being a leader is not the upfront place. It's the tedium of following up with people, getting back to people, calling up somebody who's been absent, having your face-to-face meetings regularly, following up, dropping people a note, dropping by. That is what has to happen. If all the leaders of Redeemer are doing that, that's the tedious stuff. Following up, having your face-to-face meetings, calling back, getting back to people, checking up on people who you haven't seen recently. If you're doing that, people will live and they will grow. And if you don't do that. What happens in churches, even small churches, people's lives blow up and we don't see it until it's too late. Do the tedium of leadership or people die. Why? Because you're keeping watch over souls. Thirdly, obey your leaders for they're keeping watch over your souls as those who will have to give an account. And there you have, again, this theme that's been running all through the year and it runs all through the Bible. What does it mean to be a leader. Literally, it says here, they're keeping watch over your souls as those will have to pay back. And it really, it's literal, literally payback. And it means in the most stark way, if you're a leader of anyone, you're a leader of a small group, you're a leader of a team, if you are a spiritual leader, God sees the people under your care as his valuables. his people his valuables. You've got a portfolio of valuables and it's your job to improve and grow it. And you have to give it back to God. And we've talked all year about that. So I don't have to go into it. But I'm just reminding you about it. What does it mean that you're a leader. It means God's given you valuables his people. And it's your job to improve them while you have them. And what do you do that. You pray for them. You teach them how to grow through their sorrows. You teach them how to reach out and serve both their Christian and non-Christian relations. You teach them how to consider their own spiritual gifts and figure out who they are. You teach some of them to consider becoming leaders themselves. We talked about that all year. You must give an account. Don't be a leader unless you realize that in a sense you're a portfolio manager and you have to answer to the investor. It's not your stuff. Last. Obey your leaders. They're keeping watch over your souls as those who have to give an account. Now, let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. I can tell you the first time I preached on this passage was almost 32 years ago, and I haven't forgotten this verse. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning. Here's what this is saying. If you are a leader, you've got people who are under your care. And according to this, many of the people that you are caring for will lead to joy. If you are a spiritual leader, if you're a leader in the church, you will have more joy than if you weren't. And you'll also have groaning. And this word groaning, this is inevitable. Obviously, there's leaders and leaders. And I had churches and churches. And I had small groups and small groups. And some of them were more joy than groaning. And some were more groaning than joy. But because we're living in a broken world. If you're a spiritual leader. It will not only increase your joy. In your spiritual walk. But it will increase your groaning. And this word groaning is a very deep word. It's a word that Paul uses. To describe how creation. is groaning under decay and disintegration and is longing for its liberation on the day of the Lord. Paul also uses it to talk about our groaning under decay of our bodies and how we want to be liberated and we want to have our new bodies and we want, you know, to be freed from decay and death. And so the word means deep sorrow that inevitably comes from living in a broken world. And this is saying, even though you can have better people and worse people. You can have better churches and worse churches. You can have more. The fact of the matter is, if you're a spiritual leader, you will have more joy, but you will also have a lot of broken heart. Your people will break your heart. They will make you grown. That's part of being a leader. How, you might ask. I've been thinking a lot about this over the years. Let me just say, here's three. Number one, when a person's life sinks. Some people just don't get better. Some people just, no matter what you do for them. No matter how much you give to them. They just keep sinking. They just keep floundering. They just keep going down. And they keep suffering. And they stay miserable. And when you're just a person in the church. And you see someone else over there. That's going through that. You just say, we just need to pray for that person. But when you're that person's leader. Small group leader. something like that, and you see them going down, it's a burden on your heart. It just will be. You've tied your heart to them. You feel a responsibility for them. So first of all, spiritual leaders groan more because the people who are hurting hurt them more. Their hurt hurts you more. Secondly, and it's in view in this text, the Hebrews writer is begging the church not to break the heart of their leaders because it happens so much. And very often, and people break your heart because they won't listen to you. They criticize you inordinately. They criticize you. You might say, why do leaders get so much criticism? One of the reasons is because when you're in the leader role, you see how complex things are, right? There's this, there's that, and you make a call. But from outside the leadership role, people on the outside see what you're doing and it always looks simpler to them. And they feel like, in a self-justifying way, I could do it better than you. that comes. And there's a lot of joy that comes. I remember actually about a year after Scott Sherman was ordained and he was on our staff here as a young minister, he was still in his 20s, I remember he came to me and said, why didn't somebody tell me that once you become a pastor, people are always mad at you all the time? And I know this, and he knows this too, that over the first few years of being a leader, you can eliminate quite a lot of that people being mad at you, when you really become more circumspect, when you begin to realize people do have higher standards for you, when you stop resenting that and start to recognize, okay, I'm just going to have to move my whole game up a notch, you know, I've got to realize that. And yet, no matter what you do, to a certain degree, you will find they'll be groaning. Being a spiritual leader will bring you more joy and more groaning and more brokenheartedness than you would have had otherwise. why. So, conclusion, why do it? Well, I could say, well, you just suck it up, you know? You're a soldier. You're keeping watch over their souls. Somebody's got to do it. It's a dirty job. Come on. No, here's why you should do it. Do you know the hymn, Alas, and Did My Savior Bleed? This is the second verse. Was it for crimes that I have done he groaned upon the tree? Amazing pity, grace unknown, and love beyond degree. Oh, wait a minute. Jesus Christ was our leader. The Bible calls him the shepherd and bishop of our souls. And in order for him to be our leader, groan. But the suffering groaning he had to undergo in order to be our leader was the infinitely worse than anything we will ever put up with. And what we have to do is we have to say, Jesus Christ suffered and groaned to be our leader in ways that we never will. In fact, he did it so we never have to. The things that he groaned under was the wrath of God and condemnation and eternal lostness. That's gone for us. And so when we actually start to say, all that you've done for your amazing pity, grace unknown, and love beyond degree, here's the answer. You go and be a spiritual leader of my people and you undergo some of the groaning. But it's going to be little groaning compared to the groaning I took. And if you remember me and if you remember me gratefully and if you do it for me without resentment, all your suffering groaning will do is actually make you into people more like me. It will make you into patient, gentle, wise people. people. That's why you should do it, because of what Jesus did. Was it for crimes that I have done he groaned upon the tree? Think about his amazing pity, his grace unknown, and his love beyond degree. Be stewards. Watch over souls. Even though you have to give an account, even though it brings groaning, it also brings joy, and it's of great advantage to you. Let's pray. Our Father, we spent all year meditating on what it means to be leaders. And we try to be as concrete and as nitty-gritty as possible. But here at the end, we seek to be as realistic as possible. There will be groaning. There will be suffering. Our hearts will be broken. People will criticize. People will fall apart. People won't listen to us. People won't take our advice. Or people just won't get any better, no matter what we do. Father that suffering always leads to glory crucifixion always leads to resurrection once we believe in you and do things for you and we also know Lord that many seeds that we sow now that we don't see sprouting in people's lives will bear fruit later and so we're realistic and excited about being leaders in your church amongst your people continue to equip us to do that we pray in Jesus name amen