John chapter 5, and we'll read verses 1 through 18. Sometime later, Jesus went up to Jerusalem for a feast of the Jews. Now there is in Jerusalem near the Sheep Gate a pool, which is in Aramaic called Bethesda, and which is surrounded by five covered colonnades. Here a great number of disabled people used to lie, the blind, the lame, and the paralyzed. was there had been an invalid for 38 years. When Jesus saw him lying there and learned that he had been in this condition for a long time, he asked him, do you want to get well? Sir, the invalid replied, I have no one to help me into the pool when the water is stirred. While I am trying to get in, someone else goes down ahead of me. Then Jesus said to him, get up, pick up your mat and

The day on which this took place was the Sabbath, and so the Jews said to the man who had been healed,

So they asked him, The man who was healed had no idea who it was, for Jesus had slipped away into the crowd that was there. Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, See, you are well again. Stop sinning or something worse may happen to you. The man went away and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well. So because Jesus was doing these things on the Sabbath, the Jews persecuted him. Jesus said to them, My father is always at his work to this very day, and I too am working. For this reason, the Jews tried all the harder to kill him. Not only was he breaking the Sabbath, but he was even and calling God his own father, making himself equal with God. This is God's word.

Psalm chapter 3 or Psalm 3, the psalmist says, How many there are that rise up against me? How many are my foes? But I lie down and sleep, and I awake, for the Lord sustains me. Now there. air. Outnumbered, the psalmist says, and yet sleeping, sleeping deeply. Now, is your life in the condition that no matter what is arrayed out there against you on Monday, you're going to be able to sleep well tonight? That's a test, isn't it? That's an acid test. You can say, I believe in God, I believe in this, this, this, and this, but one of the greatest tests of the inner consistency of your beliefs with the real world is you lay down to sleep, but do you really rest?

Now, you know, the scientists will tell you it's not the length of sleep that you need, it's the depth of sleep. The scientists will tell you what you really need is REM sleep, right? Rapid eye movement sleep. That's what you need. It's a depth of sleep that you have to have every night that strengthens and renews and reinvigorates you. The Bible teaches us that there is an REM sleep of the soul, that there's a deep rest. In the book of Hebrews, especially chapter 4, it says, now there remains a rest for the people of God. This is a rest that goes way beyond relaxation techniques and deep breathing. It goes way beyond that. passage is actually about that, because it's about a conflict over the Sabbath day. The Sabbath day is the day on which you're supposed to rest and not do your labor, not work. And the Jewish leaders at that time were saying, this man's working breaks the Sabbath, but Jesus says in verse 17, in effect, no, my working creates the Sabbath. And he is giving this lame man the cosmic Sabbath rest that the daily or the weekly Sabbath only points to. You see that? Jesus is talking about a rest that goes beyond just the day of rest, which is a great thing and a wonderful gift to us, and yet it points beyond to a deeper rest, a rapid eye movement rest of the soul, a deep peace. And Jesus says, I am the key, And my working is the key to that rest. So the question that we have in front of us is, first of all, let's be honest. Are you experiencing that kind of rest? When you lay down to sleep, can you really rest? And I'm going beyond the physical.

Or take a look at your soul. Does it have bags under its eyes? And as silly as that image is, it's tragic because I think you know exactly what I mean. think you know the fitfulness of your own heart. I think you know the restlessness of your own souls. What is this Sabbath rest, and how do you get it? And that's all we want to ask, the text. Let's ask the Bible, what is this Sabbath rest, this cosmic Sabbath rest, that the religious leaders of the day could not see, and how do we receive it? Okay, first, what is it? When the Bible talks about this deep rest that talks about it in a number of places. The rest that the Bible talks about is rest from the law. Let me just make this statement, and I know that it's a theological statement, and we have to unpack it and work it out, and that's what we're here to do. The Bible says that every human being is under the law, and as a result, we experience restlessness Restness of soul. Because we're under the law. The cosmic rest that Jesus promises is rest from the law, and only Jesus can give it to you, and only Jesus can free you from being under the law. Now, that means the question is, what is under the law? Paul talks about it. It's a very important New Testament theme. What does it mean? Well, let's take a look at this case we have in front of us. The religious leaders were upset because Jesus was breaking the Sabbath. So let's look at that for a moment. The Sabbath day was one of God's laws. God commanded that on one day out of the seven, we would rest from our labors. Now, that's a great law, by the way, and it's a wonderful law, and it's a great gift. But the religious leaders had taken this law and surrounded it with just a cloud of other religious regulations. Tons of them. Many, many things. So, for example, they were upset with this man because he's carrying his mat. And the reason for that was that you could not carry, according to the regulations of the day, you couldn't carry anything on the Sabbath day. That's work. Now, you could wear something. Therefore, if he had put this around, and this is one of the regulations, if it's something you could wear, you can carry it. So if he could have put the mat on his back, it would have been part of his clothing, and it would have been all right. But if he was carrying it, then it was wrong. You weren't allowed to do medical work on the Sabbath, by the way. So, for example, the way in which people helped their toothaches was to put vinegar on their teeth. That was illegal on the Sabbath, according to the religious leaders. But if you put enough on your food so that when you were eating your food, there was enough vinegar on your food that it healed your teeth, that was all right. You were not allowed to travel on the Sabbath because that would be too much work. So the teachers of the day decided how long could you go, and they decided 1,000 yards. You could not travel more than 1,000 yards from your home. However, how do you define home? And they had to work on that. And they decided, you see, if on Friday you deposited enough food at another place less than 1,000 yards from your home, then that was considered establishing another home. So you could walk to that place, and then you could walk, after eating there, if you ate a meal there, you could walk another 1,000 yards from there and not break the Sabbath day. And, you know, it's funny. The fact is, every one of God's laws was surrounded by just a cloud of regulations. For example, the Bible says, do not break your promise. Well, maybe if you were here when we were going through the Sermon on the Mount, you'll know that the religious leaders of the day had decided we have to define what a promise is. Well, what is a promise? Well, a promise is when you swear by heaven. Now, if you swear by the earth, you don't have to keep that oath. But if you swear by heaven, you have to. If you swear by your head, you don't have to keep that oath. But if you swear by the throne in Jerusalem, you have to. And you see, it's the same thing. Every one of God's laws was surrounded by all these regulations. Why? What would the motive be? And the answer is, regulations are there so you can rest in your performance of the law. So that you can rest in the performance. If you have enough detailed rules, you can really believe that I always keep my word. If you have enough detailed rules, you can follow them and you could say, I always keep the Sabbath. See, if you focus on the rules, you can start to feel pretty good about yourself and say, I keep the law. And you can begin to rest in that. You rest. You look around other people and you say, I am a more worthy person than the rest of you because I keep the law. I can look myself in the mirror because I keep the law. I'm okay. I don't know what the Hebrew word for that is, but I'm okay because I keep the law. And that's what these folks were saying. But my friends, it doesn't work. Because the problem is that anyone who seeks to perform and rest in their performance of the law, the more you read the law, the more the real principles, the things that the law is getting at, come through. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. That's what the law is getting at. Will you just let it come through? That means the law wants this. It wants a heart completely submitted and completely absorbed in God.

You've heard me maybe quote Archbishop William Temple, who said the acid test of this law is your religion is what you do with your solitude. That's how you know who you really rest in. See, in your solitude, when nothing else is demanding, When nothing else is demanding that you think about anything, nothing is distracting you. When your thoughts can go wherever they would prefer to go the most, where do they go? I know, but I can tell you this. My thoughts do not go to my God. They don't go to the one who gave me my life and sustains my life every day and who has endowed me with every mercy and pleasure I've ever enjoyed, to whom I owe everything and at least my highest love and allegiance. And my mind does not go there at all. Absolutely not. It goes to my real rests, my real trusts. It goes to my real religion, which is either my career or my aches and pains or my comforts or what I hope to do with my vacation or the people who like me and what they said to me recently, you see. My real rests. My heart is not submitted. And I don't think yours probably is either. Or look at another part of the law. It says, love your neighbor as yourself. yourself. See, all the rules and regulations boil down to these basic principles. Love your neighbor as yourself. That's a reasonable thing. It didn't even say love your neighbor more than yourself. It just says love your neighbor as yourself. But think. Do you meet the needs of your neighbor with as much force, with as much eagerness, with as much delight, with as much joy, with as much intensity, with as much consideration as you meet your own? Are you really as happy for your neighbor when he gets a promotion as you would have been for yourself if you had gotten it? And you say, well, no, I mean, who could be like that? That's staggering. Yes. You know what the law is? The law is an outline of God's own glorious goodness. God is like that. And when you hear what the law is saying. Here's what it's saying. Now listen. The law is saying you were made for this kind of greatness. You were made for this kind of life. Anything beneath this level of existence is not right for you. You know it. That's what the law is saying. Why are you living beneath this level? This is what you were for. You were made to live with this kind of joy, this kind of love, and this kind of nobility, and this kind of honor, and this kind of integrity. This is the way you were built. The law is saying that. And you know that. And don't you see that if you rest in your performance, if you create lots and lots of little rules and regulations all around, and you can say, look, I'm pretty good. I'm accurate. I have doctrinal purity. I obey the law wonderfully. I look around and I feel better than the rest of the world. If you make that effort, it's doomed to fail. Underneath there will be an insecurity. Social security. Underneath, there's going to be an anxiety. Underneath, there's going to be a restlessness. Because the real law will always come through and show you at what level you're supposed to be living. That's what the law's job is to do. The law's job is not to save you. It's to show you where you should be living, at what level. And anyone who seeks to rest on their performance of the law eventually comes to the place where you feel tremendously weary. You're

breath. You're burdened down. You're so tired because you can't possibly live up there. Now listen, some of you, I want to turn to some people who are saying, look, I can understand this. You're saying to be under the law means to be resting in your performance of all the little rules and regulations, being proud of your 10 years of perfect attendance at Sunday school and all that. I understand that. I've always hated those kinds of people, you said. It says that's for religious people. I'm not a religious type. Oh, yes, way in the past I went to church, but that's not where I am. And I understand what you mean about those self-righteous, legalistic, moralistic types. Yes, I see that. But I'm not under the law. No, wait. The Bible says everybody's under the law. And here's why. First of all, I want you to realize that the essence of the law is something that the Bible says is absolutely deeply embedded in every single human heart and conscience, and it's hard to deny that. When people see what the law of God requires, love, huh? Industry, honesty, purity. Everybody says yes. Frankly, the same rules show up in almost any system of ethics anywhere, whether it's Islamic or Confucian or Greek or pagan or humanist. I mean, who's going to tell you to lie? Huh? going to tell you to steal? Who's going to tell you to be selfish? It's down in there deeply. And more than that, the Bible says, everybody's under the law in that everybody, whether you're religious or not, knows at a deep level that you should be perfect. Everybody in this room knows at one level or another of consciousness that you should be perfect. The Bible says that is how our knowledge of the law, our primitive deep knowledge of the law, and the conscience of every human being, how it expresses itself in our experience. We all know we should be perfect. Some of us have done a real good job of recognizing how pathological and how hard that is to believe that, and we've done everything we can to push it away. No, I don't believe I should be perfect anymore, but you can't get rid of it because it is not the result of demanding parents.

It's not the result of peer pressure. The Bible says that your belief that you should be perfect is a spiritual seed. It's primitive knowledge. Jung would say it's a collective unconscious. You know because you know who God is, and you know about the law, and you know what you owe him. That's why you believe you should be perfect. Now look, some of us have had tremendously demand... Let me put it this way. There's a restlessness in everybody's soul, a knowledge that we should be perfect. There's an itch that everybody has to scratch. Religious people scratch it through religiosity. Religious people come to church and they try to scratch that itch that need to be perfect through regulations and church attendance. If you're not a religious type, you're not going to scratch that itch through religious regulations, but you must scratch it. and you are. See, for example, some of us have had very demanding parents, and we think we're perfectionists because of our parents, when actually our parents just gave us, with all their demandingness, our parental expectations gave us a way to scratch the itch that was already there. And so we're driven by what our parents say, but underneath that, it's just our way of scratching the itch that would be there anyway. way. Some of us are not really driven by our parents. We're driven by our peers. We've decided we want to be, we've chosen a culture or a professional field or a societal strata and we've said, I want to make it there. And there's certain people in this particular peer group or cultural strata that if they think I'm great, if I can get into the inner circle and the inner ring. Then I've made it. We're scratching our itch through what those folks think. Or maybe, maybe you've gotten some good counseling. And good counseling says this. Good counseling says, look, you cannot be driven by what your parents think about you. You can't be driven by what the people out there say. You can't take your very self from the quotation of the day. And therefore, what you have to do is you have to decide what your own standards are. And maybe you were told this. Forget about what everybody else thinks. That's why you're a perfectionist. You're driven by what everybody else thinks. Ah,

you can accomplish anything you set your mind to. So set your mind to something and just do what you want to do. And then you'll be free. Now, the problem with that is, again, it believes, this kind of counseling believes that your perfectionism comes from your parents or from your peer group. The Bible says that the deep sense that you should be perfect comes, it's intrinsic to being a human being. It's intrinsic to knowing the reality of the universe, knowing that you owe God, knowing there is a God, knowing there is a law. And so what happens is if you try to throw off what your parents think and you throw off what your peers think and you just do what you want and you listen to somebody saying, honey, you can accomplish anything you set your mind to. That'll be fine for a while. You'll become what we now lovingly call a control freak. And eventually, especially if you move to New York, you're going to find out, honey, you can't accomplish everything you set your mind to. You haven't accomplished everything you set your mind to. And you're failing to live up to your own standards. And frankly, that's a lot harder thing to live with than your parents or your peer. deep down, we're all scratching an itch. It's a restlessness of the soul. We're all under the law. We're all resting in our performance. And Paul says, that's impossible. You're doomed to failure. Paul says in Romans 3, verse 20, no one will ever be declared righteous by observing the law. Rather, through the law, we become conscious of our sin.

You want to know why most religion is so unhelpful? Most religion is unhelpful because most religious people are trying to actually use religion to defend themselves from that sense that they should be perfect. They're getting legalistic, they're looking at their perfect attendance pins, they're resting their performance because they desperately need to scratch that itch. What ends up happening is they become uptight people. That's why churches are so full of fights, full of the touchiest, most irritable people, the most sensitive to criticism people you can ever find anywhere. And if you go outside of the church, what have you got? Well-adjusted folks?

Or do you have people that are just running from one self-help thing to another self-help thing, desperately trying to relax, to rest?

We're under the law. We're resting in our performance. And all the law can do, the law is fine, the Bible says. If you use the law lawfully, Paul says this in 1 Timothy 3, The law, when used lawfully, is fine. The law's job was never, never to make you acceptable. Never to give you your self-image. Never. The law's job is to call you to see the greatness that you were built for. The law's job is to say, look at how you're supposed to live. The law is a mirror, James says. And if you look in a mirror and you see that you're very, very dirty, that's fine. But don't try to wash your face in it. It can't do it. In the same way, the law can show you who you are. As Paul says,

Can you admit that? Can you see where your restlessness really comes from? that ultimately your restlessness is not psychological but theological, which comes out underneath all the psychology? All the psychology is right, by the way, so much of it anyway, but underneath, underneath, underneath, you're not at rest because you're under the law, and that is what the rest is. It's freedom from the law. Well, you say, then how is that? How do I get it? And that's the only other thing we can talk about. How do I receive this rest from the Lord Jesus? Well, let's find out how he gave it to this lame man. Jesus' point in this passage is to say, on the Sabbath day, I work because my work is the basis for the Sabbath. You shouldn't work on the Sabbath. I mean, Jesus isn't telling people to disobey the law, but he says, you have to understand that it's my work that actually is the doorway into Sabbath rest. You can rest because of my work. Now look and see how he deals with this lame man. Look, real briefly, first thing we see is when he comes upon the lame man, he immediately notices and calls attention to what the man actually is trusting in. The lame man or paralyzed lay around a pool. And all these lame people laid around the pool because it was a legend. It was a superstition. And the legend said that whenever the water moved, that was an angel. And anybody who got into the water while the angel was still there would be healed. Now, of course, why the water moved, it was sometimes it could be a wind. It might have been some kind of movement underwards. We don't know why. But the point is that this man had been trying to get down into of the water for years, Jesus comes upon him and notices something that's not just true of him, but true of all of us. This man is a perfect example of where we all are. Every one of us has false rests, false trusts, false saviors, false hopes, see, false protectors, schemes by which we think we can deal with the restlessness. And this man's no different. And Jesus comes upon him and sees him, and he sees all of us in this situation, And yet, what does he do? He approaches him anyway. You notice this man does not come asking for Jesus to do anything. This man doesn't even know who Jesus is. This man is too wrapped up in his own scheme of how he's going to be healed to come to Jesus. Jesus comes to him. And what does Jesus do? He has to rouse him to want to change. So first, Jesus finds him in a state of false trust, false rest. comes and rouses him. Now, Jesus asked him a question. Do you want to be healed? Right away, you might say, this is stupid. Why would Jesus say this? I mean, look at the man sitting there trying to get healed. Why would Jesus say this? And let's assume, since our Lord does not use superfluous words, that what Jesus had done is he had noticed something. This man didn't want to be healed. This man either had lost hope or maybe even was afraid of getting better. Maybe the paralysis developed a paralysis, has spread, and there was a paralysis of the will. Some of you know what it's like to bemoan the fact that you're not well and yet be scared to death to get well. Because if you get well, then you're going to have to stand on your own, and there's all kinds of responsibilities that right now you've been able to duck because you're sick. And so what Jesus has to do is what we now today in our modern lingo call do, he has to do an intervention. And he says, do you want to He rouses the man. He's giving him back, in a sense, his freedom of choice. He's rousing him to desire to change. And so that's what he does. And then thirdly, he finds him in a state of false trust. And secondly, he tries to rouse him to want to change. Thirdly, look what he gets from the man. He doesn't get much, does he? How does the man respond? The man says, well, you know, you know, I've been trying to get down in this water for years, and it never seems to work. And that's all Jesus gets. Now, that's not much, is it? It's not like the man got up and said, I see who you are. You're the Holy One of Israel. It's not like he gets up and said, I believe in God the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth. It doesn't mean that he gets up and gives this confession. He hardly knows who Jesus is. Later on, you see, when the leaders ask him who healed him, he's not sure. This man is not very smart. This man is not very far along in the faith. All he does is admit that his false trusts are false. All he admits is that he's helpless. All that he does is say, what I'm doing isn't working. And that's all Jesus needs.

I mean, listen. I mean, how much more do you want? Jesus finds us in a state of idolatry, with false trusts. Doesn't matter. He comes to us. He sees that we don't even want to change, and we don't even know who he is, so he rouses us up. And all he gets from us is an admission that the old way is not working, and that he is helpless and without resources. The man says, I haven't been able to get better this way, and I'm clueless now as to how to do it. And all Jesus says is, that's all I need, and he does it. You know, faith starts out without a lot of certainty, does it? Faith starts out without a lot of knowledge. All faith starts with is stepping out on a word from Jesus. But that's not the end. Lastly, you notice how Jesus comes back later, and he comes to him and he says, now you need to be healed. You were healed, fine. But then he says, sin no more. And isn't this the way Jesus deals? There's not a lot of people out here who don't recognize this is how Jesus has dealt with them, you're not listening. When Jesus first comes to us, we say, look, I don't really know who you are, but I'm helpless. I've got to do something. Something has to happen. I'm at the end of my rope, and I'm willing to do what you say. And Jesus says, that's all I need to know. But as soon as he begins to work, eventually he comes to us, and he comes back to this man and says, you know, you gave me what you thought was your problem, but there's a deeper problem.

You gave me the thing that you felt that I needed to do something about, but friend, if you really want peace, I just gave you peace of the body. If you want rapid eye movement, peace of the soul. If you want the deep Sabbath rest, you've got to deal with your sin. Stop living for yourself, start living for me. That is how you're going to find that ultimate peace. What he does about that, we're not really told. I'm not sure, by the way, he takes up Jesus' offer because he does run off to the Pharisees and immediately rat on him. So we're really not sure, my dear friends, if he ever followed through. But in it, we have a paradigm. And here's what we learn. To conclude, how do you receive this deep peace from Jesus? How do you receive the Sabbath rest from Jesus? Number one, first of all, you've got to wake up to your sin. Jesus would not let this man get past his sin. Let me put it this way. Have you ever been sort of half asleep, and the phone's ringing, and you're asleep, and there's a part of you that says, you're asleep, you have to wake up. The phone's ringing. There's another part of you that says, you're not awake, you can't hear that phone. And you're in the middle. And you know this. If you're ever going to get back into a decent sleep, you're going to have to get up and awake all the way and deal with the phone. Sometimes the only way to get into real sleep is to wake up completely, deal with whatever needs to be dealt with. As you know, there's a number of things that can be dealt with like that. then you have to get back to bed, and then you can really sleep. In the same way, Jesus Christ says, you know why you always feel so unworthy, so bad, always falling short because you're resting in your performance, and you see all the little sins that you really don't, you're not honest, and you're not pure, and you're not loving. But there's only one sin underneath all the sins that you haven't ever really confessed, and that's the sin of resting in your performance. That's a sin of false trust, of being your own Savior. Jesus Christ says you have got to deal with sin. You've got to see that you've been living for yourself all along. In some cases, no matter how religious you've been, you've been using your religiosity to keep Jesus away. You've been using your religiosity to defend yourself from what the law has been saying, and that is that you can't rest on my performance.

You have to deal with sin before you can ever find that peace. Bum Phillips, who used to be the coach of the Houston Oilers in the 70s, used to make this joke. He used to say, The road to the Super Bowl goes through Pittsburgh. And what he meant was, The only way to get to the sunny Florida where the Super Bowl is played is first to go through nasty, snowy Pittsburgh and play the Steelers. And he says, The only way you're going to get into that beautiful sun is to go into that nasty weather up there. The road to the Super Bowl goes through Pittsburgh. The Bible says the road to rest, the road to the Sabbath rest, is actually first to wake up to sin. Or another way to put it, the road to rest lies through the hard work of repentance. You can't get rest from your sin until you wake up to see what your real sins are. But, and this is the most important thing, the way you get Sabbath rest, this cosmic rest, is by seeing what you really are working at and what you're really resting in and then resting in Jesus' work.

Listen. What was it that man needed to do in order to get healed? Only one thing. He had to admit that the trusts that he had were false. What do you need? Only one thing. You have to admit this morning that you have been scratching that itch struggling to be good, struggling to be right, struggling to live up to your parents' desire, struggling for peer acceptance, struggling to rest in your performance. And until you can do what the man said, and that is this is not working, until you're willing to say that, you can't find his rest. Until you're willing to see what you're really resting in.

Listen, Christianity is all Jesus Christ. You might think that's an obvious thing to say. That means it takes Christ to be a Christian. Do you hear that? It takes Christ to be a Christian. Nobody else can do it. And the Bible says, therefore, that when you unite with Jesus Christ, because he's been living for you, then all of his righteousness and record comes in to your account. Put it this way. Hey, listen, put it this way. Jesus Christ says, the basis for your Sabbath rest is my working. Well, what is his work? come to do? To teach us about the law? Yes. To die for us? Yes. To live for us? Yes. He came to live a perfect life for you. When John the Baptist is baptizing him, he says, what am I baptizing you for? And Jesus says, it is thus appropriate to fulfill all righteousness. That means I am here to live a perfect life. I'm here to obey the whole law, fulfill all the obligations. And the minute that you unite with him by faith, all of his righteousness comes into your account, If you marry a person who has earned an awful lot of money, all that money can come into your account. His righteousness becomes yours. Now, do you know the difference between a Christian and a religious person?

Do you know the difference between a Christian and a religious person? Christians and religious persons do repent of their sins. They both do, yes. They say, oh, I did wrong. I told a lie. You know, I did this and that wrong. Christians and moralists, Christians and religious people, they repent of their sins, of their righteousness. That's the difference. Only a Christian says, I've been resting in my work so I have no rest in my heart. I will rest in Christ's work and then I'll have rest indeed. That's what a Christian says. That's the difference. Some of you have been religious all of your lives. You've been repenting of your sin, but you've never repented of your righteousness. Do you know this rest? rest. Every Christian's got it, but it's not usually realized fully, but it's there and it's real. Do you understand this? It means, for example, if Jesus is your glory and if Jesus is your righteousness and if it's his work you're resting instead of your own, for example, that's rest from ever trying to prove yourself. Anything that the only person that you really need to prove of yourself to has already said, you are my beloved child and you I'm well pleased. Some of you need rest from your past, the shame of your past, but that's all been paid for and no one can demand two payments for a single debt. Even God can't. It's past, it's done with. Some of you need rest from criticism. If everybody else in the world is saying you're ugly and God says you're beautiful. You feel beautiful because you will find that God has the power to overthrow the authority of all the accumulated verdicts that have ever been passed on you. It's freedom and rest from self-importance. Those of you who have really been growing in the faith realize that your sense of humor has changed. It's developed. Did you know that? Christians have to develop a sense of humor. Because you see, not the biting kind, not the cynical kind, but a sense of humor has to develop in a person who no longer takes themselves that seriously, no longer standing on their own dignity. Rest. Psalm 3. Let's go back to Psalm 3. Psalm 3. Many are those who rise up against me, many are my foes, but I lay down and sleep, and I wake, for the Lord sustains me. And then he goes on, for thou, O Lord, are a shield for me, my glory and the lifter of my head. And that's the key. Why is he sleeping? Why is his head lifted up? Because Jesus is my glory. I knew a couple of friends who, when their children went bad, and it's very hard to watch your children go bad, very hard to watch them turn into criminals. They were discouraged, of course. They were sad, of course, but they got depressed and they never came out of it. sold them. And I realized why eventually. Their children were their glory. That was their glory. They rested in their performance as parents. What's your glory? Is it Him? If not, how can you ever lie down and rest? What's your glory? That's why you're so weary. Look, there's some are realizing that your religiosity has just been a way of keeping God away.

Some of you, I hope, realize that even though you're not religious, you're definitely under the law. And here's what I say to you. Come to Him. You don't have to rest in your performance anymore. Some of you have been coming to church, and you've been roused to sense that you need to change, and you come and you hear the word preached, and you feel hope, but you're really still not sure what Christianity means. You know why? It's him. Just like the layman. He's rousing you to want to change, even though you can hardly tell who he is. My friends, you do not have to find him by living a moral life. Don't you understand? He's not lost. You're lost. You want to find him, just fall forward. He's ever before you. And don't let anybody say, well, this religion is nice for you, but it's not so good for me. My friends, if Jesus is who he said he is, then it has to be true for all of us. And if he's not who he said he is, then it's false for all of us, and it's ridiculous to say that. And maybe some of you Christians are here. Let me ask you this. Why are you so weary? Have you noticed that even though you're supposed to be rested in him, you're very weary? Is it because your career is your glory? Is it because a particular relationship is your glory? Is it because you're resting on other things? Is it because you're just not living an obedient life so he's not real enough to be your glory and to be your rest?

This is what he says to you. Take my yoke upon you. you. My burden is the only one that won't crush you. Take my yoke upon you, for my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Come unto me, all ye who are heavy laden and burdened and weary, and I will give you rest. Are you ready to do that? There is no reason for anybody to leave here weary. If you do, it's your fault. Come to him, admit your helplessness, and get ready to pick up your mat. Let's pray. Our Father, we're grateful that you're a God who we can talk to about how we really are. We ask that you would show us now what it means to enter into this Sabbath rest. We pray, Father, that just like the lame man, we might admit our helplessness, stand up. But Father, unlike the lame man, we would like to follow through. true. Some of us have been waiting around for Jesus to do good things for us, but we don't want to hear him talk about the deeper thing. We don't want to hear that we're sinners. We don't want to hear that we've been living for ourselves, even in some cases through all of that religious regulation and all that religious performance. We now lay our deadly doing down. We know that The only thing that can really keep us from you is our damned good works. The only thing that can keep us from you is our damnable good works. The only thing that can actually take us away from you is to fail to admit our helplessness. Our Father, we pray that we would take those obstacles away. That you would take them away. And we would turn to you. you. We do not have to come to you. You've come to us. We rest on you. We lean on you. We do repent of our sins, but we also repent of our works, in some cases for the first time. And we give ourselves to you, and we thank you that you are a God who provides rest. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
