There's a basic theme that I see running through the book that I'd like to share with you. It's a little more of a, it's more of a kind of principle that can be used both intellectually and spiritually, and I'd like to share it with you.

But first, maybe the heart of the book of Revelation is here at the end in chapter 21. Let me just read five verses of it, and then share with you the thoughts I'd like to share tonight. And in chapter 21, we read,

Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be with them and be their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. He who was seated on the throne said, I am making everything new. And then he said, write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true.

Now, the meditation goes this way. I'll give you, let me tell you a little bit about what the theme is and then we'll work it out. First of all, one of the things that you can't help but notice, around, right after World War I, a major part of the knowledge classes of this country began to throw off biblical religion as a source and foundation of the gospel. for their thinking. When I mean knowledge classes, I mean the leaders in the academic world, the leaders in technology, the leaders even in business in some cases, the leaders in government, what's called in many cases the knowledge classes, the experts. And it started right after World War I, and it really came to conclusion in the 60s that, generally speaking, the people who lead the country have thrown off biblical religion. That means they've thrown off classic Judaism and Christianity. They laugh at it. They laugh at the whole idea. Now, this is a little bit awkward, especially for politicians, because most Americans still at least think in terms of the biblical worldview. So it's a little awkward, because you might see the leaders, the people that live in New York City and Los Angeles and Washington, places like that, they themselves ridicule and in many cases despise Christianity, yet their constituency very often at least has a contradiction. And so they're always kind of in the awkward position of having to give lip service to some of its traditional structures and beliefs, but underneath it all kind of laughing at it. And of course, they're doing less and less of the lip service nowadays. And if you read carefully on the op-ed pages and almost everywhere, the leading thinkers of this country are always looking over their shoulders at Christianity. They've left it behind. And so they're always finding all sorts of both implicit and explicit ways of objecting to it, getting little digs into their articles, getting little digs into their editorials and so on. Sometimes they come right out. Sometimes they do it by way of bashing a particular movement or a particular speaker or a particular church. Sometimes it's more general and implicit, but by and large, they're always objecting to Christianity as being inadequate. And if you stand back, as I've been trying to do in the last few months, and look at all the various irritations and objections that they have to the faith, I've been trying to find out what the basic objections are. And you know, the odd thing about them is that they break into two categories. Now, the first basic category of objection to Christianity is that it is too optimistic, or it's too naive, or it's lacking in the right way of thinking. And so I've been trying to find out what the basic objection is. And the second is that it's lacking in practical realism. You often hear people complain that Christians have their heads in the clouds. Christians, in general, don't realize how the life really is. They're naive. They're not realistic. Now, you know, this particular objection was enshrined in a specially violent kind of opposition to Christianity in Karl Marx. Karl Marx called Christianity the opiate of the people. And behind that objection is this sort of mentality. You know, Christianity, this saying goes,

is just not very practical. You come into your meetings, and you clap your hands, and you sing your songs, and you close your eyes, and you pray your prayers. And what good does it do? It's just not connected to reality. It might make you feel okay. It might make you feel better in some little way. It might be of indirect help, because it helps some people have some personal peace in their life, so they can face their struggles of life. But overall, it doesn't really do anything. It doesn't deal with the really concrete and practical problems of this world. It's not dealing with our economic problems. It's not dealing with the race problems. It's not dealing with the social problems. You know, Christianity really is the opiate of the people. It's lacking in practical realism. Christians are naive. Their heads are in the clouds. It might help make people feel better for a while, but it doesn't really do any good. You understand that? Have you heard that ever? But Christianity really isn't that helpful or anything. Christianity really isn't, in a sense, a good thing. It's a good thing. It's a Christianity is too rosy, too optimistic. That's the one set of objections. Then the other set of objections goes like this. Christianity is too pessimistic. The problem with Christianity is it's too demeaning and too degrading, and it's always talking about sin and gloom and doom. I'll never forget a great letter I read in a book of letters I read some years ago, in which a wife, at the turn of the century, the wife of the president of Harvard University, wrote a friend of hers. This woman and her family were not believers. They had thrown off the Christian church and any Christian belief. She was writing her friend, who was an Episcopalian, who went to church every week. In one of the letters, the lady said, the wife of the Harvard president said, my dear, do you actually every week, now this is the old prayer book here, do you really every week get down on your knees and confess that you're a miserable offender? Any of you remember the old prayer book? Every year used to say, oh, be merciful to us miserable offenders. It's great. I don't know why they let go of that. One of these mornings, it's going to show up in your prayer of confession. We'll see how you do with it. She asked the question, she says, is it true that you actually get down on your knees every Sunday and confess that you're a miserable offender? She goes on the letter and she says, neither I nor any of my children will ever do such a thing. The idea that Christianity makes you get down and talk about you being a miserable offender, how demeaning, how degrading. That's the problem with Christianity. It sees things as bad. It looks at sex as bad. It looks at life as bad. It's world negating. It's too pessimistic. Now, how could that be? How is it that when you really add up, and if you find all these objections to Christianity over here and find all the objections to Christianity, you find out that they're not really true. They really do break down into one or the other. People are either saying the problem with Christianity, it's too optimistic. It's not connected with reality. On the other hand, they're saying it's too pessimistic. It's too demeaning and too degrading, and it's too negative.

Well, how could that be? And the answer is, they're both right. The reason they don't see the truth of Christianity is because they don't see both sides. The fact, and this is the principle I'd like us to meditate on here tonight and show you how practical it is both for your personal and for your intellectual life and understanding of things. The Bible teaches that Christianity, or I should put it this way, the gospel is more, much more, far more pessimistic than any system of thought that has ever been generated in the history of the world. And at the same time, it is far more, infinitely more optimistic than any viewpoint, any point of view, any position, any system of thought, any philosophy, any religion that's ever existed. It is radically more pessimistic. I want to talk to you about that tonight, and radically more optimistic at the very same time. It's not really a contradiction, as we're going to see, because if you want to, in other words, if I want to sum up the message here tonight, the gospel is immediately pessimistic and eventually unbelievably optimistic

may have not really read or understood or heard the actual thrust and weight of what the Bible teaches. If you read just the Old Testament, you will see that the Bible gives us a history of the people of God and its leaders. And its leaders, the leaders that are depicted by the Bible, are the most cowardly, the most egocentric, the most brutal, the most petty-minded people you've ever seen in your life, and these are the leaders. If you've ever read the Book of Mormon, just to give you a contrast between other sacred books, just go read the Book of Mormon sometime. Now, you know, I personally, of course, would believe that the basic thesis of the Book of Mormon is specious, and most people who have studied the thing would admit that there's a problem here. The basic thing, the basic thesis of the Book of Mormon is that a lost clan, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, a lost family, clan of Israel, sailed to America about 1,500 years ago or something, I don't know, about 2,500 years ago, sailed to America and became Native Americans, that is the American Indians of today. That's the basic thesis, and that there was this people that God led to America, and then there's the people of God, received revelations from God, and angels appeared, and so on. Now, I'm not here

to advocate for cheap They have tragic flaws, you know, like Oedipus and people like that. But they're real heroes. That's just not the way the Bible depicts our leaders. It shows you their leaders with all of their warts, even the best ones. It goes out of its way to show you about them. And then if you come to the New Testament and you read, well, the early part of the book of Revelation or Paul's letters or all those depictions, and you will see again, again and again, that the Bible is extremely realistic about the nature of the human heart. We are sinful. No human being, the Bible says, knows even the fraction of the malice and the deceit and the cruelty that your heart is capable of. You have no idea. The Bible says that in every single person, in the heart of every single person, there are the seeds of the very worst actions that have ever been perpetrated or maybe haven't been perpetrated yet. You're capable. You're capable of anything. That's what the Bible says. There's never been a religion or a philosophy that's ever spoken about the human heart the way the Bible does. Never. Now, very often you have what, you know, you have what are called nihilists, you know, or nihilists, depending on who's pronouncing it. But even if you go to all the worst pessimists, if you go to the Thomas Hardys, if you go to the Schopenhauers, if you go to the Nietzsche's, if you go today to the modern, and this is unusual in America. But we're developing. We're developing, you know. For the first time in the last 20 years, a whole school of nihilism and nihilistic thought. You have the deconstructionists and the people who say nothing means anything. But even if you talk to them, and even if you go read their writings, you'll see that they say people in general are messed up. People in general are oppressive. People in general are a wreck. People in general are stupid. But there's a few of us that know what's going on. There's always a few of us that know what's going on. The ones who know that everybody's stupid. That's us. Our school of thought. Even if you go to the most nihilistic philosophers, you'll never talk, you'll never see them, the first line of their book saying, I want you to realize that nothing following this sentence means anything. It's all trash. It's all stupid. I'm just as stupid as the people I'm writing about. You may see people saying everybody else is a racist, but they won't say I am as much of a racist as anybody else. They never say that. See, no matter how negative you are, nobody's as negative as you are. I'm as negative as the Bible because the biblical writer said, you're all wicked sinners, you all deserve to go to hell, and so do I. And I'm no different, and I'm no better than you. That is the message of the Bible. It's never happened before. No other religion comes close. I found this out when I would dialogue with Muslims in Philadelphia in a series of dialogues. I was part of an interesting organization. And I remember the Muslims were really upset with the Christian view of sin. They basically saw most people, some people as very wicked, but most people as very wicked. Most people as just ignorant and needing enlightenment. And the idea of the doctrine of sin that the Bible taught was really very repugnant to them. The Bible is very, very pessimistic. Now let me just point, having said that, having said that, let me tell you that I believe if you're sitting out there saying, oh, that's great, that's just great, I really need this. I come to church, you know, because I've got a tough week. You know, I don't have much time off on the weekends anyway. I come to church. I'm looking for some kind of lift. I really appreciate this. This is really very helpful.

Well, it is. In fact, I'd like to go so far as to say until you believe it, you're not safe. You're not safe. Let me tell you why I believe that the pessimism of the Bible about human nature is the only way you're going to be safe. Give me a couple minutes to put this across, though, because I've got to say it so carefully, because the Bible is so wonderfully perfect. I'm going to try to balance the nuance. First of all, let me point out that because of our pessimism, our Christianity keeps us from ever being anybody's dupes, and it keeps us from ever being the victim of demagoguery. For example, if you've got the Christian biblical theology, it would be impossible to happen to you what happened to an awful lot of people at this last election. In the last election, what was interesting is, first of all, you had two Christians. You had two candidates that were fairly different in their political philosophy. Secondly, you had an election in which the one party came in which really had a fairly different way of philosophy of government than the party that had been in for the 12 years before that. So we had a real change. What happened? On the one hand, therefore, not everybody, but there was a lot of people who were absolutely elated. Elated. Now, finally, there's hope. And then you had a lot of other people who were in absolute despair. They say, oh my gosh, things are going to get worse. This is just terrible. A Christian who has this great biblical pessimism realizes that the choice was between two sinners, two terrible sinners, and that our problems and our government problems are not ultimately because of the way in which people are using government or just how much government is involved in the economy and so forth. Ultimately, our problems are because of the radical evil of our hearts. And when Christians go to vote, they look at two sinners and they basically are choosing the one they think will do a somewhat better job than the other one. That's it. You see, we understand that it's not that the wrong party is in power ever that we have problems. That's not the reason for our problems. It's not that the wrong policies are in place. That's never the ultimate reason for our problems. Christians understand the ultimate reasons for our problems are because of the radical sin in all of our hearts. No matter what party is in power, it's full of sin. And what that means, of course, is that when Christians go to vote, we always have not a cynicism, as I'm going to tell you in just one second, not a cynicism, but instead we have a wonderful hesitancy because we realize that. We realize we're voting for sinners. We have two sinners to choose from. We just voted for the one we thought was the wiser sinner. Yeah. And as a result, Christians' pessimism is so deep, it keeps you from being manic depressive. It keeps you from being, you know, swept up with fads. It keeps you from being swept up with any kind of hero worship ever. Well, I know the fact and you know the fact that Christians fall into this anyway. Why? Only because they don't understand, and that's this particular part of the gospel. The radical pessimism about human nature that's there in the heart of the gospel that is the only way to keep yourself safe. And one more thing, though, before we move on to the other side. The thing you have to keep in mind is you mustn't think that, well, let me tell you another way. Let me put it another way. Another way in which real radical pessimism keeps you safe. There's a lot of folks, and many of them are Christians, many of them are just prudes. Many are just Christians who are prudes. And their attitude toward the world is they want to stay just with nice Christians, and they don't want to be part of the awful world. And when you find Christians like that, these are Christians who are not pessimistic enough. You see, there's an old Greek understanding of reality that has crept into the Christian faith, and a lot of Christians are infected with it. And this view says, The spiritual is good, and the physical is bad. And therefore, these are the kinds of people who feel like if you're really, really going to be spiritual, you really can't go out and enjoy a nice glass of wine. It means you really, really shouldn't be out there involved in politics or going to see art unless it's very Christian art. You should have nothing to do with the world. You should just stick with these nice spiritual Christians and people. But you see, if you are a legalist like that, and if you are a prude like that, you're not pessimistic enough. The Bible says that everybody should be a prude. Everybody's a sinner. There are sinners in the world, and there are sinners in the church. Everything is fallen. Not only is the physical fallen, but the spiritual is fallen, too. So Christians, you see, are quite affirming of everything. They love the world. They love the church. They love Christians. They love non-Christians. And they don't trust any of them.

Do you think that I'm exaggerating? Hey, any of you remember a long time ago, we went through the book of John in the morning services, if some of you might have been around. At the end of chapter 2 of John, we read, It says, Now while he was in Jerusalem at the Passover feast, many people saw the miraculous signs Jesus was doing and believed in his name. But Jesus would not trust himself to them, for he knew all men. He did not need man's testimony about a man, for he knew what was in a man. Did you hear that? He said people loved him. They loved his miracles. They were believing in him. And it says he didn't trust one of them.

Are you getting the radical nature of this? Jesus doesn't trust you. He doesn't trust one of you. It says Jesus trusted nobody. Oh, wait a minute. How could this be? Isn't this the Jesus who when he got around children, when he got around women, when he got around men, when he got around the women and men who were outcasts, he made them feel so valuable. He made them feel so expensive. He loved them and cared for them. Yeah. That's the same Jesus. He doesn't trust you, but he died for you. You see, the only way to be safe is to love the world and the church, you know, the physical and the spiritual, and not trust any of it because it's all fallen. It's all sinful. The Democrats and the Republicans. I'm not saying there's nothing to prefer. From one party to the next. You have to work these things out. You can feel your feelings, you know, about this is the right government policy. Christians are to be involved in politics, you know. Not because we believe that one party is sinful and the other party is not. Not because we believe that this part is, this is what a Christian can do but this is terrible. No, because it's all dirty. It's all sinful. And we're supposed to love it all and be involved in it all. See, radical pessimism keeps you safe. And one last example of how it keeps you safe. This is not a person you would know much about, but I just try to show you. I could multiply these examples by a million. Two very, very well-known ladies, a well-known couple, not in America but in Britain, in the turn of the century, Sidney Passfield and Lord Passfield and his wife Lady Passfield were a couple of very, very important social theorists. They were even though they were raised in the Church of England. But they abandoned Christianity and they abandoned the Christian faith around the turn of the century. And they basically put together the foundations for the British social welfare system. Around 1925 when Lady Passfield was a little bit, was getting up in years, she wrote this. She said, in 1890 I wrote in my diary, quote, I have staked all on the essential goodness of God. I have staked all on the essential goodness of human nature. Now, 35 years later, I realize how permanent are the evil impulses and the instincts in humankind and how little you can change these. For example, greed of wealth and power. Listen, we must continually be asking for better things from our own and other person's human nature. But how shall we get sufficient response? And without this response, how shall we shift social institutions from off the basis of brutal struggle for existence and power on to the idea of the immoral nature of the human nature? to that of fellowship and sociability. No amount of knowledge or science will be of any avail unless we can curb the evil impulses and set free the good. And how can this be done without the authoritative ethics associated with faith and a spirit of love at work in the universe? And she leaves her own question unanswered. Now, listen, you've never, probably hardly any of you, any of you who have heard of Lady Passfield, come tell me afterwards. You get a cigar or something. I'm not saying this is a famous lady. I'm trying to show you that this is something that can be multiplied again and again. She said, when I got started in my life,

I staked everything on the essential goodness of human nature. In other words, I decided that some people can be religious as they want to, but you don't need God and you don't need a belief in God in order to make a good society. She says, I've discovered that that's impossible. I staked everything on the basic essential goodness of human nature. And now I'm seeing that there's no way to curb these impulses. All the science, look, it says, no amount of knowledge or science will be of any avail unless we can curb these evil impulses and set free the good. And how can we do that without ethics? How can we do that without belief in a spirit of love? You know, which is the closest she was able to get even in 1925 to saying, you know, if there is no God, what are we going to do? I staked all. Well, she wasn't safe. She wasn't intellectually safe. She wasn't personally safe. Her entire career wasn't safe because she lost the radical pessimism of the Bible. You know, don't believe me. Of course I'm a preacher. You know, preachers always are talking about sin. So don't believe me. Just open your eyes and see what's happened to person after person. Read the last letters of H.G. Wells. Read the last days of people like this. Read them. People that staked everything on the, on the idea that we're not evil.

Yes, we are. There's never been a system as pessimistic as the Bible about human nature. But secondly, and of course, just as the Bible denounces the optimism of the world as groundless, so it is just as much against the pessimism of the world. In the 20th century, there have been times in which people started to get fairly optimistic. Right after World War I? Right after World War I? Right after World War II? Right after the Berlin Wall came down? And again and again, we've been disappointed. There is, there has been, you know, even though, for example, supposedly the Cold War is over. Supposedly the nuclear threat is over. Supposedly America won. We have never been more discouraged in the 20th century than we are now. There has never been more cynicism, no more, never been more hypocrisy, never been more of a sense of hopelessness about which, which way our country has gone. All the polls show it. Everybody knows it anecdotally. It's all there. The optimism of the world never lasts. It's always based on things that change. But what's great about Christianity is it offers an optimism that goes beyond anything else. Look, most religions and philosophies fall into one of two categories. First you have the ones that, the best that they can give you, the best that they can offer you, if you believe them, is that if we do this, this, and this, and this, and if we get this, and this, and this together, we can temporarily make a difference. We can make the world somewhat of a better place until we all die.

That's the best optimism of most philosophies and religion. That's the best optimism of socialism all by itself. It's the best optimism of capitalism all by itself. It's the best optimism of the New Age stuff in many ways. Just that if we can only do this and we can only do this and if we would all do this together we can make the world somewhat of better place until we all die in detail way another set of religions that say, the best we can offer you is if you live a good life, you'll go to heaven and live as a disembodied spirit forever in a kind of paradise. Christianity has the audacity to come up with what? A hope, an optimism, a claim

beyond anything that any other system of thought has ever come up with. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven. Now look. And I heard a loud voice saying, now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes, no more death or mourning or crying or pain, for the old order of things has passed away. You know, what's astonishing about this? Some religions and philosophies simply say, the best thing we can do is give you an earthy, divine, and divine life. And that's what we're doing. And that's what we're doing. And that's what we're doing. And that's what we're doing. And that's what we're doing. And the other religions and philosophies say, the best we can do is offer you only a spiritual happiness. No earthly, only spiritual. And the other kinds say, no spiritual, only earthly. And the Bible comes along and says, we're going to give you a new heaven and a new earth. You're not going to be a disembodied spirit forever. You're going to have a body. You're going to be able to eat great food forever. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus.

Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus.

Look at Jesus.

Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus.

Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus.

Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus. Look at Jesus new creations, but people in the world still can't see a great deal of it. That turns us in to these kinds of birds. We fling our souls against the gathering gloom. You know, I know Thomas Hardy couldn't have meant this, but when he said, I could think here trembled through this happy good night air some blessed hope whereof he knew and I was unaware. And I can't imagine Hardy was quite this smart, but in the book of Titus, Paul says, for the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all. His grace teaches us to say no to ungodliness and to live self-controlled, upright lives in the present age while we wait for the blessed hope, the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ who gave himself for us to redeem us and to purify himself for himself a people that are his very own eager to do what is good. Do you see that? We wait for the blessed hope. See, what is John talking about here in the book of Revelation? He's talking about the fact that there's going to be a completely new world and a completely new universe. You're going to have a completely new body and a completely new soul. Everything is going to be wiped clean. Everything is going to be glorious. Art, work, literature, poetry, music, knowledge, mountains, bodies, love, hugs, kisses, food, everything. Perfect. Wiped clean, glorious, pulsating all through. How do you know that? Because we've already had our parquet, the first fruits of it. And that means that we will have an optimism that is far greater than the optimism of anybody else. What this means in the end, and here, let's just conclude this way. If you understand this optimism, and only if you have this optimism will you be safe. I just said before, without the radical pessimism of Christianity, that there is no hope in the human heart. The radical pessimism about sin, unless you have that, you won't be safe. But now I'm telling you, unless you have this radical optimism, that God has erupted into the universe. No, of course, there's no hope coming from us, but there's hope for us. Not from us, but for us. He's broken a hole in the ceiling. He's erupted into the universe, excuse me, and down he comes. Everybody's trembling over this. And down he comes. And because he has come, there is this great optimism. Now, you're not going to be safe without the optimism either. Think about this. For example, do you have this optimism? Then you never, ever, ever again will be a victim of chance.

You're independent of it. Do you understand? You know that everything that's happening, everything that's happening is coming together to bring forth this new heavens and new earth.

Nothing that happens to you, therefore, is a whim. You're free. You're no longer a victim of chance, you see. Or secondly, put it another way, you never feel a victim of society. You never feel a victim of what people think about you. What they think about you doesn't matter. It's not ultimate anymore. Or thirdly, it means overall you know the future is your friend. You don't have to be afraid of the future anymore. You maybe have to be afraid of Monday. Maybe even, maybe even you should be afraid of September. Maybe even you should even be afraid of October. of 1994. Maybe you should even be afraid of the 90s, but you don't have to be afraid of the future, the real future, the ultimate future, the future that's going to redeem every other day and every other month and every other year. You're not going to be safe from the vicissitudes of life. You're not going to be safe from what people think about you. You're not going to be safe from the future. You're not going to be safe from anything unless you've got this radical optimism. Put it this way. If you tell yourself everything that you're hearing here tonight is really silly and nonsense, it just can't be. It's too good to be true. You have cut the taproot to your deepest hopes. You've cut the taproot to your best self. Now, I can understand why you would. It's self-defense. Many of you have had friends. Many of you have had friends. Many of you have had friends. Many of you have had friends. Many of you have had families. Many of you have had therapists. Try to get rid of your idealism. You want a love. You want a glory. You want an excitement. You want a significance. One of the things, what drives you in many of your cases to achieve, what drives you toward romance, what drives you in many cases is this deep, you've got a deep taproot to some desire for glory, and everybody around you is saying you're being unrealistic and you're being a perfectionist and you're being a workaholic. And you've just got to realize this is the way life is. It sucks. That's what they're telling you. The therapists are telling you, usually not in those terms. Your friends are telling you, usually in those terms. Don't listen to them. Don't listen to them.

Because you'll kill the best part of yourself. There's a hope. As one writer put it, our lifelong longing to be a perfectionist is a hope. To be reunited with something in the universe from which we feel cut off. Our lifelong longing to look on the glory of nature and want to be on the inside of the door that all of our life we've seen from the outside. Our lifelong longing is no neurotic fantasy or adolescent dreaminess, but the real and true index of your real situation. It's what you are. It's what you're built for. It's what you're designed for. It's what's coming. It's what you're built for. It's what you're built for. It's what you're built for. It's what you're built for. You're not safe without the optimism. You're not safe without the pessimism of the gospel. You won't get this kind of stuff anywhere else. It's here. You can reject it, but don't think you're going to find it anywhere else. Come look at it if you don't have it already. See the world through it if you do. Let's pray. Now, Father, all we ask is that you would enable us to muse and meditate on these things until they become the truth that accords with godliness. You said that we should girt our loins with the truth. We should put it on, and we don't know totally what that means, but we ask because of this meditation that we've done here together as a group tonight, we will have more put on both the wonderful and deep pessimism and optimism of the gospel, and we ask that you grant this for Jesus' sake. Amen.