The scripture reading today is Psalm chapter 1, verses 1 through 6.

Blessed is the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, or stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of mockers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season, and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers. Not so the wicked. They are like chaff that the wind blows away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. For the Lord watches over the way of the righteous. But the way of the wicked will perish. This is the word of the Lord.

We're in a series on what we're calling Christian practices or spiritual disciplines. You may have beliefs, but those beliefs don't automatically produce different character or change character unless your beliefs are turned into actual changed character through spiritual disciplines or Christian practices. So, you may believe God loves you. Not just believe in God. You may actually believe God loves you. That's a belief. But if you are as easily discouraged, as self-conscious, as unhappy as everybody else who doesn't believe in God or doesn't believe God loves them, then it's because you haven't transformed, you haven't turned your belief into a changed life, into actual change in the way in which you're. Your heart works and your life works. So, how do you do that through these practices? Now, today, we come to a very important spiritual discipline or Christian practice. It's the subject of Psalm 1. And it's not that hard, since the psalm is short, to see what the subject of the psalm is. Because in verses 1 and 2, or the beginning anyway, it says, Don't do this. Then in verses 2 and 3, it says, Do this. Actually, verse 2. And then verses 3, 4, 5, and 6 says, If you do it, good things will happen. If you don't do it, bad things will happen. So, don't do this. Do this. And if you do it, this is what will happen. If you don't, this is what will happen. So, all we have to do is look in the center. What is it? What is this entire psalm about? And here's what it's about. Meditating on the law of the Lord or the scripture to the point of delight.

Meditating on the law of the Lord, the scripture, to the point of delight. And do you realize? Do you realize what this is promising? Blessedness is absolute well-being. Now, the subject of Psalm 1 is saying not just belief in God, but meditating on the scripture is what will bring blessedness. The magnitude of that claim, and in some ways the simplicity of the claim, I think is easy to miss. There's more places in the Bible that command this. There's more places in the Bible that command us to meditate than you might think. So, when Joshua, for example, is dying and he's leaving his people in the promised land, almost the last thing he says is, meditate on the law of the Lord day and night. It's like the last thing he says. If you have that, then everything will go well. There's all kinds of places in the Psalms that talk about meditating. Lots and lots of them. And therefore, there's a tendency, you read the word, and first of all, you don't quite know what that means, and you've got in your mind, and you've got in your mind, things like transcendental meditation, you're not quite sure what it means, you pass it over, and yet here, smack in the middle of the very introduction to the Psalter, we're told that not just belief in God, but meditating on the law of God, on the scripture, is the key to blessedness. So, we better look at it.

This Psalm was the subject of the sermon in our wedding. And I remember the preacher said, according to this Psalm, the mark of a godly person is not that he or she prays day and night, not that he or she stands on the street corner and preaches day and night. The mark of the godly person is that he or she meditates on the law of the Lord and delights in it day and night. That was in our wedding. And what's intriguing about that is meditation is about patient pondering. And I must say, I had no idea the significance of that Psalm. We were just getting started as adults. I had no idea. And if you've been at Redeemer a long time, you know that probably every, actually, the last time was seven years, probably every seven, eight years or so, I return and preach on it. You know why? I'm meditating on a meditation about meditation. I hope you enjoy it. Just watch and see what...

Patient pondering will show us that this is an extremely important, crucial part of what it means to be a Christian. There's three things I'd like to show you here. One is what meditation promises, how it's practiced, and why it works. Okay? What it promises, how it's practiced, why it works. So first of all, what it promises. What it promises is all locked in these metaphors at the end. What it promises is stability, groundedness, and substance. It promises that the person who learns to meditate is like a tree whose roots go down to underground streams. Now, it's very important to see that the godly person, the person that intensely and passionately delights in and meditates on the law of God, and the ungodly person who just goes his or her own way and doesn't do that. Notice that the metaphor is not that the godly person is like a great, big, giant tree, and the ungodly person is like a little scrawny shrub bush. See, if it was a big tree and a little tree, then the implication would be the difference between these two kinds of people is basically one of degree. One, the godly person is just working harder, more elbow grease, you know, just working harder to try to be a good person, and the ungodly person isn't. It would be a matter of degree. But no, the distinction is between being a tree and chaff. Now, chaff is also botanical, like the tree in the metaphor. But, you know, the chaff is the husk around the seed or the kernel in grain, and when you're threshing the grain, or when you're winnowing the grain, the husk gets separated from the grain. It's not valuable. And it's also very light, and it just blows around. It's so light, it just blows around. It's a botanical metaphor, but it's obviously rootless. It can't produce anything. It's got no ability to stay put. And that's the contrast. Now, in other words, the contrast between the godly person and the ungodly person is one of nature. It's not just a matter of degree. It's not just one of degree. It's one of very nature. It's not just that godly people are nicer people, better people. In fact, they often aren't. You know, if you... Pardon me. If you had... If you got to know Esau and Jacob, you know the Esau and Jacob, the brothers in Genesis? After many years of studying and reading this thing, I'm almost positive that almost all of us, if we knew Jacob and Esau, we'd like Esau a lot more. He was more affable. He was actually... He was quick to get angry and quick to forget. You know, he could forgive. Jacob couldn't forgive. You know, he was very affable. He was very honest. Jacob wasn't honest. He was shifty. He was bitter. He was resentful. In other words, Esau was a better person, probably. And yet, Jacob had the life-changing, saving relationship, covenant relationship with God. In other words, the difference between these two groups of people is one of nature, not just one of degree. One's better, one's worse. It's nature. What is the difference? Here's the... The godly person is like a tree whose roots are down into the ground, and they're not just drawing on the moisture in the soil, but on underground streams. See, most trees put their roots just down in the ground, and they have to get their nutrients from the moisture in the soil. And the moisture in the soil is only there if the weather's okay. If there's regular rainstorms, then there's moisture enough in the soil for the tree's roots to draw. But the godly person who meditates, it's not just somebody who believes in God, but who also meditates, is someone whose roots are down into streams, underground streams. And underground streams are there no matter what the circumstances, no matter whether it's the heat of summer or the wintertime, no matter whether it's the spring when there's rains or the fall when it's dry, no matter whether there's a famine in the land. It doesn't matter. There's stability. There's a lot of stability. There's exactly the opposite of the chaff, which is being driven around by circumstances. And what this is saying is a godly person is someone who might actually be grumpier than a non-believing person or a person who just believes in God in general but hasn't put roots down into God. The believer who's put roots down into God and who meditates might in many, many ways have all kinds of character problems, but that person, he or she, is drawing hope, drawing meaning, drawing joy, drawing strength, not from circumstances, not from whether you've been successful or failed, not affected by that, not whether people like you and are approving of you or criticizing you. It's not affected by that. Not your feelings or the opinions of others, not affected by that. It's God and what he has done and who he is and what he has said to you. And the roots are down in God and the meditation is a way for you to actually draw the sustenance and draw the nourishment from it.

That's what it is. And a person who can do that is not subject to the vicissitudes of life, is not subject to circumstances, has an identity, has a joy, has a meaning in that. The other person, the person who's a chaff, is like this person in the very beginning who says, blessed is the one who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of mockers. You know who the mockers are? Mockers are the disdainful. Mockers are the sophisticated. Mockers are the in crowd. See? So you're either trying to put your roots down into the world and say, here's where I'm going to get my meaning in life, here's where I'm going to get my hope, here's where I'm going to get my sense of self-worth. It's from what people think of me or how successful I am or my career. But you know what? The psalmist won't even grant that, won't even say, there's a big tree with deep roots and there's a little tree with shallow roots. He's saying, no, you're chaff. You have no roots at all. And I want you to think about this for a second. Think about it. This image of chaff is every bit as fascinating as this image of a person who knows how to meditate being like a tree with roots down into those streams. You know, there's a book. There's a book that's an award-winning book by Kundera, the Czech novelist, called The Unbearable Lightness of Being. That title is so good, you don't have to actually buy the book. I don't think. What you ought to just do is you can download the cover and the title of it from Amazon.com. That's all you need. Do you know what it's saying? That is the very essence of what it means to be a modern contemporary person. If there is no God, if there is no God, then when you die, you rot. And you actually literally become dust or chaff. And you say, well, I know. But when... Now I'm here, I'm trying to make the world a better place. For how long? Because eventually the sun is going to die and the world is going to rot. And every single thing in it is going to rot. Everything's going to be chaff. Literally chaff. And nobody's going to be around to remember anything you've ever done. And whether you're a violent person or a loving person, it doesn't make any difference in the long run. At all. And see, there's that great book with that great title, The Unbearable Lightness of Being is what it means to actually think if there is no God, then the unbearable lightness of being is what it means to actually think the unbearable lightness of being keeps breaking in on me. In fact, I have to hide from myself if you don't believe in God. You have to hide from yourself the reality. And what is the reality? We're just dust in the wind. Oh, yeah, that's another... That's a song. All we are is dust in the wind. The unbearable lightness of being. Chaff. All the same thing. And almost the only way you can live life

without having your roots down in God, without believing in God, or having your roots down in God, is you actually have to seal off what you really believe and not let it really affect you. You have to be a hypocrite. Or the unbearable lightness of being will break in on you and you'll start treating people as they really are, at least in your worldview. So, you see, chaff is an incredibly powerful thing. As an image. It will not, the psalmist will not grant that you're just, you know, you have shallower roots or something like that. If there's a God and you unite yourself to God, unite to God by faith, and you learn to meditate, then you're like a tree by streams of water which yields its fruit in season. Yes, there are good times and bad times, but its leaf never withers. Which means no matter the circumstances, you can handle it. No matter whether there's a storm, you've got roots, you stay put. No matter whether it's dry, suffering, your leaf doesn't wither because you've got your roots down in God. And your hope and your meaning is there. And you know not the unbearable lightness of being, but the wonderful substance of being. The rootedness and the groundedness of being. So that's what it promises. So, let's move on to how we actually practice it. Now, this is supposed to be a series that's practical, so I hope nobody minds if the next part of what I'm about to say isn't all that inspirational. It's going to be practical. I'm afraid with this subject that the idea that meditation is important would be something you're just going to, it's just going to go away unless we get practical. So let's try to get a little bit practical if I can. Four things that the text tells us about the practice of meditation. The place of it, the essence of it,

the object of it, and the method of it. So first of all, the place of it. Psalm 1 is the first psalm. Some of you are going to say, oh, thank you very much for telling me that. You know why that's important? The Psalter is the prayer book of the Bible. That's where you learn to pray. And the psalms are largely prayers. And by going into the Psalter, you learn to pray. That's the place to do it. So what is Psalm 1? It's the introduction. Psalm 1 isn't just accidentally at the front. Psalm 1 was put there, or it was maybe even composed as an introduction, the doorway to prayer. So if you're reading an introduction about a book, you know, the introduction of a book on a subject, you expect the introduction to tell you something important about the subject. You would expect that this is the introduction to a book on prayer. It would tell you some key to prayer. But if you look carefully, there's no mention of prayer. In fact, the thing itself isn't a prayer. It's a meditation. It's saying a meditating person is like a tree who does this and does that, and getting you to meditate on the idea of meditation. And Eugene Peterson, who's one of the great experts, a scholar, one of the great experts on psalms, says because Psalm 1, the introduction to the whole book, the whole book on prayer, is on meditation. Meditation must be the key to prayer.

What Eugene Peterson would say, and what I have discovered after quite a long time of being very slow to discover it, and what so many other people have discovered, is that unless you meditate before you pray, your prayers will not be all that great. They will not be all that life-changing. They will not be all that fervent. Meditation is the bridge to prayer, the key to prayer. How so? How so? When you study the Bible, which is a discipline we talked about last week, when you study the Bible, what you're doing there is, it's basically something that's cognitive. You're learning what the truth is. And when you pray, when you study, the object is the Scripture. And when you pray, the object is God. You're talking to God. You're telling Him what you need. You're telling Him who He is. You're telling Him about things. But meditation, is neither, the object of meditation is actually not the Bible, nor is it God. It's taking what you've just learned cognitively, and working it into your heart. So for example, Richard Baxter puts this perfectly when he says, meditation is distinguished from the study of the Word, wherein the principal aim is to learn the truth, and it's also distinguished from prayer, in which God Himself is the immediate object. Meditation is the effect of prayer, and it's the effect of our own hearts and minds, with love, delight, and humility, toward the things contained in the Word. You get that? So for example, when you read, some of the most famous psalms are actually not prayers, but they're meditations. So Psalm 103, very famous, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that's within me, bless His holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not His benefits. Well now, who's being addressed? The soul. What do you mean the soul? O my soul. Not just that. And all that is within me. What does that mean? Here's a psalmist talking to himself. So, meditation is a form of schizophrenia. That's just, write that, I see some of you taking notes, write that down, put Tim Keller after it, put it up on your website, we'll see. What happens next?

In Bible study, the object is the Bible. In prayer, the object is God. But in meditation, you're taking what you learn cognitively, and what you want to learn, and what you want to, in a minute, talk to God about, and you're working it into yourself. You're saying, I want all that is within me affected by what I know here with my head. See, this is, in some ways, this is the Christian practice par excellence, because what you're actually doing is taking something you believe and saying, I am going to connect it. I'm going to connect this with my emotions, I'm going to connect it with my will, I'm going to connect it with everything. All that is within me, let's take a look at His benefit. Forget not thy benefits. Well, I know the benefits, but I'm trying to work it in so all that's within me is affected. And therefore, meditation is this bridge. We have a tendency to say, here's my Bible study, now I know what the Bible says, and then you immediately go to prayer. Meditation is the bridge between Bible study and prayer. That as far as I know, and I mean, I've been studying the, you know, I think a lot of the great Christian ministers and thinkers and authors of history, they're in different cultures, they're in different parts of the world, they're in different centuries, and they all do this. They never just do Bible study, which is totally cognitive, and prayer, which ends up being totally cognitive, unless you affect your heart with what you just learned through meditation and drill it down before you pray. Otherwise, prayer without meditation is like actually just starting your car up and pushing down the pedal and trying to go 100 miles an hour immediately. It's actually not good for the car, not good for the engine. You need to warm yourself. You need to affect yourself before you pray. So that's the place of prayer. Pardon me, the place of meditation. It's the bridge to prayer. Secondly, now, the essence of it. I've already gotten into it, but I want to press you a little further. The essence of meditation is making the word flesh. The essence of meditation is taking something you know cognitively, word, truth, okay, and saying, I'm going to flesh it out. I'm going to bring it both into my emotional and into my volitional life, into my heart and into my will. So into the heart means I'm going to think about it, and I'm going to say, I'm going to try to affect my emotions with what I just read. And then I'm also going to think out the implications for how I live my life. I'm going to say now, because I believe this, because this is what the Bible says, here are the implications, here are the applications for how I live my life and my family. Here's the implications for how I work in my job. Here's the implications for how I relate to this person. But the main way you meditate is with questions.

And you have to find your own. Whenever I have actually said, here, use my questions, very often people have to, and I've tried to use other people's questions, and you always have to make changes. But Luther's questions, for example, Luther's meditation questions are very, very simple. I've told you some of this. I often talk to the leaders about this. Luther would write down what the Bible verse says, okay? That's your Bible study. And then he'd ask three questions. And he would say, how does this truth lead me to praise God? What can I praise God for with regard to that truth? Secondly, what sins do I need to confess in light of this truth? Thirdly, what do I need to ask God for in light of this truth? So if the truth is God is not just a king, not just a shepherd, but he's a father, if that's what the text says, Martin Luther wouldn't move on. He'd say, let's meditate for a while. He would say, why is that great that he's a father? And he would come up with, and this is meditation, he'd come up with 20 reasons why the fact that God is a father and that he is a father and not just a king or not just a shepherd or something else, he would say, here's 20 reasons I think it's wonderful that you're a father, and he would praise God for them. That's meditation. He would think them out. Then secondly, he would say, now, in what ways am I not actually treating God as if he's a father? Or in what ways am I forgetting that he's a father in the way in which I live my life? And then he'd confess those. And he'd say, in what way, what do I need to ask God for in light of all this? And that's meditation. Now, maybe that's not your approach. I mean, another approach I've seen people do very, very well is with questions like this. You take a truth that you've just read and you say, if I really, really believe that, if I really believe that to the bottom of my being, how would that change the way in which I relate to my family? How would it change the way in which I relate to my work? If I really believed I was redeemed, if I really believed I was loved, if I really believed this, if I really believed God was this. Application kinds of questions to every part of your life. And maybe you take five minutes on that. Maybe you take ten minutes on that. Maybe you take 15, 20, 30, an hour. You study the Bible. You meditate using those kinds of questions. You're trying to make the word flesh. You're trying to make the word real to your emotions and your heart. You're trying to make the word real to the way in which you live your life. You're trying to make the word flesh. And at the end of that time, you pray. And if you do this the first time, you may find that your heart just breaks open and you see things you hadn't seen before. And the Scripture becomes like a burning bush.

A bush that burns and burns and yet is not consumed. But probably not. Probably it may be weeks before that begins to happen. But I'm telling you, you should do it anyway because that's how it works. You're supposed to do it day and night. That's the method. Day and night doesn't mean... Well, literally, I try to do it day and night. But I don't think the Bible is saying you must meditate day and night. Maybe you should do it three times. Maybe you should just do it once. But you're supposed to be disciplined about it.

And one last thing. Eastern meditation and Transcendental meditation and Christian meditation are not the same thing. One very, very important practical point to make here. The Bible constantly talks about meditation. We're commanded to meditate. Psalm 1 says it's the key. Joshua says it's the key. It's all over the place. And yet in our culture right now, when you hear the word meditation, you probably think of Transcendental meditation or Eastern meditation. Let me just suggest to you one thing. Not only are they not the same, but they're almost opposites. And here's the reason why. This is too brief, but I refuse to turn this into a complete lecture. I still want this to be a sermon, so I'm still going to say it. It's... You have rationality and you have intuition. Two aspects of thinking. Intuition sees the whole. Rationality analyzes and breaks things down into parts. That's the reason why some people are very rational and they make good decisions if they sit down and really analyze it and write down the pluses and minuses and think it out and they finally say, that's the right decision. There's other people who are intuitive. They say that's the right decision. They sense the whole. They see the whole. They can't actually break down and tell you why, yet they're always right. So...

I'm not. You know, I'm not. I'm not intuitive. And, you know... And by the way, there are intuitive preachers and there's rational types and I tend to be rational. I break things down. Haven't you noticed that by now? But in Eastern meditation, the idea is to block rationality completely so that you experience pure intuition. And therefore, you're actually trying to empty the mind of thoughts, empty the mind of logic and empty the mind of reason. If any of you have ever been involved in that, you know that's what they're trying to do. Whereas actually, biblical and Christian meditation is almost the opposite. It makes you... It says you must drill down and almost become furiously rational by looking at a passage of Scripture and looking at the text. Because, see, the object of meditation is always the Scripture.

Not just meditating on your hand or meditating on the oneness of reality, as in transcendental meditation. You get furiously rational about Scripture and then you try to inflame your intuition with what you've learned. It's much more holistic. It involves both the rationality and the intuition. It doesn't try to block the rationality off. Because always the thing you're meditating on is what you just read and what you just studied, very rationally in the Scripture. So there are some ideas about the practice of it, the place of it, the essence of it, the method of it, and how it's different from other kinds of meditation. But we're not done. And here's... The last point is I need to show you why meditation really works. And you might say, what do you mean why it works? Doesn't it work because God says we should do it? No, listen, there's a problem. There's a puzzle. There's a mystery, as it were, in the very heart of meditation.

Blessed is the one who delights in the law of the Lord. And on that law he meditates day and night. Think about this for a second. Does that make sense? Isaiah 6. In Isaiah chapter 6, Isaiah has a meditational experience of the holiness of God. See, because meditation is taking the Word and making it flesh, taking an abstract concept and making it real to your heart and your behavior, right? And so when Isaiah was in the temple, he had a meditational experience of the holiness of God, something that he knew with his mind became real to him, right? He saw the Lord high and lifted up. He had a meditational experience.

And he wasn't delighted. Because when he saw the holiness of God, when he saw what God's law required, when he saw the righteousness that his law required, he said, I'm unclean, I'm coming apart. It was a horrible experience. It was no delight. I'll give you another example. When Jesus preaches the Sermon on the Mount, if you read the Sermon on the Mount and you look carefully, you know what it is? It's a meditation. It's a meditation on the Ten Commandments. So, for example, when Jesus says, you heard it said you shall not commit adultery, but I say unto you, if you even look on someone with lust, you've committed adultery. And you've heard it said that you shall not kill, but I say unto you, if you refuse to forgive your neighbor or your brother, if you harbor resentment or even disdain toward them, you've murdered them in your heart. Now, what is he doing? What he's actually doing is he's saying, let's meditate on this commandment, thou shalt not kill. What does that mean? What does it really mean? Let's think about it. And do you not see that all murder is, is a resentful heart come to fruition? And that when you are resentful and when you are disdainful of other people and you harbor that in your heart, you are harboring the seeds of murder in your heart. What is he doing? He's meditating on every one of the Ten Commandments. And he's saying, you've heard it said this, but you know, there's this. You've heard it said this, you know, there's this. And when you're all done with his wonderful meditation on the law of the Lord, do you feel delighted? Anybody, God save us from the Sermon on the Mount. Anybody who thinks the Sermon on the Mount is a wonderful meditation on how we should live lives, there's nothing wonderful about it. It's horrible. Because, you know, when you read the Ten Commandments and you don't meditate on them, thou shalt not kill. Well, I haven't really killed anybody. Thou shalt not commit adultery. I haven't committed adultery. You go on down, you know, and you say, I feel pretty good. Okay, let's meditate.

And Jesus says, let's meditate. And by the end, you will not feel good. You'll think these out and you'll think out the applications. I'm going to make the word flesh. I'm going to take these things and show you how you're really living your life. No. How could anybody delight in the law of God after meditating on the law? Anybody delight in the law of God after meditating on it? Seems impossible.

Unless we think of somebody. First of all, there's one guy who, according to the Bible, actually did meditate on the law of God all the way to the bottom, understood it fully, and delighted in it. We're told about him in Hebrews chapter 10. It says, when Christ came into the world, he said, here am I. I delight to do your will, O God. Thy law is in my heart. That's almost a quote from Psalm 1, practically. Hebrews says, Jesus Christ is the one person who meditated on the law of God day and night and utterly delighted in it. And by the way, he really did. My old, I've never forgotten this, but my old professor, Dr. Nicole, had a wonderful, professor at seminary, had a wonderful sermon, essay, presentation on Christ's view of Scripture. And one thing he always used to point out is there's 1,800 verses of Jesus speaking in the New Testament. There's 1,800 verses in which Jesus is speaking. And 180 of those 1,800 verses, 10% are Bible quotations. So 10% of everything Jesus ever said was to quote the Bible. It's absolutely saturated with the Scripture. And we've talked about this often, that he was always quoting the Scripture everywhere, even at the worst times, even when he was under the greatest stress, which means he was just saturated with it. And I think that's a great thing. You know, so, and when he's on the cross, when he cries out at the very end, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? He's quoting Psalm 22. We talked about that. And you say, all right, fine. One guy actually meditated on the law of the Lord to the bottom and delighted in it. But how does that help me? Here's how it helps us. When Jesus Christ was on the cross, quoting Psalm 22, I'm sure he had the whole thing in his head. And here's what else is in Psalm 22. Listen. I am poured out like water. My strength is dried up. My tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You lay me in the dust of death.

On the cross, Jesus Christ became dust in the wind. On the cross, Jesus Christ became chaff. On the cross, Jesus Christ got what we deserve because, frankly, none of us will delight in the law of God. We don't delight in the law of God. We can't. The very essence of what makes us what we are is that we don't want God to tell us what to do. You know, I do remember that. In that sermon on my wedding day in which the preacher said, you know what the godly person does? He delights in the law of God. You know what that means? He loves God telling him how to live his life. He loves to find places in which his will and God's will cross so he can do God's will. And day and night he's trying to find ways to have God tell him how to live his life. I guess I was too busy with other thoughts on that day to think out the implications of that. See, none of us can do that. None of us do that. That's not... That's not natural. But Jesus Christ said, no, it's not natural. You deserve to be chaffed. You deserve to be driven away because of the way in which you have lived your life and you've turned away from God. But I took the penalty for your sins on the cross. I became chaffed. I became dust in the wind. I dried up and was blown away so that you could have your sins forgiven so now that when you look at the law, you know there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus so that you could be trees. And here is the answer to all the riddles. If you see that the law of God, the Bible, is actually about Jesus and about how he came to be on the cross to do that, then when you meditate on the law of the Lord knowing that he has saved you from the penalty of the law so that now I can pick up the law and say, how do I delight the one who has saved me by his grace? How do I delight the one who at infinite cost to himself has set things up so that my sins are forgiven so there's no condemnation for me? How do I delight that person? The law of God. That's how I delight the one who I want to delight because of what he's done for me. The law of God. These are the things God loves. These are the things God wants. And so now the law of God, instead of being an everlasting despair, which it will be apart from Jesus Christ, is a delight. And there it is. When you see what he's done on the cross and when you realize that everything in the Bible is pointing to him, then the law of God becomes a delight and not till then. And then you can start to put your... roots down in the grace of God and what he's done for you. And you really will find that regardless of circumstance, regardless of what's going on out there, those are streams of water underground that you now have access to. And you know, one thing somebody said to me recently, which I never thought of, is Jesus Christ is the ultimate meditation of God. What's that mean? What it means is meditation is making the word, an abstract thing, real. Jesus Christ is the ultimate way in which God actually has made himself real to us. So meditate on Jesus, who's the ultimate meditation of God. Look at him loving you. Look at him dying for you. Look at him rejoicing in you. Look at him singing over you, Zephaniah 3. Look at all that stuff. And he will be a delight to you. And then the law will be a delight to you. And you will be like a tree planted by streams of water. You'll bear your fruit in seasons and no matter what will happen, your leaf will not wither. Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would just help us to pick up and make use of the very practical meaning of this psalm. We are supposed to delight in the law of the Lord, meditating on it day and night. And then instead of being dust in the wind, we'll be like trees. And we thank you, Father, that you have given us all these assurances. And we now ask that you would bless us with the blessing of Jesus Christ. And we now ask that you would help us to rest in these assurances and begin to practice and discipline ourselves so that we can live off of them. And we ask that you would help us to apply this by your Holy Spirit to our lives. And we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.