The scripture reading is from Acts chapter 5, verses 27 through 42. Having brought the apostles, they made them appear before the Sanhedrin to be questioned by the high priest. We gave you strict orders not to teach in this name, he said. Yet you have filled Jerusalem with your teaching and are determined to make us guilty of this man's blood. Peter and the other apostles replied, we must obey God rather than men. The God of our fathers raised Jesus from the dead, whom you had killed by hanging him on a tree. God exalted him to his own right hand as prince and savior, that he might give repentance and forgiveness of sins to Israel. We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey him. When they heard this, they were furious and wanted to put them to death. But a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law, who was honored by all the people, stood up in the Sanhedrin and ordered that the men be put outside for a little while. Then he addressed them, Men of Israel, consider carefully what you intend to do to these men. Some time ago, Thutis appeared, claiming to be somebody, and about 400 men rallied to him. He was killed. All his followers were dispersed, and it all came to nothing. Judas the Galilean appeared in the days of the census and led a band of people in revolt. He too was killed, and all his followers were scattered. Therefore, in the present case, I advise you, leave these men alone. Let them go. For if their purpose or activity is of human origin, it will fail. But if it is from God, you will not be able to stop these men. You will only find yourselves fighting against God. His speech persuaded them. They called the apostles in and had them flogged. Then they ordered them not to speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. The apostles left the Sanhedrin rejoicing because they had been counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the name. Day after day in the temple courts and from house to house, they never stopped teaching and proclaiming the good news that Jesus is the Christ, the word of the Lord. Now, the book of Acts is about the beginnings of the Christian church. And the part of the book that we're in now, as we're moving through it, chapters 4 to 7, everything goes wrong for the Christians. There's lots of opposition, lots of persecution, lots of suffering. and here in this particular incident we see them handling the suffering and the threat facing the danger, facing the possibility of death with heroic courage and we know, it's just a fact of history we know that the earliest Christians did that they faced opposition and persecution and suffering and death with tremendous courage we know that for the first 300 years, well, from about this time here to about 300 AD, there were 10 systematic persecutions of Christians in the Roman Empire, where they were systematically imprisoned, plundered, tortured and killed. There was even probably a grand total of 100 years in there in which it was illegal to be a Christian completely. completely, and yet we know from historic accounts that many Christians, when they died, they died praying for their executors, the executioners. They died praying, singing as they were thrown to the lions, but also very often Christians were crucified in droves right along the highways. They died so people could watch them as they were coming in and out of Rome, and they sang as they were dying. And, you know, Tertullian, one of the early church fathers, had a saying, it's in Latin, of course, and it said, and what that means in Latin is, the blood of Christians is seed. The more you kill us, the more we grow. Now, where did they get that heroic courage to face that kind of suffering and imminent death. Where did they get that? This is a very interesting passage. It's a long passage. It's full of interest as usual. It would be interesting to look at, to see how God used Gamaliel at that point to basically save the apostles from death, though later on we'll see that people do start dying. Gamaliel is a historic figure. We know something about him from other sources, and it fits in very much with what we see here. that's all very interesting. But what I want to do is I want to just look at just a four verse section, the speech basically, verse 29 to 32. Peter and the other apostles replied. I want to look at that because I think that's a small little study on the very nature of courage, heroic courage. And I want to look at that passage right there and ask the questions, what was that heroic courage? What did it look like? What was it? Secondly, where did it come what was it based on? And then thirdly, how we can get that. How can we get any of that? What it is, where it came from, how we can get it. We can look right through the passage. First of all, what it is. They knew, the apostles knew that they could die. Down here in verse 33, it says, when they heard this, this is the council that they've been dragged in front of. when they heard this, they were furious and wanted to put them to death. So when the disciples spoke, they could look into the eyes of their accusers and they knew they could see their death in their eyes. But what do they say? Verse 29, we must obey God rather than men, which is another way of saying we must obey God rather than you. So they see people that just are itching, you know, for a reason to kill them. And they get up and they very calmly say, you. Now, there's a classic example, a classic instance of a heroic courage. What do we see? First of all, heroism or courage, first of all, it means being principled in the face of danger and opposition. To be principled in the face of danger and opposition. Walter Truitt Anderson, some years ago in a magazine, I read a whole, it was a whole magazine I read on the subject long time ago. Walter Truitt Anderson is just a cultural critic, and he wrote an article in which he said, today our leaders are stars, not heroes. And he said, leaders with which we are generally familiar today are stars, not heroes. Stars are surrounded by crowds. Heroes walk alone. Stars consult focus groups before they speak. Heroes consult their conscience. And that's right. The point is, what makes you a hero is you don't care about the opposition. You don't care whether it means you don't get elected again. You don't care what comes. In spite of danger and opposition, you stick with the principles, what you think is right, what you think is the right thing to do, what's true. So first of all, heroism means being principled in the face of suffering and opposition. But secondly, one other thing, is this is not something you have to do. You're not being heroic if you have to do it. You're being heroic if you choose to do it. So we all know, right, the Congressional Medal of Honor is given to valor above and beyond the call of duty. And the reason we say that is it's admirable to do your duty as a citizen, as a friend, as a family member, as a colleague. You know, you have a lot of roles in society, and those roles require you to do things. Sometimes those things aren't easy. It doesn't make you a hero. It's when you do something where you face danger and you face opposition and you do it not because you have to. Nobody would expect you to do it. And you brave it and you sacrifice and you risk. But you do it because you choose to do it, not because you have to do it. It's voluntary. Now, heroism, I'd like to ask you to consider with me for a second. There it is. You say, well, okay, I understand that. Do you see, or will you spend a moment with me to see that this is a, this, the very idea of heroism poses a problem for us culturally and personally. Culturally and personally. First, culturally. The very idea of heroism is very controversial in our culture. Recently there was an interesting article. It was actually a blog piece. on the New York Times website. Usually it doesn't appear in the printed edition. But he wrote a blog piece entitled Les Miserables and Irony. And he pointed out that almost all the critics hated the movie Les Mis that recently came out. Almost all the cultural critics and movie critics hated it. And he quotes the director who said, the reason why. The director said, we live in a postmodern age where irony is expected And this film is made without irony. And Stanley Fisher is an academic and a very prominent scholar, goes on and says something pretty helpful here. He defines irony. And he says, in irony, we stand aloof from a world you are too savvy to take at face value. The ironist knows what the more naive do not. Namely, that conventional pieties are sentimental fictions. Irony is a brief against the unsophisticated embrace of positive, unqualified values. So what Stanley Fish is saying, irony basically says we don't like to talk about heroes and villains, good and evil. Things are gray. In other words, it says irony is a brief against the embrace of positive, unqualified values. Then, by the way, though, Stanley Fish goes on. He quotes the late novelist David Foster Wallace and makes another point. Right. Wallace says, and this is in Stanley Fish's article, quote, irony is singularly unuseful when it comes to replacing the hypocrisies that it debunks. Few artists, Wallace says, dare to walk, to try to talk about ways of redeeming what's wrong with the world, because then they'll look sentimental and naive to all the weary ironists. And then Fish finally ends by saying maybe the real rebels in the next generation will be anti-rebels who dare to back away from ironic watching and who have the gall to endorse single entendre rather than double entendre values. Now, what this blog shows is that there's two sides on this issue of heroism, and they both have a point. They both have a point. One is the irony people who say the trouble The trouble with talking about good and evil and heroes and villains is that you flatten things and you put everybody into either the good category or the bad. You're the good, you're the bad people. And when that happens and you decide you're the good people and they're the bad people, does that not give you a pretext for excluding them or harming them or oppressing them? Does it not? And therefore the ironists say the trouble with good and evil and villains and heroes is it leads to abuse. let's just say everything's sort of gray. But Fish and Wallace come back and say, yes, the very idea of heroism is subject to abuse. But if you are ironic all the way down, if there really is no good and evil, if it's all gray, if there really is no villains, no heroes, then in the end, how can you ever stand against injustice? Why not just make as much money as Just support the status quo. In other words, heroism is subject to abuse, and yet we need it as well. But we need a heroism that's not subject to that kind of abuse. So there's the cultural issue, cultural problem. But I would also say this subject of heroism poses us a personal problem. And I don't know how to say it as well. I don't think I've said it well yet today. But in spite of the fact that when we think of heroism, call of duty. We think that some people, it might be required of them. If I have to charge through a whole field of landmines because my commanding officer tells me to, you know, well then maybe, you know, or because I have to in order to save my comrades, you know, then, you know, that's heroism. But most of us say that's probably never going to happen to me. I'm probably never going to be in a situation like that. And yet I would like you to consider this, that I think most people at some time in their lives, at maybe many times in their lives, need heroic courage just to live their lives the way they should. So it went into the spectrum. Maybe it'd be so bold as to say that I believe a lot of us are in relationships right now with friends or relatives or colleagues. We're in relationships right now where we're actually doing other people that we know harm Because we don't have the courage to tell them something. We don't have the courage to tell them the truth that nobody else is telling them. And their lives are in danger. They're in danger. But we don't have the courage to face their anger or their disapproval. And therefore, we're being bad friends, bad neighbors. Or, to put a finer point on it, I do know of parents who have ruined their children's lives because they didn't have the courage. to brave their anger, to face their anger, to tell them things they didn't want to hear. Now, of course, I also know parents who are abusive too. But, I mean, you see, the point here is courage is something that we do need. And here's one more thing. We're all going to die. And I want you to know that no matter how many people are around you, around your deathbed, holding your hand, you're still facing death alone. Everybody does. Some years ago, Ann Patchett wrote this article in New York Times magazine I always was taken with. She says, staving off our own death is one of our favorite national pastimes. Whether it's exercise, checking our cholesterol, or having a mammogram, we're always trying to find out what the profile is and then making sure we do not fit it. But despite all of our great intentions, death is still for the most part random, and it is absolutely coming. And I would say that though some of us are lucky enough to suddenly get incinerated because an airplane falls on us, most of the rest of us are going to face death. Do you have the courage just to be a friend? Do you have the courage to be a parent or a spouse? Do you have the courage to face death? Or what if? Who knows what's going to happen in your future? What if there's a situation coming in which for a split second, It's a matter of death or life for somebody else. And you don't rise to the occasion and you spend the rest of your life in shame. That might happen if you right now don't have the character for that act of courage because you just don't have it in you. And what if you were just a normal citizen in the Netherlands during the Nazi occupation? Would you have hidden your Jewish neighbors to save their lives and yet put your own at risk? We need heroism personally. And our culture needs heroism, but a kind that's not subject to abuse. So let's ask the second question, or let's go to the second point. Where did they get their heroism? Where did they get this incredible courage that the earliest Christians did have, without a doubt, historic fact? Well, verse 29, we must obey God rather than men. And so where does this come from? The God of our fathers raised Jesus from the dead, whom you had killed by hanging him on a tree. exalted him to his own right hand as prince and savior. Now, the second word, savior, is a translation of the Greek word soter. It's often used of Jesus. But the first word is a very unusual Greek word. It is used four times, twice in the book of Acts, twice in the book of Hebrews. Always it refers to Jesus. It is used in the Bible to speak of Jesus, but it's an unusual word, and it's a very hard word to translate. In Hebrews chapter 2.10, translations translate it, captain. Isn't that weird? Jesus is our captain? Why? Because the word, which is the word archegos, literally arch ego, archegos is a word that in the Hellenistic culture meant a hero. Bill Lane, William Lane, who wrote a great commentary on the book of Hebrews, Hebrews, and therefore he has to deal with the meaning of the word in the book of Hebrews, says this. He says, hearers, anybody hearing that Jesus Christ is Archegos and Savior, Archegos and Soter, he says, hearers familiar with the common stock of ideas in the Hellenistic world know that the legendary hero Hercules was called not only Soter, Savior, but Archegos, champion. And they would have immediately understood that Jesus is being shown and presented as the protagonist who was locked in mortal combat with the one who held the power of death. Now, the Greco-Roman world was based on heroism, actually. Alistair MacIntyre's book, After Virtue, points out that the way the ancient people instilled virtue and character in their children was not by doing values clarification classes and self-esteem counseling. What they them stories about heroes. In some ways, some people say that the Greco-Roman world was a hero based culture. And therefore, when the early Christians deliberately use a word that was used for Hercules and the heroes and apply it to Jesus Christ, that is a remarkable example of cultural engagement. Because what they're doing is they're connecting Jesus to something, a longing, but the fact is that when you look at Jesus and you look at Hercules, the fact is that Jesus Christ is very much like and yet radically unlike the heroes of antiquity and the heroes of today, the heroes that the world conceives of as heroes. Jesus is like and unlike them. How so? First of all, of course he's like them. There's an old English poem. It was an Anglo-Saxon poem written in old English, 800 A.D. Christian poem. That's a remarkable book. It's called the dream of the rude. The word rude means is an old word for cross. And it's a, it's a poem about Jesus going to the cross, but it depicts Jesus as a, as a hero. You can get it online, a lot of different translations, but at one point the dream of the rude says, then the young hero who was God almighty, strong and steadfast stripped himself for battle. He climbed up on the high gallows constant in his purpose, mounted it in sight of many, mankind to ransom. That's a way of looking at it. And was Jesus a hero in that sense? Yes. Did he face death bravely? Yes. Was he a man of principle? Yes. He said, Lord, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will but thine be done. Not my will, thine be done. Was it voluntary? Yes. He said, no man takes my life from me. I lay it down voluntarily, as it were. my life down for my friends. So in all those ways, of course, Jesus was a, you know, principal in the face of danger, voluntarily so. In all those ways, of course, he's like all the heroes of the world, but there's another way in which he's radically, radically unlike them. Because think of the heroes of the world, not just ancient, but modern. Think of our superheroes. heroes. What makes Achilles a hero, Hercules a hero, or what made Peter Parker a hero? Peter Parker was just a kid from Queens, and then he got bitten by a radioactive spider. And considering the challenges of having a good environment in New York City, I would think there'd probably be other radioactive spiders out there, and if you just sit around, one of them might get you. But the point is that he really wasn't a hero until he got power. That's it. He's not a hero until he gets a superpower. You can't have a comic book written about you and have a movie made about you unless you have a superpower. And what made them heroes was, what made them superheroes is they got a power. And do you not see how different that is when it comes to Jesus? Jesus was already, I mean, it's silly to say Jesus had superpowers. My goodness, Jesus had all power. Jesus had cosmic power. He was the maker of heaven and earth. He had all glory and all power. So where does his heroism lie? It lies in the fact that he gave up his power. Totally the opposite of the world's heroes. Totally the opposite of Hercules. His heroism lay in the fact that he laid his glory by. He gave it up. He gave up his power. He gave up his glory. vulnerability became vulnerable and he came down and he became mortal and he went to the cross. Now that kind of heroism is actually occasionally, occasionally it's depicted in story and cinema. I can think of a few and yet even the depictions show you that it's just not a heroism of this world. My favorite depiction of it is the 1938 movie Angels with Dirty Faces. And in Angels with Jimmy Cagney and Pat O'Brien were the main actors. Jimmy Cagney played Rocky. Pat O'Brien played Jerry. They were two kids who grew up in a tough urban neighborhood. But Rocky grew up to be a criminal, a crime boss, a murderer. And Jerry grew up to be a priest, an urban priest in a parish in the city. and Rocky becomes a kind of a celebrity criminal and he kills people or they capture him and at the end of the whole movie he's on death row. In fact, you can skip the whole movie. If you can find it, just go to the end because the night before he's about to be electrocuted, go to the chair, Jerry comes in to see Rocky and he says, I got a big favor to ask and Rocky said, what? He says, I was a bunch of kids in my parish. delinquents, they're in trouble with the law, and they're on their way to a terrible life. And they all worship you. You are their hero. You know why? Because you spit in the eye of the man. Because you laugh in the face of danger. Because you're brave. And they expect that tomorrow, you're going to go to the chair sneering and laughing and joking in the face of the executioner. and they're on their way to the same place. They're lost. Well, what do you want me to do, says Rocky. Jerry says, what I want you to do tomorrow is I want you to die a coward. I want you to start sniveling and whining and screaming and begging for your life like a little baby. I want you to die a coward so that all of the newspapers say in the end Rocky died a coward. Rocky looks at him and says, you're kidding. you're asking me to give up the last thing I've got. If I would die like that, everyone, high and low, respectable, in other words, everyone would despise my very memory. I'd be giving up everything. And Jerry says, that's the only way. See, what Jerry is saying is, only if you relinquish your glory, only if you give up everything, can you save these kids. And as some of you know, at the actually show you what they do is this is 1930s black and white movies. You see the shadow on the wall and you see them leading him to the chair. And as you see the shadow of him getting in the chair, suddenly he starts to blubber and scream to me. He starts to cry out and beg for mercy. And then they electrocute him. And the next day the paper says he died a coward. And all the kids see that and they turn away and they're saved. And whenever I see that, it always gives me chills and it makes me want to live a better life, but I also realize nobody would have done that. Nobody would have done that. I don't know any human being that would have done that because what he was being asked to do is the great reversal, substitutionary sacrifice. Give up all your glory. Give up all your strength. It's the opposite of the way the world sees heroism. Take up power and go smash people, right? Crack skulls. But Jesus Christ came not to take up power, lose power, not to crack skulls, but to have thorns put in his skull. He went to the cross to take our punishment so that we could be saved. He gave up all of his glory, gave up everything. That heroism is not subject to abuse. Think about that. You can't misuse that kind of heroism. That's the heroism we need. There's good and there's evil. There's heroes and there's villains. That's the kind of heroism we need. So how do we get it? See, not only does Jesus' heroism solve the cultural problem, but it also actually solves the personal problem because the kind of heroism he's talking about is available not for strong people, it's for weak people, and that means it's available for all of us. So how do we get it? The last thing to show you is verse 32. We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit. We are witnesses of these things. down in verse 40, 41, it says, the apostles left the Sanhedrin rejoicing because they had been counted worthy of suffering disgrace for the name. Notice they didn't go out saying, oh, what wonderful pain. They're not being masochist. They say, oh, what a wonderful name. They're looking at, what are they looking at? See, what are they witnessing? What are they looking at? What are they seeing? In Hebrews chapter 12, one of the four places in the Bible where Jesus is called the archegos, the champion, the hero, it says, fix your eyes on Jesus, the archegos and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him, ran the race, endured the cross, despised the shame, and sat down at the right hand of God. There it is. Now, here, look, there's two kinds There's two ways to try to get courage. And I'm going to call them defiance and hope. Two ways to get courage. Defiance and hope. Defiance actually means looking at yourself, thinking about yourself. It means telling yourself you can do it. I got this off of a website on how to handle your fear. If you have a lot of fear, if you feel like I'm not brave or courageous enough, here's how you handle it. According to the website, it says, step four, dealing with your fear. After you're relaxed, visualize doing the behavior you fear successfully. See yourself doing the thing you fear. Imagine yourself in this situation without all those terribly unpleasant consequences that you've been scaring yourself with and think will happen. and enjoy the feeling of mastery that comes with having dealt successfully with the situation that has made you fearful. And then you will become more confident and less fearful. Now you see what it's saying? It says, don't look at the things you think will happen. Banish fear and tell yourself you can do it. Picture yourself doing it, being successful, being masterful. In other words, defiance is a form of courage in which you concentrate on yourself and you look at yourself you say, I can do it, and you banish fear. And by the way, I do know people who have done that, and I know that is one way to be brave, to say, I'm going to make it, I'm going to succeed, these bad things aren't going to happen, I can do it, I'm not going to let it happen, I'm capable, and on you go. There is a problem with defiance. To banish fear means to say, these things aren't going to happen. Did you hear what the website He says, don't look at the things that you think might happen. You know, no, they're not going to happen. You're going to make it. Well, you know, fear just means reality. To banish your fears means to say these things can't happen. They can't? Sure they can happen. Do I need to be delusional in order to be courageous? Do I need to basically filter out big parts of reality in order to be courageous? courageous. The other approach to courage is not to be looking at yourself and saying, I can do it. Think about Jesus. Is that how he did it? Is that how he went to the cross? Huh? Did he banish fear? Look at him in the garden of Gethsemane. Do you see him saying, I can do this. I know I can. Do you see him saying, come on cup, give it to me. I can't wait to drink it. No, think about it. He says, father, let this cup pass from me. He says, my soul is sorrowful even unto death. He's sweating blood. He is afraid. He's human. He knows what it's going to feel like. He's afraid. He's not banishing fear. Well, then how did he do it? If he didn't look at himself and tell himself, I can do this and banish fear. If instead he looked at something that enabled him to do it in spite of his fears, which is considerably more healthy. What was that? Well, see? Fix your eyes. It's interesting. Look at, let me go back to this text. Fix your eyes on Jesus. So if you want to be brave, fix your eyes on Jesus, the archegos and finisher of our faith, who for the joy set before him, ran the race, endured the cross, despised the shame, and sat down at the right hand of God on high. For the joy. Well, let me ask you a question. When he was in heaven, and the question is, should you come to earth? Should you brave this? Should you make yourself mortal and vulnerable? Should you face infinite pain? And the answer is yes, because of the joy. Well, what joy did he not have in heaven that he can only have on the far side of all that suffering? What was he looking at? You say, well, he was trying to obey his father. Well, he already had that joy. And the only possible joy that he could have looked at, been looking at, that he wouldn't have had unless he went through suffering, was us. Redeeming us. thought of redeeming us. He thought of saving us. He thought of loving us. He wasn't looking at himself. He wasn't saying, oh, I can do it. I know I can do it. These bad things aren't going to happen to me. Come on cup, give it to me. No, he was afraid. In other words, he wasn't delusional. He saw reality, but he had something that enabled him to be brave in spite of his fears and to do the right thing. And what was it? The joy. He looked at the joy. Well, then how are we supposed to get brave? And the answer is, there's one great place in the Lord of the Rings book where a little hobbit, his name is Mary, who's on a battlefield and he's scared to death. His heart is failing him. He sees death and mayhem all around him. And it says, such a horror was on him that he was blind and sick. But suddenly he looks up and he sees Eowyn, his friend, a woman who's all out in battle gear and she's facing this enormous towering evil figure bravely and when he sees her being brave for her friends and for him something happens it says pity filled his heart and great wonder and suddenly the slow kindled courage of his race awoke and he clenched his fist there it is he wasn't saying I can do it I can take on the evil witch king You know, the bigger they are, the harder they fall. I'm just envisioning myself smashing him. No, no. He doesn't banish fear. In spite of his fear, he looks at the bravery of someone who's being brave for him and pity and wonder grips him. And then his slow, kindled courage awakes and he clenches his fist. You do that. Fix your eyes. We are witnesses. Fix your eyes on Jesus, the archegos and finisher of our faith. Look at him. Being brave for you. And that will make you brave. It will. And it will make you the kind of hero that the culture needs. And the kind of hero you need to be. There are a lot of spots in your life right now where you need courage. Look at him. Let wonder fill your heart. Clench your fist. Do what's necessary. Let's pray. Our Father, we're grateful that you have shown us the way to develop the same kind of courageous spirit that your son had and that the early Christians had. Pray that you would make yourself a living, bright reality now to the rest of the service, and especially at the table, so that we can have our hearts filled with wonder at the sight of your bravery for us, instilling in us bravery to do what we should do. And we thank you. Now, please affect that through Jesus. In his name we pray. Amen.
