Let's turn to Ephesians, and I'm going to read two passages. Actually, I'm going to read first Ephesians 5, chapter 5, verses 17 to 21. And then I'm going to read Ephesians 3, verses 14 to 21. Let's start with Ephesians 5, verses 18 to 21. Okay, let's do that while you're receiving your sheets. Just one sheet. It'll be printed on both sides. Ephesians 5, verse 18. Let's begin. Very famous passage. Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. And now let's take a look at Ephesians 3. And there we'll look at verses 14 to 21. Or just 14 to 19 will be sufficient or so. So, 14. For this reason I kneel before the Father from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his Spirit in your inner being so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and long and high and deep Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. That's the word of the Lord. In the series on Christian growth, you have got to talk about the role of the Holy Spirit in the life of the believer. It is so important. One of the main differences between Christianity and moral religion in general is that Christians believe that only through the influence of the Holy Spirit able to do anything good. Only through the Holy Spirit can we grow. It's through the Spirit's work that anything gets accomplished in our lives, not through our own effort. One of the main differences between evangelical Christian theology and Roman Catholic or mainline Protestant theology is the view of the Holy Spirit. You see, historically, Roman Catholic theology has said through the sacraments. It's through the sacraments and through your connection with the institutional church that the Spirit of God operates and comes into your life. And mainline Protestants for the last hundred years at any rate have been teaching that the Holy Spirit is at work in the world in general and that everybody has the Spirit working in them in some way and everyone has got the Holy Spirit working in a general way and he's working all over the place and no one, no one should really lay claim spiritual experience. And of course it's true that, by the way, the Holy Spirit is working all over the world. And it's also true that the Holy Spirit operates in us through sacraments. That when you receive the Lord's Supper and you come together, that the Spirit of God really moves in you, of course. But the difference is that evangelical Christians have said that the Bible teaches that if we come to faith in Christ, if we come to God through Christ, the Spirit of God comes in and we can know God personally through the Spirit. And through the Spirit's influence We can actually experience God, not just know about him, not just know what he requires of us, but actually experience him. That's the difference between biblical religion and all these others. So you see how important it is. Now, tonight, as I talk about what it means to be filled with the Spirit, I hope you notice that I'm not going to say anything about the 35 other different books or denominations or Christian approaches that people take to what it means to be filled with It is nothing more confusing than to come into Christianity, hear about the Spirit of God, think that's great, and about six months after you come into Christianity, you find out that there's 35 different warring factions in the church telling you, this is what it means to be filled with the Spirit, and those people over there aren't because they're not doing it our way. I hope you realize that I'm not going to do anything tonight to try to sort out all that. I'm sorry. I'm not going to tell you who I think is right, you know, the most rightless,

which means wrong. It's just a nice way of being wrong. It's sort of like saying, I'm 5'12", you know. I'm not going to try to ferret all that out. I want to tell you what I think the Scripture teaches about being filled with the Spirit. That's all. And I would like you to, for a moment, not worry about, well, how does this fit in with this book or this preacher or this thing I've heard? relax. Let's just see what the word says here. And you can draw your conclusions afterwards, but wait. All right. I want to take a look at Ephesians 5 first. Very famous passage. And just see what it really says. And I believe Ephesians 3 is actually a kind of in-depth explanation of what it means to be filled with the Spirit. Ephesians 3 is kind of an exposition of the principle we see in Ephesians 5. Let's take a look at this, all right? Ephesians 5, do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Why does Paul introduce drunkenness into talking about the Spirit? And the answer is probably there's a historic reason. Probably Paul remembers that on the day of Pentecost, on the first day in which the Spirit of God descended on the church and in a way brought the church into its present form, you might say. The day when all the apostles got up and they began to speak with power and people said, who are these men and why are they drunk? Remember that? They were filled with the Spirit and they said they're filled with wine and probably Paul remembered that historically with wine and being filled with the Spirit were mixed up. And so Paul brings it up again, but also to say, the things that people go to the bottle for, we've got in the Spirit. Now, whenever you see an explanation like this, don't be drunk with wine but be filled with the Spirit, drunkenness and Spirit-filledness must be in some way different, but in some way similar or they couldn't be compared, right? They're compared because they are like in some ways and they are unlike in some ways. Now, how are they like and how are they unlike? Well, first of all, the word drunk here simply means to be soaked. It means to be dominated. And why did this word to be soaked come to mean drunk? And the answer is because drunkenness is not a function of how much alcohol is in you. Drunkenness is a function of how much alcohol has you. Right. It doesn't matter how much alcohol is actually in your body. The real question is not how much is in you but how much the alcohol actually controls you. How it affects you. That's what makes you drunk. To be soaked means you're dominated by what's in you. You're dominated by the alcohol. Now. Drunkenness is an interesting phenomenon. because whereas many people think that being drunk makes them stimulated, happier, more courageous, if you look in a pharmacology book, you'll see that alcohol is not listed as a stimulant, but as a what? As a depressant. Why? Well, because it's very simple. What alcohol does is it depresses parts of your brain so that when you look out there under the influence of alcohol, you see less of reality than you saw before. The reason you're happy is because some things that you should be thinking about, you don't think about. The ramifications, the consequences, they're not that real to you. Therefore, alcohol makes you happy by making it harder for you to take in all of reality. You don't see as much of it. And so the normal healthy caution that you would often feel, thinking out the ramifications of what you are doing, instead of being worried, you're not worried anymore. Instead of saying, boy, if I say that, that might offend somebody, or I may lose my job. Instead, you take it, and you get it off your chest. Because you see less reality, so you're courageous. You see less of reality, so you're happy. There's a big reason, therefore, that Paul calls this drunkenness, which leads, it says, to debauchery. The word debauchery sounds awful, doesn't it? It actually means to be squandered. It means to be spilled. When you have water that's spilled, It means that it's been released, but it's not good for anything because it's going in every which way, it's not channeled at all, and it's wasted, it's squandered. Lots and lots of power, totally wasted. Excess. Some of your translations will say, wherein is excess, right? And what that simply means is, debauchery means that drunkenness doesn't lead to real usefulness. Instead, it squanders all that energy. Now, the spirit of God and spirit-filledness is both like and unlike being drunk. Number one, it's like being drunk in that the spirit of God dominates you. By that, we mean when a person becomes a Christian. The spirit of God comes into your life. And the spirit is a person. The spirit is a he. The spirit is not an it. And the spirit is not, therefore, a liquid. So you cannot say in a sense I want more of the spirit and think in terms of gallons. You can't say I've got a gallon of the spirit and I need ten. Because if the spirit is a person then when we talk about being filled with the spirit or having less or more of the spirit we've got to think what does it mean to have less or more of a person. So when a person comes into the house or out of the house he's already in or he's all the way out. I mean he's in or he's out. I mean supposedly technically could be part of the way in or part of the way out, but it's fairly uncomfortable, and it's, you know, it's difficult for you and him, you know. You're either in or you're out. So if the Spirit of God is in your life when you become a Christian, what does it mean to be filled with him? And the answer is, well, when you get married, you see, the person is in your life, but you wax and wane in how much that person fills you. There was a great story about an artist who was so in love at one point. He was so filled with his fiance that this poor guy couldn't paint a painting without getting her in. You know, no matter what it was, was it a landscape or a portrait or whatever, there she was. Over here, over here, or under the apple tree, or off in the background, you know, there she was. Why? Because you see, he was filled with her. He was constantly seeing her and he was constantly aware of her and what her realities were and what her needs were. He was filled. She was in his life. It's also possible to have somebody in your life and not be filled. You begin to realize what it means to be spirit filled is not a matter. It's not very impersonal. It's not like electricity. I've got 10 volts and I need 30. It's not like a liquid. I've got one gallon and I need 10. It's more like this. the Spirit of God, Jesus says, is a floodlight. I got this illustration from J.I. Packer, a great teacher, who once was expounding John chapter 16 and 17. And in the book of John, Jesus says, the Comforter will come, the Advocate will come, the Spirit of God will come. He will take of mine and show it to you. Now this is it. This is the heart of it all. It really is. And you can stop worrying about all the other stuff books on it, on what it means to be spirit-filled, because it all comes down to this, and all the books are helpful only in as much as they understand this or relate to this. What does that mean? The job of the spirit is to take of mine and show it to you. And J.I. Packer said, what that means, it's like being a floodlight. If you're walking right outside on one of these dark streets, you're walking along and everything is dark, but if you come to a building that has a floodlight on it, you can see nothing but the building, right? In fact, you can't even see a light very often. You can't tell where it's from. You have to look to find out where it's from. The point of the light, the goal of the light is to flood this building with light so that you can see nothing else. You can't even see the light. And so the building is very, very visible and fills your vision. If it's true, then, that the job of the Spirit of God is to make the truth about Jesus Christ shine. If the job of the Spirit of God beauty. It is to dazzle you and to fill your mind and heart with it. Then what's it mean to be filled with the Spirit? It means to be flooded with His truth. It means to let the Spirit who's always talking to you about one thing and only one thing, and that is Jesus Christ, the fairest among ten thousand. That's all the Spirit of God ever wants to talk about. He's like the artist in love, you see. He's boring unless you're in love with the same thing. Then he's the most interesting person in the world. Ever had somebody, you just love a particular kind of music and all you ever want to do is play it and you want to play it for people and play it for people and you're just dying to find somebody else who loves it just as much because you realize you're boring everybody else. Then when you finally find that person, that person doesn't mind you absolutely dominating their lives with this music because they love it just as much as you do. The spirit seeketh such

this scripture here is telling us what it means to be filled with the Spirit, especially in the book of John. And it means to be flooded with his truth. To be filled with the Spirit means to be melted with spiritual understandings of what Jesus Christ is and who he is. So, for example, you might know that... How do I say it? You might know that you ought to speak the truth in love, right? I knew you should speak the truth in love. I've preached hundreds of sermons on speaking the truth in love, you know, Ephesians 4.16. This week I was praying and I was reading, in my own time with God, a book. And this particular Christian book, at one point, made this remarkable statement. The man was going along and he was saying, you know how everybody else, you know how most of us are, and that is when we see someone we don't like the way they're living, what we do is we don't say anything about it. We never confront them. We never bring it up. We just sort of stay away. We just sort of don't seek them out. We're kind of cold, kind of distant. And he says, that's never how the Spirit of God works with you. And the man says this. I think I have it here. I hope I do. Yes. He says, the Spirit and Jesus Christ and the Father, they always, quote, they speak out roundly. This man was writing 300 years ago. speak out roundly, they correct you soundly, and they never ever harbor any ill will or coldness. And I suddenly was very deeply convicted at that point. See, what God does is he comes to you and says to your face, this is what's wrong, but then completely accepts you and loves you. Bears no ill will to you, no resentment. He flings his arms open and receives you, and yet at the same time, never ever sits down and kind of just thinks, wow, what a person. you and says, he speaks out roundly, corrects you soundly, and harbors no ill will. And I suddenly realized I'm exactly the opposite, and so are most of you. We keep our mouths shut, and we just sort of stay away and stay kind of cold. I was deeply convicted by that. I read that thing, and it began to shine. You know what I'm talking about. If you're a Christian, you know this. It began to shine. It began to come out, and it began to convict me, and I, at that moment, even though I'd always heard to get a strength to change. I began to be aware of it enough that I could notice when I was doing it wrong in my daily walk with people, and I began to have the strength and the ability to think about it and do something about it because the Spirit had taken something that Jesus Christ does, how he speaks out roundly and corrects you soundly and bears you no ill will, and he'd just taken that and made it very real to me. Or what happens when you're full of self-hatred, but the Spirit shows you the love of Jesus Christ for you? Then, you know, there's little voices down there saying, You don't deserve to live. Some of us know what those voices are like. When you're spirit-filled, the spirit is flooding. You see, the flood light is showing you the building and everything else. There's all sorts of things around there, but only what is floodlit is visible. Everything else is invisible. Everything else is there. It's dimly there. You can sort of make it out as you look at it. You see? What does it mean to be spirit-filled? It means to be filled with the Spirit's flooding of your heart with the truth about Jesus Christ. He makes the truth shine. That is why being Spirit-filled is like being drunk. Because it's not how much the Spirit is in you. The Spirit's all there if you're a Christian. But how much the Spirit has you. Just like alcohol. But how is it unlike? How is it unlike alcohol and being drunk. And the difference is that whereas the alcohol is a depressant, the spirit is the stimulant. It's not a stimulant. No. Because the spirit of God actually comes in and brings you joy in exactly the opposite way. The spirit of God heightens your awareness, helps you see more of reality, enhances, it heightens and strengthens and awakens. So, the way in which the spirit gives you joy is it shows you more of reality instead of less. You lost your job. Oh my word. Well, you've got two ways to deal with it. The one way would be to find... Now, alcohol isn't the only way to depress, right? There's all sorts of ways to do it. In fact, you can actually just go out and get yourself crazy. You don't even need substance, do you? You don't even need to put a chemical in your body. And you can just sort of go out and just wild around as much as you can. and eventually, especially if you use alcohol, alcohol will take away the reality. By the way, I don't think it's a sin to drink. But I'm trying to tell you here, using it like this is opposed to the spirit, not because alcohol is bad, but this whole approach is bad. To say, I will get joy because I won't think about part of reality. See, a guy gets drunk and he starts to feel a little bit better about his job because he says, who wanted to work for that boss? anyway. And I didn't need to take this guff for anymore, and I would have quit anyway, even if I had to. And what he's doing, he's forgetting how serious the situation it is. He's forgetting the plain fact that in his situation, it'd be better to put up with a crummy boss until he found another job. In other words, he's getting some joy. He's dealing with it emotionally by seeing less of reality. But the Spirit of God heightens. It strengthens. It awakens. He, pardon me, he awakens. Because he comes to you like this and he says, look at more of reality. Yes, you've lost your job. Serious. Very serious. But look at who your Lord is. The Lord of history. And he said, I will never forsake you and I will never, never forsake you. I'll be with you even to the ends of the world. And remember how he did this for you and how he got you out of this tight scrape. And the Spirit comes alongside and what he does is he says, I want you to see all of reality. And the joy and the courage comes because he's heightening and making you more aware of the facts, not less. The Spirit is the stimulant, not just a stimulant. Now, how does the Spirit make the truth shine? Now, we've got enough time to work on that. In transition, let me just point this out to you. Let me underscore again. Being Spirit-filled means the truth shines. shines. It shines so that you have power to change. It shines so that your joy cannot be brought down by circumstances. Or let me put it another way. The spirit, when the spirit is filling your heart, the truth is put on video, whereas all the other counsels of despair that go around in your heart are on audio. You know what the difference is? If you're in one of these electronic stores, and over here you've got a radio going, right? Or a recording of music coming out of the speaker, and here you have a nice big TV, and on it there's some kind of VCR, some kind of cassette playing. You first walk in, which of those things arrest your attention? Well, the fact is that the video is more vivid because it has both sound and sight, and it immediately arrests your attention, and there's no way the poor radio can cope with it, because the video is much more of a vivid depiction of the truth. Generally speaking, Christians understand that there's a new and an old self, right? And the old self is saying all the old stupid things. it's saying, what good is it to be a Christian if this and this and this is happening to you. And you're not any kind of Christian anyway because you're this and you're that and you failed down here and failed down there and you can't believe all this stupid stuff about salvation by grace. And so you're both feeling sorry for yourself and at the same time you're hating yourself and all those things are going on and on and on down there. And there's always those voices. And then you've got the spirit of God and you've got the truth. The things that you know as you read the scripture. I will never leave or forsake you. You're accepted in the beloved. And all those things that we've talked about. Now, how you live tomorrow will depend on which one of those things is on audio and which one of those things is on video. Because they're always going. The voices are always there. The real question is, which one is controlling you? Which one are you attending to? Which one is more vivid? And frankly, it's a matter of which one captures your imagination. Because imagination is that with which you paint pictures. Spirit-filledness means the word of God is on video. And unfortunately, you don't have a lot of control over that. You sit down and you say, Oh Lord, fill me as I study your word and as I seek your face. And if you do that, he'll fill you. Sometimes he comes down with a crack. Sometimes he comes down like an earthquake. Other times he comes down with a tickle. And you don't have complete control over that. Some days he comes on in and he just heals you. and you say, I don't know why I'm ever going to be afraid again. I don't know why I'm ever going to doubt. You will. Because all of us, as somebody says, until we get to glory, until we have no more sin, our souls are like buckets with holes in them. So when the Spirit fills you up and he comes in with a flood, temporarily a bucket with holes in it can be filled up to the top, but it just continually needs more infilling all the time, or else it's gone. And depending on how you're living, depending on whether or not you're dealing with sin in your life, depending on whether or not you're disciplined in coming to him, using the word of God in prayer, using the fellowship of other Christians. Depending on those things, you may have more holes or less. But they're there. They never go away completely. What it means to be filled with the Spirit is the truth begins to shine because the truth goes on video. And that's what the Spirit of God does. And take a look. Look, just to show you how absolutely you can never, ever, ever divorce the Spirit of God from the Word. You can never say the Spirit of God works apart from the Word. Because, look, in Ephesians 5, now just think about this, it says, Do not get drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Now, you don't have to turn in your Bibles. You can look at your handout here. And then it says, What are the results of being filled with the Spirit? psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. In Colossians chapter 3, we read this very interesting statement. It says in verse 16, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. And what is the result? Listen to this. As you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and as you sing psalms, hymns, and your hearts to God. Whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do all in the name of our Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. And then it goes on saying, wives submit to your husbands, husbands love your wives. It's the same thing. I put it down here in the handout. Ephesians 5.18 says, be filled with the Spirit. Colossians 3.16 says, let the word dwell in you richly. Richly. Don't just know it, but it gets rich to you. You see? And then what happens are the same. In Paul's mind, being filled with the word or having the word dwell in you richly and being filled with the spirit are the same. It doesn't mean that just knowing, just piling up lots and lots of Bible facts so that you can win every Bible quiz in the country. It does not mean, it's not what it means to be filled with the word. To let the word dwell in you richly is what we talk about here in Ephesians 3 and I'll look at here for our last couple of minutes. But you see, they're the same. Each of them leads to the same thing. the psalms and spiritual songs. That's dynamic relationships. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord. Constant joy. Always giving thanks to God for everything. A lack of self-pity and gratitude. Submit to one another. You see, transformed relationships and ability to serve and submit. The fact is, they're the same. Now, that's the first point. If you move over to Ephesians 3, you begin to see a little bit more about how the Spirit makes the truth to shine. for a sec, really. Ephesians 3. Here's Paul kneeling down and praying for his people. And what does he pray for? Out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power with all the saints to grasp how wide and high and long and deep is the love of Christ passes knowledge so that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Oh, gee. Yeah. This is an amazing statement. It's not promising much, is it? You know, what it's saying is, number one, something can happen in your inner being. That's the field of Christian experience. inner being. Some of your translations might say the inner man, which is the same thing. The inner being means your heart. That's all it means. It means your center. Before moving on, let me just point out that in the Bible, the heart is the center of everything. Don't forget, I'm going to say this as often as I possibly can, because very little of the Bible makes sense if you think of the word heart as being a synonym with emotions. Do you hear that? The big problem is that in English, we talk about our minds versus our hearts, or our heads and our hearts, right? So, well, my head wants this, but my heart, you know, Maria in West Side Story, with my head, I know what you're saying is smart, but my heart, you see, Anita, oh, my heart. Remember that? Yes. So, she said, my head says it's true, it's smart, but in my heart, I need to go out and find this guy, and so on. That's not the way the Bible uses the word heart. I'm sorry. a man. Sorry. Because in the Bible you'll see sometimes it says a man thinketh in his heart. You can think with your heart. There's also places that talk about feeling with your heart. There's also places that talk about acting from your heart. Because in the Bible a heart a heart is a seat of everything. a heart a seat