This, this, hmm, we need to turn two lights on too. You know those two? How do you get those two? We're, the pastoral staff at Redeemer Presbyterian Church is doing this seminar. It's this week and we take a Monday off and we'll do it the last Monday night of the month as well as this Monday night. And we're talking about the New Age Movement or NAM as it's often called. Ever heard of NAM? the New Age movement, this is, now you have. This is definite. At no point, I think, can we divorce ourselves from our point of view, which means that on the one hand, you're going to get a look at the New Age movement that's critical, and yet, as far as I know, accurate, which means that if you don't know that much about the New Age movement, and I would hope that people who are part of it would say that the picture that we paint is a fair one and a balanced one, even if the same people wouldn't perhaps agree with our critique or slant. So the pastoral staff is not going to ever divorce itself from its position, but we're hopefully going to be presenting a fair picture. Therefore, you could be at any position. You could be somebody who knows nothing about the movement, wants to know about it. here's something real general and vague from Friends or you've read some things and you'd like to get an overview of it, then this is the place. You might be a devotee of a branch of the New Age movement probably. And because there's so many branches, you may find this educational because what we want to talk about is what do all the branches have in common. you might be somebody who's sort of locked in a battle between more traditional Christian thinking and New Age movement, and you really don't know which way to go. And I hope you'll go the way we tell you to go, but at least you'll see what some of the issues are. You know, I can't help but hope you would go in the way we're going to suggest and propose. But no matter where you are or who you are, oh, you might be a Christian, and you're sure that don't like the New Age movement, but you don't really know what you don't like about it, and you also aren't really completely sure how to talk to someone else who's influenced by it. See, no matter where you are, those are rather different positions. I think you're going to find this very, very helpful. This will be this week and two weeks from now. What we're going to do tonight is Jeff White is going to go first, and I, my name's Tim Keller, I'll go second, and then you'll go third. That means we'll roughly have one presentation, a second presentation, and a time for questions and answers, which is the way we've always done it when we've done these seminars in this format. What Jeff's first of all going to do is he's going to talk about the reasons that the New Age movement has met needs in this culture, though he'll probably also point out the way in which Christians wonder whether the needs are being met as well as is often claimed. but he's going to talk about why the New Age Movement is so popular and what is the attraction of it and what are the attractive features of it. So he's going to be talking about that. Why is it growing? Why is it that many people find that it is addressing issues they want addressed? Then when I get up, after he talks about the popularity and the attraction of the New Age Movement, I'd like to try to give you what I would consider the heart of the New Age Movement there are so many. The New Age Movement is not a conspiracy. It is not a unified movement. It's not an organization. But it's just a myriad. It's just tons and tons and tons of branches and organizations and ideas and books. And they are so different in many cases. And they have so many different slants and so many different kinds of technical jargon. I would like to show you that there are a couple of basic structures. A couple of beliefs that are at the heart of all of them so that you have a better way of judging when you listen to someone speaking or when you read a book or you watch something on TV whether or not this is coming from that point of view or not. So I'm going to try to give you what I would consider is the essence of the New Age teaching. So why is the New Age movement growing? And then secondly, what is the New Age movement and how does it contrast with Christianity and other religions? and then we'll have a time of questions and answers. So I'm going to turn it over to Jeffrey first

and take it. Call me back. Oh, you're going to use this? I think I will. Instead of this? I think so. You want me to turn it down? You can do that. I'll just move this. As Tim just mentioned, the New Age movement is really quite diverse and it's pretty difficult not to come in contact with it to some degree in some way. It spans the breadth of books by Shirley MacLaine, Out on the Limb and Those Like It, to Marianne Williamson speaking at the Town Hall and bringing in all sorts of New York celebrities. To hear her as she speaks on a book known as A Course on Miracles, TM Choruses. There's even a category of music called New Age, which is sort of a misnomer. It means anything that doesn't have lyrics to it, and it's not classical or jazz. And going as far to those who believe in things like channeling and carrying crystals. Even within the New Age movement, there is, much like Christianity, a mainline New Ageism and the lunatic fringe of the New Age movement. And it's helpful to see some of those distinctions. There are various reasons why people, in the same way that there are various reasons There are a lot of reasons why people chase after the lunatic fringe in Christianity as opposed to the mainstream Orthodox understanding of Christianity. There are a lot of reasons why people chase after the lunatic fringe side of New Ageism. What I want to look at in the time that I speak with you is just what it is that's attracting people to the New Age. What does it appeal? What makes people invest themselves in things that you wouldn't have thought they would in the first place. appeals to us in our day and age. Some of you might have read a book back in the early 80s, I think that's when it came out, John Nesbitt's book called Megatrends. One of the trends that Nesbitt pointed to at that time is that the society of the future, which was upon him even then, would be a high-tech, high-touch society. One in which we recognized that there was a great deal

mechanization, of technology, but with that sort of impersonal side surrounding us in the workplace and in our lives where computers became the norm rather than handwritten letters and where we became an information society, Nesbitt also said we would at the same time have a corresponding yearning to be a high-touch society as well. a sense of warmth was portrayed. One where there was a sense of the personal restored. One where there was a sense that we were more than just machines. And with a tendency towards higher and higher forms of mechanization. We would look for things which assured us that we ourselves were more than just machines. Something that would affirm that. Affirm that we transcended the merely material. material, that we went beyond to some sort of spiritual nature as well, capable of warmth and relationship in a world where everything was beginning to exude a cold, distant, impersonal feel. New Yorkers are certainly those who feel that sense of the high-tech age as much as anyone. You only need to walk down the streets to feel dwarfed by the buildings and feel a sense of your smallness and perhaps meaninglessness. And there also is this hustle and bustle of life that drives us all in New York. And in offices filled with computer terminals where they crank in white noise behind us. And sooner or later you start to feel fairly impersonal yourself, part of a whole machine. It's to that problem, to that sense of alienation, that the New Age movement begins to appeal, because it starts to say, listen, there is more to life than merely the technological. There is meaning to life. It's not meaningless. There is something that goes beyond what we see with our eyes. In part, that's what the New Age movement was responding to and why it's been popular. But that itself is not enough, because even in Christianity, there's a recognition that you can have both high technology and live in a very mechanical world where technology increases and increases, and yet still have a belief in God, and a belief in the spiritual, beyond our eyes and beyond our senses, what else was there behind the New Age movement that made it appeal to people? What I want to suggest is that you need to go back further than merely technology to a world view, and a particular world view, which might go under a number of names, such as naturalism or scientism, or what some people might call secular humanism. worldview because this gets at the heart of what Tim is going to speak about and actually it's a good way of giving yourself a framework for understanding the New Age movement as a whole. A worldview is a way of seeing things. It's a way of looking at reality. So imagine putting on a pair of glasses. It's what your glasses enable you to see. And depending on the kind of glasses that you put on, we speak of people wearing rose colored glasses and they see the world in a particular way. Depending on the pair of glasses you put on, it affects what you see and what you don't see, what you're likely to bump into, what you're likely to miss, what is highlighted for you in the world. Everyone has a worldview. It's not something that merely the intelligent people have and the less intelligent people don't have. Often it's a thing that is not held particularly in a conscious way in your own mind. It's not something that you're necessarily thinking about often, but it tends to answer some basic questions about the nature of life. One author, when he speaks of worldviews, speaks of it dealing with four basic questions. The first is, who am I? What does it mean to be a human being? What is the nature and task and purpose of humanity? So who am I? The second question is, where am I? What's the nature of this universe that I find myself in? What's the nature of the world in which I live and move in? What's ultimate reality? Is it merely matter? Is it God? Or is it some sort of system of gods? What exactly is the nature of the universe that we live in? The third question that worldviews try to answer is, what's wrong? What's wrong around me? That is, what is it that is serving as a hindrance or an obstacle to my fulfillment? Why do I feel pain? Why do I feel a sense of misery? Why do I feel a continual yearning in my life for something more? So what's the problem? And then the final question that a worldview tries to answer is, what's the remedy to the problem? What's the solution? How do I get beyond the obstacles to find fulfillment? Or, to use Christian terminology, how do I find salvation? Looking at the nature of the catastrophe that I'm in, how do I find my way out of it? Those are the questions that a worldview seeks to answer. And the one that New Ageism has arisen as a reaction to is naturalism, scientism. The worldview that says that all that is what you can see with your eyes. If you can't see it, or if you can't have some way of objectively measuring it by science or sense it in some way, then it's not real, or at best, you at least cannot know for sure whether it's real or not. left in uncertainty. Now that is the worldview that we've been immersed in for a number of years now, a number of centuries, a number of decades, with the oncoming of the Enlightenment. It was this idea that science was the queen by which we would come to know anything that we would know. It was the way which we have any knowledge and if there was a problem, science would solve it. At the same time, what that world view began to do, once it was understood correctly, was to undermine our uniqueness as human beings. For instance, when we talk about world views, the person who I suppose best understands the world view

shows forth the naturalistic worldview is Carl Sagan, who says the cosmos is all there ever is, all there ever was, all there is, and all there ever will be. And what Sagan has done at that point is made a faith assumption. It's his worldview. It's not something that he can necessarily prove, but he puts on a white lab jacket and sort of serves as a priest for another religion himself. And he's saying this is what's true. This is ultimate reality. The cosmos. Matter is all there is. Now, what does that begin to do to the way that you look at the world? To the way that you look at yourself? The person who has, I suppose, most bleakly recognized the end to which naturalism brings you was Bertrand Russell, who was a philosopher in the last century. Russell said this about mankind and about our humanity. He says, Man is the product of causes which had no provision of the end they were achieving. That his origin, his growth, his hope and fears, his love and beliefs are but the outcome of accidental collocations of atoms. That no fire, no heroism, no intensity of thought and feeling can preserve an individual life beyond the grave. Here's where he becomes particularly pessimistic, that all the labors of the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of human genius are destined to extinction in the vast depth of the solar system. And that the whole temple of man's achievement must inevitably be buried beneath the debris of a universe in ruins. All these things, if not quite beyond dispute, dispute are yet so nearly certain that no philosophy which rejects them can hope to stand. Only within the scaffolding of these truths, only on the firm foundation of unyielding despair, can the soul's habitation henceforth be safely built. That's pessimistic naturalism, but it really is the only honest kind of naturalism that you run into. The more optimistic kind of naturalism is scientism, which says that there is an evolutionary process going on, and we are getting better and better, and we can expect ourselves to get better. The problem is, going back to the worldview questions, what's the problem? The problem is our lack of knowledge, and what we need to overcome that is more intelligence and scientific discovery. And as long as we continue to do those things, then we will find ourselves continuing along in evolutionary progress as history continues. However, for a person like Bertrand Russell, he recognizes that there is no ultimate solution, and that we're We're doomed to feel unfulfilled because the universe mindlessly created us without purpose. And then, therefore, the reason that you have a lack of fulfillment in your life is that you were never made for this place in the first place. You just sort of arose by chance, and it should be no big surprise to you if you don't feel like you fit in what's taking place around you. That is the norm of what you should experience, while science can maybe make your pain less and bring a bit more comfort into your life, there really is no solution, there is no salvation, because life is meaningless. It is absurd. And I would say that's the honest form of naturalism. So basically, all there is what you can see. The only thing that is matter. There are no morals. There ultimately is no beauty, really. imagination. There is no truth. In response to that movement is where we see new ageism arising, saying that there has to be more than what we can see. There has to be something to build our lives on besides a foundation of unyielding despair. That's pretty unattractive to think that I have to base my life on that. So what can fill the void? Now, for many people, Christianity has been the answer to that for a long time. The subversive poet Steve Turner,

while writing with regards to the whole naturalist movement, has a poem that goes like this. It says, My love, she said, that when all is considered, we're only machines. then the second stanza is I chained her to my bedroom wall for future use and she cried see what Turner does in that poem he takes, it's called the conclusion and he takes naturalism's ultimate conclusion we're only just machines and says if that's true then you as a human being have nothing unique about you there is nothing It dictates how I ought to treat you. And therefore, I can treat you like an object. I'll chain you to my bedroom wall for future use. But in comes Turner with subversion. And he says, and she cried. Because we know that we're made for something more than that. That we go beyond merely matter. Christianity has acknowledged that. New Ageism also acknowledges that. And that is one of the reasons that it's attractive. and why it's growing. It's this view of a mechanized, material, impersonal, de-spiritualized universe that the New Age movement is a reaction to. It's attractive to many of our contemporaries because they see it as a corrective to those defects in naturalism. Most people aren't happy about living in a world where the only foundation they can build upon is unyielding despair. They aren't happy in a world dominated by scientific technology and a world that's defined by it as well. A world like that is a frightening, it's a lonely place. There's no sense of mystery in it, nor is there any sense of insecurity in it as well. There's no sense of security in it as well. Whereas Christianity says, this is my father's world, and therefore I can trust what's going on and what's taking place in my life. Naturalism says this is an absurd world. Watch out, you might get it from any side. And New Ageism tries to breach that gap while not going as far as Christianity as to say this is my father's world, still to try and say that the basic stuff that the universe is made up of not merely impersonal matter, but it's some sort of spiritual energy which ties us together and suddenly invests the whole universe, reinvests the universe with a sense of that mystery that we go beyond the material, that there is something sacred about the universe, that it's not merely a dead, meaningless place. That's attractive about the New Age movement for people who find Christianity to be at least an intolerant religion and too dogmatic. It's nice to have something that doesn't cause me to, in one sense, give up my whole life and commit myself to one way of seeing truth and yet still maintain a sense of the sacredness of the universe. That there is meaning here. See, those who follow the New Age want a realm of exalted being that is high and lifted up, that's permeated with mystery, more splendid with glory and wisdom. They want to be able to say that there is more to life than meets the eye. They want to say, I matter. I'm not meaningless. It matters that I exist. And so, New Ageism attacks the problem of a lack of meaning in life and this sort of reductionist philosophy that takes place in science where everything can only be seen as a collocation of atoms brought together. reduced down to its most insignificant part and defined, and can only be defined, in light of the smallest particle that you can break things down to. So with New Ageism, you have this idea that now reality is re-enchanted again. and I can rejoice in the fact that there is, and this sort of gets into the second idea, a connectedness between me and all of life. I can actually frolic in this place knowing that I'm doing sort of a dance with the spiritual energy of the universe. You're telling yourself that I do matter, I am significant. again. So that's the first thing it's a reaction to, the reductionism of the scientific age. The second thing that, and this is the only other thing I'll talk about with regards to the New Age being a reaction to, is that it's a reaction to our social, not only the scientific atomism, but social atomism as well. That is, it's responding to the problem that was brought up in book of the late 70s, The Culture of Narcissism, where he speaks of the problem of the rugged individualism of our age and the radical individualism of our age. And so lingo that's very prevalent in the New Age movement is talk about networking and connecting. Those are two sort of key phrases that you'll hear people use when they're speaking New Age lingo. And there's much about that's attractive. It says that we belong to one another in some way. And in a world where there is a great deal of fragmentation and alienation, that's something that's positive. You think of John Lennon's song, Imagine. Imagine no religion, I wonder if you can, and nothing to kill or die for, a brotherhood in man. Lenin there is speaking a sort of thought that is going to appeal to anyone in the New Age movement, this idea of dealing away with the intolerances of religion and recognizing that there's this universal brotherhood, this universal humanity that we all belong to. And so oneness is attractive to many people in our time because they've come to have problems with manyness. Oneness being at the heart of the new age, that all reality is one, all reality is this spiritual energy, all of reality is connected together. And the frustrations with manyness that often get people going are often very mundane matters. Difficulties in getting along with other people. A sense that their lives have become fractured into pieces that are difficult to put back together again. The gnawing conviction that there are just too many different value systems out there. Too many religions, too many ideologies and political prescriptions, too many cultures, too much manyness. and to a person who feels inundated and pressed down by all that diversity out there and the fragmentation that comes along with that, the promise of oneness, of becoming one with the spiritual nature of the universe is a very attractive idea as well. But both of those problems that the New Age movement tries to respond to, that is, the problem of being reduced to mere matter, or the problem of fragmentation, the problem, if you want to put it, of pluralism, a pluralism, an intolerant pluralism, the solutions that the new age movement gives to those don't go far enough what's the problem in the first case? well if we see ourselves as all part of this one spiritual energy and they even speak of the new physics which is sort of the cosmic dance of energy which we're all caught up into if we so emphasize oneness ultimately you lose personality in that as well. You lose a sense there also of your uniqueness. So while you reinvest reality with a sense of the sacred again with a sense that there is some meaning to life at the same time you take away the idea that we're unique individuals able to have relationships with one another, so that if oneness is ultimate, the manifestations of all of us sitting here in the pews right now don't really matter that much. You as a unique individual, you don't matter. What really matters is the fact that we all belong together, and the more we can de-emphasize our differences, even our beautiful differences, let alone our differences in beliefs and ideologies and political systems, and whatever else they may be, to the degree that we reduce those things into a common denominator, we lose our uniqueness. We lose our personality. We lose what makes us special as human beings and how God has created us as diverse people. The second thing that the New Age tries to respond to is this problem of alienation. And it tries to do that by, in one sense, doing away with truth. Again, if we're all one, and that's how they deal with the idea of alienation as well, if we're all one, then your view of truth and my view of truth ultimately are the same thing. down to being the same thing. And you know, you may say you believe in Christianity and I may say I believe in Buddhism, but really it's just an issue of semantics. There's not really a difference between what you say and what I say. It's the problem that exists is only a problem in our minds. And as we continue to go along and we get into the flow of the cosmic oneness of the universe, then we'll find that those differences begin to dissipate and fly away. But you see, at that point then, you've proved too much as well, because you've done away with truth. Any ability to talk about right and wrong, any possibility to have morals. Because if I say, well, it's okay that Hitler massacred a whole race of people, and says, that's absurd. It was a great evil that Hitler massacred a whole race of people. We can't both be right on that. We can't say that's merely an issue of semantics. But if oneness is ultimate reality, if there's this oneness that binds us together, though we may not see it clearly, it's still there. and therefore we all belong to this one reality,

then those distinctions are merely illusory. They aren't really there. We just think that they're there. So the problem with this particular worldview, which Tim will now go on to talk about, is that it doesn't ultimately deal with the issues and enable us to live in the universe as it is. M. Scott Peck, in his book, The Road Less Traveled, in the very first part of that book, deals with worldviews in the section entitled Discipline, where he talks about them as maps of reality. And this is what Peck says about these maps of reality. He says, truth is reality, and the more clearly we see the reality of the world, the better equipped we are to deal with the world. The less clearly we see the reality of the world, that is, the more our minds are befuddled by falsehood, misperceptions, and illusions, the less able we will be to determine correct courses of action and make wise choices. Our view of reality is like a map with which to negotiate the terrain of life. If the map is true and accurate, we will generally know where we are, and if we have decided where we want to go, we will generally know how to get there. If the map is false and inaccurate, we will generally be lost. No one is born with a map. We have to make them, and this requires time. Only a few continue until the moment of death, exploring the mystery of reality, ever enlarging and refining and redefining their understanding of the world and what is true. Making the changes is sometimes painful because it may require us to let go of long-held cherished beliefs. And it may add complexity to living in the world. However, if we don't readjust our maps of reality, we do it to the detriment of our own mental health. That is, we fail to know how to live in the world. What I would proclaim to you is that Christianity is true to the way things are. It gives the best answers that we have to understanding those four questions that I posed earlier. Who we are, what is the nature of the universe, and what is ultimate reality. What is the problem that faces us and what's the solution to the problem. of thought gives answers which enable you to live in a healthy way in the universe where you don't inevitably end up at odds with yourself at some point along the lines, where the system doesn't eventually break down and become inconsistent. Imagine you're playing the game of tennis, and we can maybe reduce world views to this whole idea of a tennis match. that the way to play tennis is to hold the racket by the large end rather than the skinny end, and that you're supposed to play it running around on your knees. And you go and you try and play tennis that way, the game's going to be a heck of a lot less enjoyable. It's because you aren't playing it according to the rules, according to the way that the game was created to be played. what we're suggesting is that Christianity and the Christian worldview which Tim will now come and explain to a greater degree enables you to play the game in such a way that there is meaning in life that there is joy in life which enables you to understand the pains and the difficulties of life and enables you to enter with zest into the entirety of your life. Tim? As I mentioned before, the New Age movement is awfully, awfully diverse. universe, I'll say at the top, I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you, then I'll tell you, then I'll tell you what I told you. The New Age movement is Eastern philosophy, an Eastern worldview. Jeff explained what a worldview is. It's an Eastern worldview packaged for the West, marketed for the West. And therefore, underneath it all, the basic assumptions of, of, excuse me, Eastern religions is really at the bottom of the New Age movement. It's not particularly new. In fact, it actually is considerably, in many cases, if you just want to look at it historically, the New Age movement is much older than Christianity. It's older than Judaism, and it's older than Islam. It's because Eastern philosophy and the worldview behind it is really older than the monotheistic religions of the West. And what I'd like, you know, again, let me remind you, well, here, I'll tell you what I'm going to tell you. First of all, these Eastern religions believe this. One is that you are God, because God is in everything. Atman is Brahman. The soul of every human being is ultimate reality. Okay, tut tvam asi, which means that thou art. Now, these are quotes from the Upanishads of Hinduism. You are God. God is in you, and God is in nature. Then secondly, all the problems we've got are basically illusions. That's the second thing that Eastern religion has always taught. Your problems, suffering, it's really just a matter of illusions. You're not looking at reality properly. properly. You've got to change your thinking, change your state of consciousness, look at things in a different way. The problems are really illusions. And then thirdly, the solution to the problems, I already indicated what that is, you are God, your problem is that you don't see that you're God. And thirdly, the solution is to realize who you really we are. Now, the Buddhists wouldn't put it that way. I'm going to try to explain. Even that way of talking would really make a lot of people, truly Orthodox Buddhists and Hindus, really shudder. I told you, but underneath it, they're saying the same thing, but this is marketed for the West. Now, when I talk about the New Age movement, those of us who are 40-something realize that When we were in college, this was around, you had Herman Hesse, you had Sid Harta, which was a way of trying to get to Western people, Eastern thought. You had Carlos Castaneda when I was in college. You had Theodore Roszak, The Making of a Counterculture, when I was in college. You had Charles Reich, The Greening of America. And not long after all of that, you had Richard Bach, Jonathan Livingston Siegel. Do you remember that book? Elizabeth Kubler-Ross's work on death and dying, you have, there are just tons of forerunners, and they all basically were saying, we're tired of Western technology, which is ravaging our environment, and which depersonalizes people. Now, Jeff already talked about that. You see, in the West, there was, see, originally, Christianity and Western religion individual. We'll talk about that in a moment. Eastern philosophy puts very little emphasis on the individual. And therefore, to package it for the West, you've got to somehow pander to our culture's emphasis on the individual and yet at the same time bring in Eastern philosophy. It's really an interesting trick, but it has worked. Eastern religion says the individual is not important at all. Western religion, and especially when you cut off, when you cut a Christian from real spiritual experience of Christ. What happens is that the values that were there because they're biblical, because they're Christian, people start to hold on to them without an actual experience of Christ. And those values go bad. And Christianity gave to us the idea of human rights, gave to us the idea of the worth of the individual. Gave to us the idea that every human being is made in dignity. But you cut that loose from obedience to the scripture Individualism, which means that I am autonomous and my happiness and fulfillment is ultimate. Because of that, Western technology depersonalizes people, puts so much emphasis on individualism that there's war, there's so much emphasis on finding my fulfillment. So the hatred against technology, that was there. Also, the fear of racism, classism, and all these things that create distinctions was there. And therefore, people were saying, let's go to the East. Let's look to Eastern philosophy. We think that Western civilization is bankrupt. And all those names, those old names, the greening of America and the making of the counterculture. Do you remember Zen and the art of motorcycle maintenance? See, all that stuff was, that wasn't called the New Age movement, but that was the forerunner of it. because what that was trying to say is, let's see if we can't bring the East West now. Essentially what you have today now is that the New Age movement is enough of a movement, though it's certainly no conspiracy, it's no centralized bureaucracy at all. It now is one of the three worldviews that are vying for dominance in our culture. And nobody knows what's going to win. I mean, I tell you something, I do not know which one of the three is going to win. The jury is out, and I don't think anybody can be sure. And those three are, you have, I'm going to call it classical monotheism. At this point, I'm not going to make a distinction between Christianity, Judaism, and Islam, because basically they have the same basic worldview. And that is that there is a God who created nature. There's a God who's transcendent. There's a God who's over nature, infinitely above nature, who has no beginning, who brought nature into being. Therefore, we're creatures. We have been created by him. And all three of those, that's what I call classical monotheism. And secondly, you've got naturalism, secularism, secular humanism, whatever you want to call it, that Jeff was referring to. And that view says that there is only nature. There is really no God. There may be a God for you if you believe in him. If he makes you happy, that's fine. But essentially this view says that when it comes to reality, there really is no God. There's nothing but matter. Classical monotheism says first there's God. He's ultimate reality and he creates matter. And secularism says no, there's nothing but matter. The third is the New Age movement or Eastern philosophy which says that God is in matter. is God, matter is divine, nature is God, God is in nature. It's also called pantheism. And nobody knows which of these three things is going to ascend. And it's fascinating to see how management textbooks now, the most recent management textbooks, whereas 50 years ago, management textbooks were really based on a general kind of monotheistic worldview. Then, Then for the last 30 or 40 years, definitely management textbooks were based on a secularistic understanding of human beings. But now the latest ones I'm reading are really based on a New Age understanding of reality. They're there. If you're smart, if you're attuned, you will be able to find the worldviews beneath everything. One of the things Jeff was pointing out is that nobody can function without a worldview. view. And whatever you, you know, so you're, you cannot make this, you can't make decisions about what's, what's right and wrong in life, what's important to do without assumptions about the nature of ultimate reality. And therefore they're under everything. Those are the three and they're vying. Let me tell you something else just to let you know about the different kinds of forms. How many forms are there of the new age movement? It gets ridiculous. I may, here's a, here's a list. And these aren't even organizations. These are just concepts. Astrological optimism. I didn't say astronomical. I said astrological optimism about a coming age of global self-realization and total oneness. Okay, that arises out of this particular worldview. Any kind of Eastern meditation techniques. If you read either the Catholic or the Protestant omniscient. Masters of meditation. You will find that the meditation is always about truth. Meditation means meditate on the scripture. Meditate on the truth. Fill your mind with the truth. Whereas Eastern meditation always says empty your mind. Eastern meditation always says we don't want to talk about the truth. Because we don't want to talk about truth at all. There's this great place in one of the Buddhist texts. Where it says Where the master is speaking to the pupils. They don't call grasshopper. In these texts. They say. Pupil. Student. Disciple. All words are true. And not until you understand. All words are true. Have you really been enlightened. So they don't want you. To sit and meditate. On a thought. And to see. The logic. And the reason. Behind that thought. They want you. To get rid. Of the idea. Of reason. Because reason. Splits. And fragments. Reality. I want you to see everything is one, everything is whole. Eastern meditation techniques, including yoga, including a lot of martial arts things, including transcendental meditation, including the silver mind control method, imaging, any technique which can be called centering in many cases, that empties the mind of rational thoughts.