Philippians 4, 1 to 9. I have a bulletin, which I think you should all have. Could you turn to it with me? Philippians 2, verse 9. Verses 1 to 9. Philippians 4, verses 1 to 9. Yes. Whatever's there. Verse 1. Therefore, my brothers, you whom I love and long for, my joy and my crown, that is how you should stand firm in the Lord, dear friends. I plead with you Odia and I plead with Sintiki to agree with each other in the Lord yes and I ask you loyal yoke fellow help these women who have contended at my side in the cause of the gospel along with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life rejoice in the Lord always I will say it again rejoice let your gentleness be evident to all the Lord is near do not be anxious about anything But in everything, by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your requests to God. And the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about these things. Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me, put into practice, and the God of peace will be with you. This is God's word. the most interesting thing about modern life as opposed to if you have to study history in any way one of the things that hits you right away the difference between modern life and other times and places is how unstable everything is stability is very hard to find in our lives today one of the few things you can be sure of there are a few things that you can be sure of. There's a lot of technological and sociological reasons for it, which we don't go into now. But the fact is that most people, in most times, and even today in most places in the world could count on living in roughly the same place through most of their lives. Or knowing roughly the same people through most of their lives. Certainly working in roughly the same job or field most of their lives, believing most of the same things for most of their lives. And today, of course, we cannot count on any of those things. And there's lots of discussions about them. You'll read articles saying just in the last 10 years companies are not loyal to their employees. By and large, employees are not loyal to their companies. You see this sort of thing. There's so many dimensions to it. Lack of stability, lack of stability. Now, a physical fact. When you get into a highly unstable environment, if a vessel wants to navigate a highly unstable environment, it has to have strong stabilizers within. Airplanes and ships have stabilizers to counteract the turbulence that comes in the air or the water. And the more the turbulence, the more importance of those stabilizers. Airplanes, the back fins are mainly their stabilizers. Evidently, the vertical fin is what keeps you from bobbing around right to left, but in particular, the horizontal rear fins is what keeps you from bobbing up and down. The more turbulence in the external environment, the stronger, more effective the internal stabilizers in the vessel have to be. And that would mean, then, that there has never been a place, never been a time more than modern Western secular societies

that the individual will need more deep, strong, effective internal stabilizers. See, most people, most places, most times did not have to face what we face because there were all sorts of external props that kept down the external turbulence. Most people live in traditional societies where there's a lot of stasis. You didn't have to think that much for yourself about the big questions. They were told to you. You didn't have to have all kinds of tremendous internal disciplines of thought and spirit in order to be a person of great peace and stability. But today you do. because you and I, facing this world, have got to have far more incredibly effective internal stabilizers than our ancestors had to. Paul tells us about that in this passage. He also had a pretty unstable life, tremendous turbulence in his life. At the time in which he is writing, he's in jail with a death sentence over him. He's experienced all sorts of things going across his bow. All kinds of turbulence, but he's a rock. How did it happen? A lot of people in Manhattan know that Manhattan is very much a kind of paint mixer. Spiritually speaking, have you ever seen in the hardware stores when they put two kinds of paint together into one can and they stick it in the mixer? The mixer goes like this. You know, that's really what it's like to live in Manhattan spiritually. Incredible turbulence. People are constantly saying to me, I've got to get out. Because almost anywhere in this country outside of Manhattan, there's more stasis. And yet, listen, things that start in Manhattan usually show up in the rest of our society about 20 years later. So it's coming to get you. You know, you might want to leave, but it's coming to get you. Maybe my problem is a lack of internal stabilizers. Maybe my problem is not Manhattan. Maybe my problem is not the circumstances. Maybe the problem is that I'm an airplane without any rear fins. I don't have any stabilizers. Paul had them. And you see in verse 1, he says, Therefore, my brothers, you whom I love and long for, my joy and my crown, this is how you should be firm in the Lord. be firm, that's a word that's usually translated stand fast. It means I'm showing you how to be a rock. It's a historical fact that Paul was a rock. On Sundays, when Kathy and I were in school up in the North Shore of Boston a long, long time ago, after church, we used to buy sandwiches and we'd go to the coast of somewhere along the North Shore of Boston and we'd watch the waves hit the rocks. rocks. And on a day like this with Hurricane Felix out there, you know, stirring things up, I imagine it would be amazing. We used to, very often, you'd see these rocks and the waves would come after these rocks. And sometimes you would say, no way did it survive that one. Sometimes they'd disappear into the waves. The waves would recede. There they were. Paul was like that. Wave after wave after wave. Turbulence, turbulence. He was a rock. He stood firm. He never wavered. Why? He tells you here. This is how you can stand firm. He tells you. And if you look at the passage, you'll see. First of all, he lays down a principle and then he lays down a practice. First he lays down a basic principle for stability. A basic principle. And then he gives you a three-fold method for applying that principle. And I like to look at both the principle and the three-fold method. And I want you to think about this. many of you live in New York. Many of you live in Manhattan, most of you. And as a result, you're in a paint mixer. Where are you going to get the stabilizers? Let's look at what Paul says. First of all, he lays down a principle. And the principle is something I'm going to draw from, well, here's the principle. Let me just state it. The principle that Paul uses, the principle that the Bible uses for dealing with pressure and stress and turbulence and change is this. You use big truth in little places. You go to the little and mundane circumstances and you always, always see those things in the context of the whole sweep of eternity and all the big issues. You use big truth on little spots. You use cosmic truths on mundane circumstances. That's the principle. Now that is utterly different Modern people do it. If you go to any seminar on dealing with stress and coping with pressure. If you pick up any book in the bookstores. And there are tons of them. They always skip over principle and they go right to method. Always. I can understand why. The market. In other words. They never start like this. You'll never see these books on how to deal with pressure and stress. Or seminars. They never start like this. First step. Let's think about the big questions. Let's think about the big issues that philosophers and thinkers have been thinking about all their lives and for centuries. Let's think about the big questions. What happens after we die? Is there a God? Is there a judgment day? Are there moral absolutes by which we discipline our consciences or are all moral things just subjective feelings that arise from our brain chemistry? Is there an eternal world? Is there meaning in life? how do we have the authority to know anything see those are now the philosophers call those questions of epistemology and questions of the existence of god and questions of morals and so on is there a god what happens after we die is there a meaning in life you see is there an you never find any of the stress books start like that never why well you know they want to have a big market. You know, here's a Buddhist. Here's a Jew. Here's a Christian. You know, here's a Catholic. Here's a Protestant. They want them all to buy the book. You know, and they don't want to lose anybody on chapter one. So what they do is they say, oh, let's not talk about the big issues. Let's jump right to method. And what they always do is they start. Here's some relaxation techniques. Here's some thought control patterns. Here's let's look at your schedule. You're working too hard. You need to have more balance in your life. Let's look at your diet. They go right to method. They never start with a big things. They never start

the Bible always does. Paul always does. He never jumps to method. He always starts with a principle. Now take a look here at verse 1, for example. It's a perfect example. In verse 1, he says, Therefore, my brothers, you whom I love and long for, my joy and my crown, that is how you should stand firm in the Lord. That is how you should stand firm in the Lord. And I plead with Euodia and Syntyche to agree with each other in the Lord. going on. First of all, if you notice, in verse 1, he says, that is how you stand firm. Now, the word that is referring to what was above, and unfortunately, I wasn't smart enough when I first put the bulletin together a long time ago, and this is referring to chapter 3, verse 20. Let me read you chapter 3, verse 20. This is what Paul has just said. He says, but our citizenship

What's he talking about? Then he turns around and says, That's how you stand firm in the Lord. And then he turns to the issue of disagreement agreement between people in a church. Look carefully. First of all, he says that is how, what is he referring to? Chapter 3, verse 20, cosmic stuff. He says we are citizens of heaven. And he says Jesus Christ, who by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be conformed to his glorious body. Now what is that talking about? It's talking about this. Paul knows that instinctively when we look out there and we see everything changing. Everything changing. No matter how good your marriage is. Somebody dies. No matter how beautiful you are. No matter how many facelifts you have. Eventually the face falls. No matter what wonderful group of friends you have around you. They change. Or they die. Or they move. in this world. Nothing lasts. There is no love that lasts. There is no joy that lasts. There is no strength that lasts. Nothing. And yet, deep down inside, we know that we're built for a place. We're built for a situation in which those things do last. Well, what does Paul say? Paul says, There's a place. There's a person in whose presence things don't just stay the same. There's a place on a throne who says, behold, I make all things new. And you know what that means. That in his presence, in the presence of the King of the universe, in the presence of the Lord, things don't just stay the same. They get stronger. They get newer. Think about that one. They get stronger. They get newer. They get fresher. They get brighter. Every second. Forever. Triple every second. And on it goes. There is a place not just where love lasts and joy lasts and strength lasts, but where everything becomes eternally new. Now, Paul says there is a place. That is the case. There is someone like that. There is a situation like that. This world is a blip in the universe. It's a place of decay. It's a temporary place. Then he turns around and says in verse 1, this is how I want you to stand firm, and immediately applies it to a quarrel between two of his women friends, co-workers in the church of Philippi. Now, do you see what he's doing? Paul cannot deal with even the smallest problem, with even the most mundane situation, without putting in the context of all of redemptive history. He cannot do it. He will not do it. He always brings the whole of eternity and all the sweep of theology and everything to bear on anything and on everything. See, what is he doing to Uri and Sintiki? You know, what is he doing? He says, remember these things. And here's what he's saying. He does not go to method. No. There is a place for method. You don't see Paul starting by saying, look it, I've got a little model for reconciling people. There's step one, step two, step three. This is sort of a listening model and a problem-solving model. And I'd like you guys to go through it. That's not what he says. There's a place for that. That's fine. But that's never where he starts. That's never where Christianity starts. That's never the way they deal with stress and problems. Here's how they start. He says, sisters,

remember where you're from. You're citizens of heaven. Remember where you're going. The glory. Realize and remember what Christ has done so this could be true. Now, if your minds are filled with that, where's the pettiness coming from? How could there be divisiveness in the presence of those ideas? If you think about that, how could you be petty? How could you be divisive? How the moroseness? Lift up your thoughts, he says. Lift up your eyes. You're not seeing the big picture. That's the only possible way that you could be so upset with each other. He doesn't say agree, by the way. Did you notice that? Oh, no. How awful. Paul is not a person that says, You must agree. You have to believe all the same things. You have to believe in all the same policies. He doesn't say that. What does he say? He must agree in the Lord. What he says is, Don't you remember what you've got in common? Don't you see the big picture? Lift up your thoughts. And that's what he does. And that is what Paul does to everything. And that's how he is a rock. you can be a rock too. Now, when somebody says, you see, he brings the big things to bear. He brings eternity and judgment day and meaning in life and he brings it all. Every moment is about eternity. Every incident is about God and light and darkness and grace and truth and heaven and hell and the infinities and the immensities. They're all brought to bear. Well, somebody says, that's intense. Yes, of course. But it works. and somebody says, I have to digress just for a second before I move on to the method now. That's the principle. But somebody says, that doesn't help me. And there'll be plenty of people here today that'll say that doesn't help me because I'm not sure I believe all those things. How do you know about all those things? How do you know what the truth is about God and eternity and about morality? How do you know that? I'm not sure I know that. So you're saying, what am I supposed to do? And I have two bits of advice for you fair, and helpful. Here's the first bit of advice. First of all, please make sure on this issue that you get the right end of the stick. If you're here, you maybe have some spiritual interest, and it's very typical for people who are looking at Christianity to ask this question to start with. They start this way. They say, I would like that stability. I need that stability. Will Christianity give it to me? That's the wrong question to start with. Don't you see? because you're starting with method. No, no, no. The first question to start with, is Christianity true? Because Christianity says, let's be sensible. If the Bible's claims about the nature of the universe are true, then you have lots of possibilities for stability. If there is a God, if there is a personal infinite creator, if he has entered the world through Jesus Christ, and so on and so forth, if these things are true, there's tremendous possibilities of stability. But if these things aren't true, what if there is no God? What if this world is all there is? What if when you die, you rot? And that's that. What if when the sun burns out, human civilization rots so that in the end, no matter what you do or how you live makes no difference in the end? Is that the case? If so, then there's no stability. See, Christians say, let's be sensible about this. Don't say, will this help me? You have to, it'll help you infinitely. If it's not true, it won't help you at all. So don't start by asking, will it help you? Start by saying, is this true? Are these things true? I know for many of you, it's been a long time since you sat down and thought about these things. You know, you had to write a paper about it in college. And ever since then, you've listened to the, you know, the plausibility structures of educated New Yorkers are that, you know, they're really, nobody knows about these things. So you really, you haven't read books about it. You haven't sat that time and thought you haven't worked it through. Now you're feeling some need in your life. Would Christianity help? Don't ask that question. Start with principle. Don't you see? If it's not true, it's not going to help. If it is true, it'll help tremendously. Somebody says, well, one more point on this. Somebody says, well, you know what? It's not just that I don't know if this is the truth. I don't like the idea of dogma. I don't like the idea that you can know these things. I don't believe, frankly, that anyone can know the truth about these things so you can apply it to mundane situations. I have trouble with dogma and being dogmatic. I believe that there's no freedom then. I believe you have to have freedom to be creative. I believe that moral issues and spiritual issues are relative to every individual, you say. A great writer, you may or may not have heard of her. Her name was Flannery O'Connor. a southern writer of short stories and novels a Christian and died in the 50s she wrote a series of essays on the relationship of dogma and truth to creativity and other things and they're all collected in a book called Mystery and Manners and at one point in that book she points out interestingly I think that people were constantly saying to her dogma, truth. Who knows about these things, and how can you be an artist, a good artist, and believe in dogma? It just stifles creativity. All things are, all spiritual things are relative to the individual, and she says, you know what's so silly about that? These are the same people, she says, who hate hypocrisy. They hate hypocrisy, and they're always getting morally outraged. What she writes in Mystery and Manners is something pretty interesting, and she explodes that whole idea. That, oh, nobody can know. And nobody should know. And dogma's a bad thing. She says, she says, my job as an artist is to show what is and no one can know what is without dogma. To be an artist is to know myself and to know myself is to measure myself against the truth and never the other way around. This is what she's saying. She says, if you, listen, if all things are relative then hypocrisy shouldn't be something you get upset about. If everything is relative, if there's no dogma, why are you upset about hypocrisy? As a matter of fact, if there is no dogma, you have no right to be morally outraged about anything. But everybody is. Why? Because you know there's a truth and you cannot avoid it. But you don't want to think it out. You want to have it both ways, don't you? You want to intellectually believe everything's relative so you can do what you want when you've got these lifestyle choices to make. But when you see something that's wrong, when you see hypocrisy, when you see a lack of integrity, when you see cruelty, then you want to get morally outraged now to do it. See, what Flannery O'Connor tries to say is, my dear friends, you can't avoid the big issues. You can't get away from those big questions. You intuitively know that there's some answers to them, but you're being intellectually lazy. There is no peace without truth. There is no way to have the internal stabilizer until you have settled some of these big issues. You need to look at the claims of Christ and you need to do the hard work, not just come and hope you know, maybe it'll work for me. You need to ask, is it true? You need to look at the whole thing. No peace without truth. Peace comes from applying the big truths to the little things. Now, how? And Paul in this passage gives us three methods. I'm going to call them three disciplines. And those three disciplines are extremely important. And I'm actually going to give them to you kind of in an order. I think each one is a little bit harder in some ways. One builds on the other. There's three disciplines, three ways in which Paul shows us you can apply truth to circumstances. There's the discipline of prayer. Then there's the discipline of moderation. Now that word doesn't appear in your text. I'll show you. And lastly, there's the discipline of the presence of God. There's the discipline of prayer. The discipline of moderation. and the discipline of the presence of God. The discipline of prayer re-sees circumstances through the wisdom of God. The discipline of moderation de-centers your circumstances through the grace of God. And the discipline of the presence of the Father overwhelms your circumstances with the peace of God. And those are the disciplines. disciplines let me just let me just unfold them you know for what time we have left first of all the discipline of prayer you see where paul says have no anxiety about anything but okay see if you don't do what comes after the but you'll have anxiety have anxiety don't be anxious but rather in its place in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your request to god. Now, people have said, oh yeah, pray. Yeah, Christians are always doing that. I'm worried, I'm anxious, I've got stress, pray about it. I pray about it, I just feel worse when I'm done. Well, let me ask you how you're praying, because if you look carefully, Paul doesn't say just pray. There's all kinds of prayer, by the way, and they're all good, but he's giving you a particular prayer. He's enjoining a particular kind of prayer. He says, pray with thanks. Make your petitions, you know, you're worried about things, you're concerned about things, make your petitions with thanks. Wait a minute, somebody says, how can I be thankful until I know how he's going to answer it? And you're on to the point. The point is, as you petition, you thank him ahead of time for the entire range of possible responses. Did you hear me? There is no answer for the stress in your life unless you apply the doctrine of the wise love of God to your circumstance in this way. You have to envision all the possible things that could happen and thank God for all of them ahead of time. That's what it says. But, yeah, there's this verse that says, in Romans 8, 28, all things work together for good for them who love God. All things work together for good for them who love God. That is telling us this. The Bible says that God did not design the world to be the mess it is today. Sin and suffering is the result of our alienation from God because of sin. But God has not withdrawn from the world. He's still sovereign in the world, and that means that all those nasty things that are out there because of our sin and alienation, God has a plan so that everything that comes into your life that is tough or bad or good, he says, is designed to build you up or to grow you. John Newton, the great hymn writer, puts it this way. I'm paraphrasing him. Everything that God lets through, if you're a child of God, he says, quote, everything that God lets through must be necessary. Everything that he doesn't let through couldn't be necessary

because of his wise love. Now, somebody says, I can't buy that. You mean I'm supposed to blindly trust? Blind trust? Is that it? No, absolutely not. There's nothing blind about it. It's perfectly people who say, but look at all the awful things that happen. How can you believe in a good guy? I challenge you to look at your alternatives. I challenge you. Now look, if there is a Creator God, if there's a personal Creator God, we would know no more of the big picture of our lives than a four-year-old would know the big picture of his life. Four-year-olds, because they can't see the big picture, they don't know much about the world. They don't know how their life is. don't understand why they can't eat whatever they find in their sandbox. They have no problem. You know, they pick it up. They're about to eat it. You say, no. Why? Well, a four-year-old knows a number of things but doesn't know much. Can't see the big picture. And when you explain things like poison and you explain things like, you know, indigestion at least and other things. Kids don't understand why they have to go home. They don't understand why their friend has to leave. or move away. They don't understand those things. If there is a God, a personal creator, there's no way that we could see more of our big picture than a four-year-old can see of his or her big picture. No way. It wouldn't make sense if everything made sense. Don't you see? Somebody says, well, all I know is I believe God is a bad God until he explains why this or that happened. On that basis, every four-year-old in the world has the right to run away. Because there's all kinds of things you can't explain to a four-year-old that he or she will be very upset. Well, here's the other alternative. You can say, well, then maybe there isn't a God. But if there isn't a God, you've got a bigger problem. Because if there isn't a God, then everything that happens is just what is. And there is no such thing as suffering and evil. That's just a subjective opinion, is it not? Right? In other words, what is, is. And you know what? If you believe in a personal God, you've got a problem in that much pain and suffering is inexplicable to us. All I want you to know is if there is a God. See, you've got to believe in a God because you know things are evil. And if you know certain things are evil, that just proves that there must be a God. If there isn't a God, you wouldn't know those things. Yet you do. And if there is a God, then it just figures that we're not going to know everything. So what John Newton is saying, Now look, here's a God who knows so much more than you do. Through prayer, you insist on seeing the world through the cosmic truth of his wise love. For example, every time you're suffering, every time anything is going wrong, you insist on seeing it through the cross. Remember the cross? Jesus is up on the cross and his disciples run away. Why? They say, what good could God give out of that? that. What good could God do out of that? The disciples ran away. Why? Do you ever look at the disciples and you say, what jerks. They ran away. No. They were looking at the cross and they were saying, I can't see any good God could bring out of this. And yet at the moment, they were looking at the greatest deed of wisdom and love in the history of the world. But they didn't get it. So they ran away. And you know what a Christian is? A Christian is somebody who says, I'm not going incident. I'm not going to stand here in front of something that I have no idea why God's letting this happen to me. I'm not going to run away saying, what could God possibly do out of that? If there is a God, I won't understand everything. And if there isn't a God, I have no cause to complain. And therefore, I stand before this cross and I say, Lord, I don't know how you're working this, but I thank you ahead of time for whatever you're going to do in my life through it. You know where Jesus says, you must become like a little child to see the kingdom of heaven. I'm he said that. There's a lot of meaning in that, but at least this. Do you really treat yourself as a child when it comes to these things? Or do you stamp on the floor because God isn't doing things the way you want? Don't you see? If you say, I'm a child, I can't see everything, that's what it means to become a little child. You will never deal with the stress and pressures of your life unless you're willing to become as a little child. Unless you become as a little child, God, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. You cannot see the kingdom of God. Are you treating yourself as a child? Are you treating him as wise and loving? Are you re-seeing all of your circumstances through the wise love of God by offering all your petitions to him through thankful prayer? That's the first discipline. The second discipline is to de-center all of your circumstances through the discipline of holy moderation. Now you say, where's that word? And you see, actually, the word is here where it says, rejoice in the Lord always, verse 4. Again, I say rejoice. Verse 5, let your gentleness be evident to all. This is one of those places, there's very few of them, this is one of those places where you have a Greek word that just doesn't translate. If you have an old authorized King James Version, it says, let your moderation be known. Some translations say, let your patience be known. You know what this word means? this is the best. This word means radical evenness of temper. And if you want to know what it's like, Paul describes the discipline of holy moderation in a fascinating text in 1 Corinthians 7. Let me read it to you. He says, we will not be here forever, so let those with wives, now listen carefully, let those with wives live as if they had none. They that weep as though they wept not,

What's Paul saying? Paul says, through the grace of God, actually, let me give you a summary by John Newton. John Newton says, if you understand the grace of God, it makes the worst times bearable and the best times leaveable. And you don't understand holy moderation until the grace of God makes your best times bearable and your worst times believable. See, Paul says Christians weep as though they wept not. They rejoice as though they rejoiced not. Well, that means a Christian weeps this way. A Christian says, I'm sad, but this isn't my root. I've lost something. This is a terrible thing. But this isn't my main thing. Nothing can touch my main thing. I can only get so sad. Ah, but when good things happen, a promotion, success, what does a Christian do? of your heart. Settle down, heart. It's nice. This is great. I enjoy this. But this is not my main thing. And it could be gone tomorrow. Let's not get too elated. Let's not get too puffed up. Let's not get too lifted up. This is not my main thing. There's a tremendous, radical evenness of temper if you use the grace of God on your heart. Now, somebody says, how do you use the grace of God on your heart? You use the grace of God on your heart it like this. Paul says, rejoice, and then right above it he says, your names are written in heaven. They're in the book of life. It's fascinating to me how in Luke chapter 10 verse 20, Jesus does the same thing. The people, his disciples come back from a mission that he sent him out on, and he says, how did it go? And he says, wow. That misses paraphrasing the Aramaic and the Hebrew. group. And the disciples say, wow. Even the demons are subject to our name. We cast out demons. Even the demons are subject to us. And Jesus gets them in his sights. And he says, rejoice not that the demons are subject to thy name. But that your names are written in heaven. He says, rejoice not that the demons are subject to you. But that your names are written in heaven. Now here's what he means. He says, I'm glad that the demons worked this today. I mean, you got rid of the demons. You know, tomorrow you might find a demon you can't cast out, and that is what happened. He says, de-center that. Stop rejoicing in your circumstances. Stop rejoicing, and that's not the main thing. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. The Bible tells us in the Old Testament that the high priest had the name of each of the tribes of Israel precious stone on the breastplate that the high priest wore over his heart as he went in before the Lord. We're told that Jesus Christ is a high priest, and that means, you know the place where it says in Isaiah, our names are written on the palms of his hands? This means that Jesus Christ walks in and your name is engraved over his heart before the Father, and when the Father sees you, he sees an absolute beauty. Your names are written in heaven. Now what Jesus is saying, and what Paul is saying is, the reason that you can't deal with your circumstances is because at that moment you have forgotten that. You have forgotten your standing. You have forgotten who you are. You've forgotten what's been done for you. You've forgotten what it means that Jesus Christ is your Savior. are. So Jesus is actually going after you and he's saying, you've got to de-center the fact that the demons came out today. Maybe tomorrow they won't. Today you were successful, tomorrow you won't. Rejoice not in those things. He says, be careful, be careful. Holy moderation. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven. And that's what a Christian does. Every day, every minute, every circumstance, you start to go down because you've lost something. You say, well, I lost it, but my name is written in heaven, see? And then something over here comes and you say, oh my gosh, I got this, I got this. It's a trophy, a success, something good. But you say, but my name's written in heaven. You use it on everything, everywhere. Holy moderation. Do you know that Jesus Christ is your high priest? Do you know that when Jesus, now when God looks at you, he sees an absolute beauty? Do you live in a holy consciousness of this? Does that permeate everything you do? Of course it doesn't. Because you don't have that, and I don't either, of temper. But that's the discipline. You notice in verse 7 it says, if you do these things, the peace of God, which transcends all understanding, will keep your hearts and mind. But if you go down to the bottom of verse 9, it says, see in verse 7 it says, the peace of God will keep you. But in verse 9 it says, the God of peace will keep you. That's not an accident. incident. It's one thing to seek the peace of God, but you mustn't stop there. You have to seek the God of peace. Here's how you know you're only seeking the peace of God. You only pray and you only get religious when you're in trouble. And you know if you only seek the blessings of God but not God, you won't get the blessings of God. As C.S. Lewis puts it, aim at heaven, you get earth thrown own in, aim at earth and you get neither. What eventually happens if you are willing and able to re-see your circumstances through prayer and de-center your circumstances through moderation, eventually, if you seek God, not just his peace, you actually at a certain point can actually feel his presence. It comes in and overwhelms your circumstances. It just takes you beyond. and that's the ultimate peace. Verse 7 says, the peace of God guards your heart. Literally, it marches around. It marches around like an army guarding you. And there are times in which it goes way beyond that. Sometimes, Christians, all you get, right, is you work it out, you think it out, and you just hang on. But if you do it, if you follow these disciplines and if you seek him and his presence, not just his blessings, sometimes an overwhelming peace comes He transcends everything. Jesus Christ is Lord of the Feast. His very first miracle was to turn water into wine and throw a huge party. What does that tell you? He's telling you something about himself, that he's here to bring joy. But the joy he brings is because he took the cup of death and wrath. If you go to John chapter 2 and you see him where he turns that party into a great party, the water into wine. It's weird to see him sitting there in the midst of the joy, sipping the coming sorrow. But he did it so we could sit in the middle of our sorrow and sip the coming joy. And if you do, you'll have a stability that can deal with any turbulence. You'll be a rock because you've hidden in the rock of ages. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us the principle and the method. We are without excuse now. And Father, I know that I worry, and now I'll have to go home and just pray, oh Lord, that I will start to do what I've told everyone else to do so that I don't incur your justice pleasure. And I pray that the people who are sitting here who see this is the way that they too will not incur your justice pleasure by walking out, seeing the truth, and then not carrying it out. Give us the grace to carry it out. Help us, O Lord, to rejoice in you. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.