Now, we read, The brother in humble circumstances ought to take pride in his high position, but the one who is rich should take pride in his low position, because he will pass away like a wild flower. For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant. Its blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way, the rich man will fade away even while he goes about his business. Blessed is the man. who perseveres under trial, because when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him.

This is God's word. This is an amazing passage. My heart's very full. Unfortunately, I feel like one of those big bottles with a tiny little spout. I'm not sure I'm going to get it all out the way I'd like to.

We took a hiatus last week because we had an open forum. in these evening services is we're going through the book of James. And in the book of James, which is a New Testament book, the very beginning, this first chapter that we're looking at, is all about trials and troubles, suffering. And this is on everybody's mind. Just a couple of weeks ago, I was reading the New York Times book review section, and there was a whole series of books on complexity theory. And complexity theory is sort of an in thing now amongst cosmologists and scientists. Instead of chaos theory, a lot of people are saying, it's astonishing that we wouldn't even have organic life, we wouldn't have a world, we wouldn't have a civilization unless everything happened just right. If there was one millimeter of a degree more in the big bang of temperature, we couldn't have had organic life. And so the complexity theory is that there seems to be almost a plan in the way in which the universe is unfolded. And the reviewer just couldn't stand it after a while. These books weren't written by Christians. It's just scientists that say, look, this isn't chaos. The reviewer says, if there's a plan, why is there so much suffering in it? It had nothing to do with Gauss' complexity theory, but the reviewer just couldn't stand even a discussion about the idea that maybe there's a plan to history. Maybe there's a plan to the world. Why would there be, if there was a plan, so much suffering in it? So it's on everybody's mind. This passage that we're looking at, and we're coming to the end of it, it started in verse 1 of chapter 2, verse 1 at verse 2, and it proceeds and stretches to verse 12. And we've got printed here, and we're looking at the last part of it. Now, because a lot of you weren't here before, and because we haven't looked at this in two weeks, let me give you a running start. What the passage teaches us, number one, is that trials and troubles are inevitable. Blessed is the man who perseveres he has stood the test, not if he has stood the test. And we said back in verse 2, James says, count it pure joy when you go through trials. James teaches, the Bible teaches, that Christians are going to suffer. Put it more poignantly, put it in a nutshell. Anything that can happen to anybody can happen to a Christian. You must not think, you must never be led to believe that because you're living for Jesus or because you are living in a particular way, that somehow that means there's a limit as to how bad things could ever get. That God has some kind of obligation to keep a person who's really living for Jesus from suffering. And there's a lot of people that have a tacit belief that because they're Christians, you know, bad things might happen, but nothing really bad. Well, that's not what the text says. And, of course, what's the great proof against that whole idea? I'll tell you what the great proof is. Jesus. If you look at Jesus, you will see a most astonishing comprehensibility about the way he suffered. He suffered in the most comprehensive way. He suffered relationally. He was betrayed. He was abandoned. He was alone. He was isolated. He suffered injustice on the part of the authorities. He suffered a trial, which was a travesty of justice. Of course, he was beaten. He was scourged. And the one thing, of course, that he suffered that no other person will ever suffer who turns to God is he turned to God, his Father, in the hour of greatest need and his Father forsook him. His Father deserted him. And then after that, he was ripped limb from limb. There is not a thing that a person can suffer that Jesus Christ didn't suffer. And he proves that there's no limits on what a good, loyal subject and child of God can endure. And somebody says, oh yeah, but well, he was Jesus, right? He was Jesus. Right. Well, I'm not Jesus. Right. Therefore, what therefore? Therefore, the universe owes you a better life than Jesus? Somehow you are owed a better row than Jesus? Jesus, as one Christian woman once said, Jesus suffered not that we might not suffer, but that in our suffering we might become like him. So there's no immunity. Now, the second thing we looked at, and again, we bring this up because it came by pretty quickly at the end of two weeks ago, and it's important to see this, especially in light of what we're looking at here tonight, is that one of the purposes of suffering and trials is wisdom. Up in verse 5, we're told, when you suffer, when you're in trouble, ask for wisdom. Now, this is really one of the main purposes of trials and troubles. What makes a trouble a trouble? What makes it a trouble? There's things right now that you go through that really aren't that bad for you, but five years ago they were, ten years ago they were. Why were they worse for you than they are now? because you know what to do. What makes a trouble a trouble is that your wisdom has run out. And the Bible tells you that here's how you know the difference between a fool and a wise person. Fools think they're wise. Wise people know they're foolish. That's it. And so when you come into trouble, you get a prerequisite for wisdom. wisdom. The prerequisite for being wise is to feel like, at least in this one place, in this one area, this one spot, I feel like a fool. I don't know what to do. And so you cry out. If it wasn't for troubles, you would stay a fool. Because a fool is somebody who thinks they're wise. And you don't, you feel like you're wise until you get in trouble. And so trials bring wisdom. But how they bring wisdom, one last reference to this, though, never people asked me about this after the sermon two just to spread the thing out. There's a Jerome Kagan, who's perhaps one of the great child development people, says that we now know that children are born with three kinds of temperaments that are neurochemical. That means that they're just inborn. And he says, he calls these three temperaments. There's the anxious child, there's the aggressive child, and there's the philosophical child. Now, I didn't mention all three of these last time, so some of you would ask me about it. The anxious, the aggressive, and the philosophical. There's a neurochemical basis for these, what he calls temperaments or personalities. And the way you can judge these personalities is how they react to a threat. You can see this in kids from the very minute they're born virtually and they're even able to do things. How do they react to threats? The anxious temperament runs away from threats. The assertive temperament runs toward threats. It says, let's get it before it gets me. The philosophical temperament says this really isn't a threat.

The anxious temperament says let's get away from the threat. The assertive says let's go get it before it gets us. The philosophical one says this will blow over. This will be all right. I'll just stay right here. The philosophical person stays right there. Which of those is the best? The answer is none of them are the best. and what they said in the, I read this in the Atlantic Monthly back in last year. There's a really fine article on this. They said, well, you see, anxious people thrive in highly dangerous situations. If you're in a highly dangerous situation, it's good to be anxious because anxious people have all their antenna out and anxious people do the most appropriate thing to do when you're in the face of certain death and that is to get out. dangerous situations, not just physical, but any dangerous situations, anxious people thrive. They do the best because their approach is the most appropriate. In moderately dangerous situations, aggressive people do the best. Because in moderately dangerous situations, the best thing to do sometimes is to take the bull by the horns. In highly dangerous situations, aggressive people will have fun, but they won't live very long. They'll have fun, but they won't live long. long. Philosophical people do best in safe situations. Why? Because philosophical people are always in denial about how things are. They're always sure, you know, it'll blow over, it'll be all right. Some of you are starting to say, wait a minute, this, my whole marriage, now I understand it, you see, right? I understand it all. Everything's fine, it'll blow over, don't worry, honey.

Now, here's the situation. You put a philosophical person or an aggressive person in a very dangerous in a safe situation, they'll screw it up terribly. So will the aggressive. And what they said is, there is no temperament that's wise because the wise person always responds appropriately. But what temperaments are habitual ways of always or usually responding to things. And therefore, none of us are wise. We're all born stupid. We're born fools, not stupid. We're not dumb.

fools. Because all of us will be in situations which sometimes are appropriate, but very, very often are inappropriate, and yet fundamentally we're unwise. What's interesting about the article is Kagan, and I, Kagan admitted that in the 60s and 70s, he didn't believe in temperaments. He believed if somebody was anxious or somebody was aggressive, it was because of bad training. He saw kids who were basically, you know, they were unwise. They said, well, the parents must He had a humanistic philosophy that said that people in themselves, naturally, we were sort of unspoiled and wise, and only our parents fouled us up. But the fact is, he says, we come into life kind of fouled up, habitually acting toward life in an inappropriate way because nobody has the range of responses necessary to really handle life as it is. Now, here's what they said at the end. Well, then what should parents do? is that traditionally, The 60s and 70s, there was an awful lot of talk about how parents need to just let kids grow up and don't spoil them because they come into the world sort of pristine and beautiful and pure from this netherworld where everybody is perfect and sinless. And you just sort of let them grow up. And now, hey, the psychiatrists and psychologists are saying that's not right. Well, what should they do? Here's what they should do. The aggressive child needs to realize sometimes they are to blame. And the anxious child has to realize that sometimes they're not. And the optimistic child has to realize sometimes things are terrible. Well, how do you do it? Good parents will press their children to learn a greater range of responses than they naturally have. They will push them into situations in which they're uncomfortable.

You can't learn wisdom if you go with the natural. You can't learn wisdom if you go with the comfortable. What are trials? What are troubles? Situations in which your father is being a good father. Your father in heaven. I remember when I read this article As a parent, I was reading it as a father. And I was saying, oh my gosh. So often you just let the kids go their way. You're too busy. You're too tired to intervene. You don't want to press the kids at their weak point. You don't want to sit down with them. Because they just want out. They get in a situation in which obviously their temperament just doesn't fit. They just want out. They don't want to have anything to do with it. The anxious kids don't want to be bold. The aggressive kids don't want to be tender. The philosophical kids don't want to fess up. things really are and how life really is. You have to sit down and work with them. But your Heavenly Father will do it. Your Heavenly Father will push you. Your Heavenly Father will show you. Now, if you want, just as I said before, if you want to see wisdom, you look at Jesus. In Jonathan Edwards, the great Puritan preacher, has a wonderful sermon called The Excellency of Jesus Christ. And it's based on Revelation chapter 5. And chapter 5, verse 5 says, One of the elders said to me, Behold the Lion of Judah. And I looked, and lo, in the midst of the throne stood a lamb as it had been slain. And this is what Jonathan Edwards' main point is. He says, there is a... Get this. This is one people could still spell. There is a conjunction of such really diverse excellencies in Christ as otherwise would have seemed utterly incompatible in the same subject. Let me continue. He says, In the person of Christ do there meet infinite majesty, and yet transcendent meekness. Absolute self-sufficiency, and yet entire dependency. Complete sovereignty, and yet perfect resignation. He is the lion who's the lamb. He's the lamb who's the lion. Now, the rest of us are naturally lambs, and we don't know what to do when we get in situations where we have to be lion. Or we're naturally lions, and we don't know what to do in situations where we have to naturally be lambs. But Jesus, Jesus, in him all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are hidden. Jesus in a sense didn't have a temperament he was wise and he was also the one who suffered the most they always go together great wisdom great suffering in the suffering we're becoming like him now this passage then so first of all we see suffering is inevitable secondly one of the purposes of it is to make us wise but now look if it's true and of course it must be that all of this passage is about trials, and the reason you know it is because when you get to verse 12, it says, blessed is the man who perseveres under trial. Then verse 9 and 10 and 11 is still about trials and troubles, and here's what's so strange about it. It says, it gives us some examples. It gives us, in this case, James is giving us examples of how in different difficult trial situations, you can handle them with wisdom. He gives us two little case studies. He says, you know, count up your joy, my friends, when you fall into diverse, into different trials. Well, he gives an example of two different trials. And he says, the brother in humble circumstances. This is the Greek word tapinos, which really means the person in adversity, and probably it means in poverty. The person for whom everything has fallen apart economically. The person who's been laid off. The person whose career has fallen apart. Okay. And it tells you what to do. And we'll look at this here in a second. rich should take pride in his low position. And you know what? Here is something absolutely amazing.

James is telling us something that we don't usually know about, but the old writers knew about it. Oh yes, they do. John Flavel, an old Puritan writer, wrote in the 1600s. He wrote a marvelous book. It's very hard to find anymore. It's called A Keeping of the Heart. And he has a list of 12 situations that are spiritually tremendously dangerous. And he says, seasons, one must be unusually diligent to keep the heart. They are times of great trial. And if you're not careful, you can fall into terrible spiritual situations. And he goes through and he says sickness, you know, or death approaching or time of persecution. He makes a list. But you know what the number one trial is? The number one difficulty, he says, is prosperity.

In other words, the Bible teaches, James is teaching, The greatest trouble is to have no trouble. The greatest spiritual trial is to have no trial.

The greatest trouble is to have no troubles. That's the biggest spiritual danger there is. The greatest spiritual danger is a lack of danger. The greatest spiritual trial is a lack of trials. The greatest spiritual trouble is no troubles at all. St. Bernard put it this way. Rere vertus est, Humilitas onerata.

Which means to see a man humble under prosperity is the greatest rarity in the world. And here's why. Look, the one who is rich should take pride in his low position because he will pass away like a wild flower. For the sun rises with scorching heat and withers the plant. Its blossom falls and its beauty is destroyed. In the same way, the rich man will fade away even while he goes about his business. Here's what's so bad about prosperity. Here's what's so bad about it. When things are going well, you don't get to see the real reason for troubles anyway. The reason you have a trouble, here's what makes a trouble a trouble. You have hitched your heart to something that fades so that when it fades, you fade with it. I won't forget. I'm going to choose a very small and minor trial, okay? But I remember a long time ago now, a very long time ago, almost 20 years ago when I was a young pastor in my first church, I remember visiting two different women who were both coming to the church, and they both got seriously ill. They both had to have a certain kind of surgery. They were both young women. And even after their surgery, they were in pretty difficult circumstances, needed a lot of treatment, were often feeling... Anyway, both of them gained a tremendous amount of weight as a result. And I'm bringing this up just to show you the principle doesn't have to be in something terribly dire. They both gained a lot of weight, put on an awful lot of weight. And they were young women. One of them was very concerned. One of them was devastated. Absolutely, psychologically devastated. Why? We all sag eventually.

We all wrinkle up eventually. Eventually, everything here on earth is going to fade. But if you see one of those women, there's nothing wrong. The reason they were both distressed was it's good and right to want to appear decent. It's good and right to want to feel good and feel healthy. You don't want to feel that you can move around. It's okay. But one of those people had hitched her heart to something. and when it faded, her power faded, her confidence faded, everything faded. Here's the problem with prosperity. In fact, here's the problem with wealth in general. The problem with wealth in general is that it's astonishing how if you really have enough money and everybody's you know, this is, we're not talking, there's not a magic line here, by the way, where you cross over and suddenly the Bible says you're rich if you make over X amount of money. Now, we're talking about, you know, a spectrum here. The more money, the more, the better your life your career is going. As you move on up, this is the danger. You set your heart on things that are going to fade. And therefore, you become like that. Oh, there's one of the most interesting things. In The Great Divorce, it's just a little novel by C.S. Lewis, where a busload of people from hell come to the outskirts of heaven. And when they get out, their feet hurt. They can hardly walk on the grass. Do you remember why? Because heaven is the place of things that last. Heaven is the place of things that are solid. And you see, they're kind of wispy. They're kind of ghosty. And they can't even walk on the grass. The grass hurts their feet. The grass cuts. The grass is harder than they are.

Anybody see To Die For? Nicole Kidman? You know the vein line? It's the last line and it's the middle line too. But let me see if I can find it here. The middle line, or the last line, she says, I knew I was going to, yes. You aren't anybody if you're not on TV. Because, what's the point of doing anything worthwhile if nobody's watching? TV is reality, she says. You know, who cares if you're going to do something worthwhile if nobody's watching? If you're not, if nobody's watching, if nobody's watching, it didn't really happen. Only things that happen on TV, she says, in this society are real. And you know what's funny? The New York Times critic, I mean, not the New York Times, it was the New York Magazine, did a little article about it and said, that's a stupid remark, but impossible to answer. And you know what? The critic is right. Nicole Kidman is right. At least her character is right.

But listen.

What is real? It does depend on who is watching. Anybody ever hear of Johnny Erickson? She's a Christian lady who's a quadriplegic. When she was 18, she had an accident, and she can't use, she's in a wheelchair. In her book, A Step Further, she tells about her roommate. When she first went into a rehab hospital, right after her accident, they tried to get her to the place where she could use what she could. She had a roommate named Denise Walters. Walter, excuse me. Denise Walters was a teenage cheerleader, about the same age as Johnny at the time. This is years ago now. And this is the story. One day, she was a senior in high school, and popular and happy, and her whole life was in front of you. And one day, she stumbled on the stairs between classes and fell down and didn't understand why, but her feet just weren't responding. By the end of the day, her legs were so numb she could hardly walk. She went home and she took a nap, and when she got up, she was paralyzed from the waist down. Within hours, her arms were. And within two weeks, she was blind. And what was happening was a rare, super-accelerated case of multiple sclerosis. So she was in that hospital. And she was a Christian. And you know, at first, everybody comes in. But what happens is when they say, you know what, you're going to be a vegetable. You're not going to be able to move. You're not going to be able to see. You're not going to be able to do anything. And you may live several years. But that's it. And that's the kind of life she had. And after a while, nobody was watching. Nobody came. Just her mother. And she came every night and she read the Bible. And Denise could talk, but it wasn't that easy. And she would talk with her mother and she'd talk to her roommates. And Johnny Erickson, she was a Christian and Denise was a Christian. And Denise never complained. Always trusted. Always said, I know God's got some reason here. Kept her heart on him. Kept her faith. And after a couple years of this, if you can imagine, just died. and Johnny after a while used to say and she struggled for several years trying to figure this out. She says, what good could have come out of that? Because absolutely, even if she had been this great model of faith, nobody was watching. Nobody was watching. And one day, Johnny was sitting around with some Christian friends and they were trying to brainstorm what in the world was going on. And then they realized a number of things. Luke chapter 15, 10 where Jesus says, I tell you, the hosts of heaven rejoice in the presence of God over one sinner who repents. Ephesians 3.10, The powers and principalities, the spirit world, have eyes on the church. Hebrews 4.13, Nothing in all creation is hidden, for all things are naked and open before the eyes of him with whom we have to do. And she came to realize something. She came to realize what you do in your heart, whether you're faithful or unfaithful,

everything is watching the powers, the principalities, the spirit world the angels, the demons and this is the Christian worldview God himself you're always on TV it's everything you do and not just your actions but your heart and your thinking is being what if you were tomorrow everything you did everything you said and even somehow even everything you thought billions of people are going to watch. Would it make a difference in how you operated? Would it make everything you did significant? Would you think about it? Don't you realize something bigger than that is true? It's what you do for him that lasts forever, that never fades. The crown, see, blessed is the man who perseveres under trial. He'll get the crown. Somebody's watching. The things you do for him are the only things that really last. And don't you realize the great thing about trials and troubles is the more we get like Jesus, the more real we get. Because the things we do for him, the nature that we develop, the love like him, the wisdom like him, that new person the Bible talks about, you got the old person, the new person, the new person will last forever. It will go on forever. forever. It won't fade. That's the problem with prosperity. You hitch your heart to the things, and that's what makes them a trouble. I mean, you know, here's these two women, and both of them put on weight, but in a sense, it was, you know, it was the same event, but for one, it was a devastating trial. For the other, it wasn't. Why? Because troubles reveal the fading things that you use, the fading things that you build your life on. Your troubles are wonderful. That's the reason my lack of trouble is the biggest trouble of all. To show you the things that make you weak, the parts of you that are fading. What you have to do is you have to say, Jesus, though he's making, though he suffered for me and his suffering for me proves that I'm more important than anything. The Bible says, you know, it says the grass comes here today and tomorrow. The mountains. They seem to be here for millions of years but even they're going to fade. But the steadfast love of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon those who fear him. The mountains are nothing compared to your life. You are more real than the mountains. And the way you know that is he suffered for you. And the way you become more and more real is that you suffer for him. him. The Velveteen Rabbit, real isn't how you're made, said the Skin Horse. It's a thing that happens to you. These are the toys talking. When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just to play with, but really loves you, then you become real. Hmm, does it hurt, said the Velveteen Rabbit. Sometimes, said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. When you're real, you don't mind being hurt though. Well, does it happen all at once? Is it like being wound up, he said? Or is it bit by bit? Oh, it doesn't happen all at once at the skin horse. You become, you become real. It takes time, a long time. That's why it doesn't often happen to people who break easily or have sharp edges or who have to be carefully kept. Generally, by the time you're real, most of your hair has been loved off and your eyes have dropped out and you get loose in the joints and you're very, very shabby. But these things don't matter at all because once you're real, you can't be ugly, except the people who don't understand. The hymn goes this way.

Though dark be my way, since he is my guide, tis mine to obey, tis his to provide. Though cisterns be broken and friends do all fail, the word he has spoken shall surely prevail. His love in time past forbids me to think he'll leave me at last in troubles to sink. And can he have taught me to trust in his name and thus far have brought me to put me to shame? How bitter the cup no heart can conceive which he drank quite up that sinners might live. His way was much rougher and darker than mine. Did Jesus thus suffer and shall I repine? Since all that I meet shall work for my good, the bitter is sweet, the medicine is food. Though painful for present, it will cease before long. And then, oh, how pleasant, the conqueror's song. The crown. Let's pray. Our Father, help us to see that our troubles show us what is real and what is temporary and teaches us to hitch our heart

The crown. And how we find that the important things, the things that are, in a sense, on the TV of the universe, the things that are really being watched, if we could just concentrate on those things and obey you, help us to see that we are real and permanent because Jesus suffered for us, and we become more and more real and permanent because and as we suffer for him. Teach us how to do that. and help us to think, oh, how pleasant, the conqueror's song. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
