In the late 1950s, African-American artistry and music, which was basically rhythm and blues and jazz, was still considered by most people very other. I remember, being the age I am, from the middle and late 50s, in Pittsburgh, there was a radio station that played it, and you know what it called it? Race music. It was called race music. Black people had race. We didn't, of course, but I guess that was the idea behind it. And it was considered, partly because of the racist attitude of the white majority, it was still African-American music, rhythm and blues, jazz, was still considered too wild, too over-the-top, not respectable. In the late 1950s in Detroit, there was an African-American entrepreneur. named Barry Gordy, and he had an idea. He wanted to get the genius of African-American music out into the broader culture. And what he did was he created Motown Records, but he also created a sound. Now, what is unique about the sound? I'm an amateur musician, but I'm also an amateur scholar, and so I used both in order to come up with this. And what some people have said was this. He took jazz and rhythm and blues musicians from the clubs of Detroit, incredibly skilled people. And he kept the driving rhythm. But he actually reached back into black gospel music. You know the girls, the chorus, the call and response? That's from black gospel music. That's from the church. church. And what he did was he created a more accessible, incredibly joyous music that was something of a molding, a melding of some popular music at the time and black gospel and rhythm and blues. And he brought them together into a sound that was incredibly accessible. And what was the result? He got exactly what he wanted. Sidney Poitier observed. He said this, Motown made black music, part of the mainstream popular culture in America, something most of us thought could never happen. And one of the reasons why, and listen to a guy named Ben Harper, there's a tremendous TV special, movie actually, that was made called Standing in the Shadow of Motown. You can get it on DVD. I watched it as part of my research for tonight, and it's a terrific, just a terrific thing to watch. On there is a guy named Ben Harper, who's a young African-American singer and composer and guitarist. And he grew up on Motown, and he said why it was so powerful. This is what he said. He says, Motown was America's introduction to soul music. Soul music is powerful. Soul music makes you believe. Soul music gives you hope. As a child, it gave me unconscious hope. I didn't know why, but it did. It gave my father unconscious hope. and as he went on and as they were talking what they recognized was that Motown though it doesn't mention God or Jesus only heaven occasionally as the last piece did the hope that comes through in African-American music and African-American church music African-American spirituality is tremendous at expressing hope in the midst of suffering and that joy and that hope comes through in the Motown music. Now, what happened in the 60s? Because I was there. I was a teenager. And one of the things that happened, so the first time in history, black artists were as popular as white artists. In fact, in the 1960s, Motown records had more hits than the Beatles, than Elvis Presley. There was a group called the Funk Brothers who were the backup musicians to all of the various acts. And they actually played on more number one hit records than the Beatles, Elvis Presley, everybody else practically put together. And, of course, you know many other groups. They were Marvin Gaye, Stevie Wonder, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Martha and the Vandellas, the Four Tops, Gladys Knight and the Pips, The Temptations, Smokey Robin and the Miracles, and so on. Now, what happened? Julian Bond, who was a former senator and a civil rights leader at the time, says Motown was extremely important to the civil rights movement, but you have to understand why. And I can kind of remember this because I was a teenager during the time. Julian Bond said, for the first time in history, white kids saw black musicians as equal with white musicians. They saw them as equal artists. They saw them as celebrities. They admired them just as much. And for the first time in history, white kids and black kids liked the same music. They loved the same music. And as a result, Julian Bond says, Motown came out of the culture yet shaped the culture. Motown made that period in America what it was. If you don't understand Motown and the influence it had on a generation of young black and white young people, you'll never understand the civil rights movement, and here's why. Our parents, who never thought of this kind of music as anything but race music, were still, to a great degree, pretty threatened by the civil rights movement, but the younger people, younger white people, were far more supportive of it, and Julian Bond, rightly so, said, it's because for the first time in history, American sensibilities and views of life had come out and been wildly popular and broadly accepted by at least the younger white U.S. culture. That had a huge impact. But here's what's intriguing. Motown music was also criticized. This is the 60s. Protests in the streets, you know, confrontations everywhere. And Motown music is so happy. It's so joyous. It's so hopeful. along and said Motown music is not, it's not strident enough, it's not confrontive enough, it's not angry enough. Now this isn't completely true because Marvin Gaye, for example, 1971 did a couple of songs like What's Going On, which is an extremely important Motown song, and it was darker, and it was more about all the problems that were happening in society at the time, but what Julian Bond said was Motown's contribution was not through confrontation, but through attraction. It was so hopeful. It participated in the joyousness of African-American spirituality. An exuberance that basically, you know, so many other cultures have not been able to somehow capture, at least not know how to express. it came through out of African-American Christianity into Motown and it attracted people in and it actually created racial healing not through confrontation but through attraction because that's what it was the joy of its sound okay now let's move on for a second interesting see there's a controversy there because Motown was so hopeful it wasn't confrontive and yet it made a major contribution in the 60s to the civil rights movement okay secondly Motown and the gender divide I already alluded to this but what's intriguing about the black female vocalists and artists and writers was that their music in a sense participated in the same assertion yet attraction the same thing I'm talking about with regard to Motown how Motown asserted and pushed progressively But it did it in a much less strident and much more attractive way. Same thing when it comes to gender roles in Motown. You could even see, maybe as the music went on through, today academic gender studies departments study Motown. And they are ambivalent about it, because I've been reading what they think. Because they saw that in the 60s, you had on the one hand an assertiveness. Did you notice Gladys Knight and the Pips, that one song, very much was trying to say, I want you to love me. A man should love a woman just as faithfully as a woman should love a man. And, of course, Aretha Franklin in RESPECT is saying, this is a non-negotiable. And yet, when you get to, you make me feel like a natural woman. and I read one academic, gender studies academic, who was very upset with this song because it said a man has helped her shape her femaleness. By being in a relationship with a man, it's helped me feel like a woman. And, of course, the author said that's terrible. A woman should not need a man to help her find herself or define herself in no way. So what happens is that the broader culture,

culture, both conservative and liberal has trouble with African American ideas. Because what happened in Motown was, on the one hand, there was this assertiveness, this progressive assertiveness of dignity and rights and justice, and you need to respect my dignity. But on the other side, there was also an exception that men and women were different. There was an acceptance of the idea that femininity and masculinity were givens, and they both needed to be affirmed. So there was a desire for equality, but also a kind of acceptance of those differences. Now, what's intriguing to me is though that is in the 60s, do you know that Aretha and Motown and African-American artists of the 60s were way ahead of their time? If you want to understand that, you have to indulge me. Let me give you a brief history of feminism. Like, what am I doing that for? You know, here's a white guy talking about feminism. sexuality, but I always talk at this service for 12 years, so we're in a rut. Okay. I'm the one. All right. However, as an outsider, let me just suggest this. There's first, second, and third wave feminism, and I was trying to figure out this last week what they are. And actually, it's not that hard to understand. First wave feminism is usually a term used for 19th century and early 20th century movement for women's suffrage, the vote in Britain and America. Second wave feminism is the feminist movement of the 60s, Betty Friedan, Germaine Greer, Gloria Steinem, and so on. Now, what happened in this, and the second wave feminists were very critical. They thought Motown was good, but it didn't go far enough. And here's the reason why. Second wave feminism. Believes strongly. That all differences. Between men. And women. Are completely. A matter. Of education. Environment. And training. They believe. That all. Gender differences. Are completely. Socially. Constructed. They didn't. Buy. At all. The idea. That there. Was such a. Thing. As. Femininity. Or. Masculinity. They didn't. Buy. At all. The idea. That women. Were more. Naturally. Nurturing. Or. Men. Were. More. Naturally. Aggressive. They. Didn't. Buy. It. Not. like that. They see some progressive, yeah, that's good, some progressive assertion of equal rights and dignity, but there's this acceptance of gender differences that they considered to be very retro. But here's what's happened, as you probably know. In the 80s and the 90s, second wave feminism has been under enormous attack for the reason that study after study has shown that there are biologically rooted, hardwired differences between men and women. If you want a good survey of it, in 1997, there was a book called Sex in the Brain. No, Sex on the Brain. Let me look at it. You all know what you... Yeah, Deborah Bloom's Sex on the Brain, 1997. A very good synopsis. Sort of overwhelming evidence that there are givens, there are differences. And as a result of that, and I won't go into pretty intriguing. If you want to, take a look at the book. But most of you are younger people, and you've been going to college. You've probably heard about this. As a result, there's now coming up something called third-wave feminism. Actually, it's not that easy to define that because any new movement always has got parties in it, and everybody defines it differently. And if you Google it, you'll get 3,000 websites, every one of them giving you a slightly different definition. but here's what I can tell. Third wave feminism has accepted the differences. Instead of trying to eliminate the differences between men and women, they accept the differences and still go for equal rights. They celebrate the differences and still go for equal rights. And guess what? That's where Aretha was 40 years ago. They were ahead of their time. In other words, what you actually have in Motown is an incredibly common sense approach to gender differences. I mean, the question of tonight is, can men and women get along? And the answer is, with a lot of love and patience and an acceptance of difference, yes. It comes through in song after song. These sweet songs, these pop songs, maybe frothy, maybe you say, oh, it's not even worth much reflection. it is. They were ahead of their time. Now, lastly,

why have African-American artists made the kind of contributions they've made to civil rights, to understanding of gender roles? At this point, by the way, this is speculation. This is just my opinion, but here's what I think. Especially in the last few years, people a lot. People have recognized the fact that African Americans do not fit in to the normal categories of liberal or conservative. There's a lot of studies done on this. Hallelujah. Yeah. They do not fit into the categories of liberal conservative. Why? On the one hand, they seem very progressive. They're very, very, very concerned about economic justice. They're very concerned about social justice. But on the other hand, studies have shown that of all the demographics in this country, the highest percentage of people who go to church, the highest percentage of people who believe in the authority of the Bible, in the necessity of the new birth, in the need for the blood of Jesus Christ, in the absolute standards of the Ten Commandments, the group in this country with the highest percentage of people who are that deeply religious are African Americans. They are the most deeply and profoundly religious people in our country. and therefore they seem to combine these liberal and conservative views and they're almost impossible to get a handle on. But they come out in the music. They come out in the art. What I love about Aretha is she's telling her men they better respect her. But look, she's not doing it the way a white individualistic person would say is you respect me or I'm out of here. Because you see, black people understand that they're part of a community. They're part of a family. simply discrete autonomous individuals. There's also a kind of loving willingness to forgive their opponents. Where does this truth and love mixture come from? Where does this balance between the individual rights and the needs of the community come from? Where does this interesting understanding of, you might say, racial and social and economic justice and at the same time moral conservatism a belief in moral absolute. Where does this come from. My suggestion is it comes from the gospel. My suggestion is because here you have a group of people who for centuries have suffered and yet have turned as a people group. To the gospel of Jesus Christ. And it has worked its way into their aesthetic sensibility. It's worked their way into their music. It's worked their way into their thinking. Whether they are actually Christians or not. As a community, I mean as individuals, as a community, that is what's made them what they are. And therefore, we need to listen to their art. I'll tell you where they got this weird balance, this interesting balance. It's weird to the rest of us. They got it from Jesus. Now, here's my suggestion. Here's my documentation for my proposal. This is out of a Martin Luther King, Jr. speech, sermon, a terrific sermon. He says, of course you say all this about loving your enemies isn't practical. Life is a matter of getting even, of hitting back, of dog-eat-dog. Maybe in some distant utopia, you say, that idea will work, but not in the hard, cold world in which we live. My friends, says Dr. Martin Luther King, my friends, we have followed the so-called practical way for too long a time now and it has led to inexorably deeper confusion and chaos. Time is cluttered with the wreckage of communities which surrendered to hatred and violence. We must follow another way. Not that we abandon our righteous efforts. With every ounce of our energy, we must continue to rid this nation of the incubus of segregation. But we will not in the process relinquish our privilege and our obligation to love. While abhorring segregation, we will love the segregationist. This is the only way to create the beloved community. To our most bitter opponents, we say, we shall meet your physical force with soul force. and we will continue to love you. We can't obey your unjust laws. We will not obey your unjust laws because non-cooperation with evil is as much a moral obligation as is cooperation with good. Throw us in jail, we will still love you. Send your hooded perpetrators of violence into our community and beat us and we will still love you. But be assured, we will wear you down. One day we shall win freedom, ourselves. We shall so appeal to your heart and conscious that we will win you in the process. And so our victory will be a double victory. Now, you don't even see that in Aretha talking to men. Don't you see that? It doesn't say, look, you give me what I want or I'm out of here. That's not what she's doing. She says, you give me what I want, but if you don't, I'm going to love you. I'm not going to let you walk on me. I'm going to wear you down with my love. It's very, where do they get this? Martin Luther King Jr. says, Jesus said, love your enemies that you may be children of your father, which is in heaven. This is just continuing to the end of the sermon. Listen, the great military leaders of the past have gone and their empires have crumbled and burned to ashes. But the empire of Jesus built solidly and majestically on the foundation of love is still growing. That's how Jesus did it. He loved his enemies. May we solemnly realize we shall never be sons of our heavenly father until we love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. Oh my gosh, that is a masterpiece. But listen, here's how I want to leave you. Listen to the art. Listen to the wisdom of it. Listen to the message of it. Even Motown, which seems just nothing but feel-good music, but it's not, because it comes out of a heart, it comes out of an experience, it comes out of a people that have been deeply, deeply influenced by the gospel of Jesus Christ. And if you listen, you'll learn a lot, not just about how men and women can get along, but about all of life.