John chapter 17, verses 6 through 19. I have revealed you to those whom you gave me, says Jesus to his father, out of the world. They were yours. You gave them to me and they have obeyed your word. Now they know that everything you have given me comes from you. For I gave them the words you gave me and they accepted them. They knew with certainty that I came from you and they believed that you sent me. I pray for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those who you have given me. For they are yours. All I have is yours and all you have is mine. And glory has come to me through them. I will remain in the world no longer, but they are still in the world and I am coming to you. Holy Father, protect them by the power of your name. The name you gave me so that they may be one as we are one. While I was with them, I protected them and kept them safe by that name you gave me. None has been lost except the one doomed to destruction so that scripture would be fulfilled. I am coming to you now, but I say these things while I am still in the world so that they may have the full measure of my joy within them. I have given them your word and the world has hated them, for they are not of the world any more than I am of the world. My prayer is not that you would take them out of the world, but that you would protect them from the evil one. They are not of the world even as I am not of it. Sanctify them by the truth. Thy word is truth. As you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. For their sakes, I sanctify myself that they too may be truly sanctified. This is God's word. Astonishing words. Are you a Christian? Or are you wondering if you are a Christian? Or are you wondering whether it's worth it to be a Christian? In any one of those cases, you've got to know what it means to be holy. Why? Well, listen. I would say that most of us in this room would really be hard-pressed to give a decent definition of holiness, even if you were here last week. You know, when you think of holiness, how is that different than goodness? It's not the same. How is it different than righteousness? It's not quite the same. With his last breaths, Jesus Christ, before he dies, says, I have made myself holy. I have sanctified myself so that they might be holy, so that they might be sanctified. Hear this. Jesus Christ has completely committed himself. He has lived his life and has even died for one priority, that you and I would be holy. He will not deal with you unless it is to make you holy. Do you see that? You should not even come to him unless it's in order to become holy. See, one of the great things about Redeemer that I love so much is the fact that so many of you are approaching Jesus Christ in many cases for the first time or in many cases for the first time in a long time. Why are you coming? Why are you approaching him? Some of you have got needs that you're beginning to realize are not going to get addressed anywhere else. Some of you have questions that you begin to realize are not going to get answered anywhere else, if here. Some of you have got problems that you realize are never going to be unraveled anywhere else. But do you see what this text says? For their sakes, I sanctify myself that they might be sanctified. Jesus Christ is saying, my friends, these are great and important issues, but you know what you don't know? The solution, the ultimate solution for your needs, the ultimate answer to your questions, the ultimate solution for your problems is holiness. That's what the text says. Jesus Christ says, I will not deal with you except to make you holy. I have completely set myself apart to make you holy. It's what I live for. It's what I die for. It's the last thing on my lips is I'm about to die. You cannot come to me unless you realize that it's my job, it's my mission to make you holy. Friends, if you don't understand what holiness is, you cannot even begin to imagine that you understand Christianity. If you're a skeptic, if you think you've rejected Christianity, if you think I don't believe it, and yet you still don't understand what holiness is, you've rejected something that you don't understand. This is the essence of what Jesus Christ came to do. This is the heart, he says, of his mission. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves, ask the text, two questions. What is holiness? And then secondly, why should we be holy? What is it to be holy and why should we be holy? And we're going to spend most of our time on this first question. What is it to be holy? I propose to you that the text tells us that holiness is at least three things. It's to be wholly committed to God. It's to be wholly focused on God. And it's to be wholly renovated by God. Wholly, in entirety. It's to be wholly committed to God. It's to be wholly focused on God. It's to be wholly renovated by God. First, it's to be wholly committed to God. Verse 19 says, for their sakes, for them I sanctify myself. Now here you have the essence of the word sanctify, the essence of the word holy. We mentioned it last week in relation to God. It means separate. But this week we're talking about what it means to be a holy person, a holy people. It means to be separate. It's very clear that when Jesus says, I sanctified myself, it doesn't mean I'm becoming a better person. He can't mean that I'm becoming a more pure person. The Bible everywhere says he was already perfect. And in fact, he himself says, at one point he says to his accusers, who charges me with sin? Jesus was already perfect, so how in the world can he become sanctified? And the answer is, the essential etymology of the word does not mean to be a better, nicer person. In essence, it means to be set apart, to be separate, to be completely committed to something. So that all other concerns are ditched. That's what it means. I'll give you an example. Here's an athlete, and she wants, she wants to win an Olympic gold medal. What does she do? She sanctifies herself. She sets herself apart. Now what that means is, she separates herself from a lot of foods. She separates herself from a lot of activities. She separates herself from a lot of attitudes. None of these foods, none of these activities, none of these attitudes which she said to other people are necessarily wrong. He wouldn't say that any of them are wrong in themselves, but they're wrong for her. Why? Because they would preempt the cause of sin. Because she sanctifies herself. Are you getting the idea? She has set herself apart. She is a holy athlete because she has sanctified herself for this cause. What does it mean to be a holy person? What has Jesus done? Jesus does not mean he's become perfect. He was already perfect. What it means, he's taken all of his resources, he's taken all of his time, he's taken all of, we'll get back to this later, but he's taken everything he has and everything he is and he says, no longer am I using it for any other purpose except this. He has committed himself, he's ditched competing concerns, he's ditched competing priorities. You want a good, essential definition of holiness, you go back to Numbers 14 where the people of Israel are brought to the brink of the promised land and God says, go in there and take it, it's yours. And what do the people say? They say, impractical and impossible. There's giants in there. We'll be enslaved. We'll be slaughtered. And God looks at them and says, all right, if you won't obey me, I'm going to send you back out into the wilderness for 40 years and you're all going to die there. I'll give the land to your children. But then he says, except for Caleb and Joshua. And he looks at Caleb, who was one of the spies that went into the promised land and came back and said, let's go take it. And he looks at Caleb and here's a great definition of holiness. He says, but my servant Caleb, there's a different spirit in him for he has followed me wholly and therefore I will bring him back into this land and I will give it to him and to his seed after him. What is he saying? You see how relevant this is? He says, God looks at you today and says, let's go into the land. And he gives you rules. He tells you things you have to do. There's lots of them in here. Pour yourself out for other people. Give your time and money away. Always tell the truth. Never repay evil for evil. Forgive everybody. Keep yourself sexually pure. And when you hear God say all these things, what do you say? What's your natural attitude? What do you say? Impossible. Impractical. We'll be slaughtered out there. We'll be enslaved out there. That's what most people say. Or do you have a different spirit? Are you someone who realizes, man, if I'm going to take the land, if I'm going to listen to what God says, I'm going to have to sanctify myself. I'm going to have to sanctify myself if I'm going to get the gold. I'm going to have to set myself apart. I'm going to have to say lots of other things that used to be all right in themselves are no longer right for me. To be holy means to be wholly committed to God. It's a priority thing. Secondly, it's not all. To be holy means to be wholly focused on God. There's another place in the Bible that talks about this very same thing that is mentioned here in John 17, 19. In John 17, 19, Jesus says, I sanctify myself, for their sakes. I set myself apart for this work. In Luke 9, verse 51, it says, Jesus set his face like a flint to go up to Jerusalem and die. Did you hear that? Set his face like a flint. He looked at something. He would not take his eyes off of it. He would look at nothing else. That's the same thing. He's saying, it's saying there in Luke 9, 51, as it's saying in John 17. It's another way of putting it and it's another way of helping us understand holiness. He looks at one thing. I only play golf once a year. One week a year, I spend with my wife's family on vacation at a particular place every year. And I only play golf once a year because my father-in-law is an avid golfer and it's fun to play with him, but otherwise, I don't have the time or the motivation or the activity or the access to do it. So that's the only time I ever play. I play every day, practically, when I'm there, just for that week. The one thing about me and about my golf, you know, I guess, about my style that really drives my father-in-law crazy, and that is, and of course, it hurts my game, too, and that is, just before I bring the club all the way through, I look up from the tee. All right? And those of you who know anything about golf realize that's just one of the cardinal rules. It drives my father, my mom, crazy. Now, see, the reason I do it, I want to see where the ball goes because it so often goes into the grape vines and the fields off to the side of the, you know, off the side of the fairway, and I'm so often having to dig out my ball that I want to know where it goes. But, you see, my father-in-law says the irony of this, this great spiritual lesson is because you're so concerned to look away from the ball so you know where it goes, it goes wrong. It goes wrong. And he says, ah, keep your face fixed on the tee. Don't look anywhere else. He says, I'll watch the ball. We'll watch the ball. It won't be lost. Don't. Look up. Don't be distracted. Fix your gaze. Fix your face. And don't move. Now, you see, the Bible says, sanctify them in the truth. Thy word is truth. In verse 11 and 12, it says, Holy Father, you have kept them in your name. Holiness comes from fixing your face on the name of God and on the truth of God. It means to gaze at it and at nothing else. It means to be controlled by who he is. You see, that's holiness. For example, let me repress something I pressed last week. Let me use this because it touched the cord. Holiness would mean for example, taking any of the names of God, any of the names of God, and fixing your face on it and looking nowhere else. Let's take the name Father. We did this last week. Let me show you again. What if you fix your name, just for a moment, what if you fix your face on the name Father, that he's a father? Well, there's three things right away that'll happen and these are fruits of holiness. These are Christ-like characteristics that will grow in your life. One is, you'll develop a praising spirit instead of an irritable spirit. In families, you put up with things that you don't put up with anywhere else. There is nothing less irritable than the family love of God. Look at Jesus on the cross. Look at them mocking him as his life is ebbing out. Look at them saying, if you're a king, come on down. And what does Jesus do? He looks up to the father and says, Father, forgive them. They're not completely cognizant of what they're doing. There is no one less irritable than the father love of God. Look at that. You call that irritability? No irritability. Father, they mean well. Father, they don't completely get it. Forgive them. Yes, I know they're crucifying me. I know they're killing me, but they don't completely understand what's going on. You talk about a lack of irritability. Fix your face on that. Or in Luke chapter 15, where the father has the prodigal son come back. And what does the son say? Roughly. Father, I squandered one third of your net worth on prostitutes. What's the father say? All that matters is that you're back. And he kisses his neck. And he pounces on him. You see, when you, when you look at somebody's faults and look at somebody's sins and you let that irritate you and you let that, and you hold it against them, what you're doing at that moment is you're fixing your face not on the father. As a matter of fact, there's a sense in which you are out of touch with reality because the father covers offenses. The father covers those things. The father isn't irritable. Frankly, when you hold things against people, you're actually saying, my God in heaven holds things against me. You're acting like the man in the parable. Matthew 25, who turns to the master and says, I knew thou wert a hard man, oh master, reaping where you didn't sow. And therefore, I was afraid of you. And a lot of you are treating God that way the moment that you're irritable. Because if you'd fix your face on the father saying, all that matters is your back. If you'd fix your face on your great brother on the cross saying, father, they don't quite understand what they're doing. You would say, how in the world can I hold this against these people? Listen, the test of whether or not you're holy, of whether or not you're fixing your face on the name of the father, is whether those people who are most flawed and who therefore must get more criticism all over the place from people, whether they consider you a harbor. There's a lot of people out there with so many flaws and blemishes that they're getting criticism everywhere. They irritate everybody. Do they consider you a harbor? Do they consider you more understanding than other people? Are they willing to come and tell you their problems because they sense a lack of irritability, a praising spirit instead of an irritable spirit? Is that true of you? If it's not, you have not fixed your face on the name of the father. You're not being sanctified by the truth. Or here's another example. If you fix your face on the name of the father, not only does it give you a praising spirit instead of an irritable spirit, as we said last week, but I'll put it in another way. It gives you a repenting spirit rather than a defensive spirit. If somebody, if you've got a billion dollars in the bank and somebody picks your pocket of a hundred dollars, it's like a prick of the finger. If you've got two hundred dollars to your name and somebody picks your pocket of a hundred dollars, it's like a knife in the heart. Same amount. Same crime. For one, it's a prick in the heart. For one, it's a knife in the heart. For one, it's a prick in the finger. One, it's a knife in the heart. Now, here's two people and I see them. Very often, two Christians. And I see them in conflicts. I see them in situations where they're being criticized. I see them in situations where they've blown it and somebody's telling them about it. And it's so clear. There's some people that are so quick and able to repent. You're right. My. This was really, I blew it. I'm very sorry. And you can tell it's no more than a prick of the finger because they are rich with the Father's love. And I see other people who are angry, who shift the blame, who hate themselves, who grovel. And it's clear that it's not a prick in the finger. It's a knife in the heart. Why? They haven't fixed their face on the name of the Father. Do you see that? You see, a repenting spirit rather than a defensive spirit, a person who is becoming holy through fixing your face on the Father, it's humility without obsequiousness. How's that for a great word? Humility without obsequiousness, without groveling. Why? Because the humility that comes from holiness is not the humility that comes from low self-esteem. That's the groveling. It's the humility that comes from the richness of the Father's love. Or, just one more example. Fix your face on the name of the Father gives you a praising spirit and a grace. Full of compliments rather than an irritable spirit. It gives you a repenting spirit rather than a defensive spirit, but it also gives you a grateful spirit rather than a self-pitying spirit. You get up every day and instead of looking at what's wrong, you look and say, why, God, have you been so good to me? There's a confidence if you fix your face on the Father. Listen, if any of you are Sunday school teachers, you know that one of the great, if you've ever taught Sunday school in a church, you'll know that one of the great banes of the Sunday school teacher is the preacher's children. Why? Because many times the preacher's children look at the Sunday school teacher and they say, you can't discipline me. My dad's the minister of this church. Now, of course, we all have to work immediately on destroying that worldview. But let me show you at another realm why it should work well. You see, when circumstances are about to defeat you, you should work well. You should look at those circumstances and say, wait a minute. My dad is in charge of this world. My dad is in charge of this history. You can't cow me. You see? At one level, it's pretty destructive at the level of Sunday school. But at the universal level, what's wrong with you? Why can't you, are you being defeated by your circumstances? Then you're not fixing your face on the fact this is your Father's world. Don't you see that holiness is so much more than just obeying God? It's obeying the rules. It's a whole spirit. It's a whole set of characteristics begin to spring up when you're wholly committed to God and you're wholly focused on God. Now lastly, wholly renovated by God. Now, here's what I mean. In verse 6 and in verse 11 and throughout this prayer, have you noticed how often we are referred to by Jesus as thine? Or mine? See, in verse 6, it says, they are yours. They are mine. In Exodus chapter 19, God says to the people of Israel, He says, you saw what I did in Egypt, how I brought you on eagle's wings to myself so that you would be my treasured possession, a holy nation, and my own people. And just so you know, nobody thinks that was only true of the Old Testament people of God. In the New Testament, Peter says to the church, you are a chosen people, a holy nation, a God's own possession. What does it mean to be holy? It means, literally, in 1 Peter 2, 9, you are a holy nation. You belong to God. You're God's people. Now, you know what it literally means? It says when it says, excuse me, what it literally says in 1 Peter 2, 9, it says, you are a holy ethnic. Why would God say to Christians that you are a new, holy ethnic? Why does holiness turn you into a new ethnic? Here's why. Listen to this. What's the difference between an ethnic and an organization? An ethnic group and an organization? To be a member of the Boy Scouts, to be a member of the Rotary Club is not the same thing as to be a member of the Brazilian ethnic group. Or the member of the Hungarian ethnic group. Here's why. An ethnic group is a culture. It's a completely and totally comprehensive way of being. See, if you're a Boy Scout, that means a couple of places in your life have changed, but not everything. But you see, if you're African as opposed to Hispanic, as opposed to Asian, an ethnic group means a different culture is a whole different way of doing everything. Your ethnicity determines how men and women relate. Your ethnicity determines how you relate to people of other races. It determines economic relationships. It determines how the family works. It determines how children are raised. It determines what you think good music is. It determines your attitude toward work and even your sense of humor. To be an ethnic, this ethnic as opposed to that ethnic, is a total comprehensive difference. What God is saying is pretty amazing. You come to me if you're wholly committed to me and you're wholly focused on me, it will change every area of your life. Every area. You will say, what does it mean to really be committed to you in the area of my work, in my humor, in my child rearing, in my attitude toward the arts, in my attitude toward other people, toward other races, in my business practices. Every area will be changed. Every single one. And that when, see when the Bible says in Christ there is no Jew or Greek, it doesn't mean suddenly a Greek Christian is going to like Jewish Christian music. But you know what it does mean? It means that the Greek Christian and the Jewish Christian will start to become so fundamentally changed in every area of their life as they commit wholly to God and they're focused wholly on God, they will begin to find, the Jewish Christian will find that he or she has more in common with the Jewish Christian. The Greek Christian will have more in common with the Jewish Christian than with a Greek Christian. The Greek non-Christian. Bit by bit by bit, we will find that we are so changed in every area of our lives that we will find, as we say around here, that you're a Christian first and you're an American second. You're a Christian first and you're black or white second. You're a Christian first and you're labor or management second. You're a Christian first and you're a member of this family or that family second. Who says that Christianity is for people who like pat answers? Who says Christianity is for the intellectually lazy? You know what it means to be a Christian? Christian dancers and choreographers come together and they have to say, what does it mean that the master has touched us and that we are committed to him? How will his healing hands now be expressed in the way in which we do dance? Every area of our life has got to be changed. What does the Bible have to say about dance? What does the Lord have to say about dance? How will we now express this change in the area of dance? Fashion designers have to do the same thing. Business people have to get together. and do the same thing. Mothers have to get together and do the same thing. Good night. Who says that this is for people who like pat answers? What does it mean to be a holy people? It means, first of all, there is not an area of my life that is not under the sovereignty of God. As Abraham Kuyper says, there is not an area of your life that Jesus Christ has not looked at and said, mine. You see? And Christians begin to realize that they are being renovated in every single area. And that means the church no longer can be thought of as a club or a social service agency, which is what most people think of it as. It is a place where a new humanity is forged. Why do you think Paul is so upset in 1 Corinthians 6 when two Christians who are having a dispute go to a judge and sue one another in civil court? You know why he's so upset? He says, you guys don't realize you have just lost the ball game. The whole point of being a holy people is that we, as Christians, have to have every part of our lives changed. The way we deal with conflicts, the way we take criticism, the way we handle the stresses of work, the way in which the races get along. The world is supposed to be looking at us and saying, how the heck do you do it? Because we're forging a new humanity. In 1 Peter 2.9, it says, you are a chosen people. You are a holy nation. You are God's own possession that you may declare. The excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. How do you get the world to come and say, your God must be a great God? By the holiness of your practice, you're a new ethnic. We're a new people. We're forging a new humanity. The adventure of it, the beauty of it, and the ambitiousness of it, that's what a church is. What do you think it is? It's just not a club. It's a holy nation. You've been called to be a holy people, to be his special treasure. Mine. Mine. And here, let's mention this. Do you know what it means to be a holy people? It means you belong to him. I know a little boy that has lots of toys, expensive toys in many cases, but has only got one doll. It's a raggedy doll. He sings over that doll. He sleeps with that doll. And he'll fight with any sibling who makes fun of that doll. It's mine. It's my special treasured possession. And the Bible has the audacity to say, God has the audacity to say, you're mine. You're my treasured possession. In Malachi 3, it says when God comes back to judge the world, he will collect his treasure, his jewels to himself. That's us. Imagine how that little boy gazes at his treasured possession and lavishes himself on it and spares no expense for it. That's how God, that's how God treats you. That's how God looks at you. The Lord of the universe has made you his special treasure. You're his holy people. You're his. How should you be treating yourself? Why have you given up on yourself? Imagine if the God of the universe is committed like that to us. Imagine how he must be coiled to spring, ready to do incredible things. Imagine what he must have in store for us. Imagine what it means for him to sing over us and to say, I will let no one make fun of me. I will let no one harm you. You are mine. Final word. Do you remember there were two points to this sermon and we spent the whole time on one? Any of you, some of you left brain people that are real analysts notice that we haven't talked about the second point? Because it's simple. When Jesus Christ, why should you be holy is the second point and here it is. When Jesus Christ says, for their sakes, I sanctify myself. It's all in the word for their sakes. Do you want to know how to be holy? Do you say, I'd love to be that committed. I'd love to be that focused. I'd love to be that renovated but it's so hard. Look. Jesus Christ says, for their sakes. Do you know what that means? Jesus is saying that I have decided to put all of my resources, all that I have and am, is living in order to make them gloriously great. Jesus is in heaven today not the way he was before he came to earth. You know why? Before he came to earth he was his own person. Now he is completely sanctified. He's totally set apart. He's ruling everything, it says in Ephesians 1 and in Romans 8. Everything he is ruling in order to make you gloriously great and happy. To make you sanctified. He came to earth and he says on the garden, you know what he says in the garden? Father, they're going to die unless I pay the debt. Therefore, I separate myself from you so that they might be separated for you. I will be cut off. You can pour out your wrath in my heart. I will be completely separated and cast out so that they can be brought in. I'll be separated from you that they might be separated for you. If you would just let those three words, I do all of this for their sake, for their sake, for their sake. If you would let those three words lay on your heart for an hour, it would make you holy. This is all the power you need. Because let me tell you what it means to be holy. The dynamic comes from looking at him and saying, brother, prince and king, shepherd, if you would sanctify yourself for me, how can I not sanctify myself for you? If you would live completely for me so that you're not even your own anymore, if you have given yourself utterly to me, how can I but not give myself utterly to you? That's all the power you need, I say. And it's all the hope you need. All the hope. No matter what is in your way, you can look at it and say, I'm not scared of you. Because the high king of heaven has sanctified himself just to make me gloriously great. He is completely committed to make me perfect, to get rid of all my distortions, all of my holiness, all of my unhappiness, my unholiness and my unhappiness. He is going to make me a glorious, radiant creature without spot and blemish. Therefore, you can look at anything. You can look at the devil, you can look at the world, you can look at your enemies, you can look at death itself. And you can say, I have everything that I need. You can take, you can take nothing from me of value. And you have nothing I want. Don't you see? For their sakes, I sanctify myself. There's all the power you need. There's all the hope you need. That's why you should be holy. Look at what he's done for you. And you will be able to give yourself to him. Let's pray. Father, as we take up the offering, we ask that you would help us to consider what it means to sanctify ourselves for you. Help us to do that in the next couple of minutes. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
