The teaching is based this morning, is printed in your bulletin. Would you please look at it with me? We've been going through the book of Acts this fall. We come now to chapter 8, and here we read,

Those who had been scattered preached the word wherever they went. Philip went down to a city in Samaria and proclaimed the Christ there. When the crowds heard Philip and saw the miraculous signs he did, they all paid close attention to what he said. With shrieks, evil spirits came out of many, and many paralytics and cripples were healed. So, there was great joy in that city. This is God's Word. Now, we've been looking every week, we've gone through the book of Acts, and every week we really ask the same question of the text, and each week we're learning new insights. Every week we ask this question, how could it be that a small, marginal, uneducated group of people, the early Christians, how could it be that the religion, the faith of Christianity swept in just a few decades the most powerful empire, the most powerful culture that the world had known up to that time, how did they do it? What was the secret of their power? And every week we've been looking at that and asking that question, and we've got a number of answers. We've looked at their understanding of truth and their understanding of the experience of the presence of God in worship, and we've looked at their unshakability, their ability to face persecution and torment, and we've looked at their practical lifestyle of generosity and caring. We get to Acts chapter 8, and we ask the question again, and the answer is that there was a particular strategy that the Christians followed in their spread of their faith. When we ask ourselves, why was it that Christianity was so tremendously successful in not just getting converts, but transforming the very culture that they were in? it unprecedented in human history this kind of rise without political power without military power without any kind of coercion or force but just the power of moral suasion the spiritual sweep through the Roman Empire the Christian went to cities. There was a strategy to the spread of Christianity, and God directed that strategy, and therefore, the book of Acts, chapter 8, shows us to start with, but it's the whole book of Acts that proves that God was an urban strategist, that he sent his leaders, he sent his key people exclusively to live and minister in major cities. This was the strategy of God for changing the world, it was to bring joy in the city. And if joy was brought in the city, then the world was healed. Joy in the city means healing for the world. That was the strategy. And I know some of you say, oh yeah, Tim gets into this every so often, this city thing. And so, you know, I'll just sit back and I'll learn a couple things. But, you know, he's kind of overboard. That's his thing. That's his taste. That's fine. No. Honest. You know, maybe, but I don't think so. And when you read the book of Acts, I think you'll see, and I want to try to convince you, that this isn't just, oh, a thing that some Christians like to get into, city. Isn't it great to live in a city? If you read the book of Acts, you will see that this was God's strategy for healing the world. And if you want to be central to the program of God, you too will minister and live in cities. Let me show you what the strategy is. Here's what we can learn from the strategy. of the strategy, and give me a minute here to try to convince you. What was the fact of the strategy? What did Philip do? He went down to the city in Samaria. Now, literally, the way it should read is, Philip went down to the city of Samaria. And so, most commentators say it was either the capital or whatever was considered the chief city, the main city of Samaria. Philip was one of the seven. There were seven leaders that were chosen by the church to help the apostles with their work. Stephen was another one of the seven, and we saw something about him last week. And these leaders were people of tremendous endowment. They had tremendous wisdom and authority and ability. So where God sends them will show you something about how God deployed his resources, and he sends Philip to the city. and we see throughout the rest of the book of Acts that the way Christianity reached an area was it reached the city. How do you reach Samaria? You go to the city of Samaria. How do you reach the intellectuals? You go to the city of the intellectuals, Athens. Paul went to Athens. That was where the arts, where the intelligentsia, that was their city. Paul went to Corinth. Why? It was the commercial center of the Roman Empire. where you accumulated wealth. He went to Ephesus. Why? It was the religious center. It was the seat of all the various religious cults, all the competitors to Christianity. He went to Rome. It was the power center. Paul went to the Boston of the day, the New York of the day, the LA of the day, the Washington, D.C. of the day. If you want to see how entrenched this entire approach is, take a look at Acts 16. In Acts 16, Paul has a dream. And in that dream, he sees a man come and bring the gospel to Macedonia. So Paul decided that was the Spirit leading him to go to Macedonia. So what do we read three verses later? Chapter 16, 12, he says, so, this is Luke writing, so we traveled to Philippi. Why? It was the leading city of Macedonia. If Paul wanted to reach Macedonia, he went to the biggest city in Macedonia. If you wanted to reach Samaria, you go to the biggest city in Samaria. There's an amazing statement in the end of Romans, verse 19, and then he says it again in verse 23. He says to the Romans, I have fully preached the gospel from Jerusalem to Illyricum. And then he says, therefore there is no more room for my work in these parts. Now, he's talking about the northeastern basin of the Mediterranean. He's talking about from Jerusalem, sort of the northeastern Mediterranean basin. And he says, I can't minister here anymore. I've got to leave. I've got to go. There's no more room for me. Now, if you read and see, what he actually did is this. He went to every big city in there, and he planted a church in every big city, and therefore he said, there's nothing else for me to do. What do you mean? What it means is Paul saw his strategy from first to last as urban. Once he'd planted a church in the biggest city of a region or country, he was done. Why? It's so entrenched. It's so obvious. They ignored the countryside. All the missionaries did. Christian leaders did, and they ignored the towns. They went to the cities. And we know from all the historians of the first three centuries, all Christians, virtually all Christians, were urban. Now, somebody says, why? Well, the historians can tell you why. Paul seemed to know it. We'll get back to Philip in a minute here. But Paul seemed to know it. First of all, when you go to the town and country people are conservative. City people are open to new ideas. So Paul knew that where will I get the most radical hearing for the gospel? In the city, and it's still true. You still get a better hearing for a radical message in the city than in the conservative towns. Secondly, town and country people stayed put. City people are mobile. Paul knew if I plant the gospel in the city, it'll go all over. Thirdly, town and country people are homogeneous. In a little town, you have one or maybe two kinds of people, but in the city, there's hundreds of races and classes and ethnic groups, knew, if I plant the gospel in a city of a region, it gets into hundreds of groups, hundreds of language groups, hundreds of cultures. And then lastly, town and country people only influence their little town, but city people influence the entire culture through the media institutions and the political institutions and the cultural institutions and the schools. And Paul knew, if I plant the gospel in that city, then that message will sweep that country. In other words, Paul knew that the way to reach a country was to put joy in the city of that country. And that's why he went. And it's invariable that's the way he did it. And it made the sense. That's where the change was. That's where the power was. That's why he did it. And that's why all the early Christians did it. And that's the reason why they were able to go and do it. Every Christian missionary took the gospel downtown. town because that's the place where it could really change things. What if the early missionaries went to the places that Christians today want to live? Or where do Christians today want to live? They want to live in safe places, homogeneous places, a lot of people like yourself, and tranquil places. Safe, homogeneous, and tranquil, the opposite of a city. And if Paul or if any of the Christian leaders had put the gospel in those places instead of in the marketplaces of people and of power and of influence, where would we be? If they'd gone where we want to go, where would we be? It's a fact. It's really not just Tim's thing. Read the book of Acts. Read the history of the first three centuries of the Christian church. That was God's strategy. But now, secondly, the other thing we learn here is how, not just that this is God's strategy, but we also learn here how it was discovered. recovered. We're told here that Philip went to Samaria. Why? Because Philip says, you know, I've been thinking, and we ought to go to cities. If during the first three centuries Christians do an urban strategy, we will be in a position to really, we'll have the leverage to really change this society. Is that what Philip did? No. Let's not give Philip too much credit. it. Paul perhaps had thought this out. A lot of the historians think Paul has, but did Philip know? Why did Philip go? It says those who were scattered preached the word. Philip went because he was scattered. Now, what does that mean? Well, in the very beginning, God in chapter 1 and chapter 2 indicated this was the strategy he wanted. He said to the very, very first apostles, he says, be my witnesses in Jerusalem, but also Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. Now, what's he saying? He said to his people, just before he ascended, he says, I disperse you. I disperse you. I don't want you living in safe, homogeneous, tranquil places anymore. I want you to break down the barriers. I want you to take the gospel into all kinds of places, cross the physical barriers, cross the social barriers, cross the cultural barriers, get out. I disperse you. They didn't get out. This is God's way of saying, this is what I want you to do. Now, you know, the only, far as I know, the greatest human example we have of Pentecost is Flushing High School. Have you ever been to Flushing High School? They say that the students of Flushing High School come from 130 different language groups. 130 different languages are spoken in the homes of the students of Flushing Queens High School. And he makes sure that first worship service was a worship service in which the praises of God were going up in a hundred different languages. He's really saying, he was giving us a picture of a redeemed New York City. There is no other place on earth that gets redeemed would have all those languages. There was 120. Think about it. There's 120 people in the room. They were all speaking different languages. God was trying to say, get away from the safe. Get away from the homogeneous. get away from the tranquil, but they didn't get it. They stayed. And then they were scattered. Well, how did he scatter them? We know that after Stephen was stoned and executed, we're told in verses 1, 2, and 3, which we didn't print here, that a tremendous persecution arose. And Christians were being dragged from their homes by Saul, by the way, and others, Saul who became Saint Paul. And they were dragged from their homes, and so the Christians were scattered. They were refugees. political refugees. They were exiles. And because they were scattered, now Philip was free to go to a place that was extremely strategic. If he hadn't been scattered, he never would have gone. But Luke, very carefully, I think, in verse 4, where he says, those who had been scattered preached the word, and Philip went down to a city, uses the word diaspora. That's the word. He says the Christians were dispersed And here's what I think Luke is saying Luke is saying that God sometimes has to physically scatter us In order to show us that we are spiritually scattered already To be scattered is a spiritual condition of every Christian and all Christians These Christians had to be physically scattered in order to be shown, to be awakened to the fact that God had spiritually scattered them already. What do I mean? Beginning of James, chapter 1, verse 1. Beginning of Peter, 1 Peter, chapter 1, verse 1. It calls Christians exiles. Colossians chapter 1 says you have been transferred out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his dear son. Philippians, it says we are now citizens of heaven, what's it mean? The minute you become a Christian, you're not from where you're from anymore. The minute you become a Christian, you say, well, I'm from Ohio. The minute you become a Christian, you're not from Ohio anymore. You're not a citizen of Ohio anymore. You say, I'm from Alabama. The minute you become a Christian, you're not a citizen of Alabama anymore. There's been a transfer. Something's happened. Now, this is not just an abstraction. action. If you really have understood the gospel, if it's really changed your life, this is what you're going to see. Your wealth in Christ, your adoption in Christ, your standing in Christ becomes more important than your membership in any other family, any other cultural or political system. And what happens to Christians is they find that a taproot, their taproot to their old class, their taproot to their old ethnic group, their taproot to their old place is cut, and the new taproot goes to what? You're a citizen of heaven. Now, this is not to say that your cultural distinctions sort of fall off and all Christians suddenly become kind of occultural. Not at all. Who you have been, where you were born, your race, your ethnicity, your class has a lot to do with who you are and what God wants to do with you. But now who you are in Christ becomes infinitely more important. What does that mean? You're scattered. You don't have to live in Ohio anymore to be happy. In fact, what is it? Why does the Bible keep saying you're exiles? You've been scattered theologically. You've been scattered spiritually. But very often, God has to scatter you physically to show you that. How many of you who are Christians,

now came because you said, I want to be in the center of God's program of healing for the world. I want to go to the place which is most strategic. I want to go to the place where if the gospel is planted there, it will have the most influence. I want to go where there's the most spiritual need. I want to be part of God's program for healing the world by bringing joy to the city. How many of you did? No, you were scattered here like Philip. Something happened, and here you are. But now that you're here, see what Philip saw. You're not just physically scattered. You're spiritually scattered. To be spiritually scattered means you're a world citizen. You can live anywhere. You've got more in common with a Christian of another race or another class than you do with non-Christians of your own race and class. That's what it means. It means you're free. Nothing controls you. No place controls you. You can't say, I can't only be happy if I'm back there. if you've thought out who you are. Oh, listen, friends, if Christianity is sort of a moral, you know, a vitamin supplement to make you a better person, if that's how you see Christianity, a lot of rules, you know, of course you're not going to understand this. But if you understand, if you've gone through the transformation of identity that the gospel brings, then, ah, it's very different. Philip was scattered. And that was the only way he found out he was scattered. Have you discovered that? Do you see that? You see, in other words, it dawns on Christians very slowly. Even these Christians, these are the, you know, maybe the best Christians we've ever had. Look at the early church, the power of the early church. From Acts 1 to Acts 8, it took to figure out that they were scattered. God had actually come right down on their heads. So, it shouldn't be so surprising that he's got to do the same thing to us. And he is doing the same thing to us. Do you understand that? Do you see that? So, there's the fact of the strategy, and there's the discovery of the strategy. Are you discovering the strategy? I am not, look, I am not saying, and I may not say, and we have our question and answer time afterwards, a lot of people are going to ask me this, are you saying the Bible says that every Christian has to live in a city? And of course the answer is no. But here's what I'm saying. If the gospel has snapped inside you, snapped, before the gospel snaps, you have a prejudice against living in radical places and in radical ways. You're going to say, well, I want a place that's affordable, a place that's comfortable, a place that's without a lot of turmoil. You know, that's natural. But if the gospel is snapped, I'm not saying you've got to live in a city, but you'll have a prejudice toward living in radical places, toward living in radical ways. Why? Because a Christian says, I'm already scattered. And therefore, I shouldn't live in a place that makes me most comfortable, most good? Where can I do the most good? I'm free to ask that question. Are you free to ask that question? Have you been scattered? That's why Philip was so effective. Thirdly, now, we see the fact of the strategy, and we see the discovery of the strategy. Sometimes God has to beat it over your head, but there's a power at the heart of this strategy. Let me show you what the dynamic of the strategy is. There's the fact, here's the discovery, but there was something in the message and in the heart of Philip that drove him into that city once he woke up and made him effective there. You need the dynamic to drive you in and keep you in the city, and you need this dynamic also to make you effective in the city. Well, what is it? Well, look, it says he went down to a city, city, Samaria, and proclaim Christ Jesus there. And when the crowds heard Philip and saw the miraculous signs, they paid attention with shrieks. Evil spirits came out of the paralytics and the cripples, and there was great joy in that city. Why in the world would Philip, a Jewish man, go to, of all cities, Samaria? Now, I got to give you a little background. When the Assyrians took away the northern tribes of Israel a number of years before, they had a and they colonized and they took away the upper classes of the northern tribes of Israel. They brought in foreigners and they planted them there, which intermarried with the lower class Jews in those regions. And the result were the Samaritans, a Creole people. Now, what do I mean by Creole? They were half. They were half Jewish and half Arab. You think about that for a minute. They were utterly despised by everybody. everybody. They were completely marginalized. The Jews absolutely hated them, and they hated the Jews. Half-breeds, see? No ancestry. And when the Jews rebuilt the temple in Jerusalem, the Samaritans, to totally spite the Jews, built their own temple to worship God in Gerizim. And as a result, the Jews said the Samaritans are an utter abomination. That's blasphemy. And the Samaritans were not into the temple because they were unclear. Now, you'll see, the Jews had what was called ritual clean laws. And ritual clean laws said, this kind of person is fit for the presence of God. You can come into the temple, but this kind is not. And the Samaritans were utterly unclear. And here is Philip going to the most unclear city that the Jews could imagine. And he's dealing with the paralytics and the cripples who were the unclear of the unclear because they were not whole, and they weren't allowed into the presence of God. What was it that moved Philip to do that? And what was it that made him so effective? I think the only way you can tell what it was is you have to read a little further in chapter 8. You have to put the four verses here in context. Just south of the city, one day the Spirit of God told Philip to go just a little bit outside of the city of Samaria, and there, on the road, he met a man traveling. He was an African. He was an Ethiopian, and he was a high finance official in the Ethiopian government. He was the treasurer of the royal treasury of Ethiopia, and he was a eunuch. Now, why was he a eunuch? In those days, in the very pagan societies, very often, high ministers of finance and high officials were castrated. They were castrated very often and groomed for high office because the kings thought they could trust them better working with all the wives and the concubines. And in Herodotus, there's a place where it says, eunuchs are just known to be trustworthy in every way. But you know what it means. If somebody chose for you the aloneness of your life, and then you were always mocked, and you were an alienated person. We're told in chapter 8 that this Ethiopian went to Jerusalem to worship. Now, that's one of the most curious things in the Bible. An Ethiopian, an African from very far distant, came under conviction that he wanted to know and seek the biblical God. He probably read the Hebrew scriptures. And as a result, he went up to the temple, and now he was on his way home. And every commentator I read said, almost for sure, he must have come home, been going home in utter disappointment, because eunuchs were not allowed into the temple. Deuteronomy chapter 23, verse 1 says a eunuch can't come in. They're unclean. They're unwhole. He would have traveled hundreds of miles to get to the temple and be told this. This would have been the attitude. They would have said, a eunuch? You're not even a whole man. You can't even have descendants. Your name's going to be cut off from the earth. You're just a dry tree. A person like you and an African, a black man. Forget it. And we know that on the way home, he was diligently, in an inagitated way, reading the Isaiah scroll. Why? When Philip finds him, he's reading the Isaiah scroll. He's reading in the 50s, the chapters of Isaiah 50s. And surely the reason, again, Again, all the commentators say he must have been amazed by a verse that's in Isaiah 56. It's just a remarkable verse, and it says this. Let no foreigner say, the Lord will exclude me. And let no eunuch complain, I am only a dry tree. For thus says the Lord, to the eunuchs that keep my covenant, to them I will give within my temple and its walls a memorial, and a name better than sons and daughters. For I will give them an everlasting name, and they will not be cut off. Can you imagine? That verse must have gone through the Ethiopian like a shaft. What's this, he says? Doesn't Deuteronomy 23 say no eunuch can come in, no foreigner can come into the temple? And of course, it would have gone through him like a shaft because he felt unclean. He felt like a eunuch. He felt like a cripple. He felt like a freak. He wasn't going to have children. He was utterly alone. In that world, the idea of not having children was really considered a kind of death, an utter death, a complete death, a kind of eternal death. And yet he reads, let no eunuch complain I'm only a dry tree, for thus saith the Lord to the eunuchs who keep my covenant, I will give you a place in my temple and a name that is better than sons and daughters. And so the eunuch is searching through the Isaiah scroll, trying to find what momentous event could possibly happen to supersede Deuteronomy 23? What in the world could possibly happen to change the old ritual clean laws? What could make a eunuch clean? What could make a foreigner clean? What could bring a Jewish man to put his arm around a sexually altered black finance minister? What could possibly do that? And when Philip gets to the chariot, the eunuch is reading Isaiah 53. He's looking for something that could explain why this change. How could this be possible? And when he gets to the eunuch in the chariot, we're told in Acts 8, he's reading this. He was led like a sheep to the slaughter, and as a lamb before the shearer he was silent. In his humiliation he was deprived of justice, and who can speak of his descendants? For his life was cut off from the earth. And the eunuch is going crazy. it, somebody without descendants. Somebody has been humiliated for me. Somebody has become a eunuch for me. Who is it? And when Philip gets there, he turns and he says, who is the author speaking of? Is it himself or is it somebody else? And only if you understand all that, only if you think about all that, and I've only been thinking about this for the last couple of weeks. Are you moved when you see in Acts chapter 8 verse 35, it says, and Philip, beginning with that passage and going through the scriptures, preached to him about Jesus. And you know what we see within a few verses? The eunuch's heart leaps and he sees some water and he says, baptize me. And they baptized him and it says, and he went home rejoicing. Joy. Now this is what happens. What could bring a Jewish man to put his arm around a sexually altered African finance minister? What could bring a Jewish man to come and put his hands on crippled Samaritans? The gospel that makes the unclean clean. Jesus Christ on the cross says, I've become a leper for the lepers. I've become a eunuch for the eunuchs. I've become a thief for the thieves. I've become a coward for the cowards. I've become a bad husband for the bad husband, a bad wife for the bad wives. when Buddha was dying, they say, he said, strive without ceasing. When Jesus was dying, he said, it is finished. And when Buddha was dying, he says, pay what you owe. When Jesus was dying, he says, I paid what you owe. Utterly different. Do you see how radical that message is for the city? First of all, that is the message that brings down the superior. Are you a Christian? Why don't you like the city? If you don't like the city, isn't it because there's creepy people there? People that you feel kind of unclean about? The gospel says you're unclean. The gospel says in Isaiah 53, all of our righteousness is as a filthy rag, which means ritually unclean. When the sun comes out, here's all the stars, and one looks brighter than the other. When the sun comes out, you can't see any of them because compared to the sun, all the stars are the same. And compared to the purity and cleanliness of God,

You don't look any different to God than the person staggering around out there in the street, the loser, the unclean. We're all lepers. We're all eunuchs. And the gospel comes and says to Christians, how dare you feel superior to anybody? You know, there's a place in Hebrews 2, verse 11, where it says, and the ones that he has made holy, clean, are his family, for he is not ashamed to call us brothers. Not ashamed to call us brothers. How in the world can we be ashamed to call anybody else that? Don't you see? It brings down the Christian superiority complex, but also it brings up the inferiority complex. There's lots of people in the city who feel unclean. Cities by their nature attract and rescue people that the dominant culture consider unclean, despised. Don't you ever, have you not noticed it? Here's where the minorities are. Here's where the poor are. Here's where the people are whose behavior is not considered right. I can't tell you how many people since they came to New York have said, you know, I'm middle-aged and I've never been married, and when I get out of New York, I feel like a freak. But at least in New York, I don't feel like a freak. Why? Because New York is a place for people who come, who at least the world is saying, and maybe you're saying, unclean. But don't you see what Jesus says to those of you who feel unclean, to those of you who maybe are middle-aged and never been married, I will give you a name, an everlasting name, which is better than sons and daughters. My arms, my family, I don't care what you've done, whether you feel unclean and you're not, or you don't feel unclean and you are, I've become the leper, I've become the eunuch. The gospel is for cities because it makes people who feel superior to see that they're unclean. And it makes people who feel that they're inferior to see that through Christ you can be clean as the driven snow. Which are you? Don't you see the gospel speaks to you? It keeps Christians in the city and it bursts like a bombshell on people who say, I am only a dry tree. And then, lastly, finally, result is there's great joy in that city. It doesn't just say there were a few happy people. It says the city was swept with joy. And here's the final test, friends. Do you and I, as Christians, have we been so changed by the idea of grace and the gospel that says we're all unclean, but we can all be clean? Have we gotten over our superiority complex toward the unwashed of the city so that we want the city's joy? Most Christians just want to survive in the city, and the better Christians want to win some people in the city, but a Christian who's been changed by the gospel wants the city's joy as a whole. The thing you want is not just a survivor and just have a bigger church. What, you say, can we do to have the whole city filled with joy? How can we serve the city? How can we heal people? Have you overcome your superiority to the point that you are committed and you're aching to see New York a happy place? Do you respect the city enough? Do you care about the city enough to want its joy as a whole

and to be willing to lay yourself out in sacrifice till it happens? If you do, if you understand the gospel, if you're willing to see that we're all scattered, there will be great joy in this city. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you that you have shown us the greatness of your gospel. We thank you that your gospel can go everywhere in the world. It can go everywhere in this city. And we ask that you would help us to bring the city to you as an offering of thanks for what you've done for us. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
