historical evidence, the accounts, the witnesses to this Easter event. And the Easter event is Jesus Christ, we believe, is risen from the dead. And the five places where you have the most

substantial historical witness to that is in the book of Matthew, of Mark, of Luke, of John, and in Paul's writing of one of his letters called 1 Corinthians in the 15th chapter. Now, what I want to do is just take one of them, the one we've read, Matthew, and I want to ask three questions of the passage because in the 25 years or so that I've been a minister, a Christian,

I've noticed that thinking people, when they're confronted with the question or the issue, the claim I should say, that Jesus Christ is raised from the dead, when thinking people are confronted with that claim, they have a, there's three questions that come up. And they tend to come up in a certain order. Okay. And not that I'm saying that I'm going to give all the answers necessary to all three of those questions, but I'm going to take those three questions and ask Matthew, one of the witnesses, ask Matthew these three questions. And the questions are about the resurrection of Christ. Is it true? Pardon me, did I say is it true? Yes, I did. Is it possible? Then is it true? And then does it matter? Excuse me. The jury will disregard that first statement. Is it possible? Is it true? And then does it matter? And they come up in that order. Let's ask Matthew, is it possible, the resurrection? Is it true? Does it matter? What does it matter? What difference does it make? That's the third question. Now, first, is it possible? And when you ask the question, the reason I put it first is because psychologically, instinctively, when somebody hears about the idea of someone rising from the dead, Jesus risen from the dead, the instinctive response is, how is that possible? How could that be? Come on. Surely that sort of thing is a legend. That's the first question. And the reason I'd like to spend a moment, not long, but definitely I have to spend a moment on it is because this question very, very often is not a real question. You notice how I put it? Because that's very typical. I've heard it an awful lot of times. I'm really being very realistic. The question very often is more of a rhetorical question, and rhetorical questions are not requests for information. Rhetorical questions are statements. In other words, there's a tendency to say, how is that possible? How could that be? Surely that's a legend. Many people never get to the second and the third question. Many people never really look at the evidence, never really ask, is it true? Never really look at the possible significance because they can't get by the first question. The first question is, is it possible? Modern people today say, how could that be? And they right away get rid of it. It's an excuse in many cases for not really giving a serious consideration to the evidence. Now, what does Matthew have to say? What's the proper response to this question? How could this be possible? Well, I think Matthew's response actually is in verse two, where you see the word heaven. Matthew gives a very, very super, a frankly supernatural account of the event. Earthquake, angel of the Lord from heaven, a raiment of white and lightning. What is Matthew saying? Simply this. If there's a God and he created life, it couldn't be harder for God who created life to resurrect life. Put it another way. Why would the resurrection be impossible if there's life at all? And let me press you this way. Do you believe in God? Many of you do. Maybe most of you do. Most of you say, I believe in a God who created life. Well, what Matthew is hinting at and what I'm going to press you on is, if there's a God who created life, why would the resurrection be impossible? Why would it be any less possible for God to resurrect life than to create life? See, if there is a God at all, the resurrection can't be impossible. You can't rule it out. It's very possible, extremely possible. Because if there is a God at all who created life, it's possible. Well, however, somebody's going to say, yes, but I don't even know if I believe in God. I don't even know if I believe in God. That's the reason why I think the resurrection is impossible. No, that's not fair either. Listen, if you don't believe in God, or you don't know if there's a God, let me ask you, how did life come about? If there is no God, or you don't know there's a God, where did life come from? And you know what you'll say? You have to say, it just happened. See? You're stuck. Because if life just happened, the resurrection could just happen. You see, if there is no God, listen, if there's a God, some things are possible and some things are not, right? If there's a God, there are rules. There's moral rules. There's physical rules. If there's a God, some things are impossible and some things are not. But if there's no God, anything's possible. Anything can happen. There are no rules. There's no moral rules, no physical rules. There's no laws of nature. How could there be laws of nature? Who would have passed them? You see? Who would execute them? If there is no God, and I'm just being extremely rational here, just rational. If there is no God, anything is possible. If there is no God, anything can happen. Anything has happened. All I'm trying to say is, it is impossible to say that the resurrection is impossible. It is absolutely rationally impossible to say that. You must never, and I appeal to you because I know there's got to be lots of you present. Many of you have never really taken a good look. You've never really studied the evidence. You haven't wanted to study evidence because either your training or your education or your background. Your family or something has said to you, this is impossible at the word go. We rule it out of bounds. We don't even read it. We don't even think about it. It couldn't be. How could you say that? Think about it, will you? That's unfair. It's impossible to say it's impossible. Okay, there's the second question. Now, the second question, is it true? Now, let's ask Matthew, how do we know this is true now that we know it's possible? How do you know it's true? Matthew gives us three pieces of evidence, and this isn't all the evidence. I'm certainly not going to try to tell you I'm giving you an exhaustive case, an argument for the resurrection of Jesus, but Matthew gives us three very important pieces of evidence that we have to look at. And before I show you the three, which I'm going to rattle off quickly, you must certainly be aware of this. If you're not, I'll, let me help you on it. This time of year, there's always a lot of articles in the paper and magazines about the issue of the history of Jesus' birth and death and resurrection. And I'm going to And you'll know, of course, that many, many scholars say, and many people say, that these accounts in the New Testament are really spun out by the early church. They were developed. They're not eyewitness accounts. They're developed by the Christian church in the early days to try to bolster its claim that Jesus rose from the dead. Now, traditionally, Christians understand that the New Testament accounts here were written down because they happened, because eyewitnesses saw them. But many people today will say, no, no, they weren't eyewitness accounts. They were fabrications. They were developed in order to bolster their claim. Now, let's ask Matthew. What evidence does Matthew give us that these are eyewitness accounts, that these things really happen? Well, there's three pieces of evidence. The first is his very mentioning of the theory that the guards fell asleep and the body was stolen. You notice that? At the very bottom there is verse 14.

Matthew says, This story's been circulated until this day. Well, you say, what's that prove? Matthew says that there was a story. That doesn't prove anything. And I say, oh, absolutely, really, it does demonstrate. It's very strong evidence that the tomb was empty on Easter Sunday. Well, what's the evidence? It's just this. If you're going to develop a story, if you're going to fabricate a story to try to show the world that Jesus rose from the dead, you don't make up an extremely plausible theory counter to yours. Why in the world, if I was a propaganda artist and I was trying to, you know, say, well, what do I do? What kind of story can I tell that will bolster this claim? One thing I would never do is I would not concoct an extremely plausible counter-argument. This is extremely plausible. In fact, doesn't it make perfect sense that somebody stole the body and that the guards fell asleep or somebody snuck around? It's very, very plausible. Matthew would never have made this plausible theory up unless this is exactly what was being circulated. And we know from other, we know that this was being circulated. There was definitely a theory by those who didn't believe Christianity. The theory that was circulated, they say, well, we can explain why the tomb is empty because they came and stole the body. What is Matthew even recording this proof of? Matthew's account proves that there was an empty tomb. If there wasn't an empty tomb, there wouldn't have needed to be this counter-theory. In fact, let me just put it this way. The tomb was empty on Easter Sunday. And somebody says, how do you know that? I'll tell you how I know that because the church was preaching the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the very beginning. And the church in Jerusalem could never have survived. It could never have grown if the tomb wasn't empty. It is ridiculous to say, how do we even know the tomb was empty? It had to be empty. Think about it. Matthew's very account shows that there was counter-arguments to explain the empty tomb. So Matthew's account is strong evidence that the tomb was empty on Easter. Well, somebody says so. Okay, that's interesting. But there's lots of possible reasons for the empty tomb. The second thing that Matthew gives us as evidence, Matthew gives us strong evidence that some people really saw Jesus risen from the dead. Well, somebody says, how do you know that? Here's the very strong evidence. Before Jesus Christ appeared to his brothers, Matthew says, he appeared to his sisters. The first people who saw Jesus Christ risen from the dead, according to Matthew, were Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph, two Christian women who were believers. But you notice what it says? The women came, and see in verse 9, suddenly Jesus met them. Who were the first people to meet Jesus? Women. Sisters, not brothers. See, he says, go into my brothers. So he appears to his sisters before he appears to his brothers. Somebody says, what's that mean? It means a great deal. In those days, both in Greek culture, in Jewish culture, and in Roman culture, women could not inherit property, really. We know in those days, women were not able to give evidence in court. Their testimony was not admissible. Now, in a moment, we're going to get back. What in the world does it mean that Jesus Christ, intentionally and deliberately, flouted that very approach and appears to women and gives women the initial testimony of the resurrection? We'll talk about that in a second, but here's what I want to ask. Why would Matthew put this down? Matthew would never, if he was fabricating, if the Christian church was trying to come up with a story that would bolster the claims of Jesus Christ being raised from the dead, they would never, in the millions, they would never, in years, have made the first witnesses women. This would have been an enormous problem for the church because, you know, what the culture of that time would have said is, oh, women saw him. Women, well. And therefore, Matthew never, ever, ever could have possibly had any reason to write down, in fact, not just Matthew, but Mark and Luke and John. There's no way that the early church would have said that women were the first witnesses unless women were the first witnesses. There's no other possible explanation. As St. Paul said, only 30 years after Jesus had died, and as Matthew says here, only 40 years or 45 years later, these people, Matthew and Paul and Mark and Luke and John, say, we have people now that you can go talk to. They're still alive and they saw him. Paul says there were hundreds, hundreds. Now, Paul couldn't have written that. Matthew wouldn't have written this unless it was true. Now, you say that doesn't prove anything. Well, all I'm trying to say right now is what Matthew tells us. Matthew gives us this evidence, and you must take this seriously. There were hundreds of people, sentient people, adult people, walking around Palestine, hundreds that said, I've seen him with my own eyes. He ate fish with me. He spoke with me. I've seen him with my own eyes. I saw him. I heard him. He's alive. How do you explain that? Now, there's one more piece, a very strong evidence that Matthew gives us that this is true, and that is the very end of the passage where he meets, where it says that Jesus met with his disciples, and he says, go into all the world and make disciples of all nations. And the last of the three pieces of evidence, there's very strong evidence, is what happened after the, when Matthew wrote down here that Jesus said, go into all the world and make disciples, historical fact is that's exactly what they did. Now, if you were back here in the book of, in the fall, if any of you were here in the fall, we actually had a series on the book of Acts. And the one thing we learned there, that I can summarize and bring it to bear here because it's so relevant. Historians have always, wondered how in the world Christianity pulled off what it did. You must remember that Christianity started with a little teeny group of marginal people, no educational capital, no social capital, no financial capital, nothing. Outcasts, marginal people. In 200 years, they swept the Roman Empire, became the dominant force in it. And as one historian put it now, because it happened, we have a tendency to say, well, sure it happened. We don't even think about it. But historians have to ask this question. One historian at Yale said it this way, never in so short a time has any other religious faith or that matter, any other set of ideas, religious, political, or otherwise, without the aid of physical force, achieved so commanding a position in such a short time, as I read, in such an important society. You hear that? He says, this is unprecedented. It's never happened before. Never will happen again. It hasn't happened since, he means. In other words, without physical force, without military or anything, the sheer force of moral persuasion, of the thousands, really, of competing religions in the Roman world, why did this one sweep, in a couple hundred years, to this place of dominance? Nothing's ever moved that fast. Now, when the historians ask that question, they tend to come up with these three things. And back in the fall, we looked at what the historians were saying. The historians said, well, we have to understand, that he must have succeeded over other religions the way it did, for some reason. And here's three things that we know pretty much was for sure. Number one, Christians died very well. When Christians were sent into the arena, when they were sent to the lions, when they were sent to the stake, they died well. They died singing. Their lives had been changed. There was a radiance to them. Tertullian said it, The blood of the martyrs is seed. The more the pagans killed the Christians, the more the pagans wondered what the heck they had. The blood of the martyrs was seed. Isn't that a vivid idea, a vivid metaphor? Cut my head off, my blood will splatter, and hundreds of Christians will grow from the blood. Hundreds, that's the idea. Kill me, and you'll spread me. Because everybody will say, Why were they so happy? They were so happy when they died. How did they have this particular radiance and peace and fire about them? Nobody else died like the Christians. Secondly, the historian said that Christians were unbelievably compassionate. One of my favorite quotes is Julian, one of the early Roman emperors, was a pagan and really didn't like Christianity and wished it wouldn't grow. But at one point he wrote one of his friends a very desperate letter saying, Christianity is growing fast because, they take care of their own poor. And every other religion takes care of their own first. These Christians take care of everybody. I found that in the winter time I was reading a fascinating account, that in the late first century, early second century, the early Christians in the church of Alexandria, which was in Egypt, you know one of the things they did? Back in those days, human life was very cheap, and when you had a baby, if you didn't want to keep the baby, you could just throw the baby out. A newborn baby, and particularly girls were thrown out. Because a lot of families didn't want another girl. And so very often they would throw them into rivers, but very often they just abandoned them out on the streets. The church, the Alexandrian church, the deaconesses, okay, deaconesses, you might want to think about this. Our deaconesses might want to get together and say, hey, it's a great idea, but better talk to me first. They would go through the streets of Alexandria, and they would find abandoned children, and they would pick them up, and they'd bring them back to church. And then the families of the church would just adopt them. See, there wasn't anything like this. Nobody did this. This is incredible. But not only that, the historians said, well, not only was there this, that they died better, and they were so compassionate, but also Christianity was the most inclusive religion the world had ever seen at that point. Because every other religion tended to favor a particular ethnic group, or tended to favor a particular class. Some of the religions were for the very educated. Some were for the very, very uneducated. Some were for certain ethnic groups and so on. Christianity was the only one, the first one, that ever came along and united and embraced every class, every race, every gender, as you can see. And so the historians have a tendency to say, well, that's the reason Christianity succeeded. They died better. They were more radiant and peaceful. They were more compassionate. They were more inclusive. Ah, but if you really ask this question, if you really think, if you see what Matthew's saying, he puts the Great Commission right next to the resurrection. Here's why. It's not really an explanation, is it? Why were the Christians able to die like that? You know, the historian says, well, they spread because they died so well. But that doesn't explain why they died so well. Why were they this compassionate? Why were they this inclusive? Why? And one, that same Yale historian puts it this way, the more one examines the factors which seem to account for the extraordinary victory of Christianity, the more one is driven to search for a cause underlying them all. It is clear that at the very beginning of Christianity, there must have occurred a vast release of energy virtually unparalleled in history, without which the future course of the religion is inexplicable. Do you see? You see the poor historian? He's getting, you know, he doesn't want to be laughed out of Historians' Country Club or whatever, and he's trying to get very close to the edge. He says, all he's able to say is there must have occurred, a vast release of energy virtually unparalleled because the spread, the phenomenon of the early Christian church is unparalleled in history. He said, what must, you know, he doesn't want to get too close because he doesn't want to be laughed at. And yet he says, I'm trying to be a historian here. I'm trying to be a reasonable person. What could account for this? And Matthew says, this is powerful evidence that vast release of energy was an experience of the risen Lord. You got a better explanation? You think all the, you think these illiterate fishermen all of a sudden said, I got an idea, let's change the world. That'll make us feel better. Matthew says, Matthew shows us that the tomb was empty. Matthew shows us that hundreds of people really saw Jesus Christ. You could go up and talk to them. Why else would the, how could you spread a gospel like this? When all, unless you've got the power, you had people that really had seen him. And the powerful change lies in the mission of the church is tremendous evidence that the resurrection happened. But somebody says, so? Is it possible? Well, yeah, it has to be possible. Is it true? Well, there's a lot of evidence for it. But if it's true, what does it matter? What difference does it make? Let's ask Matthew. What difference does it make? If the resurrection happened, what do we have to do? Now, here's what he's going to tell you. The first thing, and this is something that I've been thinking about for almost a year now, and I can't wait to share it with you. In verse 17, it tells us that Jesus, the resurrected Christ, got all of his disciples together. And what does it say? It says, when they saw him, they worshipped him, but some doubted. This is the first thing that Matthew is telling us has to happen if Jesus was raised from the dead. Do you see what's going on there? Jesus Christ brings people together. Now, we know something from the other accounts of what he was doing there. Like, remember Thomas says, oh, I have trouble believing. Jesus says, come on up here. Here's where the spear went in. Put your hand in my side. Here's where the nail prints went through. He ate a fish with them. He passed through doors. He let them touch him. He spoke to them. Now, almost, I know this, I know this, because you're human beings, and I'm a human being, and here's what we all think. There's a conceit. And we're all conceited in this sense. We're all sure that if we actually had a miracle happen right in front of us, our doubts would go. Whether you're a believer or a skeptic. See, skeptics are always saying, well, you know what? I mean, if an angel came, if Jesus showed up, you know, then I wouldn't have a problem. And us believers, us believers also, we say, oh, I wish I had more faith, but if only God would do a miracle. Now, of course, sometimes this is funny. You know, I've got this great place where Woody and I go. And I think Alan says, if only God would give me a sign. Like, like a huge deposit in my name in a Swiss bank account. And, you know, every, you know, we say, if only there was a sign. We make fun about that, because we think, oh, there won't be a sign. Well, listen. Verse seventeen proves to me, virtually, that this is an eyewitness account. And I'll tell you why. Everybody in this room, everybody in the world, believes that if Jesus Christ showed up and let them touch him, that there would be no doubts. The only people that would ever say that you can see the risen Lord face to face and still have doubts would be people who had seen the risen Lord because nobody else would ever know that. Who would know that to see the risen Lord was possible and still have doubts unless you'd seen the risen Lord? It's absolutely counterintuitive. Nobody else would think that. Nobody else making up a story would ever write that down. Surely the apostles would not make themselves look so idiotic. The reason it says that Jesus showed up and people continued to doubt was because Jesus showed up and people continued to doubt. There's no other reason why that line would be there. The first thing Matthew is telling us is all the evidence in the world cannot bring certainty. When people tell me I'm getting married and I'm just absolutely sure this is the man for me or this is the woman for me, I'm absolutely sure I have no doubts at all. I say, you're not thinking. Listen, I'm trying to decide whether to marry this person. I'm trying to decide whether to hire this person. I'm trying to decide whether Jesus Christ is risen from the dead. All the evidence in the world, thinking alone can get you to the place where you say it's probably true. But thinking always has doubts involved. Always. There's always another side. Always. A lot of people, I'm sure, I'm sure there's people out here who have said, you know, I'd believe in Christianity if I could just be sure. You need to think. Christianity is not less than reason. You know, I don't want anybody to think I'm saying here it doesn't matter what the evidence is, that faith is against reason. Faith is just closing your eyes and leaping. That's not the way Matthew's dealing with it. Matthew's giving you a lot of evidence. That's not the way Jesus is dealing with it. When Thomas says, I'm having trouble believing, what does Jesus say? Well, you shouldn't need evidence. Just believe. He says, no, here, come on. Touch me. Faith is not less than reason, but it's more. Because reason brings you to the place of probability, but only commitment brings you to the place of certainty. You will never be sure until you commit with your whole life. Christianity requires a commitment of the whole person, not just the mind. It certainly requires that, but of the whole life. You're never going to know he or she is the right one to marry until you bite. Until you make yourself vulnerable. Until you lay yourself out. You're never going to know this is the person to hire until you hire. You're never going to know this is the person to marry until you marry. You're never going to know absolutely that this is the risen Lord before you commit to him. You're never going to be able to know that. That's just the way it works. So the first thing we learn here is the resurrection, the fact, the simple fact, even the conviction of the resurrection isn't enough. There has to be commitment. And if there's commitment, then what? Here's the other things that Matthew's teaching us. If Jesus is risen from the dead, three things. First of all, it means anybody can come. Secondly, it means we can have intimacy with him. And thirdly, it means there are no dead ends left in life. Look, first of all, anybody can come. Why does Jesus show up to the women? I already said to you that Matthew must have written it down only because he was forced to. I mean, I want to be frank about where people were in their attitudes toward women. The only possible reason that Matthew would have written down that Jesus appeared first to two women is because he did. Now, why did he do it? Why did he come to sisters before he came to brothers? In fact, let's look even a little closer. What kind of women were they? Mary Magdalene, a woman with a scandal, a woman with a past, a woman with a shameful past. Do you know what Jesus is doing? He is, with his resurrection, he is blowing out of the water the two main divisions that the world and religion thinks are really there. The world says the big division between people, you can see it every week in Time Magazine, in the very beginning, they always talk about winners and losers. You ever see that? The world says there's the in and the out. The winner is the losers. The talented people and, you know, the failures. You see? The world says that's the big division. And, of course, back then, the women were the losers. Well, religion says, no. The big division, there's the good people and the bad people. There's the moral people and the immoral people. There's the decent people and then there's the nasty and ratty people. Jesus shows up to the outsiders, not the insiders. He shows up to the bad people, not the good people. When he shows up to Mary Magdalene and Mary, the mother of James and Joseph,

he comes, in a sense, and says, this is what he's saying, I mean, he shows up to the out. He shows up to the women before the men. He shows up to the poor before the rich. Right now, you know, Christianity is doing very well in Latin America and Africa and Asia, not terribly well in Europe and even America, which is, this is the gospel multiculturalism. It gives you a new meaning to the word dead white males. Jesus Christ goes away from the power, away from the influence, away from the people who think they're in charge, away from the people who think they're good. Why? He blows apart the old divisions between somebodies and nobodies. He says, if I was like the other founders of other religions, if I came to give you my teaching, then those of you who are able to follow it would be accepted and those of you who are unable to follow it would not be, but I have not come to give you my teaching so much as I've come to give you me. It's my death and my resurrection that saves you. I'm the risen Lord. And that means, if it's my death and resurrection that saves you, not your efforts, anybody can come. I gotta go on to these other two points. You know, I said, first of all, the resurrection shows us that anybody can come. By the way, this doesn't mean that rich people can't come and men can't. All it means is, God, is Jesus saying anybody can. You know, and one of the things that's so wonderful is the, the place where he says to Mary, Mary and Mary, he says, go tell my brothers. Now, do you realize who he's talking about? These are the ones who deserted him. The last time he saw them, they were running away. Why doesn't he say, tell those deserters if they show up, if they show up and they humble themselves, I might accept them. No, this is, you remember the, remember the parable of the prodigal son? The prodigal son's trying to come back. He wants to confess his sin. The father kisses him before he even repents. What's that mean? The love of the father is prior to repentance. The love of the father enables repentance. The love of the father facilitates repentance. The love of the father causes repentance. Jesus' grace is such because we're not saved because of our good works. We're saved because of what he has done and what he is. Jesus Christ is calling him brothers before they are really again, before they, before they've even repented. And Christian friends, let's be really frank about this. If this is true, if Jesus Christ does this, if this is what the resurrection means, who do you associate with? Here at Redeemer, do you talk to the pretty ones? Do you talk to the classy ones? Do you make, do you make distinctions just in just who you spend time with by what they look like? Do you make distinctions on the basis of money or race or status or just plain coolness and slickness? Did Easter happen or not? Is the Lord risen indeed? Is the Lord risen in your deeds? Anybody can come because he's raised. Secondly, intimacy. Because Jesus didn't leave us teaching, he left us himself. See how the women get down. What do they do? They hold on to him. They worship him. What a contrast. In Exodus chapter 24,

the elders of Israel are allowed to see the feet of God and it says, they saw the feet of God under a pavement looking like sapphire and God did not raise his hand against the elders. It's one of the most interesting verses in the Bible and here's why. It clearly was considered a miracle that they could see his feet and not be killed. It says, they saw his feet and he did not raise their hand. See, in the Old Testament, Moses says, can I see your face? God says, no, it would kill you. You're holy, I'm holy and you're sinful. You're a sinful person. I'm a holy person. You can't come right in. You can't come in. That's what the veil means. That's what the blood means. That's what it all means. You can't come in. There's a problem between us. But you see, because Jesus Christ was shaken on Good Friday, the earthquake, God sent down his justice onto his head. Because God sent down the justice and shook Jesus Christ, there was an earthquake on Easter too because death was shaken. Death was destroyed. It's because of what Jesus Christ did that now these women can grab his feet. They can touch his feet. They can know. You can know him. The job of the resurrected Christ is to bring intimacy to him. Do you just know him as a kind of historical figure? Or when you pray, do you sense his love? Do you sense him coming to you? Christian friends, if you don't have that sense of his presence, did Easter happen? That's what it's for. To be a Christian is not just to follow his rules. Every other founder of every other religion just left rules. Jesus Christ comes to you personally. Is your relationship personal? Last thing. The resurrection means, well, we already said, the resurrection means anybody can come. The resurrection means intimacy with God. Not just morality. Intimacy with God. But lastly, the resurrection means that there are no dead ends. At the very end, Jesus Christ says, because I'm risen, all authority is given to me. Go into all the world. I am with you to the end. Some translate to the end of the world. Some translate to the end of the age. You know what he's really saying? I'm with you to the end of your rope. I'm with you no matter where you go. And you have to realize what he was doing. This is sort of an upbeat thing. You say, oh, look at that. Lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the age. Upbeat. He's sending every one of those men, except John, to their death. Do you know that? And here's what he's doing. He is saying, because I'm risen, look at me. When it looked like I was defeated, I was really triumphing. When it looked like the cross looks like a dead end, but it's the way to resurrection. It looked like I had lost everything, didn't it? My friend, says Jesus, but I'm better than ever. Now, by the wisdom and the grace and the power of God. Now, if you fix your heart on me, no matter where you go, the same thing will happen. You may get into a situation which everything seems to be falling apart. It seems like a death, but I tell you through it, I'll make you a wiser person, a better person, a greater person. And I have to stand here and just say to you, as a kind of Easter confession, the only reason I'm of any use to any of you is because of the stuff that God put me through. The only reason I'm useful to any of you is because of the things that have hurt me and that God has brought me through. The troubles, only the troubles of my life. Only the death, have met resurrection. The only reason I'm any use to anybody is because of that. Jesus says there are no dead ends. And somebody says, oh yeah? What do you mean? You're telling me that some of the, I mean, Tim, you're here. You know, I don't know what your problems were, but my goodness, you're not in the dungeon. You haven't been killed. I mean, you're all right. You look fine. You've got your, what are you talking about? What about those guys? Those guys went off to their death, but you see, the resurrection means even that. The worst thing that could happen to you, somebody torture you when you died, you realize what that means? All death can do now, if you fixed your heart on the resurrected Christ, is raise you. George Herbert said, death used to be an executioner, but the resurrection of Christ makes him nothing but a gardener. When he tries to bury you, he's really planting you. And you're going to come up better than before. That's the reason why we sing, ours, the cross, the graves, the skies. Do you realize that Easter means that the crosses now of your life are our crosses. The graves are our graves. Ours, the cross, the graves, and the sky. What do you mean ours? It means the cross does nothing but push me more toward the goal. Come on crosses, says the Christian. Come on graves. The lower you lay me, the higher you will raise me. There are no dead ends. Whatever you need today, power, purpose, or peace, whatever you need today, it's in the hand of the risen Lord. And I'm not saying that's a bad thing. And I'm here to ask you to go get it. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray that you would help us to see on Easter

that it's possible he rose, that it's true that he rose, and that it means everything. Let everyone hear, let everyone hear by your spirit know the answer to those questions. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.

