If you take out the handout here, you will see that we're going to hit tonight a very, very practical subject in the city. What we're doing this year, and the purpose of the ministry community meeting, of course, is to be a place where people in ministry, lay ministers or lay leaders, come together, and they're ministered to, and they minister to one another. So we worship, so we do teaching, we do things you couldn't get somewhere else. And I think that this is a very important subject that we're covering this year, which is the Christian understanding of community. What the Bible says that we're supposed to be in community is one of the most unrealized aspects of our life at Redeemer. Yeah, sure. You can always feel a little better by looking around and saying, it's one of the most unrealized aspects of life at almost any church. But that's not what we're supposed to be doing. I mean, it's fair. Whenever I start to get worried. You know, there's always the temptation of looking at other churches. But we're not supposed to do that. So what we're looking at this year is what the Bible calls us to as a community. In the very, very top, and this is something, I mean, it's actually, in a way, a good summary, if you haven't been here either the first two months, the first two sessions. Look at the very top of this. This is a quote from Leslie Newbigin. I'll just read you the first couple of sentences. If the church is to be effective in advocating a new kingdom order, it must itself be a new social order. A new social order. The deepest root of the contemporary malaise of Western culture is an individualism that denies that we grow into true humanity only in relationships of faithfulness and responsibility toward one another. What that simply means is you cannot come as an individual, get inspired by the music, get built up by the teaching, make a few friends, you know, make a few social connections. No. You don't grow into who God wants you to be without relationships, without deep community and relationships. That's what he's saying. And he's also saying that the church itself, its main witness to the world about what the power of the gospel, is that we create a new social order. We create a city inside a city. We create a new kind of human community. We show the world what the world would be like if it wanted to follow Christ. And we have to show it in the power of our relationships. They've got to be remarkable and unique. We can't just look like everybody else. So, now, the thing we're going to hit on tonight is we're going to get right into, right into the fact, as you can see in my first, the first paragraph that's from the handout, not after the quote. One of the most important ways that the Christian church embodies the gospel is the unity of Christians who are different. Temperamentally, culturally, racially. In general, what I'd like to talk about tonight is the fact that one of the jobs of the church, not the only job, but one of the main jobs of the church is to show the world that people who can't live in love and unity outside of Christ, can do in Christ. People who can't live together outside can inside. And especially people who are temperamentally, culturally, racially different. So, what does that mean? Now, I'm going to skip the next paragraph because there's an awful lot to cover here. Basically, what that paragraph says is this. It is knee-jerk today to say, if you think that Jesus Christ is the way to God and that Christianity is, in any way, a more full understanding of the truth, then you're wrong. If you think that Jesus Christ is the way to God than other religions, you are exclusive. You exclude people. Now, you've heard me say, and I can do it for you, if you sit down with a relativist, it's pretty easy to eventually show the person logically that relativism is actually more exclusive than Christianity. But I want you to know, having done this very well now for the last few years, I realize it doesn't convince anybody. They just get mad at you. They feel like you're tricking them. They say, well, okay, I realize that you've just won the argument, but you're not tricking them. But that just, you know, that doesn't move them. The only thing that will actually move them to see that the gospel actually is not an exclusive but a very inclusive thing is in the community we show. So ultimately, it's the ultimate apologetic. It's the ultimate defense of the faith. Now, first of all, I'd like to take you to, if you have, you know, actually, you've got a few Bibles you want to pull it out. We're going to take about 15 minutes on Ephesians 2, and then we're going to work out the ramifications. You do have them there, I think. You even have, you know, you have a few Bibles that are new to national, right? This is Ephesians 2. And you won't have to, you can follow this along. I've given you detailed notes. But Ephesians chapter 2, 11 to 14, or 11 to 20, actually. Ephesians 2. Looks to me like, since we're all using pretty much the same Bible, you ought to turn to page 827, okay? Okay? And what it says at verse 11, it says, Therefore, remember that formerly you who are Gentiles by birth, called uncircumcised by those who call themselves the circumcision, that's done in the body by the hands of men, remember that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, foreigners to the covenants of the promise, without hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ, Jesus, you who once were far away have been brought near through the brokenness of the world. Turn to page, if you have the pew Bible. For he himself is our peace, who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations. His purpose was to create in himself one new man out of the two, and thus making peace. And in this one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross, by which he put to death their hostility. He came and preached peace to you, who were far away, and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access to the Father by one spirit. Okay? Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, with Jesus Christ himself the chief cornerstone. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you too are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. Now, that is an amazing passage, and because I'm afraid I won't give you, you know, I can't in a brief period of time give you the fullness of what's there, it's written out for you. But I want to really talk about the second and third point. The first point's at the bottom of the first page. If you actually read all the Ephesians up to this point, you'll realize the implication. In chapter one, Paul says, I want people to know the power of God. I want you to really experience the power of God in your life. And if you realize that's what the prayer is, you'll come to see fairly quickly that Paul is, when he gets to verse 11, and he starts to talk about the church, what he's really saying is, you're not going to have the power of God in your life unless you're in a church. He's not saying you're not saved unless you're in a church. But absolutely, I definitely have no problem with saying, after many, many years of reading the Bible, that the Bible says that to the degree that you are really locked deeply into a Christian community, to that degree, you experience the power of God in your life. Now, I'm not going to go into that whole lot more than that. Turn over to the second page, please, the back. I want you to notice, by looking at these figures, that there are, Paul uses four, four images to characterize our relationships to one another and to God in the church. And each one is more intense. The first one is, in verse 19, fellow citizens, with God's people. Now, that is very strong, because what it's saying is, we are called to be a new nation. That when you become a Christian, you become part of a new nation. And that means our relationship to each other in Christ is stronger than our relationship to any other member of any other racial or national group. It means that when you become a Christian, you've maybe heard me say this in the church, in services, in preaching, when you become a Christian, you're not from Ohio anymore. But you're not from New York anymore. You're, in other words, you're primarily not from Ohio, or Germany, or Asia. You're not primarily Anglo, or African-American, or Asian, or Hispanic. You're not primarily WASP, or white-collar, blue-collar. You're a citizen of God's nation. That's number one. The second image is 19b, where it says, and members of God's household. Now, that's getting more intense, because that means you're adopted into God's family. And it is more intense. In fact, I'll show you in a second. The third is, in him, a holy temple, built together, a dwelling of God. Now, here's how you see the increasing intensity. In the first image, we're related to the king. Of course, you know the king. But in the second image, you're in the same house with the father. That's more intense. In the third image, the spirit of God is actually dwelling in you. So each one of these shows increasing intensity of our relationship with God. But also, in the first one, when you're fellow citizens, that means you're living in the same town, maybe. But when you're siblings, you have a much more intimate relationship. than that. Right? I mean, in other words, you see one another in your pajamas, which you don't see other citizens in your pajamas. At least, hopefully not. But when you get down into the image of the temple, we're cemented to each other. Now, the most intense of all, though, comes down to verse 15, actually. It's up in verse 15. And you can see it here. And the translation goes like this. His purpose was to create in himself, and he's talking about Jew and Gentile, which was a huge, a huge cultural barrier, and a huge racial barrier. He says, his purpose is to create in himself one new man out of the two. Now, you know, that's not the best translation. And I'm not really concerned at this point so much with the gender neutral thing. I mean, there's a lot of people who would say, well, you don't want to say one new man. That's really not very gender sensitive. And that may be insensitive or not. Here's the point. Probably it's a bad translation, no matter how you look at it. Because what he says, literally is, God wants to make you ton kynon anthropon. Now, anthropon from the word, word anthropology, it probably is better translated. He wants to make you a new humanity. Now, let me push this. He's, you know, it's one thing to become in citizens. It's another thing to be brothers and sisters. Another thing to be cemented together as blocks. But it's another thing to actually become one new human being. When I, you may have heard me, I don't know if I've used this in public much. One of the things that's, that's amazing about being married for a long time is that now, without reflection, without having to think about it, I've gotten to know a person of the other gender so well that when I get into situations, I immediately have two responses that I can make. In other words, something happens and I'm ready to respond and then I immediately think, I know what Kathy would do. I mean, you just, you know, immediately. I said, now in this situation, Kathy would do this. You don't have to reflect and say, now what would Kathy do? Oh no, not after 25 years of marriage. It's sort of, in other words, she's passed into me. And I've passed into her, which means that before I was married to her, I basically had one set of responses, one set of visceral responses. I don't just mean thinking it out. I mean, you know, who you are. I mean, C.S. Lewis makes the joke about, if you want to know whether there's rats in the basement, you don't open the door and turn on the light and clear your throat and walk down slowly. You'll never find rats in the basement. If you want to know, if you want to know what's really down there, you have to open the door and jump to the bottom and look around and there they are. And they're scurrying away, you know, under your flashlight. Then you know what's really in the basement. If you want to know who you really are, look at the viscera. Look at what you do when you're not thinking, when you're just responding. But what happens is, my wife is so passed into me that even when something is happening without reflection, I immediately know if she was here what she would do, or better, if she was here what she would want me to do. Which generally is what she would do. And now what does that mean? See, now this is the marriage illustration. We've got a couple places in the Bible where it says the two become one flesh. That's not just talking about sex. It's talking about, actually, sex mirrors the fact that what happens is you pass into one another and you really aren't, there's a certain sense in which you really are something else. I don't want to be too gross and odd about this, but you really aren't male and female anymore. You're a new something. Now, this is telling us

that Christians of different races, different cultures, are supposed to be so wedded to one another that we, in a sense, get to know what life looks like through the eyes of those other people. So that you really are changed, but you can only be changed if you know these other people awfully, awfully well. You really can become a new kind of person. There's a sense in which he's using, it's really a radical statement, he's using, the noun, it's a single noun, one new man. I mean, that's probably a way, or one new human is maybe a better way to put it. And yet, of course, it doesn't really mean you've lost your individuality exactly. It's got to mean something along the lines of what it says when it says, a husband leaves his wife, or a husband leaves his father, mother cleaves to his wife, and they become one new person. Now, what this has got to mean is we have to have such close relationships with people with whom, probably, if we weren't, if we weren't Christians, we might not even give them the time of day, but it's certainly not, we wouldn't go, we wouldn't be motivated to really understand how they look at life. And it's got to be something that passes into us. And then, you know what we would be? We would really be that new human being that God is trying to create on the face of the earth. Now, look at the application. I mean, it's a lot. Isn't that wild? Look at the application. What does this mean? Can these images be squared in any way with just attending church on Sunday and coming to classes afterwards? You know, I'm afraid at a place like Redeemer, well, better yet, I'd say the person who comes to Redeemer every Sunday and actually stays for classes and occasionally comes to other events probably thinks of themselves as really, you know, they probably are patting themselves on the back, and maybe we're patting them on the back, too. And we're actually, I'm very happy they're doing that. But are they becoming the new humanity? They couldn't be. It can't be done that way. Can they, even every week? No, it means at least these three things, these things have got to be happening, I'd say, if you're going to become that new human being, if we're going to become the new humanity, corporately and as individuals. One is, if you think of image one, you think of fellow citizens, it does mean that we at least have to become close friends with people that we would never know or care to know. People are pretty different from us. Now, by the way, I'm not just thinking just of simple race, as I hope you know. I mean, corporate and creative professionals sometimes loathe one another, except when they're trying to raise money. You know, I know plenty of creative professionals that just put up with corporate professionals because they don't know what they're doing. They don't know how they need the money from them. Otherwise, they really disdain one another. I mean, there's all sorts of divisions we're talking about here. I don't want you to think it's just a simple matter of one race, another race, though that's a huge, important one. It means, first of all, there should be a certain deliberate willingness to make friends across the barrier. Secondly, if you especially look at image two, where we're siblings, it means we've got to let our whole lives be in contact with some of these people. In other words, if we're going to make friends, we can't just be casual. I mean, the people that we're trying to bring into our lives, it means that we're going to be going to have to have more contact than just the occasional and the formal. They have to sort of see us in their pajamas. Again, that's a bad metaphor. I'm going to never use it again because it makes me think of wrong things. However, it means you have to let them into your private life, clearly. Number three, you have to be personally accountable. But the image number three is the idea of a temple. It means until you've sort of opened your heart to the world, you really haven't become intimate with somebody unless they've really listened to you pray, unless you've prayed together. It's one thing just to pray. It's another thing to really let people in on what's going on, how you feel about God and just where you are with God. So there has to be personal accountability. There has to be corporate spirituality. There has to be deliberate efforts to build bridges and get to know very, very deeply, as deeply as possible, people who are on the other side of barriers. And that has to be part of, say, if I want to grow into the new humanity, if I, you know, I mean, I have to admit, I mean, I was in InterVarsity. There's Campus Crusade. I mean, the typical, I would say, America has been, Christians have been very affected by the discipleship follow-up material of Billy Graham Association, Campus Crusade, InterVarsity. And all of them always say, Bible study, prayer, you know, fellowship. They always tell you the things you have to do to grow. This really, from what I can tell, this is part of it. Maybe you can't do it in the middle of very, very homogeneous communities, but if there are people, if there are Christians around who are fairly different, I think we're supposed to go after one another. Otherwise, we can't grow into the new humanity. I think it's one of the basic ways in which you become what Christ wants you to be. One more, just to mention. Do I have to do this? Well, no, you know what? Let's, the causality. Probably be better not to do it. Well, let me just say this. If you read carefully, I want to get past Ephesians 2. If you read carefully, it tells you here the diagnosis of the cause of the division. It says the big division between Jew and Gentile was the law. Now, right away, over the years, when I first read that, I wasn't sure what that means. But if you go to Romans 9, verse 4, it tells us the law was one of the things that God gave the Jews that nobody else had. And what it sounds like to me is this is typical. One of the main reasons we have trouble really building bridges to people who are different from us is not our weaknesses, but our strengths. If you're part of a group of people that has a certain strength and you're proud of it, your race, your culture, your class, you look at people without it, and you just immediately say, you feel superior to them. And it's really, you disdain them. You infantilize them in your mind. And therefore, one of the things I think this is teaching us is our gifts are the thing that get in the way. Our gifts are the dividing wall. I mean, I certainly have seen it over the years to some degree between men and women. There are certain things that, you know, women are better at than men, and as a result, they disdain them. And there are certain things that men are better at than the women, and they disdain the women because they don't have that. And we make jokes about it in same-sex groups sometimes. It's a dividing wall. What you're actually doing is you're reveling in your own gifts at the expense of the group that doesn't have them. So it's always a huge problem. The first part of the cure is actually in verses 12 and 13. The first part of the cure is to see that the Gentiles and the Jews, it's so interesting, Paul is willing to say the Gentiles are far from God and the Jews are near. Isn't that interesting? The Gentiles are far. They were living immorally. They were living without knowledge. They were living without the Scripture. The Jews were near. They were living, you know, with the knowledge of the Scripture. But what's so interesting is in verse 17, where it says, Christ came and preached peace to you who were far away and peace to those who were near. It's a radical verse. In fact, you know, obviously in the sentence, you could use the word peace once, right? You could use the word peace once, and both clauses could be, you could say Christ preached peace to you who were far and to you who were near, right? He doesn't have to say the word peace twice. Why does he say it twice? What he's really saying is, it doesn't matter how good or how bad you are. It doesn't matter how religious or how lascivious you are. You both need the exact same message. And until you recognize that there is absolutely no difference between the people who are near and the people who are far, in other words, you're all lost, until you understand that, until you basically understand the gospel, there's going to be a self-righteousness about your gifts that's going to be a dividing wall. And basically, the only way to really understand your prejudice against other groups is to not just say, yes, I need to not be so prejudiced, I need to not be so prejudiced, but rather, you have to recognize that prejudice is always a form of self-justification. It comes from misunderstanding or not appropriating the gospel. And that's what Paul says, is the thing that brings it down. Okay, that's all. Let's turn over, because I want to get into the specifics for about 10 minutes, 15 minutes, 15 minutes. Now, let's talk about, though, let's talk about the race-culture lines. How does a church start to get at that? How does a church start to show the world that people that are outside of the church really can't get along very well, and huge divides are the racial-cultural barriers? How can we become, inside our congregation, how can we show the world and show ourselves and just honor God with, with relationships, strong Christian relationships across the barriers? How can we do that? Well, first of all, you have to get a Christian, pardon me, a biblical take on what the Bible says about race and what the Bible says about culture. Now, the thing the Bible says about race, in some ways, this isn't all that radical, but you might want to say there's three things the Bible says about race that are all blows against racism, and they're actually even tests. The first big blow, which is not, this is not all that radical for us, but it's radical in some places, and that is, Acts 17, 26, where it says, from one man, God made every nation of men that they should inhabit the whole earth, and he determined and set times and exact places where they should live. That isn't so, well, that's not all that amazing for us, but I'll tell you, there's times in the history of the world where somebody needed to pull that out. What it's really saying is different races are not different species. They're not different species. We actually are all distant cousins. That's what it's saying, and that's pretty, pretty obvious, but boy, there's plenty of places in the history of the world where this should have been brought out, but it wasn't. Number two, the second thing the Bible says is a blow against racism is this place in Revelation 21 where it says, at the very end of time, the kings of the earth will bring their splendor into it. The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it. Now, all the commentators say what's interesting is it's talking about the fact that different kingdoms and different nations have different splendors and different glories. They're bringing sort of in different colors. They're bringing different splendors. They're bringing in what the old English word is peculiar honors. Now, the word peculiar is kind of negative nowadays, and whenever I sing that, you know, let every nation rise and bring peculiar honors to his king, all I know is that when I bring my honors to the god, I'm sure he's going to look down and say, how peculiar, but you see, the old way, the word peculiar used to be more positive. It really meant particular. It really meant, you know, specific, and so there's lots of indications, that the different races have particular, particular glories, particular strengths, just the way the body of Christ, everybody has different gifts, and all together they show forth Christ. So the same way, at the level not of redemption but of creation, the different races clearly all together mirror the image of God better than any one particular race does by itself. The third blow to racism, by the way, is a very important one. I remember in my blue-collar church in the south, I used to pound on this, and they always, they put up with it, but they always, but the fact is, the Bible says there really is one divide in the human race, but it's a faith divide, not a racial divide. You see, the Bible forbids, interfaith marriages does not forbid interracial marriages, and that's got to mean that the biblical understanding is different than the typical understanding. In fact, the best example of this is in Numbers chapter 12, verses 1 to 16. There's an amazing example of this, where Moses marries a black woman. She's Cushite. The word Cush means black. She's African. And she's black, but she's a believer. And Miriam, and Aaron too, oppose this marriage because it's an interracial marriage. God punishes Miriam by giving her leprosy, but it's very, very clear. The passage says, it turned her white as snow. Now, you know, there's some difference of opinion by the commentators, but most of them believe what God was actually saying to Miriam, you want white? You've got white. And God punishes her for prejudice. In other words, what she's saying is, she was saying race was more important than faith. Now, if that's wrong, here's a little test for you. If you look at the last line of the paragraph, if you would rather your Christian friend or relative marry a non-Christian of the same race than a solid Christian of a different race, your racial prejudice has not been gospel cleaned yet. So these are three blows to racism in the scripture. Now, a little more, I must say, a much more difficult subject is not race in the Bible, but culture. That's a much more difficult issue. First of all, if you, let me give you three things about what the Bible says about cultures. First of all, all cultures are relative, which means the Bible is very clear in the New Testament that when you become a Christian, and when Gentiles became Christians, there was a big battle about this in the New Testament, and Paul and the, you know, one, and that's what the New Testament teaches, and that is a Gentile doesn't have to become Jewish to become a Christian. And that means, the idea is that you're not supposed to have to leave your culture in order to become a Christian. You don't, if you are one culture in order to become a Christian, it doesn't mean you have to belong to some other culture in order to do it. Though plenty of missionaries over the years have given people the impression they did. But that's not what the, that was Paul's whole point. Now turn over to the next page, the fourth page. However, on the other hand, this is really interesting. Very interesting. On the other hand,

no culture's neutral because it can't be. Nothing can be. Because at the heart of every single culture, there are certain kind of core commitments, which I think you can call idols. Now, I'm not going to go into this. There's a couple quotes here and at the bottom of the page that get into this. But the fact is, that culture, every culture has certain core commitments about the meaning of life and what is right and wrong and, you know, what kind of life is worth living and how can you justify your existence. Every culture has got something at its core and then everything is brought into obedience to that core. Which means, though, every culture has got a lot of great things in it. Every culture has idols in it. Now, to give you an example, and therefore, when you become a Christian, though on the one hand you're not pulled out of your culture, why should you be? Because there's, why should you be pulled out of your culture? On the other hand, you become subversive in your culture. Let me show you, let me give you a perfect, perfect example, which I think is a, there's a lot of examples that are hard to get everybody's consensus on. Here's one, I think. For example, this is the second paragraph here under B. Many Asian cultures are affected in their cores by Confucianism. Confucianism said the family is an ultimate value. Now, what I mean by an ultimate value is, is basically in Confucianism, it defines, if you're not part of a family, you don't have a self. Life, it defines and justifies your existence. Life is pointless. If you don't have a family, life is pointless if you're not part of a family. Okay. On the other hand, Western cultures are affected in their cores by Enlightenment rationalism. And Enlightenment rationalism says the freedom of the individual to choose is given essentially an ultimate value. It defines and justifies your existence. In other words, in the West, what you're told is the most important thing is that you have freedom to choose the person and the life you want. If you don't have that, you have nothing. So in other words, and Western individualism makes an idol out of you. Out of freedom of choice. Whereas the Confucianism at the heart of many, many Asian cultures makes really an idol out of the family. The family is what justifies your existence. Now here's what that means. If you become a Christian in either of those cultures, it tends to, you are going to either, because Christ is your ultimate justification, it's going to have a subversive effect. And that's why I put down here this last couple of sentences. Christianity will eventually either demote the family or it will demote the individual from its central power in your life. What that means is if you're Asian, in your Asian culture, but you become a strong Christian, thoughtful Asian Christians will probably appear radical and anti-traditional, but thoughtful Western Christians in a secular Western culture will be looked at as neoconservative. You see that? In other words, if you're really a thoughtful Christian here in a Western society, in a Western, people are going to think you're trying to put the clock back because you're going to demote actually individual self-expression. But if you're a thoughtful Asian person in Asian culture, you're going to be seen as maybe a Westerner. You're going to be seen maybe as a person who's radical. That's the reason why this next is very important, the mixed nature of culture. Miroslav Volf has written an interesting book called Exclusion and Embrace and he says, we have to be like Abraham who departed his culture but never arrived in another one. You know, he stayed a pilgrim his whole life. He was told get out but he never arrived. He never owned anything except his graves. Remember that? And here's what Volf means. Let me give you an example. It means on the one hand, don't look down here for a minute, look up here for a second. Let me just give you a couple of examples. If you're an Anglo, if you're a white Anglo Western person like me, on the one hand, what Christianity will do is it will lift you out of your culture. It will make you very critical of your own culture. In a sense, it calls you to leave. But I'm going to look so, I'm going to be real personal, I'd look so stupid if I tried to arrive in any other one. Right? What if I just, you know, if I really try to, and there are people who do this. There are people so alienated from their own culture, right? They try to arrive in another one. And you look stupid. I'm a Northern European heritage American. And I'm just, you know, I just don't, there's just, I'm awfully square. I'm awfully straight. And there's an awful lot of other cultures that are considerably more sophisticated in many ways, considerably more nuanced in many ways. If I really try to be black, if I really try to be Latino, I'm just going to look like an idiot. What it really means is you're supposed to leave a culture, but you better not arrive in another one. That doesn't mean you get alienated from your culture. But what it means is just exactly this. It means you exercise accountability and deep relationships with Christians from the other side of these racial barriers so that you become one new person. It doesn't mean, hopefully, Kathy has passed into me, but hopefully I'm not less masculine than I used to be. In fact, I'm a whole lot more masculine because I'm in my relationship with Kathy, much more than when I got married. On the other hand, I haven't been demasculinized. What happened to me? I've been enriched? I don't know. In the same way, you don't actually become less your culture. Rather, the only way to stay in your culture at the same time not arrive in another one and at the same time, in a sense, depart your culture. You're departing, but you don't leave it. You're going to have to have these close relationships with people from your Christian friends. I put that down here. One of the main ways we do this is through the exercising accountability and love with other Christians across racial and cultural lines to the fullest degree possible. It's the other brothers and sisters that can help you see your own culture's idols. You must not be defensive when they show you. In other words, Christianity can take diverse cultural forms and yet bring a core of transcultural absolute values in that transforms every particular culture. It's neither absolutist in its approach, the idea that there's some kind of absolute new pure culture, nor relativist in approach that all cultural forms are neutral and equally valid. We don't do either. Now, what do we do about it? I only, since I really want to, let me orient you to the rest of the handout. Here's three steps toward racial unity in the Christian community. The one is the most important, but not the one I want to talk much about. The one is you have to use the gospel on yourself. Oh, turn over to the top of page five. This quote, this quote from Richard Loveless, who was my teacher. I first heard him say this in the fall of 1972 when I first matriculated at seminary there and he became my teacher. And he says this. He says, those who are not secure in Christ cast about for spiritual life preservers with which to support their confidence. Okay? Got that? And in their frantic search they cling not only to the shreds of ability and righteousness they find in themselves. Here's a person who doesn't know God loves them in Christ. So they're frantically trying to get confidence that I'm all right. They don't just frantically cling only to the shreds of ability and righteousness they find in themselves. They fix upon their race, their membership in a party, their familiar social and ecclesiastical patterns, and their culture as a means of self-recommendation. The culture is put on as though it were armor against self-doubt, but it becomes a mental straitjacket which cleaves to the flesh and can never be removed except through comprehensive faith in the saving work of Christ. There's a lot there. Much that we have in the Bible is interpreted as a defect in sanctification in church people is really an outgrowth of their loss of bearing with respect to justification. Christians who are no longer sure for nominal Christians or nominal Christians who never were sure that God loves and accepts them in Christ apart from their present spiritual achievements are subconsciously radically insecure persons, much less secure than non-Christians because they have too much light to rest easily under the constant bulletins they receive from their Christian environment about the holiness of God and the righteousness they're supposed to have and the righteousness they're supposed to have. Their insecurity shows itself in pride, a fierce defensive assertion of their own righteousness and defensive criticism of others. They come naturally to hate other cultural styles and other races in order to bolster their own security and discharge their suppressed anger. They cling desperately to legal pharisaical righteousness but envy, jealousy and other branches of the tree of sin grow out of this fundamental insecurity. This is one of the few passages outside the Bible I suggest you meditate on. I really do. I've been meditating on it for 25 years. 25 years. It tells you so much. It tells you the way you get over racism is not by slapping people about it but by bringing the gospel to bear on the root of it. Turn over to page 6. I want you to read this at some point. The second thing you've got to do besides use the gospel on our hearts is you actually have to increase multi-ethnic Christian friendships. Now, I want you to notice that as I was writing this, I said, well, I'm writing it because I'm a teacher and I'm giving this to you. But I suddenly realized as I was writing this, but you know what? I've got to get some people from other... I've got to get some black, Hispanic, Asian people. I've got to get other people to... We need to put something together on this. That's the reason why I have very little for people who are in minorities. I have a lot for Anglos. What I put down here is rather simple. For Anglos... And listen, I'll just... Those of you who are in the dominant, you know, the race with power in this country, number one, I said,

Anglo people do not have to understand what bugs, upsets, confuses, and excites minorities. But the minority people know what bugs and confuses and upsets and excites us because they have to essentially live in our world, therefore they know about it. But we don't know about them. Now, you have no unselfish... Pardon me. You have no... You have... Unless you're a Christian, you have no motivation to come to understand how racial minorities look at life because you really don't need it because this world is basically, you know, basically clicking along according to our cultural style. You don't need it. Unless you become a Christian, you're not going to be motivated to do it. If you're not motivated to do it, you're not much of a Christian. An Anglo Christian is someone who says, I've got to see what the world looks like through the eyes of other people. And once they start telling you about it and you don't like what you hear, you need to be very slow, very slow to contradict. Instead, you need to spend a lot of time reflecting and listening and making sure that you're not jumping to conclusions. And that's essentially what's in here. But you have to be deliberate. You have to be patient with each other, of course. For everyone, the other thing I'll just tell you about, which is pretty interesting, and this is the last thing. The reason we have got to be extremely patient, look at the bottom of the sixth page. The reason we have to be extremely patient with each other. In other words, if, for example, you are an Anglo person and you hear somebody say, it bugs me when Anglos do this, when the white people do this, I wish they would change, or vice versa. In other words, when you find that one group is kind of offending another group, Paul says, we're supposed to be bending over backwards, not to say, why don't you get with the program, but basically, we're supposed to be bending over backwards saying, what can we do to make you feel more welcome here? And here's the reason why. Let me give you an example of this. I know this is a true case. A young Asian American pastor was candidating for a program for a job at a first-generation Asian church for a position on staff. Now, this isn't going to surprise some of you, but most of you will. Things were going along just fine until he said, oh, and what's the salary? Immediately, he was rejected because the search committee concluded that anyone who cared about salary was greedy and uncommitted to the ministry of Jesus Christ. In other words, they said, if you really were committed and you weren't greedy, you would take the job and just take whatever we were going to give you. Now, on the other hand, in many United States churches today, we've stopped even thinking about greed. We never talk about greed. We never call anybody on the carpet about greed. Turn over. The individualism of Western culture sees the first-generation Asian church as potentially exploitative. Don't you think? Isn't that what you... Don't you think it's... Come on. Most, you know... Even those of you here are Asian American, by and large, and don't you feel that any church that says, we're going to hire you, and if you even ask about the salary, that shows you're not committed. So you've got to take the job and take whatever we give you. You're going to say, that's exploiting. On the other hand, the collectivism of traditional Asian culture sees Western Christians as deeply selfish and individualistic. In other words, from our individualism, we see the exploitation in an authoritarian culture. But from their collectivism, they see the selfishness and the lack of respect and dignity in the individualistic culture. Now, are not both partially correct? Yes. This means that our cultural hang-ups have always got an element of truth in them, always. But they always need to be gospel-cleaned and balanced. And since none of us are looking at anyone else from a culture-neutral position, we have to be slow to condemn and extremely patient with the other side. We should, like Paul says, be willing to flex for people who are upset and offended, just because. Okay? Now, if we're going to have relationships, we're going to have to flex, like that. We're going to have to be that patient. If you really want to become the new humanity. Now, you're going to have to read the rest of it, because I promised we're going to have a... Let me close in prayer, and then we're going to have a... Who's coming up to give an announcement about the deacons, David? Okay, come on up here, but let me pray for a second. Pray with me. Our Father, we close in prayer, not just because we're supposed to close in prayer, because we close meetings in prayer, and that's how we do it. I'm closing in prayer because I realize that, first of all, even in what I've said here, I know I represent a certain perspective. I'm only seeing part of things. I pray if there's anything I've said here tonight that's helpful, that it'll pass into all of our lives, and it'll change the way in which we live with each other. And if I've said anything here that's either unhelpful or maybe not right on the money, I certainly hope, Lord, that everybody here will forget it immediately, and it won't have any bad effect. I do pray that you would teach us what in the world it means that you want to make through... through the gospel, through the cross, a new humanity out of us. And I pray in some small ways you'd help us to realize it here. We certainly... we only ask it because we believe it would bring glory to you. And because, Lord, we actually are excited when we hear it described, we would like to taste it. We would like to be part of it. We know, Lord, in the actual working out of it that sometimes there's a lot of... Oh, my goodness. When we actually ask people to be honest, there could be a lot of difficult times, times of grief, times in which people are telling us things we don't want to hear. There could be a lot of tears. There could be raised voices, certainly. I pray, Lord, though, that we would want this enough, that we are willing to pass through those difficulties on the way to being what you want us to be. Make us your body. Make us that new humanity, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.