I'd like to call your attention to John chapter 6, verses 60 to 71, a long chapter, and we're going to read the last 11 verses, verses 60 through 71. On hearing it, and the it, is Jesus' discourse on why they need to eat his flesh as bread and drink his blood. On hearing it, many of his disciples said, This is a hard teaching. Who can accept it? Aware that his disciples were grumbling about this, Jesus said to them, Does this offend you? What if you see the Son of Man ascend to where he was before? The Spirit gives life, the flesh counts for nothing. The words I have spoken to you are spirit and they are life. Yet there are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus had known from the beginning which of them did not believe and who would betray him. He went on to say, This is why I told you that no one can come to me unless the Father has enabled him. From this time, many of his disciples turned back and no longer followed him. But you do not want to leave too, do you? Jesus asked the twelve. And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We believe and know that you are the Holy One of God. And then Jesus replied,

And this ends the reading of God's Word. Cancer runs in my family. Isn't this a cheerful illustration to start with? All four of my grandparents died of cancer. I have always wished that and hope that if it does come to me, that it will be a nice big ugly sore on my arm or my leg and not an insidious internal growth that intertwines itself around my unseen systems until it's too late. Because you see, a disease that works internally under the veneer of health is the most dangerous. If Christianity is true, through a relationship with Jesus Christ alone, you can know God as Father, you can find your true self, you can experience eternal quality of life here and forever. If Christianity is true, what is the most dangerous position to hold? What's the more dangerous position to hold? Is it more dangerous to say outwardly and openly that you have no is it more dangerous to follow Christ for false or for wrong motives? Jesus Christ is always teaching us this, that non-Christianity is nowhere near as dangerous as false Christianity, because non-Christianity is more readily remedial. You can remedy it. But false Christianity is an unbelief under the veneer of belief, like a disease which works internally underneath the veneer of health. If I can put it this way, you read the Bible, it's overwhelming how, if I can put it this way, how scared Jesus is that anybody would think they're Christians when they're not, would follow him and find out in the end that they're following for wrong or false reasons. He's almost scared, and it's almost overwhelming, and my temptation is just to start documenting this to you in an overwhelming way. For example, Jesus tells the parable of the ten bridesmaids, and they all look the same on the outside, but five of them are really waiting for the bridegroom, and five are not, and in the end, five are rejected. Jesus tells the parable of the two houses. Two men build two houses, he says, and they both look exactly the same on the top, but one of them is on the sand one of them is on the rock and so one of them falls and the other one stands. Jesus tells the parable of the four soils we've already talked about that the four soils are like four hearts and the word of God the message of God the teaching of Jesus falls on these four soils like seed on four kinds of soils and the word falls on four kinds of hearts and three of the four kinds of hearts result in vegetation germination Something grows up, but in the end, only one of them bears any kind of fruit. It's astonishing how often Jesus does this. It's one of the key things in his teaching. Have we heard it? Have we thought about it? Do we realize it? He's scared, almost, if we can put it that way, of people following him for the wrong reason, thinking they're Christians when they're not. At the end of the book of Luke, pardon me, at the end of the chapter 9 of Luke, there's a man that shows up and says, Jesus, I will follow you wherever you go. What is he saying? He says, Jesus, I'm for you 100%. I'm stretched out. I'm flat out for you. And you'd think that Jesus would say, finally, here's somebody committed. This is what we need today. Committed people. Instead, he gives them a very cold response. He says, foxes have their holes. Birds of the air have the nests. But the Son of Man hath not where to lay his head. And you know what he's saying? He's saying, do you really know what it will cost you to follow me? And unless you really know what it will cost, are you sure you're coming for the right motives, it might cost you the things you value the most. Or at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, the very end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus tells us that on the last day there will be Christian leaders that will come up to him and say, Lord, Lord, we did great deeds in your name. We did many good things in your name. Christian leaders. And he's going to look at them and say, I never knew you. don't you see how much deeper a thing how much more complex and rich a thing Christianity must be than a life of just doing good not too long ago I was inside an old time club somewhere here in Manhattan and up on the wall there was a lot of pictures of famous ex-members and there was one place where someone had written, somebody at the turn of the century obviously a very brilliant person, had written a philosophy of life, and it was up there in handwriting on the wall. And at the end of it, it said, I'm not afraid to face God when I die because I know it's what you do, not what you say or what you believe, that makes you worthy of the grace of God. And, you know, for a minute, passing over the illogic of being worthy of the grace. I mean, you see, if you're worthy of it, it's not grace anymore, then it's wages. But just passing

person, why pass over that? Well, because there's another point I want to make here. It goes directly in the face of what Jesus says. Here in Matthew 7, for example, he says, a life of doing good is not enough. He says to these people, I never knew you. Your hearts aren't right. Your hearts, the motive. You followed me for the wrong reason. There's something wrong on with your heart. Christianity is a much deeper thing than just the life of doing good. So Jesus is saying it's much more dangerous to be a false follower or disciple. A disciple is a follower. It's much more dangerous to be a false follower than it is to be a non-follower because a non-follower is a person who's more easily able to deal with the reality of who Jesus is than a false follower. Now what I just want to show you here briefly from the text is that Jesus about the danger of false discipleship. Then let's talk for a moment about the kinds of false discipleship, and then let's see how Peter shows us the essence of true discipleship, and that will prepare us to come to the Lord's table. The danger of false discipleship, the kinds of false discipleship, and the essence of true discipleship. The word discipleship simply means following. Look at the danger. Danger. We're told here in verse 60 that the disciples, now this is everybody, all the people that were following Jesus and were his students and had said, you're the Messiah and I'm going to follow you, all of his followers, they start to get troubled when they hear him talking about eating his flesh, that people need to eat his flesh and drink his blood. And they said, this is a hard saying. And the word hard here is scleros, from which we get our word sclerosis. and here it does not mean this is hard to understand. Oh no, that's not what it means. This is hard to accept. It's not that it's too hard to comprehend, though certainly it's a deep saying. What they're complaining about, this is too hard to swallow. And when Jesus, notice in verse 61, it says he begins to talk to his disciples and yet down in verse 64, he actually says to them, believe. They are disciples. They're followers. They're in the church, let's say. They're subscribers. And he says, but I've known all along that you have not believed. And now this hard saying has revealed it. And then we're told in verse 66, many of them stopped following because just like hidden cancer usually or very often eventually shows itself visibly. So in the same way, false discipleship starts off as a hidden bad motive, but eventually it shows itself because people drop out. That's how it shows itself. Now, what's the danger of false discipleship? It's this. False disciples do not come to grips with the incredible lordship claims of Jesus. And my thesis here in the very beginning of the passage, or the very beginning of the message, is that both non-Christians and real Christians have a better grasp of the claims of Christ for total authority. Both non-Christians and real Christians are more in touch with who Jesus is than false Christians. What do I mean? Let me put it this way. Jesus says, you must eat my flesh and drink my blood. He says, I've got to be your meat and drink. Now, what does that mean? What does it mean? What is the meat and drink? meat and drink it's what makes you tick it's what gives you the basic energy to keep you going what is your meat and drink and if you're honest with yourself you'll see there can be a variety of things is your meat and drink career success is that what really makes you tick is that what really gives you the basic energy is it relationships is it sexual relationships is it career satisfaction is it material things and money is it is the thing that really makes

you. Somebody's dependent on you. What is your meat and drink? What really makes you tick? That is what you eat and drink. And Jesus says, I have got to be that. I've got to be your meat and drink. I must be preeminent in your life. It's not good enough for me to be your teacher. It's not good enough for me to be your inspiration or your example or your sugar daddy. I must be, you see, I must be your nucleus. I must be your center. I must be your motor. I've got to be the thing that makes you tick. I've got to be the thing that gets you up in the morning. I've got to be the thing that energizes you. I must be your meat and drink. See, this is another outlandish lordship statement of Jesus Christ. And that is the thing that the false disciples are choking on. I have to be your center. It wasn't that long ago that there was a baseball player, major league baseball player, who committed suicide and also killed his wife as he committed suicide. And when you read the reports that came out afterwards, his friends were interviewed, of course, and everybody said that he had begun to go downhill when at the end of one season, had given up a run in a crucial game and lost the season for his team. And after that, he had lost his confidence and he performed poorly. And his friend said, when he failed as a baseball player, he lost meaning in life. Do you see? He starved because baseball was his meat and his drink. That's what he was eating. That's what he was drinking. It's not that what Jesus said is too hard to understand. It's what Jesus said is too hard to accept. Do you see what happened to that man's soul? When baseball was gone, his soul dried up and blew away. I must be your meat and drink. And so Jesus claims absolute lordship. Now, the thesis is this, that both non-Christians, people who say, I'm not a Christian, I don't believe it, and people who are real Christians, both are more able to come to grips with the absolute claims of authority. See, a person who's not a Christian, who says, I'm not a Christian, they say, yeah, I see the claims, I see what it says. It says that Jesus is the only way to God. It says that Jesus Christ has the absolute authority, and I have to listen to his word no matter what I feel. And what does the non-Christian say? The non-Christian says, I see the claims, I see the magnitude of those claims, and I reject them. They can't be validated. It's nuts, it's outrageous, I don't give that kind of priority anybody. See, that person has come to grips with who Jesus is, come to grips with who Jesus claims to be, let me put it that way, and as a result, that person's revolted, and that person, therefore, is in touch with who he is. But on the other hand, you've got real Christians, and real Christians say, boy, to give him that kind of authority will be very hard, but he's created me, and he's He's redeemed me. And though I don't know how I can do it, I owe this to him, and I want him, and therefore I'm going to give this to him, but it's going to take me, I'm going to need all the help I can get from him. I mean, that's how a real Christian acts. But you see, a false Christian is somebody who comes to church and has an intellectual assent and lives a pretty moral life and various times prays or says prayers, but when it comes right down to it, has not really, really come to grips with these demands, with these questions, with these incredible issues. You must eat my flesh. You must drink my blood. Let me put it another way and let me give you an illustration. Have you ever put a coin in a machine and nothing happens? You put a coin in the machine and the soda doesn't come out. You put a coin in the machine and the tokens don't come out. You put a coin in the machine and nothing comes out. And here's why. The coin went in, but it didn't drop. Say the penny didn't drop, the coin didn't go to the bottom. And unless the coin goes all the way down, it can't trigger the machine to do what it was designed to do. It can't produce its product, whatever that is. And what do you have to do to that machine until it produces? You have to bang it, you have to bang it, you have to bang it until you hear the coin drop and then boom, and out it comes. And you say, ah, you see. Sometimes you bang it, you bang it, you bang it, and nothing happens. That's the way it is with Christianity. You know what false Christianity is? False Christianity is somebody who says, I believe. I believe in Jesus. You assent to it. You assent to what he says in a very general way, but you have never really had the penny drop. You've never really come to grips with the magnitude of his claims. You haven't seen that he says, I have to be your all or your nothing. I can't be dabbled with. I can't be sampled. I can't be someone over here on the shelf. You don't know who I am if you treat me that way. And so, in a sense, the coin hasn't dropped. And as a result, you haven't come to grips with who he claims to be and what believing really is. Here are followers that Jesus says you don't believe. And because the coin hasn't dropped, no greatness is happening in your life. Christianity cannot and will not produce what it's supposed to produce in your life until the coin goes all the way down. you see for example you may read about and hear about how the early Christians took over the Roman Empire and changed the face of society and how Christianity electrified people and ran through every class the poor the rich the middle class you may read about how Christians were willing to do great deeds and die cheerfully for their faith and you look at that sort of thing and maybe you say your prayers but you don't see anything like that happening in your life you don't see that kind of greatness growing in you at all

And you wonder why, because the coin, the penny hasn't dropped. One of the most exciting experiences for me as a minister over the years, and especially it's happened a lot here in this particular ministry and church, is to have people who come up and say, Oh my word, after years and years, the penny has dropped. I mean, I thought I was a Christian. I thought I was a believer. And after a fashion, I was. But I really never came to grips with the kind of claims that he makes. And I never really let the penny go all the way down. And as a result of that, I have never really seen who he is. And I've never seen the greatness that can be released into my life. Because it's not until the coin goes down that greatness is triggered. And Christianity produces the things. What do you have to do to get the coin all the way down? You've got to bang. And what do you think I'm doing right now? I'm banging your machine. bang it yourself. But you have to say, I don't think that Christianity has produced anything like what obviously historically it's supposed to be able to produce. Why not? Maybe I have not got the penny down. Maybe my coin is not dropped. Maybe it hasn't gone all the way down. Friends, don't be like Saul. In 1 Samuel 15, God comes to King Saul, king of Israel, and says, those wicked, violent Amalekites, I would like you to go, and I want you to go to battle, and I want you to

What does he do? He takes them captive, and he makes many of them his slaves, and he takes a lot of their belongings to himself. And the prophet Samuel comes and says, Saul, why didn't you do what God told you to do? And Saul says, well, I did most of it. And besides that, lots of this stuff I can give to him. I'm going to take it to the temple, I'm going to give it to the priests, I'm going to sacrifice it on the altar. Obedience is better than sacrifice. And here's what Samuel's saying. Saul, you didn't get it, did you? God didn't want the sheep. He didn't want the oxen. He didn't want the slaves. He wanted you. And by just obeying part of the way, you didn't obey at all. What he wanted was you. And by doing it your way, you held on to yourself. You're the one he wanted. See, Saul, you're a very religious person, but the penny hasn't dropped. It hasn't gone down. You're obeying part of the way, and what you saw, God didn't want the sheep. He wanted you. Now, that's the danger of false discipleship. Now, actually, I'm trying to give you the essence of false discipleship, because there's many, many, many different forms. And what are the kinds? Let me just kind of run through them briefly. If you look through the chapter 6, which we've been looking at for several weeks. It's 71 verses long, way too long

to preach through quickly. But you'll see a lot of different forms. Let me give you some examples of how people can come to Christ for the wrong reasons. There's very different kinds of forms of false discipleship. One group is the person who follows the crowd. We're told way up in verse 2 that the crowd was coming along. You see, mob psychology is very, very, very effective. The power of the crowd, very hard to disbelieve what a crowd believes, very hard to believe what a crowd disbelieves. If you're in the middle, very difficult. In fact, mob psychology, crowd power, is not only guilty of getting people to disbelieve without really thinking, it also is guilty. It's a cause of getting people to follow Christ without thinking. There's a place in C.S. Lewis's book, The Great Divorce, where there's a minister who can't believe in the resurrection or the miracles or the infallible Bible. And a Christian friend comes and says this to him. He says, friend, you know we never abandoned the historic views because we were argued out of them. No, we simply found ourselves in contact with a certain current of ideas and we plunged into it because it seemed modern and successful. We started automatically saying the kind of things that won applause. We were afraid of crude salvationism. We were afraid of a breach with the spirit of the age. We were afraid of ridicule, afraid above all of real spiritual fears and guilt and hopes. You see, the power of the crowd is what can get somebody to disbelieve, but the power of the crowd is also what can get someone to follow Christ without thinking. The crowd gets you to go without thinking. Some of you have been going to church mainly because your family took you and your friends took you, and maybe you think it's appropriate for your culture. But you're not swimming anywhere. You're just being carried along by the stream. Another kind of false discipleship is the people who go after him for the miracles. Listen. The people who go after him for the miracles. There's a place in verse 26 where Jesus says, the bread. See, there's a kind of person that sees Christians changing. It sees Christians, people who are near Christ, dealing with their anger and dealing with depression and dealing with fears and functioning better. And so there's a kind of person who says, all right, I'm going to try this Christianity out. I'm going to try it. I'll make a little investment. If I get a little bit back, I'll make a bigger investment. I need some of these things. And so I'll give something. I'm willing to make a very big investment as long as there is a return. And see, what you do is you hold on to the terms, and you determine what those terms are. And you stay with God as long as He is following the terms. So you've got not a God, you don't have a Father, you don't have a Savior, you've got a business partner. And your relationship with Him is commercial. But friends, the rewards of faith, and there are tremendous rewards, are never meted out on your terms. They're only meted out on His terms. Real discipleship means speaking like this. Yes, I am a sufferer who needs comfort and help, but first I'm a sinner who needs pardon. Don't you see, when you say, is this going to pay me? I get into Christianity, but is it going to pay? Is it going to embarrass me? Is it going to mean I'm going to have to break up with this person? If you say, will it pay, you betray yourself. What you're saying is, can I still be happy and keep control of my life? and the answer of the ages is no. You can either abandon your self-will or you can abandon your hope, but you can't hold on to them both. And then there's the kind of person that follows after because of guilt. You know, most of us are breaking a lot of rules that we learned when we grew up. When we were little kids, we were told, don't lie. We were told, share what you have. And a lot of us grow up, we need to do to make it in the world? We're trampling on people and we're cheating on, we're cheating clients, we're cheating on our lovers or our spouses, or we're just failing in areas of personal discipline. Why do some people come to church? Because by coming to church and confessing their sins and giving to the poor and so on, they're trying to assuage their guilt in a superficial way. But there's no real desire to unlock their life to Christ from the inside. There's no real desire to follow him. There's no real positive desire to restructure their whole life around loving and serving and knowing him. In other words, there's a kind of person who's hedging their bets. That's why you come. It's like betting on both teams in the World Series. It's fire insurance, but it won't work. There's another kind of person that we've talked about who follows because they like being right. Maybe we've talked about that, so just a sentence here. There's a kind of person who loves to study doctrine and teaching, and they love, particularly they love a church that has more right and sound doctrine than everybody else. So they can look around at the poor slobs that don't have their accurate doctrine. They can say, we are the insiders. We know. We're the ones. And there's a kind of person that follows for those reasons. There's even a kind of person, verse 14 and 15 of chapter 6, that wants Jesus to be their king. But we're talking about a political king. There's some people who say, I will be very happy to follow Christ as long as I can make him run on my political platform. See, it's one thing to have Christ, and then Christ certainly, his teachings have many political implications. But you have to start with Christ and follow him into politics. You don't start with your politics and say, now, how can I use him? to further my ends. Listen, the ironic thing is that Jesus Christ, if you come to Him, you will find a new crowd. It's great to be part of a crowd. You will find help for your problems. You will definitely have your guilt dealt with. You will find yourself learning and understanding truths that other people don't understand. You will have a wisdom that others don't have. You will find that Christ is able to heal and deal with social problems. essential, main, primary reason you follow him? It's right here in what Peter says. And here's how we're going to close. Peter, with the help of the Spirit, gives you what one person has said is a great irreducible minimum of what it means to be a Christian. See, Jesus turns to Peter and says, Peter, everybody else is leaving. Are you staying or not? And why are you? So see, what Jesus is asking Peter for is, why are you a disciple? Everybody else has been choking. See, everybody else, they've choked on this. They wanted a lot of things from Jesus. When he demanded absolute authority, they split. Just like all of us, we want relevance, we want relevance, we want fulfillment, but we don't want surrender to the truth. And so Jesus turns to Peter and say, why are you staying? And Jesus, what does Peter say to Jesus? With the help of the Spirit, it, he gives you a great irreducible minimum for what it means to be a Christian. He says, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Now look carefully. This is the irreducible minimum. There's two parts to it. First, he says, Lord, to whom shall we go? Peter, like everybody else, believes that he can save himself and keep control of his own life. But here he admits that he's powerless and he's helpless. You know, when you were a youth, you remember what happened. Your parents or other people were always saying to you, now if you spend your money like that, this is what's going to happen. Or they said, well now if you go along with that crowd, this is what's going to happen. Or somebody would say, well now if you allow that habit to develop, it's going to develop into this. And what did you always say? dad, Aunt Jane, friends, I can handle it. I can handle it. I'm in control. I'm all right. Things are okay. And do you see how deep it goes? Man, how deep it goes. If I can just get through this next problem, if I can just land this job, if I can just land this person, if I can, I can handle it. I'm okay. I'm in charge. I'm in control. And you see, this is the why people gag on orthodox Christian doctrine. Because orthodox Christian doctrine says you're a sinner. You fall short of the law of God. You fail to love God and your neighbor as yourself. And therefore, Jesus Christ had to die for you so you could be forgiven. And why do we go, why do we gag on that? Because everything about Christianity says you can't handle it. It goes way back. We've been saying it to our parents. We've been saying it to everybody all around us. and Peter says no the beginning of being a real Christian is to say Lord to whom shall we go? that's a rhetorical question of course there's no place for me to go I'm out of my resources a healthy desperation

Lord to whom shall we go? but then secondly he doesn't stop there we mustn't stop there's a lot of people who do stop there they stop with helplessness the next step is the Brooklyn Bridge unless you go to here You have the words of eternal life. Peter says you alone. David Martin Lloyd-Jones says anyone who has any conceivable alternative to Jesus Christ is not a Christian. Anyone who has any conceivable alternative to Jesus Christ is not a Christian. We're going to sing over the table. We're going to sing Rock of Ages. We're going to sing Thou Must Save and Thou Alone. We're not there yet. This is after the Lord's Supper, all right? Thou must save and Thou alone. What does it mean to be a Christian? To be a Christian, listen, what was the difference between the real disciples and the false disciples? The false disciples couldn't stand it when Jesus, they believed Jesus was the Messiah. They believed He could do miracles. They believed He was the King of Israel. But when He says you've got to eat My flesh and drink My blood, He was saying you're not good enough. You're not good enough. I'm going to have to die for you. Everything is going to have to be of grace. Your own goodness isn't enough. God owes you nothing in spite of all of your efforts. And they couldn't handle it. Like the person up on the wall who says, I know that I'm worthy of God's grace because of my deeds. That person would choke. These people choked. But Peter didn't. You see, the trouble with the gospel is it's a wonderful gift, eternal life. the only way to receive some gifts is to accept a very insulting statement. If somebody gives you for a birthday present a book on how to lose weight and you say, thank you so much, what you're saying is, I know I'm overweight. If somebody gives you a book for your birthday present that says how to make friends and you say, thank you, that's the only, you know, when you say thank you, you're saying, thank you, I know I'm a wallflower. And when you receive the gifts of eternal life, it's saying, thank you, Lord, I know that I'm a sinner and I can't save myself. Look, you're all in different situations. Let me close this way. Some of you now are worried about your motives. Get this. Here is sincerity. Real Christian sincerity is to know that you're not sincere, is to know that your motives aren't sufficient and right. There's something deep inside of us that wants to be our own Savior so much that some of you are going to say, I can't go to God because my motives aren't pure now. And there you go. You think that by purity of motives you can earn your salvation. Oh, no. Real Christian sincerity is to say, now I see that even my motives aren't sufficient. Real sincerity is to know that I'm not sincere, but I need you. And I confess that the only hope I've got is what Jesus did on the cross. I don't even trust my sincerity anymore, but only what God has done in my behalf. And some of you are people, I hope, who realize that you're like these false disciples. You've choked on the authority claims of God, of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the one that says, come unto me. Take my yoke upon you. It's the only burden, as awful as it looks at first, that won't crush you. come to me and I'll give you life. And friends, there's some of you who might be in the position of these 12 disciples. I bet you the 12 disciples were looking at the crowd leaving and going, wait a minute here. Some of you may find today that your own Christian life is sort of stagnating, maybe even sliding back. You've got very, very little love in your heart for him. Look at how Jesus Christ reclaims people. And you can hear him say this to you this morning you do the Lord's Supper. Look at how Jesus reclaims people. You know what he says? Jesus doesn't come to them and say, are you going to go away too? If you do, there'll be hell to pay. Is that what he says? What does he say? Maybe that's what you think he's like. Forget it. He comes and says, will you also go away? This morning, will you bring yourself under the tender power of that question? Jesus Christ is urging, he's pleading with you, Reasoning from love. Listen. If you hear his question, you'll stay. He is saying, look, I have broken my body for you. I have poured out my blood for you. Do you really think this little romp is worth leaving me for after all I've done for you? Do you really think this pride, this little issue of pride, do you really think that this issue of comfort, is any of this really worth leaving me for after all I've done for you? He's pleading with you. of anybody that listens to this question coming right out of the table, right out of the bread and the cup, you'll stay. Because Jesus doesn't order you back. He wins you back. He woos you back. And he says, if you want strength, just think of what I've done for you. And if you hear his question, you know what you'll say? You'll say, oh Lord, what am I doing to you by being so cold and sliding back? you're the only thing I want this kind of question will always bring you to your senses some of you, dear friends, are true followers of Christ but the coin can always go further down and it can trigger greater and greater greatness in your life let's make sure the coin goes down further let's listen to him say, will you also go away? look at what I've done for you and then let it go all the way down and see the power of the kingdom released in your life pray. Father, as we do go to the table, we ask that you'd help us to literally hear by the power of your spirit, Jesus Christ saying to us, will you also go away when I broke myself for you? Will you also go away when I poured myself out for you? Help us to hear that. Help us to look into his eyes so that the coin goes down further, what he is and who he means to us, so that then we can find the power of the Christian faith released in our lives by your Spirit. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
