The passage on which we're basing our teaching is found in 1 Peter. We're trying to move through 1 Peter this year, and actually we're pretty close to the end. The passage we're going to read is near the end of the letter. Peter actually began, if you can remember, back in September and October when we started this study of 1 Peter. You'll know that he started on the note of dealing with suffering, dealing with trials and troubles, and now he comes back to it as he's about to end. The passage is 1 Peter 4, verses 12 to 19. Let me read them to you.

Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted because of the name of Christ, you are blessed, for the spirit of glory and God rests on you. If you suffer, it should not be as a murderer or a thief or any other kind of criminal, or even as a meddler. You know what that is, a busybody. However, if you suffer as a Christian, do not be ashamed. Praise God that you bear that name. For it is time for judgment to begin with the family of God. And if it begins with us, what will the outcome be for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if it is hard for the righteous to be saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? So then, those who suffer according to God's will should commit themselves to their faithful creator and continue to do good. This is God's word.

Now, I'm sorry. In a way, I was looking at the title that I chose for the sermon, How to Handle Suffering, and you know, that's awfully smug. That's awfully overconfident. How to Handle Suffering. Sounds like, yes, three steps, and you'll breeze through life. I think, really, it would be promising a lot, and it would be a little more accurate to really call this How to Avoid Being Handled by Suffering. How to Survive Suffering. Peter is very, very realistic. And yet, he gives us here a secret. He tells us the reason he's writing is because he's telling people that it's possible not just to survive suffering, but to use suffering. Not just to get through it, but to actually use it. And that's the reason I do use the word handle. Handle can sound like how to avoid it, how to get through it like a breeze. But handling suffering does not mean that you avoid it, that there's no pain, but it does mean that a Christian is somebody who, rightly oriented, can actually make use of the suffering. So that you come out refined and great of heart.

We talked about this somewhat in the fall, so some of what we're talking about here is a revisitation. But let's look at it. You see, back in the very beginning of the book, in chapter 1, verses 6 and 7, Peter wrote this: In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. And then he goes on and says, your faith, which is of greater worth than gold, refined by fire, may prove genuine and result in praise, glory, and honor.

Now, what we're reading here is extremely similar. Chapter 4, verse 12: Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you're suffering as though something strange were happening to you, but rather rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed.

Two things the passage tells us. The first one is what troubles, griefs, losses, what they really are, what their nature is. And then secondly, how you should respond to them. Number one, what their nature is, what they really are, and number two, how you should respond to them. And as I think I'm going to show you, understanding their nature is fifty, sixty, seventy percent of responding. Just to understand it. Just to put suffering into a truly and distinctively Christian understanding and worldview. To understand what trials are, you're already halfway home to responding to them in such a way that's profitable to you and beneficial.

Look, first of all, what are they? Fire. Fire.

Now, I know the passage that I read you says, Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you're suffering. But literally, if I was to transliterate from the Greek into English, this is what Peter is actually saying. He's saying, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal which comes upon you to prove you. Two words. First of all, what is translated as painful trial is actually translated as fiery ordeal. It's a Greek word, purosis. A fiery ordeal. Now, those of us who are English speakers probably realize that purosis sounds like the word purify. And that is what the Greek word means. For example, in Revelation 3:18, Jesus uses this same Greek word. Jesus says, I will give you gold, puromai, gold I have refined through fire. So the word purosis means a refiner's fire, a fire that purifies, a fire that cleanses, a fire into which you put the metal and it comes out pure.

I don't know if this is true, but I heard a pastor tell a story about a silversmith he once knew. He talked to this silversmith about how do you know that you've put the silver through the fire enough? And the silversmith said, I know because I look into it and when I can see my face in it, when I can see my own face reflected, I know it's been through enough. I know it's pure. And the pastor thought about that and said, you know, that's what God does to us. That's what Jesus does to us. He puts us through the fire. He puts us through the fire until he can see his own image reflected in us. That's the idea behind the word purosis.

But then, the word purosis also says, don't be surprised at the fiery trial that comes upon you to prove you. And this word to prove is the word that means to test, to show what you really are. It actually comes from a root word that means to poke or to pierce. If you want to know what something is really like, you poke, you pierce in.

What's it saying? Think about a refiner's fire. Physically, when you put metal ore in the fire, the metal ore contains both the pure and the impure, the worthy and the worthless, the pure metal and the dross. In normal conditions, in normal temperature, in normal atmospheric conditions, the pure and the dross are linked together. You can't tell where one starts and the other stops. They're together. Why do you then put it in the fire? Because the fire creates a separation. The fire creates a condition in which those two things can no longer stay alongside. Why? Because the pure can handle the fire, but the impure cannot. The true can handle the fire, and the false cannot. And therefore, the fire separates the two.

This means that depending on the nature of the ore that goes into the fire, sometimes the ore will be incinerated if it's nothing but dross. Other times, the ore will come through with very little change if it's mainly pure metal. In most cases, it goes through and it's very changed. You see how that works.

Now, what does all that mean to us spiritually? It means this spiritually. As chapter 1, verse 7 says, when Peter talks about being refined by fire, he's talking about our faith. Remember? Chapter 1, verse 7, it says, your faith, which is of greater worth than gold, your faith will be refined by fire. Spiritually, a trial or a trouble is that which shows you what you really trust. It shows you what you're made of. In fact, it shows you three things.

Troubles and trials are all about trust. You have a divided heart. I heard Jeff up here talking about this not too long ago. You've got a divided heart. You don't know it, and you won't know it until you go through the fire. Just like a piece of ore, you can't really tell how pure it is until you put it through the fire and see how much is left. Because the impure can't stand the fire and the pure can. So in the same way, you have in your heart a kind of amalgam of allegiances, things that you trust. And you have no idea what those things are, and you have no idea how inadequate they are. And you don't learn to actually put more and more of your functional trust in Jesus unless you go through the fire.

A fire is any trouble, is any suffering that divides your allegiances, that shows you the differences. I'll go so far as to say you can't refine metal ore without heat. And in the same way, you cannot learn to grow into deep trust in God without troubles. Put it that way. Let me show you. In other words, what is heat? Let me put it to you this way. Suffering, like a furnace, physically, suffering, number one, shows you what you really trust in. Number two, shows you the invalid nature, the inadequacy of those things you trust in. And number three, it also teaches you to really trust in God. Let me just go through that kind of quickly because this all shows you the nature of what suffering is. It's fire.

Let me put it to you this way. Number one, unless you suffer, unless there's troubles, unless there's grief and losses, you really don't know what you trust in. We all start out the Christian life saying, I trust in God. Absolutely I trust in God. I live for God. I worship God. But the fact is that there are many, many other things alongside of God that you trust in as well. You trust in this and this and this. You trust in that. And you have no idea how much you trust in them until they're threatened. You have no idea how much you have your allegiance bound up in them until circumstances threaten them or remove them or destroy them. And when you shake your fist and say, God, I believe in God and yet what good is it to believe in God because I don't have this thing anymore. I don't have this thing anymore. At that point, you're in the fire.

You're not in the fire until you see certain things that you thought were just nice, things that you liked, but you had no idea that they were your allegiances. They were things that you trusted and they were things that you lived for. You didn't understand that. A trial is whenever there is a separation made between your allegiance to God and your allegiance to other things and you can't go on the same road.

See, that goes along with the physical idea of the furnace. In normal atmospheric conditions, the pure and the impure can live together. In the furnace, they can't. When things are going well, when your circumstances are going well, which is what I call the normal atmospheric conditions, when your circumstances are going well, your allegiances can live together, God and other things, and you have no idea just how much these other things have a hold on your heart. But it's only when the fire comes. And what is the fire? Whenever those things are threatened, whenever those things look like they're slipping out of your grasp. The fire is whenever there's a fork in the road. You can have allegiance to God or you can have allegiance to something else, but you can't have both. Then you're in the fire.

Let me try to put it a couple of ways so I can make it as clear as possible. There are a couple of examples of this. Let's just say you have no idea how much your career means to you. You say, I trust God. God is my trust. But then something threatens your career. And there's two ways this can work. First of all, for example, there might be a situation in which if you obey God, if you stick up for what is right, if you tell the truth, it'll jeopardize your career. That's one kind of fire. There's another kind of fire, and that is when something that was real important to you, like your career, you're losing. It's suddenly cut out from under you. And in that situation, to trust and obey God is hard.

See, in one situation, trusting and obeying God causes the career loss. In another case, the career loss makes it hard for you to trust and obey. But in both cases, you're in the fire. Because until bad circumstances come, it's easy for the two things to live together. But when bad circumstances come, you no longer can do it. And you have to choose.

So let me put it this way. A fiery trial is any situation in which obedience and trust in God will cost you something. Something very, very dear. And here's how you know you're in the fire. Because these two ways that we're living together so they divide. The way you know you're in the fire is that you can hear, if you really listen, you can hear God saying to you, now we'll find out whether you got into this religion for me to serve you or to get you to serve me. Two different ways. Are you in? Did you get into this religion to get me to serve you? Or did you get into this religion so that you would serve me? Or put it another way. God's saying, now we'll see whether you're my assistant or I'm your assistant. Or, now we'll see whether these things are means and I'm the end or I'm the means and these things are the end.

Don't you see? Whenever it's hard to obey, whenever it's difficult to obey, whenever it's costly to obey, whenever it seems like suicide to obey, whenever it looks like obedience is going to lead to more loss, you're in the fire because finally the two ways that have been living together are separating. And I'll tell you something, it's only in those situations, it's only in the furnace that metal ore can be purified. It's only in those situations that you can discover what your trust is and what your trusts are and you can learn what they are and you can ditch them.

Now, you know, one of the most frightening things, of course, is that there are people who think they're fine and they say, I trust in Christ, but when their real trusts actually come into a conflict, when there's a fork in the road, when it finally will really cost them something to follow Christ instead of this and they follow this instead of Christ, one of the questions everybody has is, was that person ever a Christian? Is that person a Christian? The answer is you lose your assurance because you can't know. You're not really sure at that point.

The important thing, though, is for you to see that when the fire comes, it is absolutely and utterly important for you to take the road, the only way for you to grow and not be incinerated is to take the road that says, Jesus only.

Now, am I being morbid? No. Because I'm telling you, and that moves to my second point, the first point was that fires show us what our real trusts are. Fires show us that we don't live for God, that we live for our own competence. Whenever you have to choose between God and pleasure, God and comfort, God and popularity, God and status, you're in the fire. You see? God and money, you're in the fire. And only then can you really refine your loyalty and know that God comes first. Only in those situations.

I can't sit here in nice times, in good circumstances, and say, Lord, I want to put you first. You can't put God first. You don't learn to put God first. You don't even know how to put God first until you're in the fire. But now, secondly, the fire incinerates and destroys the unimportant. It destroys the dross. It shows you that the gold is more valuable than the dross because the gold can take the fire and the dross can't. And in the same way, it's in the fire that you see the inadequacy of your false trusts.

It's in the fire. A couple of weeks ago in a morning service, I tried to touch on this. Some years ago, I heard a remarkable sermon by a British preacher, and he was preaching on this text. Jeremiah 2, verses 27 and 28. This is what the text is. God is speaking. They say to wood, you are my father, and to stone, you gave me birth. They have turned their backs to me and not their faces. Yet, when they are in trouble, they say, come and save us. Where then are the gods you have made for yourselves? Let them come if they can save you when you're in trouble, for you have as many gods as towns, O Judah.

They say to stone, to wood, you're my father. They say to stone, you gave me birth. They've turned their backs to me. Yet, when they're in trouble, they come and say to me, save us.

Now, what's the point? Well, I'll tell you what the point of the sermon was. It was simply this. How do you know? Here's God, and here's pleasure. Here's God, and here's popularity. Here's God, and here's status. Here's God, and here's physical comfort. Here's God, and here's intellectual respectability. You follow God, and at some point, you're going to have to choose between those things. Somewhere, that's when you're in the fire.

Now, when you're tempted to say, oh my gosh, I have to go to intellectual respectability. I don't want everybody to make fun of me. When you're tempted to say, I've got to go to pleasure. I don't want to live a life in which I'm always denying myself. When you say, I've got to choose status, or I've got to, whatever. Whenever you choose those things, those are the things you say, I've got to have those. You know, I'd like to have God, but this is a non-negotiable. Those, according to Jeremiah, are your gods.

How do you know those things are really adequate? How do you know those things will take you through? Jeremiah says, it's not on vacation that you can tell whether these things work. It's not when the sun is shining that you can tell. It's only in the fire. The fact of the matter is, when you're facing the troubles of life, any of those things, any other functional trust, any other functional priority except God himself, will disintegrate on you.

And the preacher went through and tried to explain, and it was tremendously powerful. See what he's saying. For example, how do you justify scientific theories? A lot of people say through empirical observation. Not anymore. Nobody's ever seen a quark. Nobody's ever seen an electron. How do they know about these things? How do they justify those theories? They posit a theory, and then you see how it stands up to reality. You see whether or not it accounts for things. You see whether or not it helps you expect what comes.

This preacher went on and said, take a look at your trusts. What if the most important? Plenty of people will say to me, look, yeah, I'd like to be a Christian, but I do not want to cut myself off. If I become a Christian, I'm not supposed to really marry somebody who's not a Christian. Let's just take a nice concrete example. It's hard enough for me to find somebody to marry. If I have to narrow myself down to this, in New York City, how many Christians are there? You see, what's, am I going to commit, in a sense, I'm going to commit, I might commit social suicide. How can I do this? You see.

Now, I'll tell you where trial comes. Intellectually, you can hear that, and you can say, I'm a Christian, and I know I really shouldn't marry a non-Christian. That, you're not in the fire yet. You're in the fire when an absolutely gorgeous person of the opposite sex is interested in you. An absolutely attractive person, not just physically, is interested in you, and you're interested, and that person says, I will never, I am not, I cannot be, and never will be a Christian. You're in the fire. What are you going to do? Are you going to follow God, or are you going to follow your dreams?

Now, you can make your trust dreams of marital bliss. You can make your trust sexual attractiveness. You can make your trust career. How will those trusts really help you when you're facing the reality of the problems of life? Let's just say you're sick, really sick, bedridden. You may be sick for a long time. When you're shut up in your own spirit, if you're living for sexual attraction, if you're living for career, how will those trusts help you when you're facing the reality of sickness? How will they help you when you're facing the reality of old age?

A lot of people are saying, ah, when you're old, and you're sick, kill yourself. You ought to be able to do that. Physician-assisted suicide. You have nothing else to live for. Let me tell you something rather simple but stark. Whenever your life becomes meaningless, it's because something besides God that you put your functional trust in has died. Whenever somebody says to me, life is meaningless, it's because something that you put your functional trust in instead of God has died.

If God's your functional trust, if God's the thing that you put your creativity into and from which you get your creativity, you put your love into and from which you get your love, you put your significance into and you get your significance out of, if God is the thing you trust in, if you have a heart refined by suffering to put your faith in Him and Him alone, you will never face meaningless time. It doesn't matter whether you're sick and maybe bedridden for a long time. It will not matter if you're sick. You're old. It will not matter if you failed.

When people say, life is meaningless because I'm old. Life is meaningless because I'm sick. Life is meaningless because I'm separated. Life is meaningless because I've failed. It means that your trust, your gods, your false gods have failed. They've died. You know why? They can't take the heat of reality. There's only one God who can. There's only one God who can never, ever, ever leave you.

Ah, if your God, if your trust is sexual attractiveness and you're sick, it's gone. If your trust is relational intimacy, romance, and this or that happens, it's gone. God's different. Faith in God, commitment to God will take any furnace. It will go through any heat at all. And if you can't take the heat to the degree you can't take the heat, it's God trying to say, the only place that's safe is with me. You don't love me enough. That's why your life is meaningless right now. You don't love me enough.

Listen, when the sun is out, when the temperature is 72 degrees with low humidity, there is no way to know not only what your functional trusts are, but there's no way for you to see how inadequate and how invalid they are. No way to see how absolutely base and hollow they are. It's when you go through the furnace.

How will those things that you're living for now that you've chosen over God, how will they hold up? How will they hold up against sickness, old age? How will they hold up in front of death?

This week, one of our Bible studies, we were looking at a couple of guys, how they died. In 1555, there were a bunch of people in England that were burned at the stake for their faith. A couple of them right in Oxford. One of them was a guy named Latimer, Hugh Latimer. And he turned to the guy who was about to be burned with him. Some of you heard this. And he turned to his friend, Nicholas Ridley, as they were bringing the fire, and he said, Be of good cheer, Master Ridley, and play the man. For today, by God's grace, we will light a candle in England that will never be put out.

Just a few months before or later, I can't remember which, there was a guy named John Bradford. He was about to be burned at the stake with his young secretary, John Leaf. John was shaking a little bit, like a leaf, I guess. And Bradford turned to him as they brought the fire. And he says, Be of good cheer, Master Leaf. We'll have a merry supper with the Lord tonight.

As the flames went up around Bradford, as the flames went up around Latimer, they raised their hands, and they began to pray so all the people around could hear. And they praised God, and they thanked Him for the life they'd had. How will any other God enable you to face the literal furnace, the real fire like that? There's only one God, there's only one trust, there's only one basis for your life that will ever be able to handle the furnace of reality. Your faith. The fiery ordeal will prove whether you have faith.

And, but, most important of all, not just, you see, whenever you go through one of these things, you'll see, you know, I don't really trust God like I should. And you'll be in a position to put your trust where it needs to be. You have to choose. You can say, okay, I'm going to tell the truth, okay, I'm going to stick with it, I'm going to be with Him. Only really in the fire do you know what it means to do that. Only in the fire can you do that. Only in the fire do you exercise your will in that way and develop the muscles of trust.

By the way, friends, it's absolutely critical to see that every single one of the metaphors the Bible uses for suffering goes through the same material. Look, here's one metaphor. Refining fire. There are other metaphors that the Bible uses to describe how a Christian needs to think about suffering. In Hebrews, it talks about a coach with an athlete. In Hebrews, it also talks about parents with children, disciplining children. In John chapter 15, it talks about the vine dresser pruning the vine. Do you remember that one? Look at what they all have in common.

Look at the vine dresser. Jesus says in John chapter 15, you're the branches. You're the branches. The Father will prune you. Have you ever seen a vine pruned? To the ignorant eye, to watch a guy pruning a vine, to the ignorant eye, and I have several of them, and I've seen this happen. I used to see this happen some years ago. To the ignorant eye, it looks like an absolute waste. Here is the vine dresser attacking the vine. And all over the ground are beautiful green leaves and even little clusters of grapes that haven't even begun to grow yet. And when it's all done, you see the poor vine. They're bleeding at a hundred places where he's attacked it with the cruel steel.

But to the wise eye, the wise eye knows that a good vine dresser has not taken off anything that was not a loss to keep and a gain to lose. A wise eye knows that actually the productivity and the life of the vine has been enhanced by that pruning. Now, do you see what a coach does with an athlete? Do you see what a vine dresser does with a vine? Do you see what the refiner does with the ore? Do you see what parents do with children? In every case, they are given something, put into their hands, and it's their job to bring out the beauty, bring out the productivity, bring out the greatness of it. And what do they do? What do they do in every case? They burn it. They discipline it. They stretch it. They run it. And to the ignorant eye, it looks like they're trying to kill it. But to the wise eye, they realize in every single case, this is the way they grow.

Does anybody think, this is Christianity? Cut me out. Give me something else. You're kidding me, somebody says. You're telling me that if I pray, oh Lord, bring anything into my life, it'll take to make me great, to make me wise, to make me courageous, to make me loving, to give me integrity, to give me nobility. And if I pray that, that God is bound to bring into my life furnaces, pruning, discipline. He's bound to bring troubles into my life. And the answer is yes.

Well, he said, I need to get out. Let me tell you, what the Bible says is that when troubles come into your life, they're mercy. If there's anybody here who's not been a parent, has not raised kids all the way, you know, if you've never been a parent, to some degree, I excuse you a little bit. You're going to have to go on what the Bible says.

The Bible says the only way God can make you a great person is to bring into your life things that look irrational to you, is to bring things in your life that you're sure have make no sense, is to teach you delayed gratification. The Bible says all that. And you're going to have to go on that. But if you're parents, you've got no excuses because you know there is no way to turn little kids into mature adults without them constantly accusing you of cruelty. There is no way you can bring those children up without them constantly saying, this and that, how dare you bring this into my life, what is wrong with you?

If you're parents, you know, if parenthood does not teach you this principle, so that you will never, ever again complain about anything God has brought into your life, if parenthood doesn't teach you that, there is no way you will ever learn.

Those of you who aren't parents, I'm a little nicer to. You're going to have to go on what the Bible says. You're going to have to look at refining. You're going to have to look at pruning. You're going to have to look at these things and say, yeah, it makes sense. Don't you see? It's a mercy.

Well, now, look, last of all, that's how you understand it. A fiery ordeal that comes to prove you, to show you what's in your heart, to teach you to grasp and to hold on. But now, once you understand it, what are you supposed to actually do? How do you actually respond?

Well, there are a number of statements here that I'll go through kind of briefly. Look, first of all, it says, do not be surprised. Let me just give you three things. Three things you have to do when the fiery trial hits.

Some people go through the fiery trial and they come out bitter and angry and cynical all their lives. Other people go through the very same trial and they come out more compassionate, stronger. Why? Because of this. It depends on how you respond. Number one, it says don't be astonished. Don't be surprised. That's a command.

You notice, if you read through the book of Peter, you'll see that Peter never says, don't grieve. He doesn't say that. Yes, he says rejoice, but that rejoice means, look, rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. He's not saying be happy that you're suffering. He's not saying be a masochist. He's not saying rejoice because you're in pain. He's saying rejoice because as a Christian, just as the sufferings of Christ gave him the name which is above every name, just as the sufferings of Jesus Christ were redemptive, just as when he handled the sufferings obediently, he was highly exalted and given that name which is above every name, you're in the same pattern. You're part of the same party. You're walking in the same shoes and you're supposed to rejoice that you're making progress. You're supposed to rejoice in all that we've been talking about.

It doesn't say a Christian is happy or even goes after pain. Nothing like that at all. It says, in fact, in chapter one, it says you will go through pain. You will be in heaviness, a word that means distress. It's expected that you will cry, expected that you weep. That's not what he's saying here. He's saying, though, you can't be astonished. You will not handle suffering if you're surprised at it. If you're saying, how could this be happening to me? I'm a good person. I've done this and that. I'm a Christian. Doesn't the Bible say God loves us? What's going on?

Grief will never destroy you. Surprise will. Grief in response, weeping in response to suffering will not hurt you, but surprise will. Well, how can you overcome surprise? Just the way we've been talking. You've got to understand it. You've got to think of the refiner. You've got to think of the vine dresser. You've got to think of the parent. You've got to think of the coach with the athlete, putting them through the paces. You've got to understand. And I believe that if you don't understand, you'll be shocked. And if you're shocked, that will be too much for you to bear.

A lot of people that I know say, the grief that I'm going through, the grief is too much for me to bear. But as I look at it, I see there's this much grief and then there's this much astonishment, surprise, self-pity. You know? See? Bitterness is surprise. How could this be happening? It's not the grief. Jesus was always weeping. He was always crying. He was sweating blood, for crying out loud. You know, there in the Garden of Gethsemane, He didn't say, Well, I'm just rejoicing in everything that the Lord is doing to me. I just know that God will bring good out of it. He's in the dust. He's weeping. He's saying, My soul is overwhelmed to the point of death. He's not in denial. He's not repressing his emotions. That's not Christianity. But He's not surprised. Because He knows what's coming. He knows how it works. He says, Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be done. He knows that God's got a plan. He knows that God has a plan. He says, I don't know if I can handle it.

I'll tell you what will sink you is not the grief. It's the surprise. How will you get over the surprise? By understanding the things we've talked about tonight. That's number one.

Second thing, so don't be surprised. Understand. Number two, obey. You notice how often it says, it's really funny. It says, if you're suffering, not as a murderer, not as a thief, not even as a meddler, a busybody, the most important thing for you to do, in your suffering, is to obey.

Can I tell you how easy it is to disobey? When you go through troubles, it's very easy to just stop praying. Stop coming to church. It's very easy to stop serving people, because you're just sort of absorbed in your own troubles. It's very easy to kind of brood on self-pity. It's very easy to turn your back on God. It's very easy to get into what I would call escape sins. Things that are wrong, but you just do them because it gives you a brief high to kind of overcome how bad you feel.

It's so easy, when you're under the pruner's knife, to wiggle around on the table, but you realize how bad that is. The best surgeon in the world is not going to be able to successfully do surgery if you're saying, oh, stop that. It just won't work. If you keep grabbing the guy's hand, you know, after a while, he says, this is going to be very hard. I think we better call off the whole thing. I never get the tumor out, because you won't stay still.

Obedience is to stay still. Charles Spurgeon says, an ounce of sin will hurt you far more than ten million tons of suffering. I wrote in my quiet time notebook, a couple years ago, when I blow up at my wife, I've hurt myself a thousand times more with that than God will ever hurt me with thousands and thousands of troubles that he's brought into my life. Because you see, suffering, met obediently, just makes you into a great heart. We've been talking about this all night. But sin hardens you, embitters you, makes you more selfish. Stay put, obey, don't suffer as a meddler.

Number three, commit yourself. Commit yourself to God. You know what the word commit means? It's in verse 19. So then, those who suffer according to God's will should commit themselves to their faithful creator, and continue to do good.

There it is. The word commit means to make a deposit. You only deposit yourself in a bank which is insured, a bank that you're sure of. Why can you trust him? Why can you say, Lord, I don't know what's going on, but I trust you.

Here's why. All the other religions of the world, nobody's got what we've got. Every other religion has lots of wisdom in other religions. But it's the only religion in which you've got a God that suffers. He suffered. Even Judaism, even Judaism, our closest cousin as a religion. We share so much with Judaism. We're based on it. We're built, in a sense, on the shoulders of Judaism. They don't even have this. The idea that God could actually suffer.

Jesus Christ suffered socially. He suffered everything that you would ever want to suffer: rejection, loneliness. He suffered physically, more than we can ever understand. He suffered spiritually. He experienced tremendous alienation and desolation, being cut off from God in ways that none of us have ever experienced.

Here is a God who, when you go to and say, I'm suffering, here's the only God in any religion that can say, I know what you mean. Just think about it. Every other religion says, go to God. All the other gods, as they're depicted in other religions, what do they say? You better be good. They don't even know. They don't know what it's like to be hurt. They don't know what it's like to be lonely. They don't know what it's like to be facing death.

Now, if you can't commit yourself to him and live the way he lived and the way he faced suffering, who in the world can you trust? You? You gotta trust yourself. That's the only other option. Commit yourself to him. For he cares for you.

Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would enable us to commit ourselves, obey, and never be surprised because we see that the fiery ordeal is there to turn us into something so pure that Jesus sees his face in us when he looks at us. Let that be so. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
