So he went to a town in Samaria called Sychar, near the plot of ground Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, and Jesus, tired as he was from the journey, sat down by the well. It was about the sixth hour. When a Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into town to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, You are a Jew. Jew, I am a Samaritan woman. How can you tell me, how can you ask me for a drink? For Jews do not associate with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that asks you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. Sir, the woman said, you have nothing to draw with and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob who gave us the well and drank from it himself as did also his sons and his flocks and herds. And Jesus answered, Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I won't get thirsty and have to keep coming here to draw water. Here ends the reading of God's holy word. Interesting place, New York. The city with more laughter and less happiness. Any city I know. In Philadelphia, there's a place on the Schuylkill River called Boathouse Row. There's a stream that comes into the river at that point. And if you follow the stream over the hill into the city, you come to a spring. and over the spring there's an inscription, which some people believe was put there years ago by the city of Philadelphia, the city government, and the inscription reads, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again. It's kind of... And it's taken from this passage. Jesus here sums up almost everything he's been saying in the first chapters, in every one of his interviews. Here in verse 13 and 14, he says, who drinks this water will be thirsty again, but whoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water, welling up to eternal life. When I was preparing this message, the one frustration I had was that I continually found myself having to say things that we've been talking about for the last four months as we've been going through the book of John. I kept thinking, well, we've talked about that. And in a way, Jesus is under a new figure, under a new heading. Drawing many of the strains of teaching that he's been giving us up to now in the book. And laying them all out for us as he speaks to this woman. He's giving us an argument. An offer. And a challenge. An argument. An offer. And a challenge. The argument is why you should come to me. The offer is what you will get if you come to me. And the challenge is how you must come to me. And it's all there in verse 13 and 14. The argument is you are irremediably thirsty. The offer is I've got a water that if you drink will result in you never thirsting again. And the challenge is it's from me you must get it. You can't draw it out of your well. It's not your water. It's mine. You must come to me for it. it. You see, if you want to deal with the pollution in a river, you've got to find out how far up the stream the pollution comes from. See, if you want to clean up the East River, you shouldn't start at the bottom. You have to find out where the source is. Where's the pollution coming in? You've got to work up far enough. The Bible says, if you think of your life as a river. The source of the pollution is a long way up. It's in the heart. It's in the fountain. It's in the spring. And what Jesus here is telling us, again, is that Christianity, unlike any other religious system you find, is radical. The word heart in English means the emotions versus the head. But the word heart in biblical terminology means your root, your radix. It means that which is the center of your being from which flows all the issues of life. All your thoughts. All your emotions. All your feelings. It's the motivation. It's the worldview. It's the way of. It's the way of your stance toward the world. The way of grasping things. It's your heart. It's your source. It's the fountain. That's where the pollution comes from. And so Christianity ultimately, though it has a philosophy, it's a wonderful philosophy, and it has a great ethic, and it has a tremendous experience. To say that Christianity has all these things doesn't mean that Christianity is these things. Christianity is far more than a philosophy, far more than an ethic, and far more than an experience. Because Christianity tries to get beneath the intellectual and the volitional and the emotional level to the heart, to the source, to the fountain. Christianity is getting a new spring. It's getting a new spring. A new fountain. Out of which comes nothing but sweet water. So that eventually. All the pollution in your life is gone. How do you know. If you've got that. What does it look like. If you have it. How do you know. If you have it or not. How do you receive it. Very important questions. How do you know. It's one thing to be religious. It's one thing to believe. leave, it's one thing to have some nice, warm, religious feelings, but you see, what Jesus is saying is, yeah, there might be good and bad things in your river, but what about the spring? What about the source of it all? Have you received my new heart, my new source that I can give you? Do you have in you a spring of eternal life, a spring of water that wells up to eternal life? Do you have it or not? That's the question. And the answer comes from studying these few words in verses 13 and 14. Let's look at his argument. Let's look at his offer. And let's look at his challenge. Those three things. First of all, let's look at his offer. Pardon me, that's not the first thing. His argument. He's got an argument. It's so amazing how often this is his argument. He comes to you like this. He says, the reason you need to come to me is because you're thirsty. There is, and he's saying, a craving in you for more than time or space can satisfy. There is a thirst that you have in your soul that can't be dealt with by anything you can find in time or space. And anything you're trying to drink in time or space will only result in you getting more thirsty. That's what he's saying. You know, you can imagine, I don't know if this has ever happened to you, but if you've ever really been very thirsty and somebody puts forth a certain kind of drink that seems to have all the qualifications to quench your thirst. It's liquid, and the person says it's sweet, but you realize that there's certain kinds of sweet liquids that really do not at all quench your thirst but make it worse. You know, for example, if you're very thirsty, do not drink pancake syrup. Why not? It's liquid. It's sweet. I know. But it doesn't quench your thirst. And when you're done. You say. I'm thirstier than ever. And Jesus says. If you put down. The bucket. Of your soul. Into any. Other. Cause. Any. Other. Pursuit. Any. Other. Relationship. Or. Any. Other. Comfort. Anything. Else. With. Me. If. You. Put. Down. The. Bucket. Of. Your. Soul. In. Any. Of. Those. Things. And. Drink. Out. out of those things, you will find yourself getting more and more thirsty. Now this is one of his major arguments. Sinclair Lewis, not C.S. Lewis, Sinclair Lewis, wrote a novel. In the one novel, there's a man who has it all. He's a businessman and he has it all. And he leaves it all to run off with a married woman. He leaves his family, his reputation. And this woman, who's also married, leaves everything she has to run off with him. And at one point, she says to him, You know, she says, on the surface we seem quite different, but deep down we're fundamentally the same. We're both desperately unhappy about something and we have no idea what it is. That's what brings them together. See, the desires, there's a desire that's awakened in you when you first fall in love, when you first start in on the career that you want, when you first taste your bit of professional success, are able to buy or build the dream house. And those desires get awakened as you're about to grab these things. And when you grab them, you say, this is going to quench these desires. And it never does, because the desires are such that even the very best mate and the very best job and the very best career just can't seem to fulfill. It can't be done. Now, the reason that I have some confidence in talking to this group is because I know that in all the world, New Yorkers are the least likely to kid themselves that they're happy. The least likely. A lot of other folks, a lot of other places are always saying, of course I'm happy. I've got this, I've got that, I've got all the things that I was supposed to have. People in New York know better than others that they're thirsty. They know better than others. Don't ask me why. But they do. I think there's something about the city. You know. Any city. That draws out what's in the human heart. It magnifies what's in the human heart. That's why the city is always. The place of the best. And the worst. Why? Because it brings out. Both the good. And the bad. In the human heart. So. Everybody can see it. The best. And the worst. That's what a city is. And a city. Also. Makes it harder. For you. To kid. Yourself. You're. Not. Happy. You. Are. Thirsty. And. The. More. you drink of the things that you thought would quench the thirst, the thirstier you seem to get. These things turn out to be pancake syrup. And there's only one thing to do. Well, no, there's four things you can do. Four things you can do when you begin to realize that. Now, I want you to know, and some of you might find this a pretty arrogant thing to say, the more likely, how do I say this? The more you understand and know what I just said, the wiser and more mature you are. And the more you think, oh no, I'm going to be happy. I'm going to have a happy life. I'm going to get things that are going to fulfill me and satisfy me. The younger and less mature you are and the less you know about your life and your own heart. The only reason I can say that is there's plenty of people in this room who know that's true. And those of you who don't know that's true, just please look at yourself and think about yourself. When you finally get to see this reality, there's only four things you can do. they are. Number one, you can blame the things. Now, we've talked about this before. You can blame the things. You can say, you know, here, I've made it. I've made it. Why am I so unhappy? It must be this is the wrong house. This is the wrong wife. Or the wrong husband. Or the wrong lover. Or the wrong lifestyle. And you know, what's interesting is the most successful people are like this. They make headlines. Because they're so bored. And so discontented. They're always changing mates and changing friends and changing careers and changing looks. And we laugh at them. And the reason that we're not doing it is we're not as successful as they are. If we were as successful as they were, we would be in the same boat. So successful people have a tendency, when they find that they're not contented at all, is they say, well, I thought these things would bring it to me. And they don't. So it must be the things. I need new things. fools of themselves to the delight of the tabloids. The second thing you can do is where most of us are. If you haven't been that successful, is instead of blaming the things, since you don't have the things, you don't know enough to blame the things yet, you blame yourself. You say, I'll tell you the reason I'm unhappy is because I haven't achieved. I haven't performed up the standards. I've made bad choices. See, a lot of you are unhappy and you say, it's all because of I've been such a fool. I never should have married that person. I never should have come to New York. I never should have gotten into this career. Or I never should have trusted that person. And so you're blaming yourself. See a lot of people. Who are not very successful. You have a tendency to say. I haven't achieved what I want to achieve. So it's my fault. So you blame yourself. Get down on yourself. You burn yourself out. You kick yourself. Great life. Third thing. Third possibility. You don't blame the things. yourself, there's a third possibility, which is a little more consonant with mental health, and that is you blame the universe. What you say is, well, when I was little, when I was younger, I thought I could be a happy person, but now I've grown up, and I realize that you can't go howling after the moon anymore. You can't expect much out of life. You've got to keep a stiff upper lip. The universe is something of a fraud, and all those great idealistic notions I used to have,

and you've also given up a lot of what makes you a human. You've also given up a lot of what makes you nice to be around. And you've become a cynic. And you're on your way to bitterness. So now, you can blame the things, which makes you a fool. You can blame yourself, which makes you always depressed. You can blame the universe, which makes you very, very mistrustful and cynical. or you can blame your separation from God. Not Sinclair, but the other Lewis, says it this way. He says, for every desire that you find in a creature, there exists a satisfaction. Ducklings want to swim? Guess what? There's such a thing as water. Water exists. Birds, I don't know if he says all this, but it's something like this. hungry, there's such a thing as worms. Babies are thirsty, there's such a thing as milk. Men and women have sexual desire, there's such a thing as sex. And if I find within myself deep thirst that nothing in this world can satisfy, it must mean that I was built for another world. There's a place in Sartre's novel, no, it's not Sartre, it's Camus'

where his main character, Clements, is amazingly honest and says this. He says, Because I longed for eternal life, I went to bed with harlots. I drank for nights on end. I soared in bliss, but I awoke with a bitter taste of the mortal state. There it is. The reason I'm so thirsty is because I'm after eternal life, but every morning I wake up with a taste of the mortal state on my mouth. that the things that really will make him happy are not here. He knows. And from Camus, on the one hand, I'm thinking about a fellow that I knew

in a church I once pastored. I knew him because his mother came to church, and of course he did not. And his mother was always saying, please go talk to him. And I would every so often do it. And he lived a very sleazy and tacky life that made his family unhappy and everybody else unhappy. happy. He basically, he played in a band that went around to very old, nasty bars and basically slept with any woman who threw herself at him. And he used to say this to me. He used to say, Mama wants me to turn to God, but he says, you know, I'm restless. I couldn't live a life like that. I'm too restless and I need a woman, a new woman every week. That's what he told me. And I looked at him and I said, well, guess what? You're getting a woman every week and you're still restless. This is no argument. Your continued thirst is no argument for your lifestyle. It's an argument against your lifestyle. My dear friend, you think too little of yourself. You think you're made only of earth, but you're made of heaven too. And unless you give God access to your center, to the spring of your life, to your fountain, you're going to be such a mediocre person unless you drink him into the center what little passion you've got left which is going dry will be gone soon you're not just made of earth you're made of heaven too you're built for something considerably more and Jesus is continually making that as his argument whosoever drinks this water will thirst again and then he turns around and he gives the offer and what's the offer? an amazing offer. However, he says, whosoever drinks the water I give him will never thirst. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. It's obvious that in the Near East, in the desert regions, that water is a metaphor for life. It's pretty obvious why that would be true, of course. And Jesus very clearly says, my water is eternal life. It's a metaphor for eternal life. It's a quality of life. In the desert, I'm told that it's possible because you're so tired and so wiped out to just start to hibernate. And you're so thirsty, you fall asleep. And as you're sleeping, you're actually dehydrating and you're fitfully tossing and turning, not really aware that you're dying of thirst until you wake up. And when you wake up, there is this incredible thirst. And you run around in delirium and you'll drink anything that's liquid. Urine, antifreeze. Even though it not only doesn't quench your thirst, but it makes it worse and takes poison into your veins. The Bible says that we're all like that. There's only two kinds of people outside of Jesus Christ. The one kind of person are people who are asleep. sleep. They're sleeping very fitfully, half awake, half asleep. Haven't you ever been in that kind of state? Not able to really sleep and not really able to wake up. And then there's those of you who are awakened, and you feel the aching void, and you feel the parched soul, and you know who you are. And Jesus says, no matter who you are, wake up and come. And what is it that he gives you? He gives you eternal life. Eternal life we tend to think of as life that goes on forever, which it does, but to think of endless life is not the most important way to think of it. Eternal life is a quality of life, a new quality of life that starts now. And the quality it has is that it quenches the soul thirsts. It quenches them. What are some of them? Well, let's briefly mention it. Let's break it down. What are the soul thirsts? One thing is that we all thirst for purpose. For purpose. Listen, there's only two alternatives. Either if there's no God, or if we can't know if there's a God, then you are an accident. An accident has no point, has no purpose at all. And if there is no God, it doesn't matter how much you try to put order and structure into your life, you will continue to feel like an accident. don't know that there's a God, or if you don't believe there's a God, or if there's a God there but you don't know Him, you feel like an accident. And you have to be if there's no God. There's no other alternative. As soon as you start to think rationally, you'll realize, the reason I feel like my life is an accident, the reason I feel there's no rhyme or reason to it, is because there couldn't be anything else but an accident about my life. My life couldn't be anything but. Or there's a Creator God. And when you know Him and you know His will and what He wants you to do. You find your purpose. You find a sense of direction. Those are the only two alternatives. Either you know the Creator personally and you have purpose or you don't know the Creator personally and it's silly to think you could possibly have any. It's silly to think there is any. It's silly to think you could ever overcome that nagging sense that you are an accident and your life is too. Thirst for purpose. Another thing is thirst for love. One of the things that amazes me about all these codependent books is I keep waiting for the writers to recognize the obvious. They rightly so, rightly so, they look back and they say, you know the reason why so many of us are so messed up? We didn't get the kind of love we needed. We didn't get it from our father or from our mother or from our siblings. We didn't get it from our spouse. What kind of love do we need? Well, we need someone who's available, who's accepting, who is patient, who is wise and who is welcoming, and who is committed to our growth. And you start to read that and you say, no wonder we're all such messes. There isn't anybody out there like that. You know, as a parent, when I start reading the codependent books, I just panic. I'm not thinking about my parents. I'm thinking about my kids. Yeah, of course. You read. It's obvious. Obvious. What they need is a father who is always available, who is always perfectly patient, who is completely welcoming, totally accepting, never self-absorbed and worried about his own feelings, but only there and committed to the growth and the integrity and the love and the progress of his children. Listen, my friends, deep down inside, the codependency books, on the one hand, are right, on the other hand, they're wrong. They're right in that we need perfect love or we will be, dysfunctional. We need perfect acceptance. We need a completely perfect Father. And they're right. If you don't get it, you're dead. Where they're wrong is, there is nobody except the Heavenly Father that could possibly do that. We're all doomed to dysfunctionality unless Jesus is right. If there is a creator who is also your loving Heavenly Father that you can know through Jesus Christ, then your deep thirst for perfect love will be satisfied. Otherwise, it won't be. So you're thirsting for purpose and you're thirsting for love, but you're also thirsting, the last thing I'll say here is for peace of conscience. And by peace of conscience, I mean this. Everybody in this room struggles with guilt. Guilt. What do you do with guilt? There is no way you can deal with guilt whether it's true or false guilt. If I feel guilty because I think I've offended one of you, I will live with that guilt unless I go like this. I come to you and I say, did I offend you the other day? If you say, yes, you did, then I can say I'm sorry, I can reconcile, I can repent, I can clear my conscience. It was true guilt, so I repent. If on the other hand you said, oh no, of course you didn't, I don't even know what you're talking about, there was nothing wrong, I certainly understood that and that sort of thing, out of it. But unless you know whether it's true or false guilt, you are doomed. You're like the character in Camus' book, Kafka's book, The Trial, where you have a guy who wakes up and knows that he's under sentence and he's under arrest, but nobody will tell him for what. Nobody will tell him what his crime is. And that's how we feel until we know whether or not what we've done is wrong. Unless we've got a word from him, unless we've got the truth from the creator, you have no idea. a counselor. You can go to a friend. You can go to your bartender. You can go to your hairdresser and say, I feel guilty. And they can say, oh, don't feel guilty. I know that you shouldn't feel guilty. And you have to sit there. If you're a rational person, you say, well, how do you know whether I'm guilty or not? You didn't create me. You're not the lawgiver. Unless there's a creator who's speaking truth to you from his word that, you know, personally, you're thirst for purpose. You're a thirst for perfect love. You're a thirst for peace of conscience. There's not even a drop of water for the parched soul that wants those things. There's a place where Leonard Bernstein says this about Beethoven's Fifth. And now that he's gone, it's very piercing to me. It's a place where he says, Beethoven leaves us with a feeling that something is right in the world. That something checks throughout. Something that follows its own laws consistently. Something we can trust. Something that will never let us down. what Bernstein was saying is if you asked him do you believe in a God who speaks truth a truth that's undiluted and pure that can tell you what your purpose is that can express perfect love to you that can deal with your conscience a truth that checks throughout that can never let us down absolute healing truth that can come inside into your heart and put sweetness where there once was parched dryness? Do you believe there is a truth like that? And of course Bernstein would have said no. But on the other hand, whenever he hears great music, you know it's true. He's inexorably drawn to it just when he hears Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. Do you know that this is happening in your life? Do you know that God, through Jesus Christ, Christ has put into your heart, into your spring, into your heart, this eternal life, and it wells up. You know, the difference between a spring and a well, Jesus is trying to draw a distinction between a spring that he gives you and the well. A well in the Near East was actually a cistern. It took rainwater and collected rainwater that ran off the ground or came in directly during the rain. And if it went dry for a long time, of course, the well would go dry. And you see, you could build over a well. If you filled the well up so it no longer was a depression in the ground, the well goes dry and you can fill it up and then you can build on top of it. But on the other hand, a spring is impossible to build on because you can throw junk in it and you can throw dirt in it and you can do everything you want to do it and then try to build on it and that spring will come in underneath that dirt uproot and come through the foundation and your house will fall. What Jesus is saying is the water I give you is spring water. That means it's persistent. You see, when you become a Christian, friends, has this happened to you? When you become a Christian, it doesn't mean when that new spring water comes into your life that suddenly all the anger is gone, all the sorrow is gone, all the self-pity is gone. Does it? And you know, because of our behavior and because of the people around us, who are still reacting toward us in sinful ways, lots and lots of dirt and junk gets thrown into the heart. And yet, if you've got this water welling up to eternal life, it's amazing. Hasn't it happened? If you believe in him, if you belong to him, there's so much despair and suddenly the hope bubbles through. And you can't figure it out and your friends can't. Where's that hope come from? It bubbles up. You're confused and sometimes clarity breaks through. You're distressed and sometimes peace breaks through. Have you experienced that? Do you know that? There's a place in Lord of the Rings, you know, where Gandalf, Gandalf's such a great character. He's a wizard, you know, and he's under this great burden because he's got to save the world like every superhero. He's under this great burden and at one point when he seems to be the most unhappy, he laughs and one looks at him and the words of the novel go like this. It says, in the wizard's face he saw only lines of care and sorrow, and yet he perceived that under them there was a great joy, a fountain of mirth, enough to set a kingdom laughing. There's every Christian, every Christian knows that's true. No matter what's going on up here, you realize that Jesus Christ has planted something underneath you, a fountain that will never really be able to be put out. When you're the most despairing, the hope breaks through. When you're the most confused, the clarity breaks through. And it will continue to go on like any spring until it becomes a river of sweetness and gets rid of all the pollution of your life. Don't you want that? Don't you thirst for that? sell anything you have to get it. That's what the Bible says. The pearl of great price. Now, how do you receive it? It's unfortunately too simple for some of you. So would you please listen? This only takes 60 seconds. Jesus says, the water that I give you, if anyone has the water that I give you,

wisdom cannot find it. Power cannot obtain it. Money cannot buy it. Merit cannot procure it. It's a gift. And it's a gift that Jesus gives you. It doesn't mean just asking Jesus for something in the abstract. It means actually asking for Jesus in the center of your life. If you take Jesus into your center, then you have it. You see how simple it is? It's not something you can earn or deserve. And it's not even an abstract thing. The peace of conscience you get is not an abstract thing that comes down from above. It's the peace that comes from knowing that you belong to the one who has paid every debt and done every duty that even the most pathologically perfectionistic conscience in the world could possibly demand. It's not an abstract thing. It means that whatever Jesus has done, he's done for me. And now he is mine and he is in my life. And I live for him. That's all it is. Do not make it more detailed and difficult than he does. He says, come to me and taste and see that the Lord is good. to me and taste. Come to me and drink. Take me into your center. What you need to do today is simply say, in some cases, Lord, I don't really even know what it means, but I do know that I need a new heart. I need a new spring. I need a new source. And therefore, I come to you and I give myself to you. I don't know what that entails, but you have to show me. That's all you have to a do. And for some of the rest of you, his friends. There's some of you who say, look, I know what we're talking about. But I've thrown so much junk on it. I've thrown so much dirt into my heart lately. I don't see the hope. I don't see the peace. I don't see the love. I don't see the purpose. Listen. On the one hand. Stop throwing all that stuff in there. Of course. But on the other hand. Paul says. The good work. I began in you. I will bring to completion. On the day of Jesus Christ. Be of good cheer. Because a spring cannot be built over. A spring cannot be put out. A spring cannot be overcome. And some of you are trying very hard right now. But he's put it in you. And his water will well up to eternal life. Everybody, taste and see that the Lord is good. Let's pray. Our Father, as we take the offering, offering, I pray that everybody here might consider what it will mean, what it will really mean to drink of the water that you give us. Father, for some of us, it means for the very first time we have to come to you and say, I want to live for you, Lord Jesus. And I pray that you'll enable many people here today to do that. For many of the rest of us, we're embarrassed because we realize that we are polluting our water by the thinking, by our behavior, by our just refusing to rejoice in what you've given us. And we need to come and drink from the source. We need to come back and realize what you've given us and what you've done for us. We have to realize the perfect love instead of grumbling about the lack of love we're getting from other people now. We have to realize our purpose and realize peace of conscience ourselves to your truth, a truth that checks throughout, that will never let us down. Father, we need to drink again, and that's what we ask now. Enable us to drink of the water that once we drink it will quench our thirst forever. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.