This is Peter preaching the very first sermon on the day of Pentecost.

And so when we begin in verse 32, Peter is preaching, we take it up there, and he says, God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of this fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you see now and hear. For David did not ascend to heaven, and yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. And when the people heard this, they were cut to the heart and said to Peter and the other apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? And Peter replied, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of sins. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. The promise is for you and your children and for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God will call. And with many other words he warned them and pleaded with them, Save yourselves from this corrupt generation. Those who accepted this message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their number that day. This is God's word.

Now, you know, this 3,000, it's a plain historical fact that Christianity spread explosively in the early Roman Empire. When I was a freshman in college, I went to a college that was not church-related or Christian in any way, but in the very first semester I had to take a history course on Western civilization. And in that course, we were all made to read a bunch of essays, historical essays by various historians called, Why Did Christianity Succeed? And it amazed, surprised all of us in the class. I remember very much. Those who believed and those who didn't believe. We were surprised at the historical problem, the major historical question that the success of Christianity raised. It was so major that the historians were really struggling with it. And this is the question.

Why, considering that Christianity started with a ragtag group of uneducated people with no power and no money, why did this religion, when it was competing with dozens and scores of other, philosophies and political movements and other religions, why did this not just succeed in the Roman Empire, but absolutely sweep it completely, entirely? Why did it do that? How could it have done that? When I read the essays, when we read the essays, a number of historical facts were laid out, and the historians said that these look like causes, but if you think, they really just create more problems. And I remember three things they said, at least three things, which we know to be true, which seemed to be true, and which seemed to be the causes of why Christianity succeeded. Let me just tell you what those were quickly. First of all, Christians died better than anybody. Historians said that Christians died so well. Our people die well, the bishop said. And, you know, when they were put into the arena and the lions coming after them, they were singing and they were smiling and they were praising God and hugging each other. And the pagans, to a great degree, the credibility of Christianity to the pagan world, one of the reasons it spread like that was they'd never seen anybody face death like that. They'd never seen anybody with that kind of peace.

So, first, they died better than everybody. Secondly, they were more inclusive. The historians said that up until Christianity, religion always divided people. And you can, if you think about this, you'll see. Religions were always, a particular religion was always geared toward a certain region or a certain race or a certain class. So, for example, if you lived in the mountains, you had the mountains. You had the mountain God, but you people lived down on the ocean, so you have the ocean God. I mean, either, you know, religions were, had to do with certain regions. Or, they may have to do with a certain race or a culture, like Judaism. If you wanted to become a Jew, you had to participate in the customs of the Jews and the cultural customs. Or else it appealed just to one class. Many of the mystery religions, and certainly the Greek philosophy, only educated to the very, only, pardon me, appealed to the very educated. You had to be very educated to really enjoy it or make it a philosophy of life. So, every religion until Christianity tended to divide people, but the amazing thing about Christianity was how utterly inclusive it was. That it took the royalty and it took the slaves and it enrolled them side by side as brothers and sisters. Another thing that the historians said about this inclusiveness was, before Christianity came along, women were always second class citizens in every single faith. And if you really read carefully, you'll see that Paul is continually in the New Testament having a relationship with the Jews. Having to deal with the fact that the surrounding communities, the communities surrounding the early churches, were scandalized by the fact that women were partners for the scope they had for their gifts. People were scandalized by the freedom they had. Christianity was so incredibly inclusive. Third, not only did they die better than everybody and they included people better than everybody, but lastly, they cared better than everybody. And we have some amazing documents, some that I like to quote, from the emperors of those early days, that Christianity was spreading because it cared for all the poor. The great emperor Julian, at one point he wrote a letter to a pagan friend and said, we can't stop these Christians. The reason they're so popular is the Jews take care of the Jewish poor, the Greeks take care of the Greek poor, the Romans take care of the Roman poor, the Christians take care of them all. Christians care for them all and they give their money away and they live simple lifestyles. They cared better than everybody else. They died better than everybody. They died better than everybody. They included better than everybody. But the historians in this set of essays said, you know what? That doesn't really answer the question. Because the question is, since these Christians never had any models,

the fact they died better doesn't answer the question, why did they die better than the other religions? The fact that they were more inclusive, but you know, they didn't have any models, so why were they more inclusive than everybody else? They cared more and they gave their money away, but that was unprecedented. Why did they do it? And one of the historians put it this way. Kenneth Scott Latteret, who used to teach at Yale University, he said, the more one examines the various factors which seem to account for the extraordinary victory of Christianity, the more one is driven to search for a cause underlying them all. It is clear that at the very beginning of Christianity, there must have occurred a vast release of energy, virtually unequaled in history. Without it, the future course of the religion is inexplicable. Why this occurred, here's where he fudges, now watch, why this occurred may lie outside the realm in which modern historians are supposed to move.

Now, that's them, modern historians, but we're real people and we can do what we want. And the book of Acts tells you exactly what that very explicable, incredible release of energy was. Now, we looked at it last week. The Spirit of God came down. But this week, let me show you what happened whenever the Christian message was preached. The Spirit of God came down and attended the message, and this is what happened across the Roman Empire. They were cut to the heart. Did you see that? See, Peter's going on and preaching, and then it says in verse 37, when the people heard this, they did not say, this is interesting. Let's add up the pluses and minuses. They didn't say, this is interesting. I'd like to come back to class tomorrow. They didn't do that. And Latteret says, no, there was something more to it. All the other religions were interesting. All the other religions had points. But it says, they were cut to the heart. Now, the Bible says that is what makes you a Christian. That is the secret. In John chapter 16, verse 8, it says when the Spirit comes into the world, he will convict, the world of sin and righteousness. And the little word, Greek word convict there in John chapter 16, verse 8, is elenka, which means to cross-examine until you see your mistake. To convict. This word here, cut to the heart, means to pierce with a blade.

You've been penetrated. Spiritual cutting. This is the thing. Listen, lots and lots of people, who knows how eloquent Peter was. So what? Peter couldn't have been that eloquent. Why were 3,000 people brought into the kingdom that day? Not because of Peter's sermon. It was because they were cut to the heart by the Spirit of God. Now, what does it mean to be cut to the heart? That's the real title of the sermon, by the way. I forgot to put the right title in there. Cut to the heart. What does it mean? And I think the answer comes clear if we ask two questions. What causes this cutting to the heart? What causes the spiritual cutting? And secondly, what are the results of it? What causes the spiritual cutting? And what are the results? Now, two causes and several results. First, the first cause of this cutting, what are they cut to the heart over? First of all, they're cut by the truth of Christ. And secondly, they're cut by the death of Christ. Cut by the truth. Look at verse 32. It says, God had raised this Jesus to life, and we're all witnesses of the fact, that the Lord is the Son of God. Now, I don't want to spend much time on this one at all. And yet, it's very clear that the first thing that happens during the spiritual cutting, the first thing that happens when the Spirit of God has come upon you and you get cut to the heart by the message, and this enormous power that Latteret talks about that is the only way to explain the way Christianity operated. When it comes upon you, the first thing is it gets you to think. These people didn't think. They were part of the crowd, you know. Hosanna. Hosanna one week. Away with them. Crucify him the next week. You know, they just went along with their guts. They went along with the crowd. And what is Peter saying? He's saying, think. And the thing you see in this sermon, especially if you read the whole thing, and it starts way back further in the chapter. We only printed a little part of it. Peter does not simply declare Jesus Christ. He proves him. This is the one who says, Peter says in 1 Peter 3, verse 15, in his letter to, some Christians, he says, always be ready with a reason for the hope that's within you. In other words, the first thing that cuts you. I see this happening all the time. The average person says, oh, Christianity, a primitive religion. It's nice for certain people. If it makes you feel good, that's fine. You haven't been cut if you believe that. When you get cut, when you start to realize, oh my word, this might be true. This might be objectively true. There may be reasons for this. You're cut. Peter does not simply say, I can't prove anything to you. You're just going to have to close your eyes and take a leap in the dark against the evidence and I'm sure that you will have a wonderful experience. That's not what he says. What does he say? He says, this Jesus Christ was raised from the dead and we are witnesses to the fact.

Now, I have to put that statement for a minute in historical context. Do you realize that the last people in the entire Roman Empire to believe a claim like that, would have been the Jews? Do you know that? That the very last people, the very, very hardest people to convince of something like that, the very last people in the whole Roman Empire to believe such a thing were the Jews. Now, if you don't know that, it's because you need this historical context. Let me do it. First of all, you must realize that many Jews did not believe in the resurrection at all. And the Jews that did, believed only in a final resurrection, a general resurrection the last day. And the idea that Jesus was the Son of God who was raised from the dead, of all the people in the world, the Jews had the one view of God that he was a transcendent creator,

infinitely exalted above his creation, and therefore, no human being could possibly be God. The Jews' view of God was infinitely exalted. They wouldn't even speak his name. Any other group of people, any other culture, any other religion, had a view of God that was more imminent. And they could handle the idea of someone being the Son of God, but not the Jews. And therefore, the last people on the face of the earth at that time who would have believed in this idea of the resurrection would have been the Jews. And therefore, if Peter said, three or four of us have witnessed this event, no way would anybody have been cut to the heart. They would have said, sure, sure. But we know from the Apostle Paul, who was writing 1 Corinthians, just 15 years after these, and he's got some great facts. In 1 Corinthians, Paul says in a public document, he says, in the 40 days after Jesus' death, until he was ascended, after he was risen from the dead, he appeared to scores of people. He appeared at one point to 500 people at once. He appeared multiple times to multiple groups. Now, you know what that means? That means that there were literally hundreds of people around Jerusalem who had seen him. And therefore, Peter was able to actually see him. He was able to actually say, this is a matter of public record. There's witnesses. He was able to say that, and nobody could gainsay it. It's the same thing when Paul preached before Agrippa in Acts chapter 26. There's a place where Agrippa starts to laugh. He's the king. You know, he's Jewish, and he's the Jewish king. And he and Festus are listening to Paul. And what does Paul say? They start laughing at the gospel. And Paul does not say, well, you know, you're just going to have to receive Christ in your heart, and then you'll know. That's it. That's it. Then you'll have that wonderful toasty feeling, and you'll know. No, what does Paul say? I'll give you the exact words. He looks at Agrippa, and he says, what I am saying is true and reasonable. You know about these things, King Agrippa, for these things were not done in a corner.

And Agrippa's silent. Why? Paul could say, Peter could say, you know that the tomb is empty. You know that there have been dozens, and hundreds of people who have seen him with their own eyes. Some of them are your friends. Some of them are people who were total skeptics before. Peter could not say this thing in verse 32 and have people cut to the heart unless there was just scads of evidence around, unless it was a matter of public record, unless it was really something that was beyond question. No way that two or three or four, even 12 people said, we've seen him, that Jews are going to say, what should we do? Absolutely not. They were cut to the heart because, they were made to think. The Holy Spirit always starts to make you think. The Holy Spirit starts to make you say, wait a minute, this might be actually true, objectively true. There might be evidence for this. Oh my gosh. That's the beginning. This is a thinking message. And that's what Peter's trying to say. For once in your life, he says, don't go along with the crowd. Think. See, the Holy Spirit cross-examines. Elenko, think. The truth of Christ, these claims, is the first thing that cut them. But, I would say, the main thing that cut them, in fact, the thing that obviously elicits this verse 37 is verse 36, you see. It's in verse 36, this is the end, where Peter says, therefore, let all Israel be assured of this, God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. And when they heard that, they were cut to the heart. And they said, what must we do now? It's this statement, you crucified him. They cut them to the heart. And let us dwell there for just a moment.

People have, in the past, and we better say something about this, people in the past have twisted this, and they say, ah, you know what this verse is teaching? This verse is teaching that the Jews are guilty of having killed Jesus. Ah. And people have used this for anti-Semitic purposes over the years. Here's Peter saying that the Jews killed Jesus. That's what he's saying. But that's not what he's saying. That can't be his point. First of all, when he says, you crucified him, you know, he knows who he's talking to. This is 50 days later. Pentecost is 50 days after Passover. Not only that, if you go back into Acts 2, and if you were here last week, we went through this. There were, because it was a time of festival, people from all over the world there. The tables of the nations, remember that? There were people from every nation around the Mediterranean. And that's the reason why when they spoke in tongues, people needed actually to hear a miracle, to hear the gospel, because they were hearing it in their own language. Here's the point. Peter knew that most of the people he was talking to were not there. Acts 2 tells us most of the people weren't there. And not only that, there were probably people who were there. Most of them were just, you know, in a sense, they were kind of passive bystanders. They just stood there and watched. So what is Peter after? I'll tell you what he's after. For 2,000 years, whenever the Holy Spirit cuts you, and His power is released in your life, you know this is true of you. Not them, you. So you have, here's a hymn by, another hymn by John Newton. It goes like this. My conscience felt and owned the guilt and plunged me in despair. I saw my sins. His blood had spilled and helped to nail him there. Alas, I knew not what I did, but now my tears are vain. Where shall my trembling soul be hid? For I, the Lord, have slain. And if you're a Christian, you know that these words, you crucified him, have to do with you. But let me show you. The real reason we know that this is what Peter meant is that Peter knew it was true of him. You know, Matthew, Mark, and Luke all tell about Peter's denial. They tell about how Peter, when Jesus was arrested, became such a coward that when people asked, are you one of his band? And Peter was so, so afraid for his own skin that he continually denied Jesus. He continually said, I don't know him. I don't know him. I don't know him. But only Luke gives us one little verse that I think gives you the key to this. In Luke chapter 22, verse 61 and 62, you can read it there sometime, we're told that the third time Peter said, I don't know him. And then that verse says, at that moment, the rooster crowed and the rooster crowed. And the Lord turned and looked straight at Peter. That's the only one that says that when the cock crowed, the Lord looked straight at Peter. And it says, Peter went out and wept bitterly. Now, you know why? At that point, what would that face of Jesus Christ have looked like? It would have been purple. It would have been bruised. It would have been beaten. His eyes would have been swollen shut. There would have been not just blood streaming down, but there would have been mucus. And spit on it. Peter saw Jesus dying because of him. Peter saw Jesus' life because of him being taken away. Peter saw his sins costing Jesus his life. Peter saw that he had crucified. And so what Peter is saying, when he talks to the crowd, he says, you too have crucified him. Now, this spiritual, spiritual cutting is absolutely critical. This is the difference between being religious and being a Christian. Let me, let me give you a couple of similes. Let me give you a couple of metaphors. When a person is cut to the heart by this knowledge, I mean, all of our hymns talk about it. You know the one we sing all the time? Died he for me who caused his pain? For me who him to death pursued amazing love. How can it be that thou my gods just die for me? Christians sense this. Why? What happens? I'll tell you what happens.

Before you're cut to the heart, you understand that your sins have broken God's rules. After you're cut to the heart, you realize your sins have broken God's heart.

I'm not saying you don't realize you haven't broken God's heart. You do realize it, but that's the difference. Before you've been spiritually cut, you see sin as primarily breaking God's rules. But after you get this spiritual cutting, you see sin as being primarily breaking God's heart. There's an old movie that I can remember very clearly, but I cannot remember the name of the movie. I can't remember it. But I remember seeing it some years ago, and it really wasn't, I don't know why this one thing stayed with me. Maybe because God wanted me to use it someday in an illustration, in a sermon, that could be it. It's wonderful how there's a purpose for everything. But in this, there was a little boy who had a mother and a father, and the father was very strict, very strict.

And the father gave him a lot of rules, and the boy listened to him, but mainly because he had to, and he kind of was grumpy and pretty unhappy about it. And so only in a begrudging way did he obey. And one day, when the kid got old enough, the mother said, you're old enough to know this, and the mother sat down and told a story, which I can only vaguely remember, but the story basically said, you have no idea what your father's done, what he's done for you. Do you know, in order to raise you, your father had to lose his career, and he only does this now, and he could have made a lot more money. Do you know that because he wanted to raise you, he took you away over here, and he's done this and this and this? Do you know all these sacrifices? And it hits the kid. He says, I had no idea what my father had done for me. And you know what happens at that point? He suddenly realizes now, when I break my father's rules, I'm actually breaking my father's heart. Because, now I hadn't seen what he's done for me. And it revolutionizes the entire way in which he went about relating to his father. This is the difference. This is the thing that makes you a Christian. This is the spiritual power. This is the thing that releases all the other stuff in your life that Christianity can release. This. You may have been very, very weighed down by the guilt of your sins before the spiritual cutting. Do you know that? The spiritual cutting doesn't necessarily make you have stronger feelings of sorrow for sin. No. You could be absolutely crushed under the idea that you have broken the law and the rules of God. You could be crushed. This is a different kind of conviction.

The old conviction made you say, I've broken that. The new conviction says, I've broken him. The old conviction said, I'd better do the right thing or he'll get me. And so you coerce your will. But the new conviction says, look what he's done for me. And I didn't know. And it melts the heart.

Two completely different things. Two completely different ways to go. When Kathy and I went to Wales, we went to a, visited Wales, we went to a town called Bed Gellert, which means in Welsh, the grave of Gellert. And the story is told that Llewellyn, the great lord of Wales, came home one day and he went to the bed of his little infant child and he said, and there, the child wasn't there, but there was blood all over the sheets. And he looked and he turned around and there was Gellert, his dog. This great dog, with blood all over his mouth and blood all over his coat. And in a fury, Llewellyn pulls out a sword and stabs and pierces

Gellert through the heart and he dies. Then Llewellyn went into the next room and he suddenly saw his young child, perfectly unscathed, and a huge wolf, lying dead. And as the legend goes, tremendous even in death. And suddenly Llewellyn realized that the blood on the sheets was Gellert's blood, the blood on his coat was Gellert's blood, that he had slain the savior of his family because he hadn't known what he'd done. Now look, emotions start to rise up, don't they? About a dog.

About treating a dog ignobly because you hadn't known how noble he was. Now let me tell you something. This is what it means to become a Christian. A Christian is somebody who says, I didn't know what you've done and I've been treating you as an enemy. See, the little boy said, I didn't know what my father's done and I've been treating him as an enemy but actually he gives me these rules because he loves me. I don't want to break his heart. Changes everything. So in the same way, here's Llewellyn, treats the dog as an enemy because he doesn't know what he's done. Doesn't realize what he's done for the family. And a Christian is somebody who realizes the, very same thing. A Christian is somebody who says, I had no idea what he's done. How in the world can I go living my life my own way? How can I treat him even sometimes as I often have as an enemy? I can't. What must I do? That's what it means to become a Christian. Do you see that? Do you recognize that? Do you recognize what that is? That's what it means to be cut to the heart. It says in Zechariah 12.10, God says, they will look upon the one they have pierced and they will mourn as for an only son. That is the thing that turns into spiritual power. Don't you see? That is the thing. When you're pierced by the one you've pierced. Now, somebody's saying, I don't see how this becomes power. This is kind of interesting. It's even kind of moving. You know, but it's kind of discouraging. Somebody says, I mean, if I thought that I'd actually crucified Jesus and I trampled him under my feet, that wouldn't make me feel power. That would make me feel terrible. That means you're not thinking. Let me show you the results of being cut. And I'm just going to run through four or five of them very quickly. Number one, what must we do, they say. And what does Peter say? Get forgiveness. Forgiveness. But then he also says, get repentance. He says, repent and be baptized. Forgiveness. And right there, first of all, let's look at the forgiveness. Let me show you how this works. This is incredible. God help me. God help you. Look, first of all, you get complete freedom in your conscience. You know why? You get freedom in your conscience because the very thing that convicts us is the thing that comforts us.

Somebody says, well, if I thought I had crucified Christ, I'd feel terrible. But then you're not thinking. Only if you get this deeper, deeper conviction will you ever get this deeper comfort. Here's how it works. Look at Jesus dying on the cross. What does that tell you? You say, well, it tells me that I'm terribly sinful. Not only that, it tells you that his love for you is terribly strong. The very same sight, Jesus on the cross, not only tells you that your sin is terrible, that your sin is serious, but it also tells you mean the world to him. You can't look at the cross and only let it tell you about your sin. Why is he there? You see, when you say he died because of me, that's the conviction. But that means he died because of me. The conviction, the very conviction is the comfort. This isn't a compound of conviction plus comfort. The conviction is the comfort. The same thing that convicts comforts. Why is he up there? Because you mean the world to him because he will take anything to save you. Anything at all. He'll let nothing come between him and you. There is nothing you can possibly do. He did this. He let the world come down on his head. He lost the world. He lost his father. He lost everything so that he wouldn't lose you. I'm sorry. That is comfort. If you break the moral law, it can never forgive you. The thing that convicts you, it's not you broke the law. But you see, when you see that not only, did you break the law, but you broke his heart because he died for you. When you look at his dying love, the very same thing that tells you that you're a sinner also tells you were infinitely loved. Peter wasn't the only betrayer. Judas betrayed him too. Judas killed himself. Peter did not. Why? Because Peter saw the point of the cross.

If you're cut to the heart because you see that you crucified him, not just that you broke the rules, but you crucified him, there is, there is a comfort in there that you've never known. A freedom of conscience because the thing that convicts is the thing that comforts. But okay, let me give you a second one. You not only have freedom from the penalty of sin, you don't only have freedom in your conscience, but you finally, for the first time in your life, will get freedom from the power of sin

because not only is the thing that most convicts the things that most comforts, but also it's the comfort that convicts. There are some of you that have all your life been trying to get rid of certain problems in your life, certain sins in your life, and you've never been able to. Christians, there's a lot of you who aren't using what you've got. What do I mean? Well, some of you are having trouble loving people who are hard to love. Some of you are having trouble with certain besetting habits. Some of you are having trouble with anger. And here's what you've done. Now, Christians, you do this too, and you mustn't do this.

What you say is, I better obey or he'll reject me. I broke the rule. And you know what that does? That just bends temporarily the will away from that sin, but the heart still clings to it. But listen.

Instead of saying, I better obey because he'll reject me, what if you look at him on the cross, look at him bearing anything for you, and what if you say, I need to obey because he won't reject me, because at incredible cost, he did what was necessary that he would never have to do. He didn't have to reject me. If I say, I must obey because he'll never reject me, that melts the heart. It doesn't just bend the will. It melts the heart away completely. It's a permanent change. The very thing that convicts is that which comforts, but the very thing which most comforts is the thing that convicts because you look at him and you say, how in the world could I treat someone who's done this for me like this? How can I displease him? How can I disobey him? Don't you see? You get freedom finally from the very power of sin in your life because, because Peter doesn't just call him to get forgiven. He calls him to repent. If they're cut to the heart, you not only get forgiveness, which is freedom from the penalty of sin, but you get repentance, which is finally the freedom from the power of sin. It's the first time. Finally, you change.

That's not all. Absolute lordship. The third thing that comes. When they say, what shall we do? You have to hear the, you have to hear the tone. They're not saying, well now give me two or three steps. In other words, at the end of the sermon, they don't say, oh, well we'd like to become Christians. Could you tell me two or three things to do? That's not what they're saying. They're saying, what shall we do? Which means, we'll do anything. And that's what it means to make Jesus your Lord. To take all conditions off your obedience. This one that you crucified is Lord and Christ. Now there's two different kinds of people who are complying with God's written word, but only one is obedience. Some people comply because they say, it looks like it'll be practical. It looks like God will listen to me. It looks like God will answer my prayers. So I will do it as long as it looks practical. I will tell the truth if it looks practical. I will be sexually pure if it's practical. I will forgive people if it's practical. I will be religious if it's practical. But when it looks like it's going to hurt you, it's going to cost you. You say, well, for goodness sakes. I'll obey if things go well. If there's any ifs in your obedience, it's not obedience at all. You're not saying, what shall we do? You're not taking all conditions off. Look, friends, there's nothing in between. Either he's the master and you're the servant, or else you're the master and he's the servant. When you say, I'll obey if, what you're really saying is, I will listen to you as long as, but you're still in the driver's seat of your life. There's nothing in the middle. Either he's the master and you're the servant, or you're the master and he's the servant. Either he's the Lord in Christ or you're the Lord in Christ. There's nothing in the middle. If you've been cut, by what he's done, you take all of the, all of the conditions off.

One more thing. They were added to the church that day. You know what that means? You can become a Christian today. Today. You notice that. It didn't say, well, they went through this long process. Whenever Kathy and I and my family go to, to visit friends of ours in New Hampshire on Labor Day weekend, they live just a few yards from the border between New Hampshire and Massachusetts. And I like to jog down there and say I jogged to the next state. It's about 800 feet away. And there's a marker, there's a marker there that's eight inches wide. But as you know, the boundary isn't eight inches wide. A boundary is a line. A line is not a stripe. A line is not a zone. You're either in or you're out. You may come 800 miles to get to the line. Another person may have come eight inches, but you're still either in this line or that line. There's nothing in the middle. And it takes only one step to get over. You could be a Christian today. Why? Because being a Christian is not about what you give God. It's whether you've received this forgiveness. It's whether you've received it. That's the reason why they were added today. There's a decisive change. It can be like that. And what do you have to do? You have to say, Lord, I've seen

that though I have disobeyed God's law, my sin cost you your life, O Lord. And therefore I trust not in my obedience, but what you did for me. I kind of knew about it, but I'd never seen what you've done. So I rest completely in what you've done for me and I take all conditions off my obedience. If you do that, he will give you forgiveness because that's repentance. And the gift of the Holy Spirit, which is already working on you, will come on in.

He's cutting you out of love. Christians, you may have been a Christian for a long time, but if you're having trouble getting over your sinful habits, it's because you're not letting him cut you here. You see, you're beating your will instead of melting your heart. Let him cut you.

He's only doing it out of love because the blade of the gospel is not the blade of a thief that cuts to hurt. It's the blade of a surgeon that cuts to heal. Let's pray. Father, give us now this power. It's a cutting power. It's a thinking power. It's a personal power. We would like to have the freedom of conscience, the freedom and liberty that comes with this. Let it be. Father, we thank you that Peter has said our Redeemer's alive. And because our Redeemer's alive, he can give us this redemption. Help us to celebrate this life of which he is a witness and of which we are witnesses too. Help us to all have this freedom and power that comes to us through the Spirit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.

One more thing. They were added to the church that day. You know what that means? You can become a Christian today. Today. You notice that. It didn't say, well, they went through this long process. Whenever Kathy and I and my family go to, to visit friends of ours in New Hampshire on Labor Day weekend, they live just a few yards from the border between New Hampshire and Massachusetts. And I like to jog down there and say, I jogged to the next place. I'm in the next state. It's about 800 feet away. And there's a marker. There's a marker there that's eight inches wide. But as you know, the boundary isn't eight inches wide. A boundary is a line. A line is not a stripe. A line is not a zone. You're either in or you're out. You may come 800 miles to get to the line. Another person may have come eight inches, but you're still either in this line or that line. There's nothing in the middle. And it takes only one step to get over. You could be a Christian today. Why? Because being a Christian is not about what you give God. It's whether you've received this forgiveness. It's whether you've received it. That's the reason why they were added today. There's a decisive change. It can be like that. And what do you have to do? You have to say, Lord, I've seen that though I have disobeyed God's law, my sin cost you your life, O Lord. And therefore, I trust not in my obedience, but what you did for me. I kind of knew about it, but I'd never seen what you've done. So I rest, I trust completely in what you've done for me, and I take all conditions off my obedience. If you do that, he will give you forgiveness, because that's repentance. And the gift of the Holy Spirit, which is already working on you, will come on in.

He's cutting you out of love. Christians, you may have been a Christian for a long time, but if you're having trouble getting over your sinful habits, it's because you're not letting him cut you here. You see, you're beating your will instead of melting your heart. Let him cut you.