John chapter 16 verses 27 to 33. Know the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and entered the world. Now I am leaving the world and going back to the Father. Then Jesus' disciples said, Now you are speaking clearly and without figures of speech. Now we can see that you know all things and that you do not even need to have anyone ask you questions. This makes us believe that you came from God. You believe at last, Jesus answered, but a time is coming and has come when you will be scattered, each to his own home. You will leave me all alone, yet I am not alone for my Father is with me. I have told you these things so that in me, you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble, but take heart. I have overcome the world. This is God's Word. We've been moving through the book of John and you see from chapter 13 through where we are now, 13, 14, 15 and 16, we have had Jesus' final teaching to his disciples on the night before he's about to die. It's extremely significant. You know, if you know that the next day you're going to die, this is the last time you have a chance to teach your disciples, you would imagine that he would be giving us only the most important statements, almost only the most important teachings. And we've looked at, for months now, starting back in early fall, we got into chapter 13 and for months we have moved through this final discourse. And here, as I was looking at these last few verses, at the end of the discourse, I kept asking myself, what is he saying? What are the, what are the subjects or what is the subject of these verses? And I came to see that this, in a sense, was a summation of everything we've been saying for four months and a summation of everything he's been saying for four chapters. There are three great principles laid out here and I want to just get right to them. Three great Christian principles. One is that there is no peace in the world without truth. Hmm? That's in verse 33. I tell you these things. These things, what? All of chapter 13, 14, 15, 16. I tell you all of these things, all these truths about me, absolute truths about God and Christ and heaven and hell. Without these truths you will not have peace. There is no peace without truth. Then secondly, the Bible teaches us also that it's not truth in general or any kind of truth, but the truth about Christ that brings peace. Because we're told up in verse 13, verse 27, the reason God loves you, the reason you've got peace, and the reason he's with you is because you believe the things I've told you about me, that I've come from the Father. So secondly, it's not just any truth, but the truth about Christ that brings peace. And then thirdly, the third thing that we learn here that the Bible teaches is that it's not a general intellectual assent to the truth about Christ, but it's an act of daring to trust and live on that truth that brings peace. There's no peace without truth. There's no peace without truth about Christ. And there's no peace without daring to live on and trust the truth about Christ. Let's look at the first one. There's no peace without truth. Flannery O'Connor was a female novelist, writer, lived in Georgia, and she died in the early 60s. And she had two very strong criticisms leveled against her writing, at one stage in her career. And she wrote an essay defending herself, or answering those two criticisms. And the two criticisms were this, or these. On the one hand, she was criticized for being a Christian. She was an Orthodox Christian, and therefore she believed in dogma. And the criticism said was that Christian dogma, or Orthodoxy, is a hindrance to artistic expression. And the second criticism was that her novels, or her works, and her literature, her stories, so often emphasized the grotesque, the distorted, they emphasized the violent, they emphasized racism, and a lot of people saw her as being too critical of her country. And they said, come on, why not talk about the joy of life in your literature? Why not talk about what a great country we've got? Now she took those two criticisms, and she answered them really in one stroke, in this essay. And I've actually quoted from the essay, in the beginning of the bulletin. And basically this is what she said. She says, the job of an artist is to show what is. To understand and show what is. And she says, you can't understand what is, and evaluate what is, without dogma. She says, if there isn't such a thing as truth, capital T, truth which is above what is, truth which is unaffected by what is, truth which is uncontrolled and changeless, over what is. If you don't have a truth like that, then there's no way to really observe what is. There's no way to evaluate it. There's no way to find out what's distorted or right or wrong about it. You see? And she makes this great statement. She says, if there's no such thing as dogma or truth, you don't need an argument, Gallup polls will do. She says, because if there's no such thing as a truth by which you can not just observe and report, but evaluate reality, then if there's no such thing as truth, then all we can do is report on it. Just say, here's what it is. And she says, Gallup polls will be enough. And therefore, she says, you can't be an artist without evaluating what is through truth. And therefore, some people are going to find my works disturbing if I see distortions where they see something else. They see something that's natural. Because they don't have the truth that enables them to see what I see. And finally, she sums up by saying, to be an artist is preeminently to know yourself. And she says, to know yourself is above all to know what one lacks. It is to measure oneself against the truth and not the other way around. You know what she's saying? She's saying, you can't understand the world. You can't figure out the world. You can't make your way through the world. You can't navigate through the world. You can't understand the world. You can't have peace in the world without truth. Now, maybe somebody's out there saying, forgive me, am I in a time warp or something here? Modern people can't believe in truth, capital T. Modern people can't believe anybody can be certain or know anything truly about God and Christ and heaven and hell and absolute truth. We now understand that all perspectives are historically conditioned and culturally conditioned. And therefore, there's really no way you can know truth. And certainly, if you have private opinions about it, you must never impose it on someone else. You must never impose your beliefs, your religious beliefs on someone else. Now, that's a very, very common position. Surely, it's a position of some of you. I'd like to show you that it's untenable. Not only that, it's even illogical. There is no such thing as peace or even living in this world without truth. I read about, recently, there was an interesting hearing down in Washington, D.C. and a group of environmental experts went before a commission of government regulators trying to show them that they needed, in one particular industry, to require far more safety measures. And at one point, an environmental expert, sort of in an exasperated way, because people kept saying, it's too expensive, it's too expensive, it's too expensive. At one point, the environmental expert put up his hand, and said, the cost doesn't matter about these safety measures because we know that human life is priceless. And one of the government regulators looked at him with a straight face and said, we have no data on that. And he's absolutely right. No. He's right. He is right. There is no empirical way, there is no empirical way to determine whether human life is priceless or expendable. That is a religious, religious belief. That is a value. There is no way you can, and you can't have peace in the world unless we decide if it's true. What that guy said, is it true or not? It's clear that we can't have a society, we can't move around in the world, we can't operate in the world without that, and that's a truth. There is no data on that. There's no peace without truth. James Michener, not too long ago in Reader's Digest, said something very funny, I thought. He said, you know, our society is breaking apart. We can't go to religion anymore because most of, many of us just don't believe in it. So, we've got to have the schools teach values. What are the values? He said they have to be taught. We have to teach people that we have to respect one another. We can't be selfish. We can't be out for ourselves. We can't abuse people. But come on, James, we have no data on those things. You can't prove that those things are right or wrong, that every human being is priceless, you don't know that. What he's really saying is, until the holes of society can come to consensus on certain religious truths, things without data, we can't have a peace. We can't live. I was reading about an interesting book on depression by a psychologist, and some psychologists are coming up with a disturbing conclusion that a lot of research is pointing to, and that is that depressed people are far more realistic about reality than non-depressed people. There are a number of studies that show, for example, if you put a bunch of depressed people together and ask them whether, put them on a switch to see whether or not they really have control over the light. And a bunch of non-depressed people, you'll find that depressed people are much better at knowing, much better at knowing whether they really have control over the light or not. The non-depressed people always assume they have more control than they really do. There's study after study. 80% of all American males think they're in the top 20% in social skills. But depressed men have a much better indication, much more accurate, you know, grasp of things. And at the end, where they really are on the scale, non-depressed people are always unrealistic. And what's interesting, at the end of this article, this, the woman who did the research, who is not a Christian, who says she's not really, says that here's one interesting issue. She says, many people that I know believe there's no control over God, that the only meaning in life is meanings that you create temporarily for yourself, and that when you die, you rot. She said, but most of those people are not depressed. And what that proves is the only way to really avoid being depressed is to blind yourself to the real implications of your beliefs. Now what she's saying is, there is no peace without truth. And if you don't have the truth on which to base your life, the only way to make it in life is to just try to repress the fact that you don't have the truth that's necessary on which to build a life. You can't navigate in the world without truth. And if you don't know any truth, you've got to hide the fact from yourself. Jesus Christ comes and says, there is no way for you to navigate through life unless you have made some decisions about the religious questions. What am I doing this for? What am I living for? Is this all there is? Where did I come from? Where am I going? Christianity gives you a set of answers that have been time tested for centuries by millions of people who found that when they embraced it, they gave their life to it, it gave them something that really fit with reality and what was around them. Everybody in this room has got to have some set of truths, religious truths, on which they're basing their lives. Even if you've decided that there's no way you can know religious truth, that is a faith commitment. We have no data on that. And yet, you're going to have to, like the lady researcher said, in a lot of ways, you're going to have to repress the fact that when you die, you rot. Why do you feel good today? There is no peace without truth. But the second point, Jesus Christ says, and Christianity says, it's not truth in general that brings peace. It's not a series of postulates that brings peace. But it's truth about a person, Jesus. See, in verse 22, it says something that disturbs a lot of people. In verse 27, it says, the Father himself loves you because you have loved me and believed that I came from God. Jesus says your relationship with God is based on your attitude toward what I have taught you about myself. Now, there are a lot of people who would love Christianity if we could just get rid of Christ. Everything else about it is fine. Christianity says the person of Christ and the truth about the person of Christ is the thing that brings peace and everything else is peripheral. Many people have come and said to me, you know, you probably won't now that you heard this sermon, but you would if you hadn't heard this. You say, you know, Christianity, the teachings and truths that Jesus taught are great. Love your neighbor and the golden rule and care for the poor and honesty and integrity, great stuff. If the whole world was living in it, it would be a much better world. I'm all for it. What hangs me up is all this, these ancient strange doctrines about Christ himself. The doctrine of the incarnation, that he's God come to earth, that's just too fantastic. Or the doctrine of the atonement, that he had to shed his blood for us, that's too primitive, the idea of having to appease the angry God with blood, sacrifice. And especially this issue that since he's God and he's the Savior, he's the exclusive Savior. So that all other religions are wrong. I can't handle that. I can't handle the primitiveness and the fantastic nature and the exclusivity of all these old doctrines about Christ. Can't we just agree on his teachings? Can't we agree on the truths from Christ instead of the truths about Christ and the doctrines about Christ? Can't we all get together on that? That position sounds plausible at first until you realize what you're asking is that Christianity tear its own heart out and throw it away. When you say all religions are ways to God, what you're really saying is it's enough to live a good life to get to God. It sounds very, very broad-minded to say all religions are ways to God. But what you have to say when you say that is it's enough to be good. It's enough to take a set of truths and seek to believe them and obey them and that's enough to get you to God. Christianity is in its essence completely against that idea. Christianity is in its essence Christianity says that what we've done to our own hearts and what we've done to the earth and what we've done to each other is so drastic and so dire, the guilt is so great and the damage to our natures is so great that God could not have just sent down a document full of truths to believe, views to take, doctrines to subscribe to and ethics to follow. He had to come personally and intervene. He had to do an intervention on history. And an intervention in the soul. His son had to come and die so we could go to Him forgiven. His son had to come and live and come into our lives so that we had the restoration so that we could come to Him. And that's the reason why under this heading here, the Bible in a sense refuses to ever talk to you about any other truth or any other view or any other issue until first you've decided what you believe about Jesus. There's a sense in which the Bible will not talk to you about anything else until you first decide do you believe He is who He claimed to be and who His followers claimed Him to be. See, haven't you ever been this? Are you doing this now? I certainly have heard people say, look, Christianity is very interesting to me but before I get more serious about Christianity, before I even think about coming to Christ and all that, I want to know what's the Christian view of war? What's the Christian view of poverty? What's the Christian view of homosexuality? What's the Christian view of other religions? How do Christians see other religions? I cannot come to Christianity until I first get satisfactory answers to those issues. And see, the Bible comes and says, that's unfair. You are in a sense redefining. You're saying that Christianity, if you have to deal with the truth and the views before you come to Christ, you're saying that it's a philosophy or a set of truths before it's a relationship. But it's not. Christianity says you're being illogical and you're not taking Christianity as it lies. Christianity is a relationship first. The Bible says, in a sense, your view about war and about poverty and about sexuality and about other religions all turns and all depends on whether Jesus is who He said He is. That's the issue first. How do you know anything about poverty? How do you know anything about war? How do you know whether there's any hope for peace or poverty? How do you even know what human beings really are unless you decide whether or not God has come to earth and taken the form of a human being? Don't you see that everything else turns on that? Don't you see that all these other Christian views will make no sense unless you figure out whether or not Jesus is who He said He is? If you are wrong about Jesus, you'll be wrong everywhere. Isn't that true? If you're wrong about Jesus, don't you have to admit right here, if you're wrong about Jesus, the ramifications of that will be, it will go beyond politics and economics and will follow you into the next world and shape your eternal destiny forever? Well, you say, I don't believe all that. But if you're wrong, don't you see how much more, how great the ramifications are? Don't you see, therefore, the Bible says, we can't talk to you about the Christian views of all these things. They're important, but ultimately they have to be secondary. What do you believe about Him? Who is He to you? Where does He fit into your scheme of things? There's a sense in which the Bible says, it's not truths in general, but only the truth about Christ that you've got to see and you've got to come to in order to have peace. And you know what's interesting is in verse 28, Jesus Christ actually gives us a compendium about what that truth about Him really is. It's all in verse 28. There's four great doctrines. Everything that He's taught about Himself in the whole book up to here is in verse 28. I came from the Father and I entered the world. Now I am leaving the world and I'm going back to the Father. Look at this. Four. I came from the Father, that's the doctrine of His preexistence and His deity, His divinity. He existed before He was born. I entered the world, that's the doctrine of His incarnation. He became visible, He became corporal, He became a human being. I'm leaving the world, that's the doctrine of His death, that He's about to voluntarily lay down His life. And I'm going back to the Father, so He's going to sit at the right hand of God and there intercede for us and be our representative. It's all there. And it all fits together. See, first of all, the doctrine of His preexistence. He says, I was with the Father and I've come. Jesus, that's an active word, which means Jesus is the only person who ever decided to be born. Because He's God. Then He says, I entered the world, which is an astonishing statement, when He says, I came from the Father and I entered the world. Here's the great God of the universe, Jesus Christ, the Creator. Here's the great God who can throw, who can hurl a universe like you and I hurl a stone, becoming a wriggling little crying baby who needs help, like all babies do, to burp. God needing help to burp. You see, who would have thought up this thing? It must be Revelation. The wonder of it. Why would God do that? Why would He come so far? Why would He go to such lengths? Why the incredible condescension? And the answer is the third doctrine. He was God and He entered the world in order to leave. He entered in order to leave. He was born in order to die. To die. He came down off His throne to pay the sacrifice. What is that sacrifice? You know, there's a... Donald Gray Barnhouse is a minister who lived quite a while ago now and he wrote a book of illustrations I was reading through and it was a great one. Sixty years ago he was talking to a group of students, college students, and he was trying to talk about the atonement. And he said he knew that... He had read a story back in a remote part of the country in the late 1800s in which a judge, had his son, his adult son, brought before him on the bench accused of a fraudulent business scheme. The judge listened to the case against him and realized he was absolutely guilty and he came through with a verdict of guilty and when it came to sentencing he sentenced his son to pay the fullest amount that the law allowed for restitution. It was a bankrupting sum. And it's not just a bankruptcy. As soon as he adjourned the court the judge came down off the bench, walked over to the appropriate official, got out his own funds and his own portfolio and his own stocks and bonds and cash and all that and paid, knowing this was what was going to happen, paid the whole price and put himself into bankruptcy. And so this minister was telling this story about how God paid everything and one of the female students put up her hand and said, wait a minute. God can't come down off the bench. He's got to stay in heaven. He's got to be the judge. And the minister looked at her and said, you just gave me the greatest illustration of the incarnation I'll probably ever find. What do you think Jesus Christ is? God is a triunity. Jesus is no less than God himself and he came off the bench to take our bankruptcy on himself. Why do you think Paul says, you know the grace of God
2
3	who though he was rich became poor. So that through his poverty we might become rich. I came from God. I entered. I'm leaving God. I've given the sacrifice. And lastly, he says, I'm going back to the Father. That's the doctrine of the heavenly intercession. It's the doctrine of him standing there on the right hand of God as a representative. In Hebrews 7 verse 25 it says, and this is the first text that I ever preached on in New York City up here when we started the church on some Sunday evening, whenever in April, a couple of years ago, three years ago almost, oh my, but it was 7, it was Hebrews 7, 25. It says, therefore he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him for he ever lives to intercede for them. Intercede. I was reading that there's an interesting article about a man who lives out on the east end of Long Island. Who realized that an awful lot of the municipalities out there slap real estate, slap houses with far too many taxes. In other words, they're assessing houses at greater rates than they really should be assessed. And people sort of instinctively know they're paying too many taxes, but the code, you know the tax assessment system and the setup and the code is so intricate and so involved that the average lay person, who just intuitively feels I'm paying too many taxes, can't figure it out. Well, this one man, not a lawyer, not a lay person, but just someone who decided to do it, he mastered all those codes. And he put tremendous amounts of work into it. And he put in tremendous amounts of study. And he also was very brilliant and he was good with numbers and he was very wise. And he mastered it. And he began to represent people before all the different municipality boards and commissions. And again was winning the case. Actually, getting the taxes out of the city, getting the taxes reduced. The reason I read the article is the municipalities out there are furious with this man. And the reason is this. Because he was willing to represent, because he was willing to intercede for people, if he intercedes for me, the property owner, I may be a jerk. I may know nothing about all these things. I may not understand any of the intricacies of the tax assessment code. I have not done any of the work that he's done. But it's his brilliance, it's his diligence, and it's his work. When he represents me, I'm going to be able to do anything that all accrues to me. I get the benefit. Because you see, if he's my representative, then I'm smart in court. If he's my representative, I'm brilliant. If he's my representative, I look like him. Back in the Old Testament days, sometimes when two armies would come together, ready to have a big battle between two countries, sometimes what they would do is they would choose a representative. Now there was a technical term, an archegos, which means a champion. And even if you were a champion, each army would put forth their best fighter, and that fighter represented the whole army. If he won, the army won, and the entire land was theirs. They had to pay tribute and everything. If your representative, if your champion lost, then you were put into slavery. That's negotiation. That's representation. The point is, you look like your advocate in court. You look like your advocate on the bench. You look like your advocate Whatever he accomplishes accrues to you. And the Bible comes and says, he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him, for he ever lives to intercede. When you receive Christ as Savior, all the things he's done, the coming and the going and the dying and the incarnation, everything is all done, you see, for you. He represents you. Your case is his case. Your face is his face before the Father. It's a reaching word. Don't you see, when Paul in Romans 8 expresses his tremendous confidence, where did Paul get his world-class endurance? Where did he get this kind of stuff? Where did he get the kind of patience and faith and courage that he had? He was continually looking at the doctrine of Christ. There's a place in Romans 8 where he goes through the same four doctrines that are here in verse 28. He says, Who should bring a charge against us? It's Christ who died, is risen, and is seated at the right hand of the Father, and he is interceding for us. And he says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Don't you see what he's done? He deals with his guilt by running into the doctrine of Christ. Who shall separate us? He's interceding. He died for me. He deals with his fears. He says, This is the one who's done all these things for me. He's controlling all things for me. He deals with all of his needs and his disappointments. That's where he gets all of his confidence. That's the reason why he can say, I've got the real power, so what if somebody has taken advantage of me? I've got the real riches, what if I'm in economic straits? I've got the real family, what if my family rejects me? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? It's Christ who died, who is risen, who is at the right hand of the Father. Read Romans 8 and you will see that Paul is actually doing what Jesus Christ says here, you're allowed to do, and you must do, and you can do. I tell you these things, that in Him, in me, you might have peace. Okay, now lastly, let's be real practical. We said you need truth for peace, and you need truth about Jesus for peace, but what does it mean to actually live it out? There's this interesting spot where the disciples say, now we believe, now we believe, and Jesus is one of the few times you can be absolutely sure He's being cynical. Very, very seldom you can find Jesus saying anything with irony, but look, you see they say, now we believe that you came from God, and verse 31 Jesus says, you believe at last. But I'm telling you, the time is coming, and has come, when you will be scattered each to his own home, within hours you will desert me. Within hours you say you believe all these things, but you won't use what you know. I'll tell you what belief is, he says, belief is using this in the furnace. Belief is using this in the battles of life. And then he says, you're going to have trouble, when the trouble comes, take heart, I have overcome the world. The word take heart is literally, it's a Greek word, which means to dare. What Jesus is saying is pretty astonishing, he says, dare to believe that I have overcome the world. Dare to trust me. Dare to live as if all the things that I've told you are true. Let me show you just two ways. First of all, it means dare to live obedient. What does it mean to dare to live obedient? It means to say, dare to believe and live as if I really am God. Think of three things that a lot of you struggle with. Number one, the Bible says, if you're a Christian, only marry a Christian. And a lot of you say, good night, that now is now my field of this little tiny sliver, what hope is there for me? The Bible says, sex only really works, is only designed to work in a covenant commitment of permanent and exclusive nature, marriage. A lot of you say, that's going to be a mighty lonely way to go. The Bible says, be absolutely honest. And a lot of people say, yes, but you see, there's a certain dishonesty which is intrinsic to my job field. And I don't know what to do about that. Dare to live obedient means dare to live as if the one who tells you these things is God. If He's God, then the only impractical thing to do would be to disobey Him. If He's not God, then the only practical thing to do is to figure out whatever looks practical to you. But dare to live obedient means dare, live as if He really is from the Father. Live as if He's God. Dare to live that way. Or another way, dare to live as if you're loved. A lot of you, take a look at the second part of this doctrine, that He died for you and now He's representing you before the Father. A lot of you will not be willing to deal with your guilt. You keep on beating yourself. A lot of you, because your life isn't going the way you want it to go, are mad because you say, He can't be loving me. If He loved me, why is this happening to me? The reason you're discouraged and the reason you're guilty is you're refusing to live as if He loves you. Dare to live as if you're loved. Take seriously when the battle comes. Take seriously when you're ready to be scattered. Take seriously these things. You believe at last, you say. But are you really daring to live as if there's no God? You're true. In 1874, there was a lawyer in Chicago who sent his wife and four children to Europe for some reason. They were on a boat, a French steamer. And they were on the way from America to Europe. And when they were halfway across the Atlantic, there was an accident. They ran into another boat. And their boat began to sink. And the wife, the mother, got her four children around her and they knelt down and they all prayed, Lord, save us or make us willing to do Your will. The boat sank. All the children were drowned. A rescue boat found the mother floating unconscious in the water. She survived. They took her to Wales or to England. And the first thing she did was she wired back to her husband one of the most desolate telegrams in history, saved alone. She came back. And she and her husband sat down and decided, what are we going to do? How? We're Christians. How do we deal with this? In the world you will have trouble. But I tell you these things that in the world you might have peace. So they wrestled. And they dared to think about and live through their problem as if all the things they believed about Christ were true. And they came through. How do we know that? Because the husband, the lawyer, wrote the hymn that we're going to sing as soon as the service is over. The man's name was Horatio Spafford. And he wrote, It is well with my soul. Now what's interesting is when we sing this, it is astonishing to imagine and to think about this hymn in light of the context. It's very clear to see that he did exactly what Jesus says you have to do in John 16. You have to go not to truth in general, but you have to go to the truth about me. And you have to dare to live as if everything I've told you about me is true, and then you'll have peace. So imagine thinking and remembering the context for this hymn. The first verse goes, When peace like a river attendeth my way, When sorrows like sea billows roll,

Whatever my lot thou hast taught me to say, It is well, it is well with my soul. Where does he get this? Though Satan should buffet, though trials should come, Let this blessed assurance control. Control, see? I'm controlled by a truth that Christ has regarded my helpless estate and hath shed his own blood for my soul. My sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin not in part, but the whole, has been nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, oh my soul. He is going to the truth about Jesus. What would you do? Friends, do you have a truth on which your life is built that would enable you to do what these people did? Is it sufficient? Is it as coherent as this? When you go in underneath a tragedy like this, what's the first thing you feel? This is a punishment. The guilt that you feel during a tragedy will crush you unless you can do what they did. They ran to the truth about Christ and they said, Hey, the Father gave us His Son because He loved us. This is no punishment. And then look at verse 4. And Lord, haste the day when the faith shall be sight, the clouds be rolled back as a scroll, the trump shall resound, and the Lord shall descend. Even so it is well with my soul. He stands back and he looks at the big picture. He says, look, it's horrible to lose my children, but we're going to all lose each other anyway. This is earlier than we thought. But when I stand back and look at time and also in the context of eternity, the only real tragedy is to not be part of His family. And His family is permanent and we're part of His family. I can't wait for that day in which all these things will be laid to rest, but it's coming. What did he do? I tell you these things so that in me you will have peace. He went into me. He went into Christ. You see, he went to the doctrine of Christ and it brought peace. He dared to live obedient as if the one who told him all these things was God. He dared to live loved as if the one who was God had died for him. Elizabeth Elliot tells a story, a fairy tale, reminds us of a fairy tale. A fairy tale that goes this way. A little beggar was sitting on the road when the king came by. And the beggar lifted up his bowl of rice and expected the king to give him some money or something. And instead the king shocked him by saying, No, I want you to give me something. And the poor beggar just didn't understand what in the world was the king trying to take from me. I'm a beggar. You've got everything. Why would you take anything from me? So grumbling, he reached in and pulled out three of his things. He took three grains of rice and gave them to the king. The king said, Thank you, and went on. And as he sped away, the beggar fell into his bowl and to his shock he felt something hard. And he pulled out and he realized there were three nuggets of gold in the plate. And it suddenly hit him and he looked up and he said, Oh, if only I'd given him everything. You see, peace comes when you dare to give him everything. When you dare to live obedient. When it looks like he's asking, he's only giving. When it looks like he's taking, he's only supplying. I tell you these things so that in me you might have peace. Let's pray. Father, as we hear the music, as the offering is taken, we ask that you would help us to grasp the doctrine of Christ into our hearts. To run into it so that we might have your peace. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
