If you're moving along through the bulletin, you would be at it. It's Acts chapter 4, verses 23 to 35. Let me read it.

On their release, Peter and John went back to their own people and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. When they heard this, they raised their voices together in prayer to God. Sovereign Lord, they said, you made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them. by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant, our Father David, why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed one. Indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant, Jesus, whom you anointed. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. Now, Lord, consider their threats and enable your servant to speak your word with great boldness. Stretch out your hand to heal and perform miraculous signs and wonders through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And after they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. All the believers were one in heart and mind. No one claimed that any of his possessions was his own, they had. With great power, the apostles continued to testify to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and much grace was upon them all. There were no needy persons among them, for from time to time, those who owned lands or houses sold them, brought the money from the sales, and put it at the apostles' feet, and it was distributed to anyone as he had need. This is God's Word. word. Now, this is one time a year, those of you who've come before know that this is one time a year in which we bring out the budget, we look at what is the cost of ministry, and we talk about money. This is a sermon on money. Please stay where you are. The material that you're getting sent, if you're a regular attender or a member of Redeemer, the material that's in the bulletin is simply a way of getting you to think through how you're going to make use of your resources for the purpose of ministry. But there's got to be a dynamic, in fact, a dynamite in the heart without which giving is just a form, a dead form. The dynamic we see right here. We're looking at the book of Acts, and in this book, which is an account of the history of the early church, we come across here in chapters 3, 4, and 5 the first persecution of the church, the first place where the leaders of the church were faced and threatened with imprisonment and with death. Now, it's a plain historic fact that the Christians met persecution and torture and death with an astonishing courage. That's just a fact. It astonished the onlookers to see how they church fathers said, our people die well. Where did they get that? Where did they get that ability? I mean, it's a simple fact of history that's one of the reasons we talked about this at a previous time. They died better than anybody else. That's one of the reasons why Christianity swept the Roman Empire. Socially marginal people, educationally ignorant people swept the Roman Empire, became the largest movement, the greatest institution in the history

how did they do it? They had an experience that made them unshakable. They had an experience that made them utterly unshakable. What was that experience? How does it work? How did they, what is the secret of this unshakability? If you look at the passage, you'll see that we're taught three things. First of all, they were shaken by the world, but then secondly, God. And as a result, the believers turned around and shook the world themselves. So you see, the believers shaken by the world and the believers shaken by God. But as a result of being shaken by God, they turned around and we see them shaking the world. In Acts chapter 17, when the apostles are grabbed and taken before a tribunal at one point, their accusers say, these are the men who are turning the world upside down. And that's just what they did. How do you get into a position where instead of the world shaking you, you're shaking it? First of all, look, the first thing we see is that these believers were badly shaken. In verse 23, it says, Peter and John went back. Now, where were they? They'd been arrested. And they went back to their people and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. What had they said? Well, it's mentioned in the prayer in verse 29, consider their threats. They'd been threatened. Now, what can the civil authorities threaten to do? They said, don't preach in Jesus' name, and they threatened them. What can civil authorities threaten to do? They can take away. They can take away your wealth by confiscating your home, your possessions, your businesses. They can take away your freedom by imprisoning you. you. They can take away your loved ones, either by, you know, imprisoning you away from them or imprisoning them away from you. They can take away your life through torture and death. They can take away your wealth, your freedom, your love, and your life. And that's what they threatened. And as a result of the threats, the believers were visibly and badly shaken. shaken. Now, that can be missed unless you see what the prayer is. Look at the prayer, and you'll see that the thing they pray for is what? When they get down to it, what do they pray for? Verse 29, give us boldness. You know what that means? It means they were scared. You don't pray for boldness unless you're frightened. You don't pray for strength unless you feel weak. And the reason they were scared was because, as I said, they were shaken. What's the definition of an earthquake? Well, in an earthquake, the ground is mobilized, and that makes you immobilized. You see, if the ground is immobile, you can be mobile. But if the ground is mobile, you cannot, you're immobilized. You can't move. You can't do anything. And they were immobilized because the things on which they stood was shaking and rolling. You see, their wealth, their freedom, their love, their life, all these things. And they were immobilized. They were petrified. They were insecure. They were scared. And that's the reason they prayed the way they did. But as they prayed, the prayer itself shows that they came to understand the true problem that they had. Yes, they were shaken, but why were they shaken? Yes, they were shaken, but what is their problem? If you look at the prayer carefully, it's a marvelous prayer because it shows they understood why they were so shaken. Their problem was not the civil authorities. It was life itself. It was the nature of the world itself. Look, they pray for boldness in verse 29. What else do they pray for? Take a look. What else do they pray for? Nothing. Now, isn't that weird? They pray for nothing else. They do not say, Lord, protect us, protect our wealth. They don't say, and our families. They don't say, protect our lives. They don't say, protect our freedom. They don't say, do something about these men who are threatening us. Get them out of power. They don't say anything about their circumstances at all. Now, it doesn't mean that it's wrong to pray about things like this. In fact, a few chapters later in the book of Acts, Peter is in prison, and his friends and the disciples get together, and they pray for his release. There's There's nothing wrong with praying about circumstances, but they understood something was more fundamental that they needed. When they prayed for boldness only, when they prayed for boldness and nothing else, what they were saying is, Lord, our real problem is not the authorities.

Because if the authorities were threatening our money, our wealth, our freedom, our love and our life, even if they weren't threatening it, something else might. Our real problem is not the authorities, but our real problem is that circumstances are fragile. Wealth and freedom and love and life are incredibly fragile. And they said, what we want is we want a boldness that goes beyond circumstances. To really have power, we want to have an unshakableness that happens even when these shaken. They said, you know, we're grounded in things that when they shake, we shake. We don't want to be shaken anymore. We want to be bold regardless of circumstances. We want to have true power. If we say, Lord, get rid of these civil authorities, we are still in a situation in which something else could threaten. We want to be unthreatenable. We want to be invulnerable. We want to be unshakable, and that's what they asked for. and you see they may not have been totally conscious of it but when you pray not for a change of circumstances but simply for courage you're recognizing something they're recognizing that their real problem my problem your problem the reason anybody in this room does not have this greatness of spirit and heart that these that these leaders eventually got that's what we're looking at the reason we don't have a greatness of heart is because we are trying to stop the world from shaking. When we sit down to pray, oh Lord, get me into that graduate school. Don't let me lose this person, the only person I think who will ever love me. Oh Lord, please don't let me lose my job. Help me into my career. What we're thinking is, Lord, stop the world from shaking. My problem is the world is shaking. It's falling apart. And these apostles recognized that was the problem, was that to try to stop the world from shaking, which inevitably will shake, is the whole problem. Look at history, biblical history and secular history. You will see things that look so strong shaken. You go all the way back to the beginning. The descendants of Cain, they build cities. Why? They want an enduring strength. But along comes the flood. That whole civilization is shaken. It falls apart. You see the same thing at the Tower of Babel. You see the same thing with Sodom and Gomorrah. They're shaken and they're gone. But Jesus says, as it was in the days of Noah, as it was in Sodom and Gomorrah, so will it be. That's not just a biblical thing. Ten years ago, who would have imagined the Soviet Union gone? Even ten years ago, nuclear power equal opposite, you know, to America. Who would have It's gone. Well, somebody says, yeah, you know, they were a very wicked, you know, it was a wicked administration. Well, most of us feel a little bit more favorably disposed toward the British Empire. Anybody remember the British Empire on which the sun will never set? It's gone. It was shaken. The Bible tells us, history tells us that every name will be forgotten. Every civilization will fall apart. will fall apart. You're feeling really strong in your career in this great corporation, downsizing.

Everything's falling apart. Let me go a little further. Physics will tell you. A hundred years ago, a hundred years ago, people believed there was such a thing as solid matter. Now we know this is just energy in motion, and we know it's running down. Second law of thermodynamics is everything is running down. Everything is shaking. shaking. Everything is shaking. Everything is coming apart. Take a chicken out of the oven. Well, you can't eat it. Why? Too much energy. So let's let the energy scatter. Let's let the energy run down. It will. And after a while, you can eat it. But let's not eat it. Let's leave the chicken on the table, not for an hour. Let's leave it there for about six months. And you will see the second law of thermodynamics in vivid detail. The energy continues to scatter. The energy continues to fall down. Next thing you know, it's a stench. It smells, you see. It's falling, it's oozing. It's falling into pieces. It's awful. Now, I hate to put it this way, but nobody can deny this. You're looking at yourself when you look at that chicken. Any biologist, any physicist You are shaking. You are inevitably falling apart. Nobody can restore the energy that's spending itself. It doesn't matter how much you jog. It doesn't matter how much you take care of yourself. It doesn't matter whether you color your hair. You are falling apart. Your energy is scattering. That's you. It's not just every civilization that inevitably will shake. It's not every family. My wife and I, look, we take tremendous security in our family. It is shaking. us, we look, Kathy and I look at each other, one of us is going to die first. Our family will be shaken. I don't even remember the name. Nobody in my family remembers the name of my great-great grandfather. Every name, every civilization, every family, every body, and of course the mountains, they are too. The mountains are shaking. The mountains are falling apart. The physicists will tell you. Everything will burn out. You know, organic life is only going to last about 100 million years. That's just an eye blink. Everything is shaking. Don't you see what idiots we are when we say our problem is the authorities? They're threatening my wealth. They're threatening my life. They're threatening my family. They're threatening my loved ones. It's the world that's threatening those things. Those things are falling apart anyway under any circumstances. Right now, somebody in here is saying, my life is shaking. You know why? It's my boss.

Or it's him or it's her or it's this situation. It's not. It's life. It's the world. Look at the chicken falling apart on your table. That's you.

Everything is shaking. shaking, everything is spending itself, everything is scattering, everything is falling apart. And what idiots we are to think that this circumstance is the reason for it. It's the nature of things, and they recognize that. And they said, you know what our problem is? You know the reason why we're so shakable? Because we keep trying to stop the world from shaking and falling apart, and it won't. And in the prayer, you not only have that insight, they say, Lord, we ignore circumstances today because we know that's our whole problem, that we're looking at them, that we're trying to stop those things, and they can't. This is life. Everything's falling apart. But even in there, they recognize that there are some things that are unshakable. And they quote from Psalm 2. It says, you spoke by the Holy Spirit through the mouth of your servant David. That's Psalm chapter 2, Psalm 2. And they quote just the first two verses. Why do the nations rage and the people plot in vain? The kings of the earth take their stand and the rulers gather together against the Lord and against his anointed one. But as you go on a little further in that chapter, they were studying that passage to pray. You see that? They were studying Psalm 2, and in the middle of Psalm 2, it says there's all this tumult. There's all this movement, you see. The nations are raging. There's battles. There's war. And it says, though, in the middle, God has said, I have set, I have fixed my king on my holy hill, and I have said to him, you are my son. What are they doing? They're saying there are some that are fixed. What? Well, I just said, you know, isn't everything falling apart? No, not everything's falling apart. The Bible says heaven and earth may pass away, but my word will not pass away. The Bible says, for example, in Psalm 103, this wonderful place, Psalm 103 says, as for man, his days are like grass. He flourishes like the flower of the field. The wind blows over

What's going on here? They recognize there is something that lasts. There is something that doesn't fall apart. In fact, there is something that grows and grows instead of devolves and devolves. What is it? The Word of God, the promise of God, the love of God, that which is done through his love, that which is done for his love, that which is done by his love in people. The Word of God will never end, the Bible says. People, you and me, rocks and trees will end, mountains will end, but we are made in the image of God. We will last forever. And when you take the Word of God through the love of God and you do work inside people, these are things that last forever. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, In the Lord your work is never in vain.

There is something that will outlast the sun when it burns up. There is something that will outlast the mountains. There is something that will outlast civilizations. This is something on which the sun will never set. And they recognize that. that. See, it says in Hebrews 12, God shakes everything that which cannot be shaken should remain. Some of you right now are going through times in which things are shaking. You are being shaken. But you know what? Don't fall into the trap of looking at the immediate cause and saying, that's my problem. That's not your problem. God is very lovingly shaking you up now because whatever you think you need to be an unshakable person, if it has to do with these things like your freedom, your love, your career, your life, your physical health, and so forth, if you think that's what you need, that's going to fall apart anyway. God is shaking you just like He's shaking them. He let this happen. Why? So that which cannot be shaken shall remain.

So they could see what isn't shaken, and they went after it, and they prayed, and they say, we see this and we see this. Oh Lord, now fix our hearts. Ground our hearts in that love. Ground that, our hearts in that redemptive purpose. Ground our hearts in those things. Now what happened? The second thing we see, they were shaken. And the second thing we see is as a response to the prayer, look at verse 31. And after they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the Word of God boldly. Now The place was shaken. What does that mean? That is a manifestation of the presence of God. How many times you'll see in the Bible that when God's presence comes down, there's an earthquake. Exodus chapter 19, what does it say? God came down on Mount Sinai, and it says, and the mountain trembled violently. God came down in Acts chapter 2 on the day of Pentecost, and the whole place shook with the sound of a mighty rushing wind. When Deborah and Barak led the great battle, they led Israel against the Syrians, she sings about this in Judges chapter 5, and she says, when you went out with our army, O Lord, when you marched out with us, the earth shook.

Earthquakes happen when God is present. Why? Why would God use that? Now, that's obviously a sign that he chose. Why would God use the earthquake? Here's why. An earthquake always indicates, look, if I, here's a bunch of squirrels, and they're playing on one inch of ice over a pond. And they're perfectly safe. And the reason they're perfectly safe is because the ice is heavier than they are. But if I get on one, that one inch, if I walk out on that one inch of ice on a pond, The reason is because I am greater than the ice. There was no problem with the squirrel because the ice was greater than the squirrel, but I am greater than the ice, and there is an ice quake. The reason that there is an earthquake when God comes down is because God is greater than anything else. God is stronger than anything else. God is more solid than anything else. When God comes down on Mount Sinai, mountains, they seem so incredibly invulnerable and permanent. compared to God. When God comes down, they melt. God is the one who plays with constellations the way we sift sand through our fingers. And that's why God says, when I come down, there's an earthquake. Well, now somebody says, how could God come down? Surely if God comes down, I mean, isn't God everywhere? And now we've been through this before in this series because this has happened before, so let me just quickly review. When the Bible says God comes down, that his What it really means is we're filled with the Spirit. And what that means is by the help of the Holy Spirit, we discern his presence and we see that he's the real thing.

Jonathan Edwards, I found another quote. Edwards was a man of great spiritual insight, and his diaries are filled with fascinating little statements. Here's one. He says, One day I was walking into my father's pasture for contemplation, and I began to pray, and there came into my mind so sweet a sense of the glorious grace of God as I cannot express it. I suddenly seemed to see them both in sweet conjunction. His majesty and his meekness joined together. It was an awful sweetness, a gentle majesty, a holy gentleness. What's going on there? Now, he didn't have an earthquake, but he did. And here's why. Anyone who's a real Christian has this same experience. It may not be a physical manifestation the way it was for them. You have to remember, this is a very important place in the history of the church. This was the first persecution. This set the tone for everything else. But what they asked for was, in their prayer they had discerned that what they needed was not a change of circumstance, but a grounding in the love and reality of God as the only reality. And what God did was he answered their prayer by simply filling them with the Spirit, reality. All these things that we're talking about here intellectually descended from the conceptual into the personal. Their minds descended into their hearts. And you know why they got bold? Very simple. They said, why am I afraid of losing my wealth? I'm going to lose my wealth anyway.

But here I have a wealth that lasts, that no one can take from me. Why am I afraid of losing my life. My life is gone. I'm a chicken on a, you know, I'm a chicken out there on the table. My life is ebbing away anyway. Why in the world am I afraid of losing my life? But here I have a life that no one can take from me. Now, these things became real to them through the power of the Spirit. And I tell you, here's how you can tell whether you're a Christian or just a religious person, whether you have a vital relationship with the living God or whether a moral, nice, religious person. Anybody who has actually had an experience of God, a living personal relationship with God, has had this quake happen to them. Not the visible physical necessary, but here's what I mean. Things that you thought were important, you suddenly say, that's nothing. If I don't have God, my career, that's important, but without God, what good is my career? If I have love, that's important, but without God, what good is love? Until something

that. Until you get shaken up with the radical either-orness, until you say, if there is no God, then everything is meaningless. Everything is breaking up. Everything is dying. Everything is shaking up. Everything is falling apart. But if there is a God, then He's more important than anything. If that's never riveted you, if that's never happened to you in any degree at all, if you've never gotten to the place where you say, nothing is more important than my relationship with God, nothing can compromise that. Not my life. Not my money. Not my possessions. Nothing. If that has never happened to you, if you've never felt like that, you've never had the God quake, the sense that something greater than your career has come down into your life, something greater than your life has come down into your life. Has that never happened to you? But you see, to the degree it's happened, you won't be scared. The great John Chrysostom over 1,500 years ago commented on this particular spot in the book of Acts. John Chrysostom, it means the golden throat, the golden mouth. He was a great preacher. He lived over 1,500 years ago, and when he read this passage, he said, you know what? The more the place was shaken, the less the believers were shaken. In other words, the more God shakes you, the less the world will shake you. And this is a test. The more God shakes you, The less the world will shake you. And the more the world is shaking you, The less God is shaking you. This is an absolute acid test. If you're filled with anxiety today, If you're filled with terrible worry, fears, If you've got butterflies in your stomach over something like this, If the world is shaking you, You haven't seen much of the reality of God. You're not communing with him. These things about his weight hasn't come down into your life. It's an absolute test. Wait, somebody says. What I don't understand is,

how can anybody be that certain that God loves them? See, a thoughtful person is saying, look, I can understand if I thought God loved me, was absolutely, absolutely sure of it, if I knew he infallibly loved me, that then maybe I could sort of see standing against all these other things. Maybe I'd be unshakable, but how can you know such a thing? How can anybody be certain? certain. Oh, my gosh. Let me tell you about the two greatest earthquakes in the history of the world. In Matthew 27 and Matthew 28, we're told about them. In Matthew 27, we're told that Jesus died on the cross. And when he died, what happened? Do you remember? Let me put it to you this way. Matthew 27, let me quote it. He says, and then Jesus cried out, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me. And this is verse 50. He says, and Jesus cried out in a loud voice and died. And at that moment, the curtain in the temple was torn from top to bottom, and the earth shook, and the rocks split. Why? Something was coming down that was heavier than the earth. Well, you say, what do you mean? Let me tell you what was coming down. It was God coming down, but not in blessing, in justice. Do you know why the world falls apart? Genesis 3 and Romans 8 tell us the reason that the world is falling apart, the reason our bodies are falling apart is because of the justice of God.

You know why a team falls apart when it's under a bad manager? A good team will fall apart under a manager that doesn't have the gifts of management. And the Bible tells us that because we're managing the world in our own lives, we're falling apart.

The justice of God on sin is the reason that life is falling apart. But on that day, at that hour, the entire justice of God, the weight of the justice of God that was making the whole world fall apart was all focused and brought to bear on one person's head. With terrifying, crushing weight, the justice of God in great earthquake came down on Jesus. How heavy was that? Jonathan Edwards says, how much does omnipotence weigh? And it came down on him. You know why? Jesus was shaken in a way nobody else has ever been shaken. Jesus was pushed apart into pieces in a way no one ever has. Friends, some of you are going through families breaking up and falling apart. Your families are falling apart or your body's falling apart or your job and career is falling apart. But he understands in depths and realms that none of us ever will. In the Garden, he said, my soul is sorrowful even unto death. What is he talking about? He says, I'm coming apart. I feel myself disintegrating. Yes. Under the thing that makes the world disintegrate. All on him at once. The justice of God against sin. The justice of God against evil. The thing we all want.

It all came down on him. And there was an earthquake. But there was a second earthquake. And the second earthquake, we're told, in Matthew 28. And what does it tell us in Matthew 28? On Sunday morning, there was a violent earthquake, it says. First verse of chapter 28 of Matthew. And the stone rolled away. Why? Something, look it. just as the justice of God created an earthquake because it was stronger than the earth, now the righteousness of Jesus creates a death quake because it's stronger than death. Remember, C.S. Lewis puts it this way. There's deep magic from before the dawn of time. Jesus Christ, by dying in our place, by paying, by taking the earthquake of justice on himself, because Jesus was shaken utterly, He has broken death. He broke it. He shook death. Do you see the death of death and the death of Christ? Do you see the shaking of shaking and the shaking of Christ? Do you see it? What happened? Jesus comes and says, if you will come to the Father and say, accept me, swallow my pride, accept me just for Jesus' sake. I'm a sinner, but accept me for Jesus' sake. Death and the law with me have nothing to do. my Savior's work and blood hide all my transgressions from view. And Jesus Christ is saying, I was utterly shaking so you can be

utterly unshakable. I was shaken utterly that you could be utterly unshakable. I was shaken to pieces so you wouldn't be. And if you see that, you know he loves you. Remember what God said to Abraham?

Now I know that you love me, for you did not withhold your son, your only son, whom you love from me. And now we can look and say, now we know you love us because you shook him to pieces so that you wouldn't have to shake us. He paid the debt so we wouldn't have to pay the debt. If you see that, don't you understand? if you understand the meaning of the earthquakes of Matthew 27 and 28, nothing, nothing will shake you. You can know it. Now, somebody has to say, well, he obviously has only a minute or two left. What in the world does this have to do with money? And by the way, I did this totally on purpose. No, no, no, don't say, well, you know, he obviously didn't leave enough time for this last point. No. Uh-uh. Sometimes that does happen, but not today. Can I show you why? What do you think verse 32 to 35 is all about? Money. They no longer looked at their possession as if it belonged to them. They no longer looked at these things as if they belonged to them. They became radically generous. You know why? I never saw this until I studied this text. The absolute direct effect, the immediate result of having become courageous, of no longer caring about what happens to them as long as they have the love of God. The immediate effect of this boldness is they got generous. You see, I realize, and I have to say I'm guilty about this, over the years, ministers, and I'm certainly one of them, have a tendency to say people don't give because they're selfish. But I suddenly realized something as I was studying this. People don't give because they're gutless.

The Old Testament tells us that the Old Testament saints gave away 10% of their income to the church and to charity. And we can see in the New Testament that the New Testament believers gave away 10% as a minimum. This is not 10% giving. This is whatever it takes giving. Do you see that? If they saw a friend in need, if they saw ministry, if they saw a church need, if they saw something they needed to get off the ground, they didn't give 10%. They gave whatever ever it took. That's what it says. How could you do that? Why don't we give like that? We're scared. I don't want to have my bank account go below this. I'm scared. But your bank account will fall apart someday. You see what's so beautiful? These folks became radically generous because they said, here we've got something, money, which is absolutely perishable. It's going to perish anyway. This cannot give us security here. But if we put it into people's lives, if we put it into the Word of God, if we put it into ministry, if we put it into the spread of the kingdom, this is like alchemy. This is like turning lead to gold. This is turning something that's absolutely perishable into something that will last forever. How much can I do? What can I get away with? Somebody says, well, all this talk about, about, you know, how the world is passing away. That's dangerous because then you won't try to work to make a place a better place. You won't work to try to make this world a better place. Nonsense. Has anybody read the article in The New York Times today? Jonathan Kozol has written this book about how poor everybody is in the South Bronx. And he's so upset. The interview in The New York Times says he's so upset. He says, people know how bad things are in the inner city and they say, tell me something we don't know. They know how bad these things are but nobody will do anything about them. Why, Jonathan? Do you know why they won't move into those places? Do you know why they won't be involved in those places? Do you know why they won't even visit those places? Do you know why they won't give those places? They're afraid for their safety. They're afraid for their wallet. They're afraid for their comfort. But these things are going to burn up.

Don't you see, if you're not willing to be involved in the lives of the poor, if you're not willing to give radically to other Christian friends, if you're not willing to give the way they gave, you don't have the sense of adventure that they had. liberated from their fears. That's the reason we don't give. You're a coward if you don't give

adventurously. And I am. And what do you have to do? You have to, first of all, you have to identify your real problem that we think that this world is going to stop shaking, and it won't. And then you have to remember what Jesus Christ, how he was shaken so that we would never have to be shaken again. And then you have to pray that in, and then you have to give and live as if this is all true, and it will come and you will become unshakable people. Let's do it together. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would enable us to incorporate the great truths of this passage into our own lives. Help us to see that the one who was shaken to pieces did so that we could be people who last forever. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
