We're going to look at Colossians chapter 3 again, only we're going to read verses 12 to 17. And I believe that there's a handout tonight back there. Lee, do you see the handout back there? If a couple of you would be willing to just bring it down and pass it out to everybody while I'm reading the scripture and beginning the exposition for the evening. We're going to look at Colossians chapter 3, which we've been looking at for three weeks. But tonight we're going to look at verses 12 through 17. Ready? Colossians chapter 3, verses 12 through 17. Forgive as the Lord forgave you and over all these virtues put on love, which binds them all together in perfect unity. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with all wisdom, and as you sing psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs with gratitude in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, whether in word or deed, do it all. Amen. In the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. This is God's word. You're getting a handout. This is the last week of a little three-week series on, we've called this, Finding Your Identity in Christ. And we were looking for two weeks at the first four verses of Colossians that talks about the fact that you have died and now your life is hid with Christ and God, and Christ is your life. And, you know, we've talked about this a number of ways. So, by the way, I've already had people tell me, I'm really happy about your recaps, the first five minutes of each Sunday evening service. As some people have said, I like the recaps because it catches me up if I wasn't there last week. But a lot of people said, I didn't really get last week until you recapped it. So, you know, and, you know, brevity has its thing. Have you ever noticed there's not a... Take a look at any sermon in the Bible, any sermon, and read it out loud and see whether you can find any sermon that went past five minutes. It's easy. So, there's something to be said for brevity. Recap. Look, we have said that people, everybody feels the need for righteousness. Righteousness is a sense, it's a biblical word that describes standards that every single person has got. In order to feel good about themselves and accept themselves. Every single person has got a set of standards. We might have gotten them from our parents. We might have rejected our parents and picked them up from our friends and our culture. Then later on, we might have rejected those and come up with our own. And generally, every time you go to a therapist, they tell you to get rid of the last one and set up a new set. And then you will feel good about yourself. You need to get, you need to jettison and get rid of the old set of standards for yourself. And what the Bible calls these standards, it calls it righteousness. And the Bible says again and again that no matter how you skin it, every philosophy, every religion, every effort that you possibly can come up with outside of the Christian gospel is an effort that men and women have to patch up their own righteousness so they can feel good about themselves. So they can understand who they are and feel there's meaning in life. The Bible says you have to get rid of that. And you have to recognize that God has provided a righteousness for you in Jesus Christ. And until you're willing to see, that you can never live up to standards and you can never be righteous in his eyes. And only when you are willing to admit that and come to him and say, Lord Jesus Christ, your record, your righteousness, that's my only hope. I need to have that come into my life. Then God puts that on you when you believe and trust in him. That's the gospel. Now, one of the things we pointed out, and I can bring this out, is that to understand the gospel fully, you have to keep in mind both Christ's active obedience and his passive obedience. Remember that from three weeks ago? Let me give you a couple of new illustrations. The theologians talk about his passive obedience. It's probably a bad word. Passive sounds pretty wimpy, I know. But passive obedience means the negative side of what he came to do. He came to stay in our stead, to stand in our stead. One of the things he did was he passively, he received the punishment that we deserve. And most everyone's heard about that part. Jesus died for our sins. He took our punishment. And it's a moving thing to talk about his punishment. I just heard of another great illustration. There is a true story of two young men, two young Chinese brothers who lived in Chinatown in San Francisco in the early 1900s. There was an older brother and a younger brother. And the younger brother was on the wrong side of the law and he was a rebellious kid. And he was in gambling at one point. And he got in a fight. And he killed the person that he was in a fight with. And there was blood all over his clothes. And he ran. And unfortunately, too many people had identified him. He ran home. And he threw the clothes down on the floor and tried to hide them. And tried to change clothes and took off. But, of course, the older brother who saw this happen realized that he had been identified. The police knew who he was. Everybody knew who he was. It was inevitable that the clothes would be found. And they knew where he was running. And so what the older brother did was he put the clothes on. The blood-stained clothes, you see. And when the police came in, they immediately recognized him as being the wrong person. They arrested him. He was tried. He was older, but not a whole lot older. And he was similar in height and size and looks and so on, being the brother. And he was tried. And he was executed for that crime. The younger brother finally came to his senses and in great contrition came and told the authorities what had happened. And they said, it's too late. The crime has been paid for. Can't arrest you. You know, there's a wonderful set of stories that says that's what, somebody's already done that, you know. The real elder brother. You know, in Luke chapter 15, there's this awful, there's this awfully strange ending to the story of the prodigal son where, you remember the story we talked about this morning, where a younger son went off and lived a profligate life. And before he went off, he said to his father, I want my inheritance now. I don't want you to die. I want my inheritance now. And the father gave him one half of his estate, liquidated it and gave it to him. Gave him the property, the part that was due to him. And he went off and he spent it and riotous living. Later on, he came to his senses and he came back and he was ready to say, Father, just accept me back into your house as a slave. I'm not worthy to be called your son. And what happens is that the father, as you know, says, what are you talking about? You are my son. I receive you back gladly. He puts a robe on him. He puts a ring on his finger and he says, kill the fatted calf. Let's celebrate. And you remember that half of the, parable. That's a great parable. And that's how it ends? No. One half of the parable is about the fact that the elder brother, there was two sons. The elder brother spent a lot of time grumbling and grumping. Remember? And he says to the father, I have slaved and I have worked for you. And this young boy goes off and he spends his life on all this strange stuff and then you receive him back. It's not fair. And the father says, what's with you? This is my son. I love him. I'm just being a father. What do you think fathers are for? And that's how the parable ends. It's a strange parable. Don't you think? What was all that elder brother stuff? But you see, you first have to remember that Jesus Christ was talking to the Pharisees and he was trying to hold a mirror up to the Pharisees to show them what they were like. They hated the sinners. They hated the prostitutes and the gamblers and the whoremongers and all these awful people and they didn't want to have anything to do with them. And you see, Jesus was saying, you're like this elder brother, stuck up. But you know, the elder brother had a case because now that the father had liquidated the younger brother's inheritance and it's all been spent, everything that the father owned belonged to the elder brother. Right? So when the father said, give him a robe, that really was the elder brother's robe. Give him a ring, that really was the elder brother's ring. Kill the fatted calf, that really was the elder brother's fatted calf. Now, that elder brother was a bad elder brother. But the Bible says, Jesus Christ, in Hebrews 2, it says, Jesus Christ is not ashamed to call us brethren. And that means that we have here is a pointer in the parable to the real elder brother. Because see, Jesus is an elder brother that puts an end to all elder brothers. Because Jesus Christ is the one who comes and says, yes, you know, my little brother, my little sister. He says this to every one of us. The ring that Jesus, that God is putting on your finger, the sonship, the adoption of the family, the righteousness, the robe, all the things that the Father is putting on you, they're mine. They're mine. They didn't belong to you. And I bought them at dear cost. And I'm so glad that you have them. See, the real elder brother, which is Jesus Christ, went way beyond even the one who was killed, you see, in Chinatown for his younger brother. Jesus Christ goes beyond that because Jesus Christ didn't just get killed. He didn't just get killed for us. But he also did something else. And that's the other side of the gospel. The active obedience of Christ. And the active obedience of Christ means not only that Jesus Christ took our punishment for us, but he also earned our reward for us. Now, my wife and I can remember clearly a particular Old Testament course in 1972, probably, I think, in the fall of 72, in which this came clear to us one day. We were listening to a lecture. And essentially, what the professor showed us, he was trying to show us not just the passive obedience of Christ and the death on a cross, but the active obedience. And he was saying, it's more like this. Imagine two courses, two races, you know, two tracks, and two racetracks. And at the end of each racetrack is a circle. And at the end of Jesus' racetrack is a laurel. It's, you know, the victor's laurel. Because Jesus Christ runs a perfect race. He never stumbles, you see. He runs it perfectly. He never knocks down one of the hurdles. It's perfect. And at the end, there is the gold medal, the Olympic gold medal, waiting for him at the end of his, at the circle at the end of his course. Now, take a look at your course. And you see what you're doing. Running in the wrong direction, you see. Stumbling, knocking down every hurdle. Griping and grumping, tripping other people on the way. You know, doing everything you possibly can. Okay? And at the end of your course, the Bible says, is for people who have run a race like that, for people who have repudiated their rightful master as master, at the end of that race, is what? It's the punishment. It's the death penalty. It's the chopping block. It's the hangman's noose. And this, I remember this retreat, or not this retreat, on this class, in this course. Something spiritual happened in a classroom. It's hard to believe. He says, imagine not just that Jesus Christ comes and dies for us. Instead, think like this. Jesus Christ comes at the end of his race, and there, waiting for him, is the victor's laurels. And suddenly, he cuts in front of you, and goes over to your circle, and puts his head down on the block, and he's killed. And he takes the punishment. You see, that's the passive obedience of Christ. And then, you see, your circle goes dark. The lights go off. And all that's there for you, the only place for you to go, is the winner's circle. Why didn't Jesus pick that up, you see? Because it's for you. 2 Corinthians 5, 21. And 20, that area, right there. It says, He took him, who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. It's not just that he took our penalty, but he also earned our blessing, you see. He didn't just take our curse, he earned our blessing. He didn't just take our punishment, but he earned a reward. And it says, in John 1, 18, it says, Jesus Christ has lived eternally in the bosom of the Father. It's a remarkable statement. To be in someone's bosom is a statement, a statement of tremendous intimacy and love. And something hard for us to grasp, you know. To lie up against somebody's bosom is to be in a very, very close, loving relationship with them. There are very few people in my life that can just walk up to me when I'm on the sofa and lie up against my bosom. They all live in my apartment with me. And that's it. And there's nobody else. All right? And yet, when it talks about Jesus being in the bosom of the Father, you have to remember, these are two persons, eternal persons that didn't have bodies. And so, as wonderful as it is, you know, when you're in love with somebody, to put yourself up against their bosom, it's another thing for two people's souls and hearts. Eternal persons. Eternal, perfect, omnipotent, you see. Omnipresent persons to have been wrapped up in one another's souls for all eternity. Pouring love and joy in and out of each other from all eternity. Imagine, imagine the love that the Father has for the Son. Imagine the joy that the Father had in the Son. And yet, you belong to Him if you believe in Him. Read the prayer in light of that. Read the prayer of John 17 where Jesus is praying for us. He's standing as our high priest. He's standing as our advocate. And see what He's doing. He's constantly saying, Father, the glory that I had, I want them to have. The love that I had from you, I want them to have. How does Jesus Christ, how does Jesus Christ save us? Not only through passive obedience, but actively, He becomes our righteousness. God now gives us the love that ordinarily would have gone to Jesus Christ. And still does. But you see, it goes to us through Jesus Christ. How does the Father love the Son? That's how much He loves you. How does the Father enjoy the Son? That's how much He enjoys you. That's what Jesus asked for. That's what you've got. And that's why we say here that what we're talking about in the Bible is that you must stop trying to steal self-acceptance from other sources, power, achievement, popularity. Instead, you have to warm yourself at the fire of our standing in Jesus Christ. How do you do that? People are saying, you've talked a lot about it, let me proceed. You take a look at Colossians 3, 12 and 17 and there's a couple principles I'd like to point out as real how-tos. How-to. How do you work this down into your life? How do you work the gospel in? The gospel, the good news. Here's how we do it. Number one, take a look here at verse 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts since as members of one body you were called to peace. Now friends, this is something that is repeated again and again and again. In Paul especially, but all through the Bible. Again and again, you hear Paul saying this. Because you're called to be this, because you are this in Christ, be it. You notice how often that happens? Because you are this way, be this way. Which sounds like a paradox until you understand how things work here. What he's saying is because your life is hidden, with Christ and God, live that way. If Christ is your life, then when other people come and criticize you, you say, well, you know, it hurts to be criticized. My reputation isn't my life and what they think of me isn't my life. Christ is my life. So what Paul is saying is be what you are. Take hold of what you really are and the standing you really have and live on the platform of it. Be what you are. Let the peace of Christ rule. Why? Because you were called to peace. It's just a great example of it. Or in verse 12, it says, therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion. First, take a look at this be what you are. You know, somebody said to me, you keep calling this little series, it's great, they say, I love this series, but you keep calling it Finding Your Identity in Christ and I still don't hear you talking much about identity. What do you mean Finding Your Identity in Christ? So I said, oh, well, you're right. I better say something about that. You know, so the title has some kind of validity to it. If you go and, if you read, now this, if you read anthropologists and ask them about identity, you very often will get some nice, good, I think concrete and useful answers. I find that I learn more about identity from anthropologists than from psychologists. That doesn't mean I don't like psychologists. You know, I read plenty of it, but in this area, there's an urban anthropologist named Paul Hebert that drew on the work of a lot of other anthropologists and said, basically, your identity is a set of layers because there's plenty of things that you are. You identify yourself as a number of things, but he says, the way identity works is these things can shift and there's some things that are extremely important to you that really make you, that you identify with, things that are very important to who you feel that you are. Other things are fairly important. Other things are less important, so there's layers. Now, take a look at this. For example, here's a person on the left who's a Christian, and let's hope that he's a new Christian. He's also a lawyer. He's also Irish, and he's also a Democrat. Now, the reason he still thinks of himself as Irish is that either his grandfather or his father is from Ireland. By the time it's your great-grandfather, you don't usually think of your, you know, your ethnic identity in the United States starts to melt out at a certain point. But look, here's a person who, number one, I'm a lawyer. Yeah, you know, I'm Irish, and I like hanging around with the rest of my family and all that. Yeah, I'm kind of a, kind of a liberal Democrat, but when it comes right down to it, it's my status as a lawyer and my professional excellence and the circles that my being a lawyer has gotten me into that really makes me feel that's who I am, makes me feel good about who I am. It gives me meaning. It gives me identity. The person becomes a Christian, and being a Christian is at the top because it's still something he knows he is, but does it affect him as much? The way in which you can tell where your identity is, you see, is when, the pressure's on, what do you repair to? When it's getting cold outside, where do you warm yourself? Just take a, let me show you, let me read you this little paragraph here at the bottom. It's a summary of what I'm trying to get across. Identity is a set of layers where many things, some layers more control our self-concept and our behavior more profoundly. If a person's occupation is at the bottom is identity, he'll be shaken mainly by his failure to excel professionally. Won't bother him so much, you know, if, if his political party's out of power. It won't bother him so much, you know, how things are going in his family. The most important thing for him is how he does professionally. If his nationality is more fundamental, family relationships will be all important. Christian maturity is a process in which the most fundamental layer of identity is our self-understanding as new Christians, new creatures in Christ. That's the most fundamental thing. Along with our privileges in him. That means Christian maturity, is taking that, that Christian from the top and moving it to the bottom. It takes time. It moves down until we find ourselves unshaken by professional social relational changes. You see? We can begin to relax at work. We can overcome racial prejudices. You know, frankly, the closer down to the bottom your ethnic identity is, in many cases, the harder it is for you to accept people of other races. It's also true that we become more open-minded about views of politics. The further down your Christian maturity, the more open layer goes. You see? I don't want you to think that Christianity is just one layer of your life. I'm trying to work this in, you understand, to this model, which I think is helpful. The further down you work your Christian personhood, your Christian standing, into the core and center of your being, so it's the most fundamental thing about you, the more you're going to find freedom in all these other areas. You're going to be more open to other ideas, more open to other people, becoming an absolutely soul-enriching, soul-out, committed Christian does not turn you into a fanatic. It does not turn you into a bigot. It does not close your mind. It always opens it. Because you're not scared or defensive about talking to people who know a lot more than you anymore. Oh, no. You're not threatened when somebody comes in and tells you something or gives you an argument that doesn't quite follow. Because, you see, your identity is not based on how intelligent you look. Your identity is not based so much on this or that particular political perspective. You're not based on your own persuasion. You become more open-minded and down it goes and down it goes. You have to be what you are and you have to practice that and you have to move it on down. It takes time. There's no way that you can do this thing overnight. There's no way. And as excited as you get and as real as God gets to you, very often in the earliest days and weeks and months after your conversion, there's just no immediate and fast way for that to hit the bottom. It'll go faster. It'll work its way down faster the more steady you are, in the kinds of disciplines we're going to talk about in the weeks after tonight. We're talking about your walk in the Word of God, your prayer life, your fellowship with other Christians, your meditation, your study, and all these other ways in which you need to be growing as a Christian. The more diligent you are in the means of growth and the means of grace, the faster that'll happen and the faster you'll get to know the freedom. Turn the sheet over. Now there's another side. The nature of identity we see in verse 15. In verse 12 we see where Paul says, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourself. I could never do that. I was choreographed there. Clothe yourself in all these great virtues like compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Some people do say, have said, frankly, that if you struggle and stress and stress the active obedience of Christ, if you stress your righteousness in Him, that what it does is it makes people lose their incentive for being holy. In fact, I can find you a sermon that I read that's in print that goes something like this. The gospel as we hear it today goes like this. Just go to the altar and by faith trust in the blood shed there. Then go boldly before the throne of grace. The veil is, is ripped. Your father loves you. He is waiting. He sees only Jesus in you. That sounds like what I've been saying for the last three weeks, doesn't it? The next paragraph says, Christians who embrace this thinking believe they can bypass real repentance, that they can rush past the commitment of the holy place with sin caked all over them and sinful habits deeply embedded in their hearts. They can walk right into the presence of God and say, I am the righteousness of God in Christ. This sermon is saying, that if you really believe that God accepts you as you are, that he sees only Jesus' righteousness upon you, regardless of how wicked you are, what that means is you think then that it doesn't mean, you don't have to repent. You don't have to deal with the sin in your life. Let me show you here that Paul is saying, verse 12, therefore as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved. Now that word holy means just what you think it means. What do you think that word holy means? It means holy. You say, well, it can't mean holy. It can't mean, it can't mean pure and blameless and spotless because why would you tell holy people to be more compassionate? Why would you tell holy people to be more humble? Why would you tell them to be more patient if they're already holy? The answer is, what we've been saying all along, Jesus Christ, because of who he is and because we're in him, God already sees you as holy. That's the only explanation for that. You're already dearly loved. Now because you're that, you, have freedom and incentive to actually go about putting on the actual characteristics of holiness. To know that God accepts you and to know you're perfectly loved is an incentive to live in a godly way. See, as chosen people, as holy and dearly loved. Now you might say, why? Why does it lead to that? Now I put down here kind of the answer. You've probably heard, whoops, where's my,

oh well, yeah, here we go. You see, you've heard, when you're reading the scripture, that there's an old man and a new man. That in every Christian, there's an old self, the old creature, the old person, walking in the old ways, and there's a new one that God's creating and it creates a tension. There's an old and new self and any Christian understands that. Any Christian knows about the struggle. But what is the old and the new self? As far as I can see, the old self is the old way of thinking and working under works righteousness, that means you've still got a part of you who says, I want, even though I know God loves me and even though I know I'm completely holy in Christ and all that, but I really want to earn my righteousness. And so you continue to get nervous, you continue to get depressed over standards and things that you've got to get to. And what that does is it bears in your life all kinds of bad fruit. It bears pride into your life, it bears resentment, it bears depression, it bears all those sorts of things. The new man, the new person is the person who is constantly saying, I am the righteousness of God in Christ. And the effects are right here. Compassion. When you know you're holy, it leads to compassion. When you know you're loved, it leads to humility. When you don't know that, it leads to insecurity and depression. Frankly, it's silly to say to know that God wholly accepts you, therefore you have absolutely no incentive to repent. Let me, let me give you a couple of examples before I get to this. For example, suppose, well, I can, I can, you know, I imagine this too hard. You know, you're in love with a girl and you want her to marry you, so what you're doing is, you know, you know she's looking you over. You know she's checking you out, she's finding out how do you handle arguments, how do you handle criticism, you know, how do you support her when she's depressed and so on. She's watching you, and you know that you're on trial. You know you're on trial. So you work real hard and you're real, you're real loving and you're real kind and you do everything you can to demonstrate and show your love. And one day, you ask her, and she says okay. And you get married. And suddenly you realize, she accepted me. She accepted me. The trial time is over. Now, keeping in mind the fact this is still a human illustration and there's, you know, it's not a perfect illustration. Let me ask you, if you really loved her, what is your first response? You say, she said I do. Fantastic. There's no reason, for me to bring her gifts. There's no reason for me to be kind to her. There's no reason for me to support her. Thank goodness. And what happens, what happens is you're freed finally because there was still some fear in your life, in your relationship to her. What if she rejects me? But now she accepts me. Now, a lot of people can say, they can joke, but there's a bitter joke in it. They can say, well, I've been in one of these situations. And somebody who, when I did accept him or when I did accept her completely, they did let go and they did just let themselves go and stop working at, and, and in that case, was that love? No. Of course that wasn't true love. Nor should you talk that real people who love the Lord Jesus Christ would lose their incentive knowing that they're holy and chosen and dearly loved. That's silly. In fact, it's only when you know that you're completely secure in his love that you have the strength to look your sins right in the face and admit them for what they are. Because no longer is your own holiness your foundation. It's not your righteousness anymore. So you can take it. You can take criticism. You can give it to yourself. And, if you know that you are chosen and holy, then all these things come. Look, the effects that are listed here is compassion and kindness, humility, patience, forgiveness, peace. Look how it happens. Look. Number one, compassion. If you know that you were completely accepted freely in Jesus Christ, does that make you more compassionate or less? It makes you more. Why? I found, that, you know, one of the things that you don't know about me is I spent the last five years, believe it or not, traveling around the country. It was a half-time job I had with my denomination. Going around the country and trying to motivate churches to help the poor. That was my job. Half-time. And, I found something very intriguing. People who believed that God accepted them because they were pretty good people had almost no incentive to help the poor. Why? Because they said, well, let them pick themselves. Let them pick themselves. Let them pick themselves up by their bootstraps. Let them, you know, get out and get a job. Do something. Because, you see, their own understanding of things were that's what they did. And, they looked at every part of their life and they worked hard for everything they got including their salvation. But, people who know that they're sinners saved by grace and that their salvation and their acceptance by God is free and completely undeserved, they take a look at a person who is a mess. Who is maybe physically a mess. Who is maybe mentally a mess. Who is economically and socially a mess without resources. And, instead of saying, wow, wow, how creepy, how awful, they say, I know that's what I look like to the Lord apart from Jesus Christ. I know that my righteousness is a filthy rag. I realize that I'm in rags. And so, when I look at a person like that, I'm looking in a mirror. You see? And, you know, when Jesus Christ says, I was hungry and you didn't, uh, feed me. I was thirsty and you didn't take me in. What he's really saying is that the way in which you treat those people will tell me whether or not you know you're a sinner saved by grace. The way in which you treat those people will tell me whether you are full of gratitude in your own heart to me. Or whether you think, basically, that God is just giving you what you deserve, which is a trip to heaven because you're a very moral, decent, upstanding pillar. Compassion comes from knowing you're loved freely and know that you're already holy in him. I'll never get through all this. Humility. We've already talked about that. Where does humility come from? Humility, we're going to spend a whole evening on it some night when we get to the fruit of the spirit. Humility is not thinking less of yourself, it's thinking of yourself less. Okay? Humility is not saying, oh, I'm great. Humility is not saying, oh, I'm crummy. Humility is not thinking about yourself. Because, you see, most of us have this thing called an ego and we are constantly getting whipsawed. Whipsawed. And because when we get criticism that takes us down, you know, to negative four, to negative three, to negative two, all the way down, negative, it gets worse and worse and worse. When we get compliments it takes us to plus three, plus four, plus five, plus six. We're getting whipsawed, whipsawed. The gospel, the weird thing about the gospel is that it's a message that takes that ego and it just, it completely destroys the ego. It knocks it cold because it tells you something bad about yourself that's way off the negative scale, far worse than you'd ever dare hope. And it tells you something about yourself that's way off the positive scale at the same time you're far more valuable than you ever dared believe. At the same time. And when that happens your ego doesn't know what to do about it. Because you see the ego is shut up finally. It's no longer saying oh but that person criticized you. So what, ego? Shut up. Who knows? You know, you say I'm much worse than that but God loves me. And when somebody compliments you know, boy you're great. You know, and what do you say? Shut up ego. Down boy, down boy. Why? You say because ah, you know, that's just because they happen to see the good side of you and most of the stuff that they're seeing is stuff that's just in there because God in his free grace has put it in there. You see, that's why John Newton says a real Christian, a real Christian finds the worst times tolerable and the best times leaveable. The worst, you know, criticisms tolerable and the best criticism and the best compliments leaveable. Why? Because he's got something far greater. That's what humility is. It comes from knowing that you are holy and dearly loved. Patience, forgiveness, don't have time. Joy. There's one thing about joy. You're going to have to have compassion this week, humility and joy but no peace or patience. The big difference between, the big difference between a person who believes they're a sinner saved by grace and a person who believes that God has accepted them through their own efforts is that when you ask a person, if you ask a moralistic religious person, you say, are you a Christian? They say, well, of course. Why do you ask? Sure I am. What do you mean? Aren't you? You know. And if you ask a person who understands that they're holy and dearly loved completely out of free grace, what they're saying is this. They're saying, yeah, me, a Christian. What a joke. Me, a Christian. There's always a wonder or a playfulness. There's an eternal surprise. Whenever you think of yourself and you're saying, me, of all people, a Christian, but it's true. How could that be? Isn't it a joke? Isn't it a great joke? Isn't it the big joke with a capital J? And yet, and yet it's true. Absolutely true. There's a playfulness about Christians. There's a wonder, you know, in them. And on the other hand, the only other thing that can happen to you is without that joy, you're in drudgery and the drudgery comes from works righteousness. Let me just read you this. This is all I have time for. This interesting letter of John Newton. The great writer who wrote Amazing Grace to a pastor friend who was constantly depressed. And some of you are probably in this situation. Here you are, professing Christians. Here you are, maybe pretty religious Christian people. Maybe, and I'm not, by the way, I'm not saying you're a moralist. I'm not saying that you're not saved. I'm not saying you never received Christ as Savior and all that. I'm not saying you don't intellectually believe all the things I've been telling you for three weeks, but it has not come down into the bottom layer of your life. And that was the kind of guy that John Newton was writing. A man who was always going about bound in shallows and miseries. And here's what he writes him. And I hope you see how incredibly subtle works righteousness is in a person's life and how it can work its way in. John Newton writes to this pastor and says this. You cannot be too aware of the inward and inbred evils you complain of, but you may be, indeed you are, improperly controlled and affected by them. Understand that? You say it's hard to understand how a holy God could accept such an awful person as yourself. You then express not only a low opinion of yourself, which is right, but also too low an opinion of the person, work, and promises of the Redeemer, which is certainly wrong. Therefore, you complain about the sin in your life, but when you examine your complaints, you'll find they are so full of self-righteousness, unbelief, pride, and impatience that they are little better than the worst evils you're complaining of. Think about that. And think about the fact, you see, here's what's so weird about the Gospel. He says, it's alright to have a low opinion of yourself. It's alright to see those things that are in there. You don't have to say, oh, if I believe that I'm as bad as that, I'll just never have any peace. No. He says, your problem is it's okay to see that. Your problem is if you're depressed and you're a Christian, it's because you have too low an opinion of what? The person, work, and promises of our dear Redeemer, which is certainly wrong. So friends, let me just close by saying, when you get in distress, when you get angry this week, when you get sad this week, when you get depressed this week, just ask yourself one thing. What am I warming myself at? The reason I am depressed and angry is that something I've been warming myself at, some fire I've been warming myself at is going out. Oh, you can get so grumpy at that time. You can get so grumpy. My wife and I get grumpy at the fact that in our apartment building, that if you take a shower during rush hour in the morning, you can't get hot water. It's almost on the verge of being hot. We want to warm ourselves at that shower, but we can't quite do it. And boy, you can get pretty angry. And you can say, boy, I'll tell you, the rent I pay in New York City and I can't even get hot water and so on. You can get pretty angry. And that's all right. I'm perfectly right to be angry at them. But you are not right. If you find yourself getting angry and upset and distressed because that fire is going out, that's probably God throwing some cold water on that fire so that you can turn around and see, well, what should my life be? So say to yourself, I put this at the bottom, what am I really warming myself at? And that's a key question. Then turn from it and say to Christ, this is not my heat. This is not my peace. This is not my righteousness. This is not my hiding place. This is not my life. It's Christ. You are my hiding place. You always fill my heart with songs of deliverance. Whenever I am afraid, I trust in you. Let's pray.
