The scripture reading is taken from Exodus chapter 17 verses 1 through 7 found on page 9 of your bulletin. All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by stages according to the commandment of the Lord and camped at Rephidim. But there was no water for the people to drink. Therefore the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? So Moses cried to the Lord, What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, taking with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. woe. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the stone, strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the name of the place Massah and Meribah because of the quarreling of the people of Israel, and because they tested the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? This is the word of the Lord.

We've been looking at the book of Exodus. We've been looking at the life of Moses. And one of the reasons why is we've been looking at what the word salvation means. That's a word that for the average contemporary person is opaque at best, offensive at worst. But the book of Exodus pours real rich content into it. It tells us, first of all, that salvation is a form of liberation, liberation, that we build our lives and our hopes and our identities on things besides God, and those things enslave us, and God liberates us from them. That's one of the things we learn in the book of Exodus. But the other thing we learn, and we talked about this or began to talk about it last week, is that though there's a decisive aspect to salvation, there's also a process aspect. Though on the one hand, you can take a person out of slavery in a second, you can only take the slavery out of a person through a process. And that means that just as the children of Israel did not go immediately from Egypt into the promised land but went through a period of wilderness wandering, in the same way, the freedom we have in principle doesn't really get worked out into our lives in actuality, in practice, in our character, until and unless we go through wilderness sorts of experiences as well, and troubles. And I can see why someone could say, and they have said, that's very interesting. That's a very interesting perspective. And when it comes to minor sorts of things, minor disappointments and problems, it really helps me. The idea of the problems of my life being a wilderness training period. And so you say, so for example, I really wanted to get into school A, but I only got into school B. And maybe I guess God knows that school B is better for me. And it makes sense. But the question comes up, what about the really life-shattering difficulties and troubles? What about horrendous evil and suffering and injustice? How do I relate to that, the question comes. Or how does God relate to that? So we're not done with trying to understand how do you handle the wilderness experiences of life. And it's just as well, because this has been a horrible year for an awful lot of people, and more of a wilderness kind of time for a lot of people than most. And we have another passage here that talks to us about how. It gives us resources for handling the wilderness. And we're going to see, even though it's a nice short passage for a change, there's three things that our eyes are directed to. where we're shown the patience of God, the rock of God, the justice of God. And when we look at each of these, the patience, the rock, and the justice of God, we'll get some resources for handling the wilderness and the troubles and difficulties of this world and our lives. So first of all, let's look in the very beginning, the first part, we learn about the patience of God. Now, notice a couple of things. First of all, even though the word grumble shows up again, in. You know, in almost all these wilderness passages, troubles come on the Israelites and they grumble, and you see it in verse 3, I think, right? But the key word in this passage and the unique word and the striking word in this passage is the word quarrel. So you see it says, therefore, the people quarreled with Moses. And Moses is shocked and says, why do you quarrel with me? And notice down in verse 7, it's the summary word for the whole incident. What makes the incident memorable, and one of the reasons why it's been preserved and is being brought up here, is because in verse 7, this was the place where the people of God quarreled.

Now, why is that so significant? Why was that word come up over and again? Well, what's the big deal about quarreling? The answer is, in English, it doesn't get across the technical meaning. There's a Hebrew word here that's used, translated quarrel, and its technical meaning is to bring a charge, is to frame formal charges, is to institute legal proceedings, is to summon someone before the bar of justice. And why would they be doing that? Well, the answer is that Moses is being accused of criminal negligence and basically manslaughter before the fact, because he's brought them to... This is really great. It's always good to be able, If you know you're about to be killed by somebody, it's wonderful to be able to get your licks in before it happens. Most of us don't have this opportunity, and the people of Israel try to do it because, you see, Moses has brought them to a place where the problem isn't like last week, hunger, it's thirst. And we all know that you die of thirst faster than you die of hunger, and it's an incredibly painful death. And so they charge him, and if you want confirmation of my thesis and confirmation that this is You notice that Moses, when he goes to God, says, what am I going to do with these people? They're about to stone me. And that's an execution. That's what you did with somebody who was found guilty of a capital offense.

And so what we have here is the people charging Moses and getting ready to execute him. But Moses points out what, by the way, also happens in legal proceedings today, day, is even though the party in the lawsuit, the only party in the charges mentioned is Moses, but who are they really after? Moses mentions this in verse 2. He says, why are you quarreling with me? The one who you're really after, the one who you're really trying to put on trial is God.

And then as a result of this incredible situation, Moses turns to God and says, and this is a great question, what am I to do with these people? Now, what this means is Moses is saying, I've had it. Their patience with me is at an end. Well, my patience with them is at an end. But the point of this first section is that God's patience is not at an end at all. Because, you know, even though he doesn't say this in words, his actions show the answer to the question. See, Moses asked the question, what should I do with these people? You know what the answer of God is? I'll tell you what to do with these people. These people who are trying to kill you, these people who deserve rejection, deserve our disdain, deserve basically after all that we've done for them, deserve, you know, the worst. I'll tell you what we're going do with them. We're going to go meet their needs. We're going to meet their most desperate desires. desires. Let's go. And you see, at this point, we come to recognize the patience of God. In fact, the old Hebrew, the old English word, long-suffering, gets us to the real biblical definition of God's patience, because God's patience does not mean just a bare tolerance. He doesn't say, well, we're just going to have to put up with it. Long-suffering means to take people who you disdain, who you should disdain, and people who you should reject, and you go serve them, and meet their needs. So everybody else's patience is up, but God's patience is not. Now, what's the first thing we learn here? And this is what we learn. You would be so much more poised in the wilderness. You would be so much more confident and relaxed and at peace in the problems of your life if you could just get the big picture perspective on God's unremitting getting patience with us. If you could just get the big perspective of God's patience with us, you could handle the situations of the wilderness. See, one of the things that's interesting about this book, not just Exodus, but actually the whole Pentateuch, you can read from Exodus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. You could read through it in a few hours. And in a few hours, you would cover years and years of history because in a few hours, you have compressed, compressed, years and years of history compressed into a very small space. And when you read this history so compressed, there's one thing that you can't miss. In fact, in a way, we miss it because I'm coming at it every week. You know, we're just looking at a slice each week. But if you read it all the way through, one thing the reader cannot miss, and that's this, God's patience. Every chapter, every incident, on every page, they come into a terrible situation, and God gives them what they need. They need to be liberated. He liberates them. They need to be fed. He feeds them. They need to be defended. He defends them. They need to be saved. He saves them. First time, second time, third time, every time they need something. Every time. 38 times. And then on the 39th time, the minute they get into a situation that's really bad, what do they say? You can't trust this God. No use trusting him. He's never around when you want him. He always lets us down. Now, when you read this, when you read this compressed history like this, it just jumps out at you. You say, what a bunch of idiots. It's so obvious that you really say, you almost want to say, this must have been made up. It wasn't made up, but you almost have to say, say, no group of people could be this ridiculously stupid. Why aren't they relaxed? You know, they walk in and say, hey, there's no thirst. I mean, there's no place to drink. We'll see what happens. He's never let us down before. I mean, that's the only rational thing if you get to Exodus 17, even this early in the book. After Exodus 16, 15, 14, 13, after every other time, he came through. But instead, what happens is every time he's mistrusted, he's He's doubted. He's complained against. And he comes through again. Patiently saving them over and over and over again. Though they never give him credit. First thing, as soon as something goes wrong, they go, you know, can't be. Now, why is it that you are relaxed and you are not worried every time you come into a new chapter and they're freaking out? Because you have a bird's eye view. Now, what do I mean by a bird's eye view? See, if you have a bird's eye view of terrain, you see what's going on. and there's some poor sap down there in a jungle and doesn't know which way to go. But see, when you have a bird's eye view, there's the road. He's not very far away. There's the river. You know, there's water over there. In other words, you can see the terrain. You can see the big picture. And when you're able to have that kind of bird's eye view perspective on this compressed history of years and years and years, it's so easy to see that the theme of their life is God's patience with them because he continually comes through. if you're down on the ground. You don't have that bird's eye view. You have no idea what's going on. When you're stuck in the jungle, when you're stuck in the details, when you're actually in the story, not reading the story, but when you're actually in the story, that's not how it feels at all. The way it feels is God's help and care was always long ago, far away, remote and unlikely. So when you're down inside the story. It just seems like, you know, you lose the big picture. Down there, God's concern and help always seems unreal. Up here, it's obvious. In other words, up here, the theme of our lives is easy to see, God's continual patience with us. Down on the ground, the theme of our lives is us continually having our patience taxed by God. Now, when you read this, aren't these people stupid? stupid. You know what the Exodus writer is trying to do to you? He's drawing you in. It's sort of like reading the book of Exodus, a little bit like walking up to a, you know, you walk into a room and you see a portrait on the wall and you walk over to the portrait, you say, what an ugly person. Then you realize you're looking in a mirror.

That's exactly what this is. Because the book of, here's what the writer is trying to say. If you could only get a bird's eye view in your life, don't you realize that every talent you've have got, every comfort you have ever enjoyed, your very existence, it's all from him. But there is something wrong with your heart. There's something wrong with your spiritual memory. Don't you know that? Look, it works in all kinds of weird ways. For example, have you ever noticed there's something wrong with our spiritual memory so that good and true things fade from the memory incredibly fast and bad and distorted things stay a hundred times longer. So, for example, someone criticizes you in a very hurtful, nasty way. Your memory holds on to that. That fades. It sticks in your memory 100 times longer than a compliment. It takes 100 compliments to offset the memory of one of those criticisms. Or the same thing with failure. If you failed, that sticks in your memory 100 times longer than all the good things You have to do 100 good things to somehow offset that awful feeling that you have, that memory that you just can't get rid of, of what you've done wrong. And here's the other thing. The memory of one unanswered prayer, one time that you feel like God didn't give you what you want, fades 100 times, maybe more, sticks in your memory 100 times longer than every time he ever came through for you. In other words, here's how the human heart is like. It always seems like the last time God came through for you was 30 years ago, was 30 minutes ago. Always. This is even true corporately. In the last year, incredibly, I've seen in the pages of the New York Times articles saying basically this. If there is a God, considering all the horrible things that have happened in the last year, shouldn't we be mad at him? If there is a God, in light of the awful things that have happened, mad at him. For some strange reason, in the late 90s, I never saw anybody saying, if there is a God, in light of all the prosperity we're experiencing, shouldn't we get down on our knees and praise his holy name? Somehow, though, I never saw those articles in the New York Times. Maybe they were there and you didn't see them. No. You know why? Because it works corporately the way it works individually. We forget. We forget things that God did 30 minutes ago feel like 30 years ago to our heart. And disappointments we've had 30 years ago feel like 30 minutes ago to our heart. And that is the way we are.

And because of that, our lives are distorted. Because of that, we're just like they are. We're always freaking out because we do not have the big bird's eye perspective that the big theme of our lives God continually, patiently being patient with us. I want you to know, if you can't get the proper perspective on your...you can't get the same perspective on your life that you have on theirs by reading something like The Book of Exodus. But I should tell you something. It helps me a tremendous amount to know that my perspective is always skewered. Always skewered. And that if I could just get a little bit of lift...you know, I know I can't get way up in the air, but just a little bit of lift. If I can meditate by looking at the Bible, by looking at these stories, if I can meditate enough to realize, ultimately, my heart will not remember what it should remember. But ultimately, the theme of my life is God's patience with me. The more I see that, the more I relax. The more I meditate on that, the more poised I can be. And you will too. So the first thing we see is the patience of God. To the degree you can grasp his continual patience with you, to that degree you'll have poise and peace with the circumstances of life. The second thing we learn here is we're not just shown the patience of God, we're shown the rock of God. Here in verse 6, what are they going to do about the thirst? What are they going to do about the water? God says in verse 6, Strike the rock. Water will come out of it, and the people will drink. Now, one commentator puts it like this. He says, The whole point of and reason for this narrative is God's provision for his people of water from the unlikeliest of all the spots in that region, the top of a rock. See? In other words, if you were going to look for water, if you were going to look for a well or a spring or something like that, the one thing you would not do is go to the top of a large rock and look there. That's where you're going to find it. Yet of all the places, the most unlikely place, The hardest place is where God's grace comes from. Now, here's the second thing we learn. And I won't take very long on this because, in some ways, this is just what we talked about last week. If you weren't here, and this point means something to you, you ought to try to get the tape from last week if you weren't here last week. But here's the second thing we learn. God's grace tends to flow from the hard places. God's grace tends to flow from the unlikeliest, rockiest, hard places. The whole idea of the desert.

is that in the desert, all other sources of water dry up, and you're going to have to get water from God. The metaphor goes like this. Until you get into a troubled place, you're drawing on water from other things. You're getting your joy from your resume. You're getting your joy from your happy little family. You're getting joy from your bank account. You're getting joy from something else. But any other place you're getting your joy from other than God,

water source, it will always dry up at some point. It will always dry up. You're vulnerable. You're subject to circumstances. It's only when you get in the desert, when all other water sources dry up, that you finally learn, for the first time, to existentially draw on the joy of God. That's the reason why we said last week, we say again, because here it is. This is the metaphor that tells us about this. It's not until you get into a place that all along God was all you needed. You never know God is all you need until you get to a place where you find that God is all you have. And only when you begin to existentially draw from him do you find that this is the clearest water, this is the coolest water, this is the most refreshing water, and this is a well. This is a water source that never, ever, ever, ever runs dry. And that's the reason why. Only in the desert do you learn to draw existentially on God no matter what. Until you get there, you may say you believe. You may say you trust. You don't. You don't know how to do it. You're not doing it. You're not doing it functionally. You're not doing it spiritually, emotionally, psychologically, personally. You're not doing it. And the reason that it's possible out of affliction to come happier people and out of temptation to come stronger people and out of failure to come humbler, wiser, and therefore more effective people is because in the desert, you can find the water of God. And frankly, only in the desert can you find the water of God. Now, the hard places is where you really, generally speaking, find the grace of God. You know, now it's not easy. I mean, imagine a five-year-old girl, and you're the mommy. And she's been looking all week to going to a birthday party with some of her friends.

party, for the first time in her little life, she does a very big fat lie that you catch her in. Very deliberate, very big, major deception, it's never happened before. And what do you do? You say, honey, you're going to have to be punished for that lie. You can't go to the birthday party tomorrow. And she screeches this cry of despair and she says, why? Why would you do that to me? And now there's one, here's a couple ways to go. say, well, honey, let me just explain something to you. The short-term pain of being deprived of your friend's presence just for a few hours tomorrow is nothing compared to the long-term devastation that will happen in your life, the long-term loss of community and relationships if you become a liar. If you become a liar, you lie to others, you lie to yourself, of friendships, it'll be the end of family ties, it'll be the end of marriage, it'll be the end of all these things.

Now, let's not do that. Let's not go that way because she's going to be sitting there going... What you say is, go to your room. I can't explain it to you. Go to your room. And yet, out of this, to her little mind, inordinately excessive hard place that she from what she can tell, you know, unfairly, will flow a transformed character. As you know, it's life and death for her. That has to be stopped now. But she doesn't get it. And it's from the hard place that this change in character is going to come and flow. And I want you to know that you and I are considerably further behind the wisdom of God than a five-year-old is behind her mother.

God's grace tends to flow from the hard places

because the ultimate source of God's grace was the ultimate hard place, the cross, which leads us to the last point. Now, somebody might say, okay, this is somewhat helpful for the wilderness experiences. It's somewhat helpful to see that God is basically patient with me. That's of help. And it's also helpful for me to see that the difficulties of the wilderness are ways in which I learn to rely on him in new ways changed and so on. I get that. But let's get back to what we said in the introduction. But what about the really big problems? What about the life-shattering, horrendous examples of evil, injustice, and suffering? What about them? And the question comes up, some pretty severe questions come up about that part of the wilderness. Years ago, I read a play by Gunther Rutenborn, who was a German Lutheran pastor who actually wrote a play named The Sign of Jonah just after World War II, just after World War II. And in the play, he deals with what, well, it was just a shattering experience. When the general populace of Germany began to learn of the horrendous evil that happened in the death camps, in the play, this information starts to get out into the populace, do. The common people say, this is awful, but it's not my fault. The leaders did it. And then they go to the leaders. And the leaders say, it wasn't my fault. It was the senior leaders. And then you go to the senior leaders. And they have excuses. And suddenly, they all suddenly realize, wait a minute. Wait a minute. We know who's to blame. We know who should be tried and judged for this. It's God. Why? Did God make a world Why did God make a world where this could happen? Why did God make a world where this sort of thing could be allowed? Surely God deserves the blame for so much of the evil and suffering in this world. What do we do with a question like that? Doesn't God deserve the blame for the evil and suffering of this world? What do we do with that question? It's really hard to work on that question unless you have some way of answering that question. in some way. And there's a resource for that question right here. Moses has been charged, but as he has said, who they're really after is God. How does God respond? Two things. First thing he says, and this is down in verse 5 and after, first thing he says is, take the staff in your hand with which you struck the Nile. Now, this is very significant. The staff, or in the older translations, the rod, was a symbol of judicial authority. Now, if you don't believe me, in all ancient times, not just in Israel, in almost all ancient cultures, in the Roman Empire, Roman officials, officials in authority, carried with them what were called back then, the Latin word for it was the fasces. And the fasces was a bundle of rods tied with a red band with an ax sticking out of it, which was a symbol of not only their authority, but their power to mete out justice and judgment on injustice and wrong. And if there was someone who was accused, they would stand before the Roman magistrate, and if he found the man guilty or woman guilty, he would take one of the rods and he would smite him because the rod was the instrument and the symbol of judgment on injustice. But this is the rod. This is the rod with which God had meted out justice on Egypt for its oppression of the slaves. And so God says to Moses, take the rod in your hand. This is the instrument of eternal, perfect, divine justice. us. And then he says, secondly, I want you to take the elders with you. And the elders, of course, were the ones who would stand as witnesses in any trial. So here's what God is doing. This is amazing. It's only seven verses, but the drama is astounding. He says to everybody, you want a trial? Okay, we're going to have a trial. So out comes Moses holding the rod with the elders around him. first shock is this. Moses is not, though the charge was against Moses, Moses is not going to be tried, and he's not going to be sentenced because he's the judge. He's got the rod. So that's the first shock. There's going to be a trial. It's obvious, but it's not a trial of Moses. Then secondly, they start coming toward the people. Notice this in verse 5. And you have to imagine some of the Israelites must have been, when they saw Moses coming with the rod and with the jury, as it were, behind him. Some of them must have just fainted because they knew what that rod could do, and they knew what that rod represented. And so it's fascinating how the narrator writes it. Notice what it says in verse 5, and the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people. In other words, out he comes, and we already know that Moses is the one who's going to be tried and sentenced, but he comes toward the people, and then he goes right by them. And they're all going like this. But now Moses is shocked. The people were shocked when they saw Moses come in because they said, oh, my word, there's going to be a trial. There's the rod. There's the jury. There's going to be a trial, but it's not of Moses. But now that he's gone by them, now Moses is shocked because he knows there's going to be a trial. There's the rod. There's the elders. There's the witnesses. But it's not going to be of them. Moses is not going to be tried and sentenced. tried and sentenced. There's going to be a trial, but of who? And then God says in verse 6,

behold, I will stand before you. Now, there may be some, I couldn't find any, I'm not saying there aren't any, but virtually never, and maybe never any other place in the Bible do you ever see God standing before someone else. See, to stand before, in ancient terminology, was the language of an inferior in the presence of a superior. See, if a king met a commoner, even though they were standing face-to-face, here's the king. Well, here's the king. Here's the commoner. All right. Even though you're looking face-to-face, it would be said that the commoner stood before the king. Because to stand before was language that expressed an in the presence of a superior. And that's the reason why this is unbelievable. This is startling that God would use this language. He says, behold, I will stand before you.

And this unprecedented language means that now we know who is being tried. God is in the dock. God is standing on the gallows. God is standing in the place where the prisoner gets tried and executed. Because not only is God on trial, but finally he says, behold, I will stand before you on the rock at Horeb. I will stand before you on the rock at Horeb on the rock and you shall strike the rock and now you know now that you know what the rod represents and what the rod means what he is saying is bring down the stroke of absolute justice on me what does this mean and here's what it means. Just follow the reasoning here. First of all, whenever you're in the presence of horrendous evil injustice and suffering, there is a deep sense that judgment on injustice must happen. There was a – I remember reading a book a couple years ago about the fact when the GIs liberated the death camps in Germany at the end of World War II. too. One of the things that was, you know, you haven't heard about this because people didn't want to talk about it, but it happened. And it was a little inexplicable, that's the reason why the book was talking about it, that the GIs, when they saw the horrendous carnage in those camps, when they saw the unbelievable heaps of bodies and so on, in many cases, they turned on the German soldiers who had surrendered, who were defenseless, who had thrown down their arms, and just killed them. The books try to say, why did that happen? It wasn't the simple kind of retaliation that though wrong, you can understand when you're in a battle and you've seen the enemy shoot one of your buddies down and the enemy throws his guns down and says, don't shoot, I surrender. You can understand though it's wrong. You can understand why you might find that you'll just shoot them anyway. This is different. This isn't revenge. These weren't their buddies. These weren't even people of the same race, and yet, why did they do it? And the answer is the moral sense can be as powerful as a physical drive. To see horrendous evil, injustice, and suffering can inflict a wound that nothing but a stroke of judgment will close. blows. Now,

it's possible to turn that sense, that offended moral sense toward God when you see the horrible stuff in the world. And that's what happens in this play. In this play, the people start saying, well, you know who's to blame for all this? I'll tell you who's to blame for this. It's God. He made a world in which this sort of stuff happens. Why did he these things happen. And what's interesting and important to keep in mind, very important to keep in mind, is that in the play, though you can sort of understand, it's very up-to-date, isn't it? You see how angry they are at God? Why did God let all this sort of happen? But in the play, you see they're deflecting the accusations from themselves. And actually, my friends, it is a simple fact, and you can see this in the last year. It is rather remarkable And something of a similar sort of deflection, to get extremely angry at God for all the awful things that have happened recently, when the fact of the matter is the most horrendous evil, injustice, and suffering is the action of human beings.

And both liberals and conservatives, in one area they agree, and that is that if justice really were going to come down tonight, divine justice in the world to get rid of wrong and injustice, justice, there wouldn't just be about 50 or 60 nasty people lurking away in caves somewhere on whom that rod would fall. Liberals, rightly so, liberal thought understands that we are, so many of us are part of systems of injustice and exploitation. And conservatives understand that every individual, when it comes to basic human virtue, the golden rule, there's not an individual on the face of the earth that goes through a single day ever doing unto others exactly the way you would have them do unto you. And so, you see, we say, we would like to have infinite justice come down. You know, justice must be done. The problem is, if it really would fall, it would fall on us.

But we still say, okay, God can be blamed. God must be blamed. And in the play, they say, God should be sentenced, God should be tried, God should be judged. Is that blasphemous? Is that a blasphemous thing to ask?

Yes. Yes, because we are flawed people. What right do we as flawed people and as participants to a great degree in the evil and injustice of this world, what right do we have to blame an infinite being, infinitely above us, whose reasons for what he does and his ways are beyond finding out? How do we know that he is responsible for all those things? How dare we imagine that we could Is it blasphemous to ask for this? Yes. So how would God respond to this kind of blasphemy? Because it's actually happened. It's an interesting play, but it's actually happening right here, Exodus 17. People who said, you are to blame. You should be sentenced. You should be tried. How would you expect God to respond to blasphemy? I don't know what your view of God is, is, but I think the average person's view of God is, if there is a God, if people are that blasphemous as to say, you should be judged, you should be blamed, you should be sentenced, we would expect God to say, you little insects, you insolent little insects, get down on your knees and repent before I smack you down and crush you under my heel. But we have an example of this kind blasphemy that actually happened. The response of God was what? What was the response of the real God, the biblical God? In the play, this is the sentence. At the end of the play, they say, after they try him and find him guilty, they pronounce the sentence. They say, let God become a human being. Let him become a wander on the earth. Let him be deprived of rights, homeless, hungry, thirsty, but he himself must die and lose a son and suffer the agonies of fatherhood. And when at last he dies, he shall be disgraced and ridiculed. And you suddenly realize, oh my, he has. Now where? Not at that moment.

See, Edmund Clowney, my old teacher, who gave me most of the ideas for this sermon, in one of his books says this, the astounding thing about Exodus 17 is that God, in His infinite mercy, goes beyond and gives us more than we have wrongfully asked when we say, you should be blamed. Because God does come down and He does take the blow of judgment, but not for this bad person or that bad person or even for himself, for us. Because on the cross, this is what Paul says later on in 1 Corinthians 10. He knows what happened. The day that Moses hit that rock was not the day it actually happened. But here's what happened. In 1 Corinthians 10, our forefathers, said Paul, ate the same spiritual food, drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock, and that rock was Christ. Friends, on the cross, what was Jesus saying I thirst. You know what was going on? Don't you think Moses wanted God to just leave these ungrateful people right where they were, finally in chapter 39 not do a thing for them? Don't they deserve to just leave them? Let them thirst. But God didn't. Why not? Because on the cross, Jesus Christ took the blow of judgment. He got the cosmic thirst so that they could drink, so that we could drink. So that Jesus Christ says in John 7, if anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and let him drink who believes in me, and streams of living water will flow out of him. See, this is the only way. If there is no judge in the world, there's no hope for the world, because evil will win. But if there is no judge, what hope is there for the world? If there is no judge, what hope is there for the world? But if there is a judge, what hope is there for us? But if there's a judge who was judged, like Jesus, then finally we have a way for God to deal eventually with evil and suffering and wipe it out without wiping us out. Now here's how I want to conclude quickly, but very important. Number one, I want you to go think. I want you to go drink. Go think, go drink. What do I mean by go think? Here's what I mean by go think. I have not got all the answers to the problems of evil and suffering, and this text doesn't either. But I want to ask those of you who struggle with this, and I know so many of you do, what more could you ask than this? You see, some people say to me, I don't believe in any God because of the injustice out there. But you see, if you don't believe in a God, then there is no such thing as injustice because everything is just nature, red in tooth and claw, and the strong eat the weak, and it's just natural. So if you get rid of God, you have a bigger problem with injustice. It doesn't exist. And you have no basis for your moral outrage. Oh, you say, well, okay, because I've been through this with a thousand people. I see. All right. There is a God, but he's to be blamed. I'm mad at him. Okay, now look. It's not right.

It's not right to ask for what these people ask for. It's not right. Because God didn't create deserts. He didn't create wildernesses. He didn't create disease and death. That wasn't the original design. We talked about this last week. I can't redo it again. But it's not right to blame him. But though it was not right to ask for it, it's the most that you could ask for. And you got it. It's not right to ask for it. But if you're really mad at God, this is the most you could ask for. And you got it. So how in the world? What more could you want? What objection is left? If you say, like the evil and suffering of this world. How can you stay away from a God who did this?

What objection is left? It was not right to ask for it. But if you're mad at God, it's the most you could ask for is that he'd be punished and you got it. He wasn't punished for his sins. He wasn't punished for this bad person or that bad person. He was punished for you so that he did not have to leave you to die of thirst. He died of thirst so you could drink. Think. Don't of evil and suffering. Does it keep you away from Him? One more thing, though. Drink. When Jesus says, come and drink, what is He talking about? When you're in the wilderness, look at Him smitten. You know, you sing about it every time you sing Rock of Ages, okay? When you see sorrow and love flow mingled down, water and blood from the riven side that flowed, when you see Him struck and the water and the blood coming out, He did it for you. He lost everything rather than lose you. When you're in the wilderness, that's what you've got to look. If you look at that and you look at that and you see what he's done for you and you see what he has done, if you reflect on it, rejoice on it, taste it, you'll get through anything. Anything.

Go to that rock and drink from that rock in the desert and the desert will only make you a greater person, only make you a happier person, only make you a stronger person. Let us pray. Give us, Father, an understanding of your answer to evil and suffering. We don't understand why you allow some of it. We don't understand why you haven't stopped it yet. We don't understand even some ways how it got started. But we do know that though it was wrong to ask for you to be punished for it, it was the most that a person who's mad at God could ask for. And you are willing to come down. You're willing to become a human being. You're willing to lose a son. You are willing to experience all of that. Now, my Father, we pray that those who are here who find evil and suffering a difficulty would see that they could not ask for more. Let them come to you. Let them not find this too great an obstacle. And those of us who are in the wilderness, I pray that you would show us how to drink in the desert from you, of you, so the desert will only make us greater people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
