Please look in your bulletins where the passage on which the teaching is based this morning is written out for you. It's Matthew 11, 25 to 30. This is Jesus speaking, of course. It says, At that time, Jesus said, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this was your good pleasure. All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and humble in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. This is God's word. Now, we're a church that supports missions, and missions in the broadest sense means that we support the proclaiming of Jesus Christ to everyone. Every place, to every tongue, tribe, people, and nation, near or far. And what we mean by proclaiming Jesus is to proclaim that Jesus Christ is God himself. Come down, and he is the answer to the meaning of history and of your life. And let me put it as starkly as I possibly can. All religions seek God. They're reaching up for God. Christianity says Jesus Christ is the God. They're all seeking. Come down. And there's the rub. That's the problem a lot of people not only have with the whole idea of missions, with the whole idea of evangelism, the whole idea of proclaiming the gospel to people who already have their own religious faith, but it's the problem a lot of people have even with Christianity itself. In the beginning of the 20th century, most of the skeptics who rejected Christianity rejected Christianity because they said, miracles can't happen, and therefore Christianity isn't true. But today, the miracles aren't so much the problem. Nowadays, most skeptics reject Christianity because it even claims to be true, because it claims to have exclusive truth, because it claims that Jesus is the way. And that's what we have to look at today. There's no way to think about missions once a year without looking at that. Is this true? Here we have, no one knows the Father, but the Son. Now, we're only looking at little parts of this passage. This is an amazing passage. This is the greatest claim anyone has ever made who stood on the earth and breathed the air. Because, you know, before, Jesus says, no one knows the Son but the Father, which is an incredible thing to say. That only I, only the Father, only God can possibly know me. I'm infinite. But then he turns around. We're not even going to look so much at that. We're going to turn around and look at what he says when he says, no one knows the Father but the Son, and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. Now, let's take a look at that. And here's what my thesis is. I know, we're going right in the face of what people around here, anyway, hate the most about Christianity. So we're just going to go right to it. And here's the thesis. The thesis is that Christianity seems narrow, but it's not. It is not as narrow as the wisdom of this world. It seems narrow, but it's not. The wisdom of this world looks more inclusive, but it's not. And the reason Christianity seems narrow is because it is more positive, it is more inclusive, and it is more personal than the wisdom of this world. It's more positive in its attitude toward truth. It's more inclusive in its attitude toward moral failures. It's more personal in the relationship with God that it offers us. It's more positive, inclusive, and personal than the wisdom of this world. So it looks narrow, but it's not. Let me show you. First of all, the first point is, Christianity seems narrow because it has a positive view of truth. And the wisdom of this world looks inclusive because it knocks down the idea of truth and is very negative about truth, but that is foolishness and a self-defeating position. See, Jesus says, in the very first verse, He says, I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned. And reveal them. Now, in the old King James, it says, to babes. To babes. You have hidden this from the wise and learned it and revealed them to little children. Revealed it to babes. What is he saying? Now, some people might say he's saying that educated people will always be unbelievers, right? The wise and the learned. And only uneducated people will believe in Christianity. That's obviously not what Jesus means. It's very clearly not what he means. That's certainly not what the Bible teaches. You know, Paul might have been a lot of things. Paul might have even been wrong. Right? But, he was no intellectual babe. He was no child. He was... That's not what we're talking about. Here's what Jesus is saying. The wise and the learned are the ones who are content with human wisdom and philosophy and seeking out after God. And a babe is someone who says, I need revelation. Hmm? I praise you, Lord, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to babes. And let me put it a couple of ways. Human wisdom and learning is our reaching up toward God, trying to find out the answers to questions like, what is the meaning of life? And, you know, is there a God? And is there a right and wrong? And is there a heaven and hell? And through human wisdom and learning, we try to find this out, but we don't come to consensus. We have a reaching up and nobody comes to consensus. A babe is somebody who says, yes, I can't possibly understand these things through my own seeking out, but God has come down. He's spoken through the Bible. He's spoken through Jesus Christ. The wise and learned are the people who say, no, God has not come down. There is no absolute truth. There's no place where God has revealed his truth in an absolute way that we have to submit to. All we have is a reaching up. That's all. There is no place where he came down. There is no absolute truth. All we have is our reaching out. So a perfect example of this is, occasionally I refer to it as a great example of it, on Law and Order. On Law and Order, there's a really savvy, together psychologist, counselor. And at one point she says, I have accepted that there are no final answers to these things. Whether there's a God, whether there's meaning in life, what is right and wrong. I have accepted that nobody knows the answers. There is no absolute truth. Nobody knows. Now that sounds very savvy. And that is, is right now the received wisdom of the world. Jesus says, that's the people to whom

God never comes. If you rule out the very possibility of revelation, you'll never see revelation. Isn't that right? If you rule out the very possibility that there is an answer, you're not going to find the answer. If you say there's no such thing. Now the wise and learned, in order to be inclusive, have this view. Babes are people who admit that there's revelation. God has come down. God has spoken. I'm just a babe. I'll never find these things out on my own. God has spoken. Now it looks inclusive. And this is how it works. If you're real negative about the possibility of truth, if you're real negative and you say, nobody knows any of these things, then you can say all religions are the same. You know why? You can say all religions are equally valid. In other words, all religions don't know much. Your negativity about truth, your denigration of the actual validity of religious values makes you seem very democratic. You say, ah, you know, the perfect illustration everybody uses and has used for years is the one of the blind men and the elephant. Here's a bunch of blind men. They're trying to figure out what the elephant is like. They all hold on to a piece of the elephant. One has the tail. One has the trunk. One has the legs. And they all, therefore, have part of the truth, but nobody has the whole truth. And so by having a negative idea of truth, by ruling out the idea of revelation, that God has spoken in an absolute and final way, and saying, no, all we have is our reaching up. All we have is human wisdom and learning. Then we can look very, very democratic. Ah, you know, they're all partial. Jesus says, if that's your view of things, you're in a fog. Paul says the very same thing, only a little bit stronger. He says, hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For by wisdom, the world does not know God. Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? By trying to reach up, we haven't known God, but God has shown that human wisdom is foolishness. And let me show you what I mean by that. It looks real inclusive to say, nobody's got the truth. All religions are basically the same. Nobody should say, I am the way. No one should say, I have the truth. No one should say, Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life. No one should say that. It looks inclusive. But it's the world's wisdom. But Paul says, it's foolishness. Your wisdom is foolishness. It's contradictory. It is a self-defeating position. It's an impossible position to be at, if you think, is what Paul says. It's foolishness. When you say, what do we mean? Well, it basically goes like this. Think about this. You can't possibly say there's no such thing as an exclusive truth without making an exclusive truth statement. Now, occasionally we've talked about this. I often throw that out. But today, because this is the subject of what Jesus says, this is the subject of what Paul is saying. The wisdom of this world is really foolishness. We have to go into this for a little bit. You have to go into it a little bit. When we say truth is not exclusive, it looks very worldly, wise, and so on. However, you are in a self-defeating position. We start this way. How can you know that any religion has only part of the truth unless you have the whole? You can't say that one person has only part of the truth. Here's the Muslims. They have part of it. And here's Christianity. They have part of it. And here's Buddhism. They all have part. They all have different parts. But none of them have all of it. You can't know that unless you know what all of it is. As Michael Polanyi pointed out some years ago, he took that illustration of the elephant. And he says, the only person who can say that every religion only has part of the elephant is the one who can see the whole elephant. There's no way for you to say every religion has part of the truth unless you, say you have all the truth. In other words, you can't relativize all religious systems without assuming an absolute kind of knowledge that you just said is impossible. It's a self-defeating position. I'll give you an example. Ravi Zacharias is a, he had a very ironic situation occur to him. Ravi Zacharias is a Christian minister who believes Jesus is the only way to God. But he's also from India. He is, his family background is Hindu. He's Indian. One day he had lunch with an Anglo, a WASP type, you know, American religion professor who was a Hindu and a Buddhist together. So here he's sitting down, you know, an Indian who believes in Christ the only way and a WASP type who believes that all religions are basically the same. And he says, Ravi, you know, your problem is you have betrayed your own Eastern heritage and culture. And he says, how's that? Well, he says, your problem is you have bought in to Western rationalism and logic. You are using either or thinking. Well, what's either or thinking? Says Ravi. Well, it's simple. You Christians, you have either or thinking. You say it's either Christianity or it's the other religions. Jesus is either God or he's not. Jesus is either the only way or he's not. Oh, he says, that leads to such narrowness and exclusivity. You have to use both and thinking. And Ravi says, what's both and thinking? Ah, he says, it's the way of thinking. It's the way of wisdom. It's the dialectic. Both and thinking is, Jesus is God and so are these others. I mean, Christianity is true. Both Christianity and these things are true. Both Jesus is God and these other ways are God. Both Jesus teaching is true and these other ways are true. And if you use either or thinking, it's very narrow. So Ravi said, all right, let me get you this straight. You're saying that what I'm doing is wrong, converting Buddhists to Christian. Yes. You're saying that either or thinking is wrong, right? Yes. So you're saying I can either use either or thinking or I can use either or thinking. I can use either or both and thinking, but I shouldn't use either or thinking. And the man put his fork down. And he says, the either or does seem to keep emerging. And Ravi Zacharias said, let me tell you something. Even in India, we look both ways before crossing a street because it's either the bus or me. It can't be both. And what he says is, don't you see, you have to use either or thinking to even attack either or thinking. You've got to use an exclusive truth system to even attack exclusive truth system. Truth system. You've got to acclaim absolute knowledge of the religious reality in order to tell somebody else. You can't have absolute knowledge of religious reality. Your wisdom is foolishness. It looks inclusive to say nobody has all the truth, but to say it. You're insisting you've got all the truth. You can't say that unless you assume you've got superior truth. Look, if you say you must not have a superior religious system claiming to be superior to other religious systems, but you're claiming your system is superior at the moment, your wisdom is foolishness. You can't say, you must not proselytize others to believing your system is right instead of theirs, but you're doing that to me when you tell me not to proselytize. You're proselytizing. Let me go one step further. When people say, ah, all religions are basically alike, there is no truth by which we can judge all of them and say this is better than this one. We say, you know, Hitler thought he was on a mission from God. He did. How do you feel about Hitler? Hitler's religious claims. Ah, well, we exclude them. On what basis? You have none. You see, any religion that believes in revelation, Islam says, we are the final religion. We're the best one. We have revelation in the Koran. Christianity says the same thing. If you have revelation, then you can say, Hitler, his whole truth claims, those are bad. Why? Because there's objective truth. There's absolute truth. We can judge between good and bad religious systems. Better and best. And terrible ones. But if you say, ah, all religions are okay, but not that one. We have to eliminate one out of every 300. You have no basis for what you're saying. Your wisdom is foolishness. You look inclusive, but you actually are doing what everybody does, and you're in denial. You can't not be exclusive. You can't not say, my system is superior. Everybody comes to some conclusion, and then proselytes others. You're the only one who won't admit it. Your wisdom is foolishness. You're in a self-defeating position. You can't do what you're telling other people to do. I mean, pardon me, you can't, you're telling other people not to do what you yourself are doing at the very moment. And you can't even do, on the basis of your own system, what you have to do. Which is to say, this is good, this is bad. And somebody says, well, but isn't there such a thing as narrowness? Oh, yeah. Of course. But narrowness is your attitude, not your content, my dear friends. It's not narrow to say to somebody else, your religious beliefs are wrong. I've just shown you, you can't avoid that. I'll tell you what narrowness is. To posit bad motives to the people who disagree with you. To say, because you disagree with me, you must be stupid. You must be insincere. You must be out for power. You must be narrow-minded. And to say, anyone who thinks that Jesus Christ is the only way to God is a bigot, that's bigotry. That's positing bad motives, insincerity, stupidity to the person who happens to do exactly what you're doing. Saying that, this is right, and this is wrong, and you shouldn't be where you are. That's evangelism. That's proselytism. There's no way out. Secondly, though, you see, Christianity is not simply, looks narrow, because it's very, very positive about truth. People with negative views, view of truth, look like they're very inclusive, but actually they're narrow in a very, very subtle kind of way. Secondly, Christianity looks narrow because it's so inclusive of moral failures. Jesus says, who is it that gets into heaven? Look what he says. He says, you have hidden these things from the wise and learned and revealed them to babes. And then down further, he says, come to me, all you who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest. Notice, Jesus says, it's the babes, the ones who say, I have no wisdom, who get into the kingdom, not the wise. Not the ones who think they're wise. It's the weary, who get into the kingdom, who think they have no strength, not the strong, not the ones who think they're strong. He doesn't say, it's the good who get into the kingdom and the bad who don't. Oh, no. Christianity has a glorious inclusiveness that nobody else has got. It's exclusive, of course. It says you have to come through Christ. Everybody's exclusive. But it's inclusive, in a glorious way. When a person says to me, you know, I think you're narrow-minded. I believe all good people can go and find God, regardless of their religion. What you're saying is, good people can get there, but bad people can't. And that is exclusive. And you're absolutely right, by the way, because all other religions do say that. All other religions say, here's the way. If you are just a little bit more exclusive, if you're disciplined, if you're loving, if you're compassionate, if you're good, if you're moral, if you're decent, you can make it. If you're not, you can't. That's exclusive. See, you can't avoid exclusivity. I remember, though, years ago, one of the first people I ever helped come into an understanding of Christianity from unbelief. One of the first people. She's a simple lady. And right after she really gave her life to Christ, she called her sister up and tried to talk about it. And her sister said something. She said, no, wait a minute. Let me get this straight. You're telling me that if a good person lives a good life but doesn't receive Christ as Savior and say that he or she is a sinner, that person's lost. But that if somebody on death row who's killed people says, I'm a sinner, I'm a babe, I am weak, and repents and asks for Jesus to save him, he'll be saved. She said, you're telling me that a person like that can be saved? She said, what kind of stupid religion have you gotten into? And what she meant is, there should be no hope for that kind of person. There should be no hope. No hope for a serial killer. No hope for a person who has ruined other people's lives. There should be no hope. The good people, yes, but not those kinds of people. Jesus says, however, in the most radically inclusive thing he could possibly say, the people who think they're wise are the ones who are excluded. The people who think they're strong are the ones who are excluded. It's not the good who are in, and the bad who are out. It's the humble who are in, and the proud who are out. And put it another way, if you think you've got something to give God, you've got nothing. And if you know that you've got nothing to offer to God, you've got something with which to come and enter into his presence. That's the gospel. If you think you've got nothing, you've got something. If you think you've got something, you've got nothing. Now, when you say, I think that it's important to say all good people can go to heaven if they really try, regardless of what religion they're in, just realize what you've done. You are actually teaching a system of salvation. Oh, no, you say, I'm not teaching any system. I'm saying all systems are ways to get to God if you're good. No. As soon as you say that, you're teaching something that traditionally has been called justification by works. It is a system of thinking. It's a religious system that Christianity utterly rejects, and it's based on a view of God. If you say, I believe all good people, now, I say, well, do you mean perfect people? Oh, no. God doesn't require a person to be perfect. God will overlook sins. Not the big sins. People that have been genocidal maniacs, they don't get to heaven. But the smaller sins. You have a view of God that you're pushing on me at the moment. You have a view of salvation. No, no, I'm not interested in systems. I'm just saying, I'm just saying that all good people, no, you can't avoid it. You can't avoid doctrine. You can't avoid systems. And you can't avoid exclusivity. Because you're leaving me out. I'm a bad person. I'm a weak person. I'm an undisciplined person. You've heard me say this before. If you say, it's exclusive to say, you come only through Jesus, and say, no, no, everybody who's good can come in, you're still excluding people. But at the risk of looking exclusively saying all religions are a waste of God, you have ruined, you've gutted, you have robbed Christianity of its most glorious inclusiveness. And that is, no matter who you are, no matter what you've done, no matter what your record, no matter how deeply stained you are, no matter if it's the 11th hour, no matter if it's the 11th hour in the 59th minute,

come to me. All you. Huh. Come to me, all you. What do you need? All you need to know is you have no strength. All who are weary. All who are burdened. Come to me, all who are babes. That's all you've got to be. All you need is need. All you need is nothing. Now, lastly and thirdly, Christianity looks narrow because it's got such a positive view of truth. Wisdom of the world looks more inclusive, but it does it with a negative view of truth, which is self-defeating. Secondly, Christianity, it looks narrow, but it's because it's so inclusive of moral failures. Other religions don't have anything to say to the moral failures. But Christianity says, even, Christianity says, he can save to the uttermost those who come to the Father through him. Lastly, Christianity looks narrow because it's so personal. And actually, this is the genius of what Jesus, Jesus is saying. Notice carefully how much leeway he gives to other religions, in a sense, by what he doesn't say. He doesn't say, no one, he doesn't say, no one can be good without me. He doesn't say, no one can be wise without me. And he doesn't say, no one can be happy without me. He doesn't say these things. When you ask people, what's the purpose of religion? Ask somebody on the street. They'll probably say things like this. They'll say, well, I believe that religion is there to help us to know how to live a life, a good life with each other. That's right. I think religion, some people will say, is there to give us wisdom to understand life. That's right. It's true. And other people will say, I believe the purpose of religion is to give us joy and happiness. That's true. But those are all secondary. In the Christian faith, that's not the main reason Jesus came and that's not the main reason to be a Christian. And what's great about it is Jesus gives a lot of people a lot of leeway because, frankly, other religions do a great deal in those areas that I just mentioned. There's lots of wisdom in other religions. People who are real adherents and they really firmly fit with other religions, they are going to get a lot of wisdom about life in those religions. And secondly, Jesus doesn't say you have to even be with me to be a good person. People who are adherents to other religions, there's a lot of ethical, a lot of ethical power in those other religions. They say very, very similar things to the Ten Commandments. If not the same things. There's a lot of ethical power. And thirdly, frankly, you'll be a lot happier if you are a religious person in any particular kind of religion, by and large. By and large. But Jesus doesn't say no one can be good without me. He doesn't say nobody can be happy without me. He doesn't say nobody can be wise without me. He says, no one can know God without me. And that's different. What he comes and he says is, without me, you can be good, you can be moral, you can be wise, and you can be happy, but you can't know God. I'm the only one through whom that can happen. And here's a test. Very often, listen, people say, well now, look, I've always believed in God and I've always lived a pretty good life and I believe that even though I've been raised in the church, I think a lot of other people without being in the church could also believe in God and be a good person. And no argument. No argument. That's fine. It's true. That's not what Jesus is talking about. He's asking you a question right now in a sense. He's saying, do you know the Father? Now, knowing God is not the same as knowing about God. What does it mean to know God? Well, here's some tests, just a couple. When you know God, you have a sense that you're dealing with a person. You have a sense that God is opening your mind and pouring new truths in. You have a sense that God is opening your heart and you're feeling His love poured out on your heart. You sense you're dealing with a person, not just an abstraction. Or, another thing is, when you know God, praying is not just praying to what gods there be, just throwing up a petition, hoping. In prayer, you sense you're coming into the presence of your Father and you know He's yours and you know you're His. You know it. You frolic with Him sometimes. You sense that you are welcomed by Him. There's an assurance. Do you have that? I'll go a little further. When you know God, you sense that He's actually coming into your heart and He's renovating you from the inside with His Spirit. Revolutionary things are happening in your inner being. You're seeing things you never thought you'd see. You're becoming somebody you never thought you'd become. Revolution! Is that happening to you? Well, no. Somebody says, I'm a good person and I often come to church and I've always believed in God, but these things you're talking about, they sound like religious fanaticism. This is what God, Jesus says, is eternal life. This is eternal life, to know God, and Jesus Christ that He sent. Knowing God, not just knowing about, not just being wise, not just being good, knowing Him. Now here's what's so weird. When you see Jesus saying, no one knows the Father but the Son, and the ones to whom the Son chooses to reveal Him. Jesus Christ is making a claim and there's no counterclaims. This is unique in any religion. No other religion makes such a claim. Eastern religions would never say you can know God, because Eastern religions understand God as being an infinite, force. Persons can express God, but God cannot be a person. Persons can get one with the infinite and they can show a lot of wisdom and compassion, so in a sense they can be avatars, they can be expressions of God. In other words, persons can express God, but God isn't a person. God can't love you, God can't hug you, God can't weep over you, God can't laugh and rejoice, God can't sing over you. They would never say you can know the Father. And then over here, you have Islam and you have Judaism, and they believe that God is personal. But they would never talk like that. I tried once, I tried saying to a Muslim a couple times, I've tried to say, well, you know, you and I both believe that you can be friends with God. Oh no, they said to me, God is too great for that kind of thing. He's your ruler, he's not your friend. And the Jews come very close, but the Jews know this, that God is holy. And the Jews have a curtain in the temple and their understanding of how they approach God, how there's a curtain. Because they know that God is holy and I can come near and I can pray, but I can't come in. Moses said, I want to come in. God says, no, it would kill you. Your sins have created a curtain. There's a veil between you and the Holy of Holies. Paul would say to his brethren, the Jews who didn't believe in Christ, he would say, do you know that we have the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ? That the God himself has come and lives into us? That the curtain is taken away? No, they say, that can't be true. Jesus Christ, when he says, no one knows the Father but the Son and those to whom I choose to reveal, that through me you can know the Father, there's no counterclaims. There's not another religion that would dare to say this. And that's why when a Japanese Christian who had been a Buddhist and a Confucianist, when he wrote about his experience, he put it this way. He says, I'm grateful for Shinto, for Buddhism, and for Confucianism. I owe much to these faiths, but they couldn't meet me in my heart. I was a pilgrim, journeying on a long road that had no turning. I was weary. I was foot sore. I knew I had made, I knew I had failed. I wandered through a dark and dismal world where tragedies were thick. Buddhism teaches great compassion, but since the beginning of time, who has ever, ever declared, this is the blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many under remission of sins. On the cross, Jesus was ripped. Why? When he was ripped, he was ripping the curtain. When he died on the cross, the barrier was ripped. And in we go. Friends, if you are wondering, you'll see now why Christianity seems exclusive. It's getting to know a person. Christianity is not finding out ways of living a better life. It's getting to know a person. If I was trying to get to know you, and I said, well, you know, I want to get to know you any old way I feel like, any way I want to conceive of you, that's how I want to get to know you. You just laugh because you'll say, you'll never get to know me unless you come and listen to what I say I am. And when someone says there's many ways to get to God, many ways, everybody can conceive of God in his or her own way. Well, if you want to just learn about God, if you just want to live a better life, that might be true. But if you want to know God, how dare you say anybody can get to God any way they choose. You don't allow people to do that to you because you're a person. They'll never get to know you unless you reveal yourself as you are. Now, why shouldn't God act in the same way? He's a person. And that's the reason why Christianity says there's no way in except through the way that God has revealed himself in his son, Jesus Christ. As Leslie Newbigin puts it this way, this is the reason that Christians do mission, friends. He says, if it's true that the almighty God, creator of heaven, earth, and all that exists, sustainer of the same, so humbled himself as to become part of our human race and to suffer and die a shameful death to take away our lives, then why shouldn't God act in the same way that he does sin and arise from the dead so that all who connect with him will connect with the father and the future glory comes in? If this is true, to remain quiet about it is treason to our fellow human beings. If it's true that the son of God loved me and gave himself for me, how can I agree that this amazing set of matchless love, this amazing act of matchless love should become part of a syllabus for the comparative study of religions? If it's true to remain quiet about it as treason to our fellow human beings, don't commit it. Let's pray. We pray, Father, that you'll help us to see that through the son, we can know you and let Christians who are in this room who have settled for not really experiencing your fellowship, I pray that they might come to you now and say, Lord, I want to know you on a walk with you. That's what your son came to give. Not just wisdom, not just goodness,

but to know you. And I pray, Father, there's anyone in this room who has ruled Christianity out on the very basis of it claiming to be exclusive truth. I pray that they'll now, instead of just ruling it out, begin looking at the evidence for it to see that it's one of the most personal, one of the most positive, one of the most inclusive faiths that they can possibly find. I pray, Lord, that you would open their hearts to what your son has said, and I pray that they would open their hearts to what your son has said, and I pray that they would accept the son. No one can see the father. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
