The passage on which this teaching is based tonight is printed in your bulletin. We've been going through the book of James last Sunday. If you were here last Sunday night for the very first time, you might be disappointed with how different things are here tonight. Last week we took a hiatus. We had an open forum and we learned from opera what love is. And tonight we're going to continue with what we ordinarily do in our evening services. We're going through a particular book of the Bible, which is the book of James. And frankly, I think in a much more direct way we're going to learn about love by looking at the words of this book of the New Testament. The passage that is printed in front of you is chapter 1, verses 19 to 27. My dear brothers, take note of this. Everyone should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to become angry. For man's anger does not bring about the righteous life that God desires. Therefore, get rid of all moral filth and the evil that is so prevalent and humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says, a man who looks at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. But the man who looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues to do this, not forgetting what he's heard, but doing it, he will be blessed in what he does. If anyone considers himself religious and yet does not keep a tight rein on his tongue, he deceives himself and his religion is worthless. Religion that God our Father accepts is predestined. Pure and faultless is this, to look after orphans and widows in their distress and to keep oneself from being polluted by the world. And this is God's word. Now, because it's been a hiatus of a week, so it's been two weeks since we looked at this subject, let me remind you where we are in the train of thought of the writer James in this particular letter, in this particular treatise. In verse 18, which is not printed for you here, James says, He chose to give us birth through the word of truth. He chose to give us birth through the word of truth. So he said, we've been born again. If we're Christians, we've been born again. And James, being a very practical man and a working pastor, immediately in this next passage, the passage that we have here following, is addressing a very natural question that arises. And the natural question is this. If we're really born again, I mean, if we've really had that kind of cosmic, cataclysmic change in the depths of our being, why aren't we more changed? Why aren't we more different? Why haven't we been completely transformed? Why do we struggle with the things that we do? And the answer James gives, we began looking at two weeks ago, and let me paraphrase it for you. Let me summarize it. James says that the thing that actually brought you, you knew life, is the word of truth. And the same spiritual force that has very mysteriously come into your center and changed you also is embodied in the scripture. And that's the reason why it says here in verse 21, as you see, it says, humbly accept the word planted in you. Now, here's the mystery. And this is a mysterious thing. And we're not going to go back all over it, but I have to, since it's been two weeks, I've got to remind you of it. James is saying that this is the experience of everybody who's really a Christian. And if you've never experienced this, you have to at least wonder about yourself. And that's all right to do. It's very good to wonder about yourself. When the Bible describes Christian experience and it doesn't fit you, it's good for you to look at yourself. And here's the experience. James says, when you become a Christian, you get before the word of God and there's something changed now in your relationship to it. There's something. There's something in you that responds to it at a deep level. Because the thing that created your new heart is also inscripturated, embodied in the scripture. So when you get near the Bible, deep calls to deep. Do you remember when Elizabeth, who was pregnant with John the Baptist, came in contact with her cousin Mary, who was pregnant with Jesus? And do you remember how Elizabeth suddenly found her child, leapt in her womb? And of course, that often happens. But Elizabeth knew that there was something different. That the child was leaping with joy of the Holy Spirit. Because John the Baptist's job was to be the forerunner of Jesus. And so Elizabeth says, the child leapt in the womb when I got near you. Because, see, my deep is calling to your deep. They know each other. Now that's a little bit about what happens here. James says, what it means to become a Christian is, is the word of truth has been planted in you. And when you get near the word of God, this is no longer just a book of instructions. This is food. This is air. This is water. This is life. This is the thing that you're made of at somehow. And James says, the same force that planted new life in you, you've got to keep coming back to the word of God. And as you keep coming back to the word of God, the word of God continues to grow. It continues to grow in you. And eventually brings you to full liberation. See, being born again doesn't mean now all your problems are over. It means you've now got the potential to be a very different person. To be a person who's liberated. And that's the reason why it says, get back your heart into the presence of the word of truth. Into the presence of the scripture. And listen to it. And accept it. And carry it out. And what will happen is, that which is within you, will leap up. And grow strong. In the presence of the word of God, if you approach it. Until finally, the word of God becomes the law of liberty. See? In other words, I wrote this down as a kind of paraphrase. I was trying to paraphrase this paragraph. And here's what I think James is saying. He says, the word of God, which was implanted in you at first, which created you, now is the agency to grow you. To increase that life that it began within you. If you come to it persistently, if you come to it properly, it will result eventually in your total and complete freedom. So there it is. But, now the question of course comes right up. What does that mean? How do we approach the word of God persistently and properly? What do we have to do? And the answer is twofold. One is, we have to receive it. And the other is, we have to obey it. In other words, we have to receive it, take it in. And you see that in these verses where it says, you should listen to it. Accept it. Receive it. Take it in. And secondly, obey it. Carry it out. Because it says, do not merely listen. Listening is important. Accepting is important. But then you have to obey it. So, take it in. Carry it out. Receive it. Obey it. Now, we need to look at both. And I would say that James gives us, first of all, let's look at what it means to receive the word. James gives us an amazing, profound, wise, insight into why many of us find that the word of God does not liberate us. You see, when it says, you see here in verse 21, 22, it says, humbly accept the word. Listen to it. And a lot of people say, well, that's interesting. I listen to it. I study it. I come to Redeemer. I sit through all that. I'm studying it. I read it. I have devotions. I do all that. But I don't sense that it's liberating me. I don't sense all this freedom coming. I don't sense all this. Now, James gives us, because he's so practical, if we're not careful, we really miss the relationship between verses 19 and 20 to 21 and 22. See, in verse 18, he says, the word of God is that which has brought new life. And then down here in verse 21, he says, humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. Do not merely listen to the word. So it goes on to talk about, you know, studying the word and listening to the word. But verse 19 and 20 seem to be on a different subject. Look, it says,

Now, it looks like verse 19 and 20 is about anger, about listening, about being angry. See, a person who is angry tends to control relationships. And James is saying here, don't be an angry person who controls relationships. Be a receptive person. See, anger is contrasted with listening. A listener is someone who accepts. A listener is someone who is receptive. An angry person is someone who controls and says what things have to be done. And I want it this way and I want it this way. And it looks like verse 19 and 20 is about anger. And many times, I've preached to this before, and I've tended to, to teach in this way, that verse 19 and 20 is about anger and personal relationships and listening. But look, the word therefore, at the beginning of verse 21, therefore, it says don't be an angry person, be a listening person, and therefore humbly accept the word. And there's some, this is a profound insight. Paul, James here is saying, one of the reasons why you may be studying the word of God and it's not really changing you and it's not liberating you, is because you've got an angry and proud spirit. That there's a spirit that will be manifested out in your relationships. But the same spirit that might be manifest in your personal relationships is at work within you. So that if you fail to listen to people, you're not going to be listening to God either. If you fail to be receptive to people and what they say about you, you're going to have trouble accepting what God says about you. That you can't be one way out there and another way in here. Oh no. You've got to be, you have to be humble, a listener out there if you're going to be a humble listener when you sit down with the Bible. And actually what James is saying is extremely profound. And let me just draw some of the implications. Notice he says, he says, be quick to listen, slow to become angry, because anger does not bring about the righteous life God desires. Therefore, put off evil and be humble. Now here's what he's saying. Here's what he's teaching. Let me give you a few of the implications. And I think they're vast and practical. And there's probably some people in this room that right now, if you get this, it could save your life. Or actually, it might also save somebody else's life. First of all, this does not teach, if you look carefully, implication number one, it does not teach that anger is by nature sinful. It doesn't say don't get angry. Does it say that? Oh, I bet you a lot of people are saying, oh, it says don't get angry. I'm a Christian. I don't get angry. It doesn't say that. It says don't get angry quickly. It doesn't say don't get angry. In fact, Jesus gets angry. God gets angry. And if anger is wrong, per se, if anger is wrong, intrinsically, Jesus wouldn't get angry and God wouldn't get angry because they're perfect. But they do get angry. And here's why. Anger is energy released to defend and preserve something. When Jesus sees someone hurt, hmm, when Jesus sees someone hurt, he gets angry. He defends. If Jesus sees truth being hurt, he gets angry. He defends, you see. In other words, anger is not necessarily wrong because anger all by itself means if it's released properly, if it's released to defend and preserve the good, the honorable, the beautiful, it's perfectly fine. It's good. But here we're talking about a kind of anger that's counterproductive. Cancerous. See, James is not talking about any anger. He's talking about a kind of anger that goes bad. And there's two ways you can tell whether the anger in your life has gone bad. You see what the two signs are? The first sign is it's quick. Okay? In other words, anger that has gone bad under sin, anger that's gotten cancerous, anger that's gotten spiritually and emotionally bad is anger that flares up in a second. Okay? Jesus and God never lose their temper, but they get real angry. They don't lose their temper. It doesn't flare up. It's quick. This kind of anger is quick. But here's what the second sign is. Cancerous anger leads to evil. See? Put away anger. Anger does not bring about the righteous life. And he's talking about this cancerous anger. And here's what I mean. If your anger is being released, to preserve and to defend something good, it actually helps you do the good thing. Anger can be a wonderful help. It can move you to do something that's right. One of the things that, one of our favorite actors for Kathy and I in so many of the movies is Harrison Ford. And here's one of the reasons why I was thinking tonight we like him. Even in his cartoon character things like Indiana Jones, but certainly when he's doing in Patriot Games and when he's playing the Tom Clancy guy, I forgot his name, but you know, when he's playing that character or when he's even in Witness, the thing that Harrison Ford does a great job of, he's great at depicting a man who has not got natural nerves of steel, who is not a fearless person, but who gets angry well. And because he gets angry well when he sees his family, when he sees truth, when he sees justice, when he sees something, that it needs to be preserved and defended. Even though he's really scared, spitless in many other ways, the anger helps him do the right thing. He gets angry well. That's what anger's for. Anger is there to help you defend the right. Anger's there to help you defend the people that need to be defended. Anger helps you do which otherwise you wouldn't be able to do. See, he gets angry very well. And in that sense, he's a model of what anger should be. But here we're talking about, here's how you can tell whether your anger's cancerous or not. When the anger flares up, it flares up quickly and secondly, it leads you to do things that afterwards you regret. See, righteous anger, after righteous anger's over, you say, I'm glad I got angry because it helped me do something I wouldn't have done otherwise. But when unrighteous anger is done, you look back and you say, I wish I hadn't done that. I wish I hadn't said that. I wish I'd never said that. So, cancerous anger is that which is quick, out of control, and leads you to do things that afterwards you wish you hadn't done. Now, what's the other implication? You say, well, that's a lot like, you know, that cancerous anger is the kind of anger I see. Yes, and that's ordinarily the kind of anger that we have. And that's why ordinarily, anger is very, very, it's turned cancerous because of sin. Well, what are we going to do about it? Ah, here's where the wisdom gets amazing. What is the opposite of this anger? The opposite of this anger is not self-control. James doesn't say, stop being angry and just control it. You know, say, I won't be angry, I won't be angry, I won't be angry. That's not what he says. He says, don't be angry, but be humble. The opposite of anger is not self-control. The opposite of anger is humility. And therefore, the cause of sinful anger is pride. And if you have a problem with anger, whether it's the in-kind or the out-kind, any anger or out-y anger, you know the two kinds of belly buttons or there's two kinds of anger too, any anger is the bitterness. Keep it inside. Hold the grudge. Out-y anger is the flaring up, the blowing up. And if you've got a problem with either, your problem is not just like, I've got to stop, I've got to stop. What you've got to do is you've got to say, pride is here. You see, here's what turns anger cancerous. When you release the anger to defend your pride. When you release your anger to save face, I'll go a little further. Anger, which is cancerous, is being released because you, in your pride, are trying to control an uncontrollable universe. And in particular, you are trying to preserve a spotless image of yourself. Your pride. A spotless image of yourself. And you will not let any, your anger flares up to defend that. That's why you're getting angry. See, anger, by definition, is to defend something. But when you're defending the good, the true, other people, justice, it leads to righteousness. But when you are releasing it to defend the spotless image of yourself,

it turns cancerous. You see, one of the things that always amazed me over the years, and I don't know why until fairly recently I wasn't able to say, I wasn't able to put two and two together. Over the years, I've talked to people who were in families and in counseling who were in abusive situations where you had, generally, a husband that couldn't control anger and would hit the kids and his wife. And one of the things I suddenly realized when I was studying this passage that I'd never seen before is one of the things the wife would always say is not just that he blows up and hits me, but he never listens to me. Now, James puts those two things together and you, usually the abuser, doesn't see any relationship between those two things. But there is. Oh my, that there is. Cancerous anger says, I must not allow anyone to destroy my image of myself. Because if I were to accept what the gospel says I am, and here's what the gospel says you are, you are a totally loved moral failure. In Christ, you're totally loved, but you're a moral failure. Nothing less than the death of the Son of God could possibly save you. But because he's died for you, you're, forget your self-image, you're a sinner, you're a moral failure, but you're absolutely loved. An angry person is someone who denies that at the heart. And if somebody tries to show you that you're a failure, you say, you blow up. No. You say, it's not my fault, it's her fault, it's his fault, it's their fault, it's God's fault. And you blow. Because you cannot admit that you're a failure. You can't admit that you're really a moral failure. You can't admit that. Because if you admitted that, then you wouldn't be loved. I'm either a failure or I'm loved. I can't be both. The gospel says you can be both. An angry person says I can't be both. And therefore, at the heart of anger is self-righteousness, is pride. It's the reason you blow and it's the reason you're bitter. Why do you hold a grudge? Only because you've forgotten what a sinner you are. You can't think about your debt to Jesus and her or his debt to you. At the same time, if you think about your debt to Jesus, in other words, if you humble yourself and see how much you've been forgiven, you can't stay angry. Pride is the reason that you're bitter and pride is the reason that you blow up. And if you are not a listener, if you control situations, if you can't take criticism, if you're an irritable person, you're going to be that way with God. You're not going to be able to let the word of God come in. It's not going to be able to get after you. Self-righteousness, a denial of the gospel of grace, is that which makes people angry and controlling instead of listening and receptive. And if you're not a person who takes criticism well, if you're not a good listener, if people don't want to come and tell you about their problems because they know you're a wonderful listener, it probably means that you're not getting anything out of the word of God either. You know, Lord be merciful to me as sinner as I'm saying all this because I know that I don't listen like I should. And I know I can get angry. But I look back. If you want to know the road to recovery, it's this, to say, I am a totally loved moral failure. What am I defending? Next time you get angry, say, what am I defending? Is it just my pride? Am I denying the very thing that Jesus Christ died for? A moral failure yet loved? I will not be mastered by this. And that's the step on the road to recovery. And just one more thing, though. And we've really got to think about this. If this is all very true, if this is all true, then James is saying, work on your pride above all other things. Use the gospel on your pride. Recognize the signs of pride. Because if you don't develop a humble spirit in general, in your relationship to other people, if you don't learn to relax when you've failed, if you don't learn to relax when other people fail, if other people criticize you instead of blowing up and saying, it's their fault, it's their fault, it's God's fault. It can't be my fault. I can't admit it's my fault. If you're a lousy repenter, you're not going to get anything out of the Word of God. That's what he's saying. I mean, I could have, you know, one of the ways to handle this text is to start talking about Bible study techniques, listening to the Word of God. And you know, it's important to know how to meditate on the Scripture. It's important to spend time listening to the Scripture. Do you do that? To humbly accept the Word of God, to listen to the Word of God means you do study it and you do memorize it and you do work on it and you do spend time thinking about it and studying it. All that's important. But you see, James actually spends very little on the technique and he says, basically, accepting the Word of God is a character issue. Recently, let me conclude this part and we have to say something about the second part here, obeying, caring, and keeping your eye on the mirror here. But if you don't, you need to learn to see pride if you're going to be a person who grows in the presence of the Word of God. In the all fall, I've been studying a place where Jonathan Edwards talks about this in a book of his called Thoughts on Revival. One of the things that most frustrated Jonathan Edwards, who was a great congregational minister in this country in the 1740s, and he saw revival start up. He saw a great, great church growth. He saw people coming to faith in Christ. He saw communities begin to get transformed and then he noticed how often, usually, the revivals, they stopped. They, you know, they stagnated. They strangled. And he did a lot of, being the analytical person he was, and you have to read him to understand this, he was so, so rational. And he studied all the cases and he decided that it was pride that kills revivals. It's pride that kills spiritual growth. It's pride which is our biggest problem. And he has a little, little list, a number of ways you can recognize pride in yourself. And he says, you need to do an early warning quick strike. You need to have an early warning quick strike radar unit looking at your own heart on this. I mean, that's a paraphrase. It doesn't exactly say it that way. And he says, here's the list. Well, let me just tell you what the list is. I boiled it down to three things. Three ways you can kind of check yourself for pride. Number one, he says, a proud heart, oh, these are great, and Lord be merciful to me. Proud heart is sure of every point of its beliefs. He says, a proud heart cannot tell the difference between a major and a minor point. A proud heart argues as much for the thing, every, a proud heart argues for every one of your convictions. You know, have you ever heard, this is kind of a joke, but it fits here. The doctor was talking to the patient. He says, well, we're going to have to do surgery, but it's minor surgery. It's not major surgery. It's minor surgery. And the patient says, doctor, on you it's minor surgery. On him it's minor surgery. But any cutting on me is major surgery because it's me. And a proud person is someone who says, any belief, if it's mine, is a major belief. And, you know, I mean, there's, Edwards says, there are plenty of passages of the scripture about the big beliefs. The deity of Christ. The authority of the Bible. You see, the personality of God and so on. And he says, there's lots and lots of other beliefs that are really inferences and implications and they're based on just a couple of scripture texts. He says, one of the marks of a proud person is they argue about everything. They act as if any one of my beliefs, if it goes down, then everything falls apart. He says, the mark of a proud heart is not teachable. The mark of a proud heart is it's argumentative. My gosh. Okay, the second mark, he says, so first is a proud heart is sure of every point of its belief system. The second mark is a proud heart enjoys confronting or avoids confronting but doesn't ever confront with tears. He says, see, the mark of a proud heart, he says, a sure sign of a heart desperately trying to patch up an image of righteousness. A sure sign of a heart that's desperately trying to defend a spotless self-image either loves to confront or absolutely refuses. You see, on the one hand, you love to confront because you come and say, aha, I caught you. See, I know I'm better than you. I mean, he loves to do it. You enjoy it. You like to get it off your chest. You like to tell that person, you know, put that person down, show that person what, or else, a proud heart refuses because a proud heart cannot take any anger back. A proud heart does not in any way want any criticism back. Can't take it. Absolutely can't take it. But he says, you see, a humble heart is a heart that speaks the truth and love that confronts with tears at least on the inside. And you know what? Even though this isn't always the case, if you've ever been confronted with a humble person, sometimes you're so mad at it, you know, you won't admit anything. But generally, when you're confronted by a humble person, you'll say, I don't like what you're saying. I hate what you're saying. I disagree with what you're saying. But at least you've listened to me. Now, the third mark of a proud heart, proud heart is sure very pointless beliefs. A proud heart enjoys confronting or else avoids confronting but doesn't speak the truth and love. But thirdly, a proud heart is always unhappy with its life. And you know, this is amazing. Edward says, he says, look, here's the mark of a proud heart. You're always griping about how your life is going. You know why? He says, when bad things happen, a humble heart says, well, I sure didn't want this to happen, but maybe the Lord knows best. But a proud heart is so sure that you know what's best that when things go wrong, you're ticked all the time. He says, the only way you can always be angry with, why is this happening and why is that happening? He says, you just, you're sure you know more than God. He says, the mark of a proud heart is it's always angry. And therefore, he says, there's nothing more relaxing than humility. There's nothing more relaxing than to say, well, I guess, I guess you know best. And if you have these signs of a proud heart, huh? What are they? Quick to admit your faults. I mean, pardon me, slow to admit your faults because you have this image of, you know, yourself as only being loved because you're strong. Only confronting in anger or not confronting at all. Inflexible, dogged, pragmatic, always unhappy. If those are marks of your heart, no wonder you're not growing. And no wonder the word of God is not something that's coming in and really, it's really, it's really not bearing fruit. You're turning it away at the door. Now, he says, however, do not merrily listen to the word and so deceive yourselves. Do what it says. And what he says in the rest of these couple verses which we, I can summarize for you, is he says, it's not enough just to listen. You have to do. And maybe that seems obvious but if you look carefully you'll see again some wonderful insights. First of all, it says, anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like a man who looks at his face in the mirror. After looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like. Now, in some ways that was easier back then. You must realize that people did not have mirrors everywhere and the mirrors they had were polished metal and so most people did not know at all what they look like we do today. But you know what? What he's getting at and you can still see it even today is that we really, there's something in our heart that does not want to really see who we are. Now, there's an extreme case that's called anorexia. And an anorexic is a size 8 and looks in the mirror and sees a size 18. And we say, ah yes, how pathological. But you know what James is saying is that's an aggravated version, that's a pathological version but it's a reality for every human heart. The human heart tends to forget the good and the true. The human heart has, because of sin, we, sin has coated our heart with Teflon when it comes to truth. Good things, true things, we forget like that. Now somebody says, well that's not true for me. I mean, I can never forget what my father told me. I can never forget what my spouse before she left me, before he left me said to me. There's awful things that have come into my heart and I can't forget them but that's just exactly what the Bible says. You see, the Bible says your heart is so twisted that bad things, ugly things, disgusting things, harmful things, you remember. You can't forget but good things, true things. You know, a person, you read the Bible a hundred times and it says you're loved and you forget it and one person comes up to you one time and says, you're ugly, everybody hates you and you'll never forget that as long as you live. Never. You'll never forget that. And James says there's a tremendous need for a certain intensity when it comes to studying the Bible and getting the truth of God into your life because your heart naturally is allergic to the truth. It doesn't want to see who you really are. It doesn't want to see who God really is. You're going to forget. In fact, if you don't know that you're going to forget, if you're not fighting at every minute, if you're not setting your life up at every point to overcome that natural tendency to forget the truth, it will take you out. So then he says, well, what do you do? All right, now look. It says, but the man who looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues to do this. Here's the illustration. He says, never, he says, go out and do what you're set, what you, what you, the Bible tells you, but never stop looking. You see that? In other words, the image is not you look in the mirror and then go off and obey it because he says, if you look in the mirror and you get some truth, then you go off to try to do it, you'll forget it. You have to take the mirror with you. Never stop looking. And you know, there's, we could open this up for a long time, but this is the basic principle. Willpower is not the point. You've got to look. You see, for example, I mean, the easiest one is because we've been looking at it in the morning service and it's come up three or four times that I can't help but point to it now. How did Stephen face his execution with patience and love? How did he do it? He didn't say, I'm a Christian. I am going to be calm. See? It says he looked. See, well, he had a vision, somebody said. I mean, he had a vision. He saw Jesus Christ standing at the right hand of God. He saw the glory of God. He had a vision. It was easy for him. Don't you know what happened? It didn't say he had a vision and he looked. He says he looked and then he had a vision. He looked up. Then he saw it. He wasn't saying, well, I'm just going to be a good person. He looked. He says, I'm going to remember who I am. I'm going to remember who God is. He takes the mirror with him. Jesus Christ says, for example, have no anxiety about anything. Now, is that a command? Yes. What does that mean? I'm a Christian. I'm not going to be anxious. I'm not going to be afraid. You know, like the coward and the lion. You know? You say, I'm not going to be afraid. Everything's going to be fine. I'm not going to be afraid. No, no. Jesus says, have no anxiety but consider. He says, look at the birds, look at the air, look at this, you know, God takes care of them. Aren't you not more? And what is Jesus saying? He says, take the mirror with you. And this is what it means. Look at Jesus Christ. Look what God did for you. He ripped Jesus Christ to shreds. He tore Jesus Christ from limb to limb. The heavens wept. The earth quaked. Look at what God has done for you. And now you think, like, he's going to forget you? If you are anxious, you're not thinking. You're not looking. Jesus says, if you just look, you've got to look. In other words, there can be no bifurcation between doctrine and practice. You must always be burning into your own heart by thinking, by meditation. You need to keep the mirror with you. You don't just say, I'm going to be calm. I'm going to be anxious. You look. You look at the truth. You look at the stuff. You look at it. That's what it says. You continue to look at it. You take the mirror with you. You have to learn to integrate your theology with your life. Your doctrine should be all practice. Your practice has to be all doctrinal. It has to be. That's the way it's done. And, you know, if you're willing to do that, he says, eventually, you will be blessed. Why? Because it's the perfect law. It's the perfect law that gives freedom. So what you're supposed to do is you're supposed to say, the more I obey, the more I obey, the more I will become who God made me. And the more I become who God made me, the more free I'll be. Just like fish is only free when it's in the water because it's built for the water. So you're only free to the degree that you're doing what God made you to do, to obey him. But you won't obey through willpower. You obey by humbling yourself under his grace, by seeing that you are a totally loved moral failure, by dealing with your anger and relaxing in humility, and then taking the mirror of God's word with you all the time. And it's not easy. It's not easy at all. You have to be accountable to people to do it. You have to, you know, what amazes me in this city like New York, there's people who don't want to do it. They don't want to be accountable. They don't want to be in small groups. They don't want to join a church. They don't want to be under any elders. They don't want to have prayer partnerships. They don't want anybody to know about what they're doing or who they are. They say, I can handle it myself. You have, you're absolutely ignorant of what this says. This says, there is something in you which is going to pull you away from the truth unless intently you bind yourself to it. Get all your friends around to help you look in that mirror and remember what you say. See, but what freedom, what freedom to those who do it. He will be blessed in what he does. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us so much wisdom in the word of God. We pray that you'd help us to humbly accept the word that's planted in us and then not to listen to it only, but to do it looking into the mirror, the perfect law of liberty and remembering what we see. Let us have the blessing that comes to those who come to the word in that way. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
