The scripture is taken from the book of Mark, chapter 8, verses 22 through 31. They came to Bethsaida, and some people brought a blind man and begged Jesus to touch him. He took the blind man by the hand and led him outside the village. When he had spit on the man's eyes and put his hands on him, Jesus asked, Do you see anything? He looked up and said, I see people. Jesus sent him home saying, Don't go into the village. Jesus and his disciples went on to the villages around Caesarea Philippi. On the way, he asked them, Who do people say I am? They replied,

He replied, must be killed, and after three days rise again. This is the word of God. We've been looking at the life of Jesus in the Gospel of Mark, and the whole first half of the Gospel of Mark, which is eight chapters, revolves around or addresses one question. Who is this? Jesus is doing all these astonishing things. Jesus is saying all these astonishing things. Who is he? Who is this? Now, the climax of the first half of the book of Mark, chapter 8, at the climax, right there you read it, Peter gives the answer. And next week we'll actually look at that in some detail. What I want to show today, what I want to talk about today, is this little healing miracle right before it, this healing miracle that comes up right before it. It's a very unique miracle. It's the only miracle where apparently Jesus' power doesn't seem to work the first time. At least on the surface, it looks like Jesus says, be healed. Did it work? No. All right, try it again. Be healed. That's what it looks like. And that's very strange. And why is it here? Why does Mark put it here when we're rushing on down to the answer to the question, why does he put it here? I think it's here to teach us. And if we look at it and reflect on it, I think it's going to teach us first of all that we're all spiritually blind. Secondly it's going to teach us what we're blind to and thirdly how we can be healed of it. That we're all spiritually blind, what we're blind to and how we can be healed of it. So first, first thing we learn here is that we're all spiritually blind because you have to put this in the context of the whole chapter. If you were here last week you know that chapter 8 verses 1 to 21 are all about the spiritual blindness of the disciples and the Pharisees. Verses 1 to 10 of chapter 8 were about the fact that the disciples still don't get it. Verses 11 to 21 about the fact that the Pharisees, the religious leaders, still don't get it. Don't get what? They don't get the magnitude of who Jesus is, that he's not just a rabbi or teacher, that he's not just a political leader. And so at the very end of verse 21, at the end of the first part of the chapter, Verse 21, Jesus ends that passage saying, Do you not understand yet? Now, almost all commentators, as a result, see all this discussion about the spiritual blindness of the disciples and the Pharisees. And afterwards, after this miracle, comes Peter finally getting it. So why does Mark put, bring out, this little healing miracle right in the smack in the middle of all this? now the first reason Mark put it here is because it happened of course you might say well how do you know it wasn't made up and of course most historians point out that if you were trying to create stories to promote your movement your Jesus movement if Mark was making up this story he would never have made up a story like this would you why in the world would you make up a story that apparently makes Jesus look like he didn't work the first time no it happened but the real question is why does Mark bring it out here And almost for years now, most commentators have pointed out what I think is pretty obvious, that this isn't just a miracle, it's a parable, too. When Jesus heals, every time he does it differently, right? Sometimes he puts spit, you know, on the eyes or the ears. Sometimes he says something, sometimes he says nothing. Sometimes he does it from a distance. And what we've learned is Jesus can heal with a thought. He can do it from a distance. He can heal a hurricane. the dead. And therefore, whenever you see details that he's doing, like doing it in two stages and that sort of thing, he's never doing it because he has to do it in order to exercise his power, but because the recipients, in this case the disciples and us who are watching it, need the details. Jesus is doing it in this way not just to heal the man, but to teach. And what is he teaching? He's teaching about the pervasiveness of spiritual blindness, This man is a symbol for everything else in the chapter, the pervasiveness of spiritual blindness, and to point out that nobody will really be able to tell who Jesus really is, the magnitude of who he is, without external, divine, supernatural, spiritual intervention and help. He's talking about the pervasiveness of spiritual blindness. What do I mean by pervasiveness? Well, the chapter tells us it's pervasive in two ways. Number one, breadth. Everybody's spiritually blind. I find it fascinating that the point of this chapter, though again this was what we were looking at last week, verses 1 to 21 shows us the spiritual blindness of the disciples to who Jesus is, and then the spiritual blindness of the Pharisees and the religious leaders. Do you realize who that is? It's everybody. See, the Bible's view of right and wrong is unique. It's not like, obviously it doesn't express modern secularism that says right and wrong constructive in their relative. But it does not reflect ancient traditional dualism, which says the world is divided into the good people and the bad people. And there's the good people here, and they see the truth, and they love the truth, and they do it. And there's the bad people, and they resist the truth, and they're blind, and they're awful. The Bible doesn't say anything like that. You know where dualism leads to. You know the kind of injustice, even the genocide it can lead to. The Bible doesn't go there. The Bible says everybody's blind. disciples of Jesus and the religious leaders, the friends of Jesus and the enemies of Jesus, the blue-collar people and the white-collar people, the insiders and the outsiders, the moral and the immoral, everybody. Nobody can get it. They're all spiritually blind. It's that pervasive. That's amazing. It's an amazing statement. It's incredibly equitable, as a matter of fact, but it's an amazing statement. So that's just how absolutely pervasive the breadth of spiritual blindness. Secondly, though, we're being told about the depth. I'm sure, and almost, you know, when you pick up 18 commentaries and they all say the same thing, no matter who they are, liberal or conservative, they all agree that what Jesus is doing is he's trying to show that it takes more than one touch from Jesus to cure spiritual blindness. The spiritual blindness is so deep that it doesn't go away like that. It doesn't go. There's stages. There's multiple touches that are necessary. It's a process of revealing and of illumination that has to happen. That even when our spiritual sight is cleared up enough to see who he is, Jesus, and to have a relationship with him, our sight is still not cleared up enough to actually live the life with him we should be living. And therefore, the spiritual sight does not clear up like that. it's so deep and it clings to us so much now if that's the case that it's that pervasive it's breadth and depth before moving on to the next points I want to think practically about this do you believe what I just said do you believe what the scripture is saying you might say yeah think about the implications first this means if anybody here really believes very solidly in Jesus Christ you know what this means you must never feel impatient or superior to anybody else who doesn't believe or who believes less than you do you must never look down your nose at them you must never get irritable with them you mustn't get impatient with them now there's something in our hearts naturally when you really are so sure of something and you're talking to somebody else who just doesn't see it deep in your heart you're thinking

you fools

why can't you see this? Why are you so blind to the truth? You mustn't do that. How dare you do that? If spiritual sight is ultimately a gift of God, how can you do that? Have you forgotten? Isn't that a form of blindness itself? Of course it is. You need another touch. If you look down your nose or if you're impatient, if you're grumpy about people who don't believe, In fact, it goes so far as to say the way you know your spiritual sight has really cleared is that you see how unclear it is. The way you know you're starting to finally see it right is that you know how little you see it right. Right? Is that clear? You see what I mean? I mean that's a sign that your spiritual sight is clearing. And it's getting more and more clear that you realize how much of a gift it is. And that means you can't get so grumpy. Look, if you're a growing Christian, and I hope you are, but if you're a growing Christian, your ten-year-from-now self will look back at your current self and think you're a fool. Do you know what that means? You are a fool today. You're a fool today. And I'm just trying to give you your own credit. I'm just giving you credit because you're going to feel that way, so I'm just telling you ahead of time. So how in the world can you look at somebody else and say you fool? You know, Jesus actually has a place in the Sermon on the Mount about that, about how evil it is to curse people in your heart and to say, you fool, raka, you fool. That shows you don't know what the Bible teaches about the gift nature of spiritual sight. You have to go to Jesus. Oh, well, that's my second point. All right, look. First point is, do you believe? Then don't you dare be impatient and grumpy to people who have trouble believing. not believe? Or do you have trouble believing? Is there anybody here, and I know it's because it's New York and there's always somebody here, who's not quite sure what they believe about Jesus? Or maybe you know you really don't believe in Jesus, at least not in the classic Christian way. Here's what I want you to see, I hope, is that meeting Jesus and having your life changed with Jesus is not like adopting a religion. See, adopting a religion is something you can do in your own power it's just really summonsing up what you already know you can do and should do see there are people who are there's plenty of people walking around like this they say you know i really need to live a better life it would be good if i could pray it would be good if i could connect to god it would be good if i was more spiritual okay i will be so i'll find a religion that i like and i'll adopt it and i'll start to do the observances and i'll do the practices see that's adopting a religion that is not the way your life has changed by meeting jesus christ because, see, think about it. First of all, a relationship with Jesus Christ is just that. It's a relationship. And, look, you can go up to a person, but if that person doesn't let you see who they are, if that person doesn't reveal themselves, him or herself, to you, you're not having a relationship. That person has got to give you sight into their heart, or it doesn't happen. And you can't just say, okay, I'm going to adopt the religion, I'll start going to church. I'll start to pray. I'll start, what are the beliefs? What are the practices? What can a Christian do? What a Christian can't do? No, no, no, no. You have to go and say, Jesus, I don't see it right, and I want to see you. I know I've got a spiritual blindness, and I want you to open my eyes. And if you're not willing to do that, then there's absolutely no way. I mean, if you think about, I had a friend some years ago, this is a great illustration, I think of this, who is a great example of what it means to get spiritual sight. Some of you may be sitting out there saying, I still don't quite know what you mean. He never used to wear a seat belt. And every time I would see him, he lived in another country, another city. So when I would go to see him, he'd pick me up at the airport and he'd never wear a seat belt. And I used to always get on him for that. You need to wear your seat belt. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. One time he picked me up at the airport, and he was wearing a seatbelt. And I said, wow, that's really great. What are you doing? Why are you wearing your seatbelt? He says, well, I went to see a friend of mine who had been in a car accident, did not have his seatbelt on, went through a windshield. In the hospital, I saw him. He had 120 stitches in his face. And now I wear my seatbelt. And we actually thought about it a little bit. We reflected on it. I said, okay, so you didn't know? And what did he say? Well, I knew, but I didn't know. I knew the statistics. I didn't get any new information, but I didn't really know it. I didn't really see it. There's nobody who has ever met Jesus Christ and had Jesus change his or her life that doesn't look back and say, I thought I knew those things, but I didn't really see them. How could I have been so blind? I heard that a I'd read that or I thought that or I thought I believed that and then it became real and it changed and I was blind. If that's not happening to you, you're not finding Jesus. So we're all spiritually blind, number one. Number two, what we're blind to. What is the root of this spiritual blindness? What does it mean? Now see, there are many layers to spiritual blindness. In fact, I would say that there's not a person on the face of the earth doesn't understand it, even if you might be the most anti-supernatural, anti-spiritual, materialistic atheist, and you don't believe in any of the spiritual stuff at all, you still know what I mean. You know why? Everybody goes through a situation where you really blow something, a relationship, a job, a project, and you look back five years and you say, I was so blind. I knew it, but I didn't know it. I had the data, but I didn't know what it meant. I didn't get it. It didn't sink in. I was such an idiot. What is that? it's you're it's not like it's not like you've got new data it's not like you actually literally physically didn't see something it's that you realize that you were spiritually blind but now why are we prone to this why does this sort of thing happen to us all the time i would propose that there's a root to all spiritual blindness there's a foundation there's something we're blind to that is the root to all the other events and all the other incidents of spiritual blindness, and that the claims of Jesus Christ throw it into relief. What is it? Well, let's take a look at the claims of Jesus Christ first. Jesus walks along, verse 27, and says, Who do people say that I am? Who do you say that I am? Now, right away, here we see the difference between Jesus and all the other founders of every other major religion that ever lived. Mohammed, Moses, Buddha, Confucius never walked around talking like that. They walked around pointing people to God. They walked around pointing people to the pathway to God. But they never walked around talking like this. Can you imagine if you had a professor and after three years of classes with the professor, the professor finally said, Okay, class, I want you to know that the main thing I've been trying to get across to you all three years, It all boils down to one thing. Do you know who I really am? You'd want your tuition back. You'd want them put away. That's what he's doing here. He's saying, I'll tell you what it's all about. Let me tell you what ultimate reality is all about. What do you think of me? How do you relate to me? Nobody else has ever said this. You know why? What is Jesus saying? Well, what do people say that I am? them. They do believe, John the Baptist, Elijah, Muhammad, Buddha, Moses. You're right up there, see? Everybody thinks you're one of the all-stars. You're one of the great sages. You're one of the great wise men. You're one of the great prophets. And Jesus says, no, I have not come to show you, as the rest of them, how to save yourself, how to purify yourself, how to find nirvana and In enlightenment yourself. I've come to save you. I have not come to show you how to live the life you should live. And die a good death you should die. I've come to live the life you should have lived but never will. I've come to die the death you ought to die for your sins and your flaws. In your place. As your savior. I'm the Lord from heaven. I'm not coming to just point you to God. I'm bringing God to you. I am God. Come to save you. why is it that it doesn't take divine intervention to believe that Jesus Christ is one up there like Elijah and John the Baptist and Moses and Confucius but it does take divine intervention because we hate the idea it does take divine intervention to believe that he's God and he's the ultimate savior and you absolutely need him or you have no hope why does it take divine intervention to do that because the claims of Jesus Christ throw under relief the one thing that we're most afraid of admitting self-sufficiency. We are addicted to self-sufficiency. See, if you go to an addict and you say you're addicted to a substance, you're addicted to alcohol, what will the addict say? The addict will say, well, I drink, but I'm not controlled by it. I can handle it. I can stop if I want. See? I'm not that bad off. But the paradox of alcoholism, as you know, is that not until you say, I'm out of control, that you become less out of control. Not until you say, I'm powerless over my problems and I'm helpless, do you begin to get some power. Not until you say, I am blind and I'm in denial, that you actually see your true situation. Now, the Bible comes in a kind of macro intervention to the whole human race. And you know what the Bible says to you? The Bible says to you, you are absolutely controlled by self-centeredness and pride. That's why you're blind all the time. That's why you're always doing wrong assessments of your situation and what other people are saying, what other people are doing. You are absolutely dominated and controlled by self-centeredness and pride and the myth of self-sufficiency, and that is that you can really handle your own problems if you just get a little bit of help. And what do we say to that? We say, well, yes, I'm selfish, I guess, to a degree, but I'm not controlled by it. I'm not out of control. I know what's wrong with me. I know my flaws, and if I just had a little bit of help, I don't need an absolute savior. I'm not totally spiritually helpless. unless somebody comes and saves me with radical grace. Not me. That's offensive. You know why it's offensive? The Bible says you're in denial. You are in denial about how much inhumanity your heart is capable of. You don't want to admit it. You're in denial about how impossible it is for you to fundamentally change anything really important about yourself. You are in denial about how the sufferings and the difficulties and the problems this life is going to throw at you, you will never able to handle in your own spiritual strength. You're in denial. And here's why. We are desperately afraid of admitting that we're not competent to run our own life. We are absolutely in denial of our spiritual insufficiency and our spiritual inability and our spiritual inadequacy. We don't want to admit it. We don't. We're like alcoholics who say, yes, I drink and it's a bit of a problem, but I can handle it. No, you can't. And it's until you see the claims of Jesus that says, just another wise man. I'm not just another sage. I am the Lord and Savior, and you've got to center your whole life on me, and you have absolutely no hope without me. Without me, you can do nothing, and when we hear that, we say, that's so over the top. None of the other religions make any kind of claim like that. How dare you say that sort of thing, and you are being pushed because you're an addict. You want to deny the truth, and only through getting hold of who Jesus is. Does this spiritual root of all of our other spiritual blindness get thrown into relief, get revealed for what it is? And that's the reason why we've got to come to grips with this question, who do you think he is? That's the way out of spiritual blindness, see? Wow, so that's the fact that we're all spiritually blind, and that's what we're blind to. Thirdly, then, my word, how can we be healed? How can we get healing? How can we begin the process, at least? And there's three things I think our text teaches us about how we can be healed. Spiritual blindness, and those three things are, we have to be healed, we learn we have to be healed in stages, we have to be healed in community, and we have to be healed in confidence. In stages, in community, in confidence. Let's go. Number one, we've already talked about this, but let me go into more detail. It is very clear that Jesus heals this man in stages to let us know, and Mark certainly puts it here, to let us know that our spiritual sight is ordinarily healed through a whole long process. So, for example, we, I think, especially, I mean, some kinds of Christians are really, perhaps, overly controlled by the Pauline model of conversion. Acts 9, Damascus Road, you know, here he is killing Christians, and a couple days later, he's preaching the gospel. Total change. Wham! Now, of course, as we all know, Paul still had to grow as a Christian. Nevertheless, it looks like he went from just darkness to light and was all over. We forget the fact that there's another model. There's another apostle, and there's another model for conversion in the Bible, and that is Peter. And we see Peter getting converted in the Gospel of Mark. And by the end of the Gospels of Mark, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, and John, you can see that Peter, in stages, he gets a little bit more, and he gets a little bit more. As you're going to see right here, we'll see next week, Peter gets some of it, but almost immediately Jesus has to rebuke him because he doesn't get all of it. And at some point, Peter crosses over from death to life. At some point, Jesus Peter goes from trusting himself for his own salvation to trusting Christ. But doggone, it's almost impossible to say just where it happens. It goes on and on and on, stages, stages. And because we have a tendency to look at the Pauline model and not the Petrin model, a lot of us get really, really filled with self-doubts. Dr. David Martin Lloyd-Jones preached a sermon on this very text some years ago, Men as Trees Walking. And it's based on the King James version of the man's answer, that when Jesus says, do you see a right? He says, I see men as trees walking. And Dr. Lloyd-Jones pointed out that over the years as a pastor, he was constantly finding people who were extremely upset because they felt they were stuck. They were stuck between touches. They saw, but they didn't really see. And so they'd come, some of them, he said, to really understand that they were sinners, that they got a kind of grasp of the fact they needed God and that they were flawed. They got a grasp on that, and it seemed like spiritually there was a kind of illumination going on there. But they didn't get an equal kind of assurance and grasp of His love. They were sort of stuck between the negative and the positive. There were other people who he found were stuck between the rational and the experiential. People who had studied and thought about it and decided Christianity is true, I'm sure He rose from the dead, it's really true, somehow existentially didn't capture the heart and the life so they were really able to live it out with joy. And they would talk to Dr. Lloyd-Jones, and they would say, well, okay, look at this story. Was the man healed or not? He touches him once. He touches him twice. And they said, so am I a Christian? Because I feel like I'm partly a Christian, but I'm not all a Christian. And you know what Lloyd-Jones would say? Stop contemplating your navel and answer Jesus' question. Well, what's Jesus' question, they would say. you are talking to a pastor saying, I don't see right, talk, tell Jesus. He's saying, do you see it right? And if the man hadn't admitted that he still didn't see it right, maybe Jesus would never have touched him again. I mean, Lloyd-Jones actually says, interesting. What if Jesus had said, do you see it right? And the man said, well, of course I do. What are you talking about? Yes, everything's just fine. He would have walked around the rest of his life cutting down people and talking to trunks. But you see, he had holy dissatisfaction. He admitted it still didn't work. It's a little bit of a dicey thing to say to the Savior of the world, don't you think? You say, yeah, I'm not sure your touch worked here. I mean, but, you know, instead of saying, well, maybe it was my fault, or maybe it was something wrong, maybe my blindness is so bad that even Jesus can't heal it. He said, no, I don't see it right. Please. And Jesus touched him again, And what Dr. Lloyd-Jones is just saying, be dissatisfied with your level of spiritual sight, and it'll be all right. Go to him and say, I don't see it right. And I don't care who you are. I don't care how long you've been a Christian. I don't care what you think. You know. But unless you are like Jacob sometimes, that you go and say, I will not let you go till you bless me. Unless you have a holy dissatisfaction at your level of experience and your level of spiritual sight and your level of the experience of God's love or your level of the experience of God's holiness, unless you are dissatisfied and saying to Jesus, no, I still don't see it right, you're not going to keep growing. So it happens in stages. You need to realize it happens in stages. You know, say to Jesus things like, where am I holding on to the myth of self-sufficiency and blocking the clearing up of my sight. Show me more. And sometimes, actually, I've had people who are actually so hung up on the Pauline model that they feel like unless there's been this total change, Jesus isn't working, God's not working in my life at all. And what they would say is something like, I wish I loved him more. I don't feel like I love him more. And you know what the answer to that is? Unless he loved you, you wouldn't wish he loved you more. You know, it is not that I had to choose thee, for Lord, that could not be. His heart would still refuse thee, hadst thou not chosen me. My heart owns none before thee, for thy rich grace I thirst. This knowing, if I want thee, if I want thee, thou must have loved me first. You're not capable of being dissatisfied with your sight unless God's already begun to clear it somewhat. You're not capable of wanting his love or even feeling like you don't have his love unless he was already giving you some. And by taking too much credit, by forgetting the fact that spiritual sight is all a gift, you're robbing him of glory and yourself of a lot of joy. Stop it. So, first of all, we're healed in stages. Secondly, we're healed in community. I love this verse 22, and you should love it too. At least I hope you will about 60 seconds from now. They came to Bethsaida, and man and begged Jesus to touch him. Do you think this blind man could have ever found Jesus on his own? Of course not. He couldn't see. Friends of his who could see Jesus brought this man to Jesus. And you say, well, it doesn't say they're friends. Oh, yes, they are, because they begged him to touch him. They were praying this man into Jesus' hands. They were loving him into Jesus' hands. They were praying him into Jesus' his hands, and that's why he came to see. Now, I don't know, really, of anybody whose sight gets cleared up just simply because they say, I, as an individual, am going to start coming to church, I'm going to come to Redeemer, I'm going to take notes, and I'm going to read my Bible, I'm going to get my sight cleared up. It doesn't work that way. New Yorkers wish it would. See, New Yorkers are very smart and very savvy, and they don't like to be observed. They don't like to be noticed. And they like to think of their, you know, places where they feel kind of weak and like they have needs, and would like to have that kept private. So when people say, do you see a right? The New Yorker says, mind your own business. But I'm here to tell you, your sight will never, ever be cleared up if you only tell God about it. You also have to say to other people who, from what you can tell, see better than you, that you don't see a right. You have to go to them and say, help me. Are you willing to do that? See, if you say, mind your own business, I mean, how do you, great way to get rid of self-sufficiency, isn't it? You have got to process these things with friends. You know, if Christianity was really a philosophy that you followed by which you saved yourself, then maybe salvation would work by you coming and listening to a teacher. But if salvation is really a cosmic man coming to earth and saving you through a relationship with Him, then frankly salvation tends to work through friendships. If you come to Redeemer every week and you feel great somehow because of the music and the message and you don't have friends to process this with, to work it in, to work it out, to think it out, to apply it you're not going to get the benefit of it. Spiritual sight is cleared up in stages. Spiritual sight is cleared up in community. But thirdly spiritual sight is cleared up in confidence. You've got to have confidence or you won't let it happen. What do I mean by that? I actually think, in the end, the reason why we're afraid to admit our insufficiency is we don't want to be vulnerable. We're afraid of being abused. See, the trouble with saying I'm powerless over my problems, which is the first step in AA, as you know, what scares us about saying that in a broader way, and to say I'm powerless on my problems, I need help, I don't see it right, we become dependent

God, on friends, and they could use us. They could abuse us. We feel vulnerable. We don't have the confidence to go and say, clear up my sight, because I'm afraid of what you're going to show me about myself or about how I should live. We don't have confidence. You've got to get confidence, and here's where you get it. You need to see the ultimate way God cured, Jesus cured, your spiritual blindness, and that'll give you the confidence to let him apply the antidote to your life. How did Jesus ultimately cure our spiritual blindness? Well, the hint of it is in verse 29. You know, this has come up 17 times practically in the eight chapters of Mark, and I've never said anything about it. You see what verse? Oh, pardon me, verse 30. Excuse me. Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about him. Okay? Jesus warned them not to tell anyone about him. Over and over and again, Jesus heals people, or he tells people things, that show his magnitude, and he always says, don't tell anybody, don't tell anybody, and they always go and tell anybody anyway, right? But why is he doing that? And actually for 100 years, Bible scholars and commentators, it's not a big secret. Jesus knows that eventually word of what he's capable of, praising the dead, word of what he's capable of, will get to the Roman authorities and the religious authorities, to kill him because he stands against everything they stand for, and yet he has that kind of power. And the reason why he keeps saying to people, don't, don't, don't, don't tell people is because he's got work to do before it happens, and he's just trying to slow the process down. But the main point to see here is every time Jesus uses his redemptive power, he's putting nails in his own coffin. Every time he heals somebody, every time he does anything good, He's putting nails in his own coffin, in his own hands. And anything he does good in the middle of Mark, or any of the Gospels, if you scroll to the end of the Gospels, you'll see the opposite, the exact opposite of what he just did. What do you mean, the opposite? When Jesus Christ was on the cross, Mark chapter 15, 33, 34, we read this. At the sixth hour, darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour. ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani, which means, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? On the cross, there was this eclipse, absolute physical darkness, but it was only an image of the complete spiritual darkness into which Jesus Christ was plunged. When he lost the cosmic light of his Father's love, why did Christ get plunged into darkness. It's the opposite. Here, he's bringing a man out of the darkness into light. Why? Why can he do that? Because Jesus Christ was willing to leave the light and be plunged into absolute darkness. And it didn't just happen at the cross. Lucy Shaw, in her wonderful little poem, Mary's Song, it's a song about she imagines Mary pregnant with Jesus and thinking about the baby in her womb. And the end of the song, the end of the poem goes like Now blind in my womb to know my darkness ended. Brought to this birth for me to be newborn. But for him to see me mended, I must see him torn. To see our blindness ended, he has to be plunged into darkness. And he did it for us. Does that move you? Do you realize your value to him? he gave up for you. As it moves you, doesn't it make you want to be holy? Doesn't it make you want to stop sweating the small stuff, stop feeling sorry for yourself, stop worrying about who's criticizing you, stop worrying about whether you've put on weight, stop worrying about these stupid things, and it doesn't make you want to say, I want to do something about what's wrong in the world. I want to sacrifice for others. I want to live for him. Do you feel yourself moving in that direction. Why? Because your sight is clearing. See, spiritual sight does not get cleared by some kind of abstract truth. You read the thing and suddenly something happens and the light bulb goes on. No, it's the truth of the gospel. It's the truth of what he did on the cross. It's knowing that he was plunged into darkness that will bring light to your heart. And to the degree it does, it begins to clear it up. Do you see? You have to have the confidence by looking at what he did to cure your spiritual blindness, to give yourself to him and say, I don't see it right. Show me what you want me to see, even though it may be things I don't, I'm afraid to see, but show me. I trust you. You can pray the prayer, Holy Spirit, truth divine, dawn upon the soul of mine, word of God and inward light, wake my spirit, clear my sight. Let's pray. And Father, we thank you for this remarkable challenge and this remarkable promise us, that we are addicted to our own self-centeredness and our own self-sufficiency and the myth of self-sufficiency, that it's only Jesus and coming to grips with who he is that can begin to clear that site, but more than that, it's what Jesus did on the cross. We thank you, Father, that he was willing to be plunged into darkness so that we could be moved from darkness to light. move us, heal us, help us, change us with that. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.
