Let me point out that in the song A Forche Louis by Violetta, we have, I think, distilled, encapsulated a kind of battle between two warring philosophies, two warring views of sexual love that right now are duking it out inside our own culture, in our actual lives, and in this case, right in the middle of one song. do you see her whiplash back and forth between the two views? Let me explain what I mean. In the beginning, when she first gets this pledge of undying love, she immediately begins to say, maybe finally I can get true love. And she sings about a feeling she's had ever since she was a little child. Now, there's a longer version of the song than the one we gave you tonight. And in the full text of the song, she says this in the beginning. She says,

encompassing earth and stars, mysterious, high as heaven above, both cross and delight to the heart. What's remarkable is she senses that there's a love, you might say there's a love at the heart of the universe. At the very heart of things, there's love. And all of her life, she has been waiting for a figure, a lover, a fair and gentle youth that would get her into contact with the heart of things. In other words, all of her life she said, I know the universe. There's a love at the heart of the universe. And if I could just find Mr. Right, if I just find the right one, then everything in my life will fall into place. And I will come into contact. We'll be brought into contact with the universe itself and the way things are. So she has this amazingly lofty understanding of true love. And maybe this is true love. But then, of course, as you heard, she turns and she says, folly, folly, foolishness. Because she's been through a whole lot of men. She's been through a whole lot of lovers. It hasn't worked for her. She hasn't found true love. And of course, she just says, Paris is a love desert. Paris is a place that I'm always going to be alienated alone. and the only way I can drown my sorrow, my lack of true love, is by allowing myself to be sucked into a vortex, down into the whirlpool of pleasures. One pleasure after the other, one wilder than the last one. And so what you actually have here is Violetta whiplashing back and forth between two warring, you might say, views of sex that I think we can call romanticism and realism. Romanticism and cynicism. Two different views of sexuality that she has whiplashed back and forth between and that are out there in our culture and that we are all whiplashing between. And maybe most of us aren't as extreme as the two views I'm about to outline for you. But most of us do go back and forth between some forms of them. Romanticism and realism. Let me outline them for you. What is the romantic view, the romanticism? It's the idea that there is one true love out there,

and if we find that true love, everything will fall into place in our life. It's the thing you see not only, actually, in the beginning of Violetta's song. It's also what you see, actually, in Silvio. When Silvio is speaking to Netta, what does he say? The reason you have to You have to leave your husband. You have to leave your career. You have to do all this. Why? Because without you, I won't have a life. He says, if you leave, what life will I have? In other words, he was looking to her to make everything right in his life. If we could just get this one true love, that'll fix everything. Everything will fall into place. And actually, the romanticism, this view, this is if I can just find that, then everything in my life will work out. This view does have the same, how do I say it, cosmic overtones that you see in Violetta's song. In other words, there is, when you first fall in love, until you actually train your heart away from it, the natural impulse of the human heart is to use eternal language, cosmic language, to feel that you are getting in touch with something cosmic. Cosmic. This is the reason why so many love songs are sappy, because they say things like this. They say, I'll never stop loving you. I will love you forever. You are my special angel to eternity. Longer there have been stars up in the heaven, I've been in love with you. What are you talking about? Longer than there's been stars up in the heaven. But, but, but. You see, that's sappy. That is exactly the way the human heart always talks, fall in love. You feel, just like Violetta, that somehow you're getting in touch with something cosmic. This is what life all is about. This, if I have this, then everything will fall into place. Now, there's some problems with this approach to sexuality, some real problems. Let me just run down, you know, let me count the ways there are problems and how they bring devastation into our a life. For example, if you move into a relationship with that, you put weight on the relationship. You put all the spiritual freight of your life into this relationship. You put pressure on the relationship. You put pressure on the loved one to make everything right. You put a pressure that they can't bear. They just can't bear. In fact, one of the signs that you've got a romanticist approach is that when you're in conflict with your loved person, your loved one, You know, he or she. It doesn't matter so much. It's not just that you are having a conflict. You're freaking out over the fact that you're having a conflict. Because you're saying, if this was true love, we shouldn't be like this. It shouldn't be like this. It should be right. Everything should be falling into place. It shouldn't be like this. You're not supposed to be so needy. You're always supposed to be affirming me. You're supposed to be making everything right. I mean, you don't say that out loud because you sound like an idiot. But that's how you feel. That's how you feel. you. Romanticism puts a weight on the relationship that it just can't bear. Ironically, romanticism leads, I think in many cases, to great loneliness. Because since you're looking for the exact right, one who will make everything right, that when you size people up, you see little flaws on them. You see little warts and you say, that can't be him. That can't be her. Or you get into a relationship and it's hard, and you say, this can't be the right one. Now, romanticism, and then, of course, you know, romanticism, of course, can have really devastating effects, because once you get in the throes of it, you feel like it doesn't matter what promises I have to break. It doesn't matter what people's lives I have to hurt. I have to have this. Of course, people do crimes times. All the time. For love. And it grows out of the romanticist approach. So anyway, there's the one. That's the one that Violetta starts to fall into. It's the one she's had since she was little. But then she whiplashes back to another one. And the other side is what I'm going to have to call the realistic approach. The realist approach. Now, you could also call it the cynical approach. But they both start with R. Romanticist and realist. So it works better. sexual love. The realist view of sexual love says that the cosmic feelings aroused by romantic love is an illusion, and they must be avoided at all costs. That we have to debunk love. We have to see it for what it is, which is basically a biological drive. It's something that natural selection has put us in a position where underneath all the talk of love and of passion and that sort of thing. Basically, we're doing what our genes have conditioned us to do. Now, there are extreme versions of this realistic approach, which we have heard tonight brilliantly expressed in Don Giovanni and the Duke of Mantua, in which they basically say, here's what you do. If you want to avoid the romanticism and all the devastation that comes from romanticism, what you do is very simple. You completely divorce sex from love, And all you do is you give your body. You don't give your heart. But now there's actually a... There's less extreme versions of that. In spite of the fact that some people do adopt that, there are less extreme versions of that. And the less extreme versions are that you do have emotional involvement, but you never give your ultimate freedom to anybody. You never give yourself to anybody. You never give up your freedom. You always keep your bags packed. You may give some of your body. You may also give some emotional involvement. But you don't give your ultimate and absolute and exclusive commitment to anybody. You can't. You can't trust anybody. You can't trust love like that. Now this view, by the way. And by the way, there's plenty of people who get married. And they still have that view. As you know. In other words. This isn't just a person. Who says. Well. Now. I'm never going to get married. You can still get married. And still have this view. You still have your bags packed. Now. This is the official view of our culture. The people who write, the people who are in the seats of power in our cultural institutions, the people who write and teach, the people who are the critics for the New York Times and other movies, this is the official view. In our culture, the cultural elites absolutely, absolutely will slam anybody who sincerely puts forth romanticism. as a worldview. That's one of the reasons why the critics just took out Moulin Rouge last year, because what Moulin Rouge was, the movie Moulin Rouge, was a serious presentation, not tongue-in-cheek, of romanticism, and they hated it. You should have read the reviews, if maybe you did. But in spite of the fact that the critics, this is the official view, we actually whiplash, practically speaking, back and forth between romanticism and realism. Here's is a reason why. It's because you get hurt. Romanticism does devastate. And so what you do is you get detached. And you avoid intense emotions. And you go into cool detachment. As one writer recently said, this is how she felt that this is the way her generation, people in their 20s, this is how things are now. She says, we in our 20s do not have affairs. we have sexual friendships. We do not date, we see each other. We do not fall in love, we build relationships. Here's a headline. Here's a Cosmo headline, okay? Clingy is out. Doing your own thing will make him appreciate you more. Or Gloria Steinem herself, who wrote a book not too long ago called Revolution Within. Revolution Within. Listen to what she says. She says, the truth is that finding yourself brings far more excitement and well-being than anything romance has to offer. Finding yourself brings far more excitement and well-being than anything romance has to offer. Now, that seems like a long way from Don Giovanni. But it's basically in the same ballpark. Because what it's saying is, look, you know, have sex. You know, have emotional involvement. Have your flings. Have relationships. But the most important thing is don't give away yourself. Don't be vulnerable. Don't give absolute and exclusive commitment to anybody. Don't give up your freedom to anyone at all. So you have the romanticism in which you make yourself utterly vulnerable and people trample all over you. You have realism. And you say, well, maybe there's something in the middle. Maybe. But you see, here's the problem. problem. I'll get to what might be there. If you say, I'm basically a realist. I believe that. Gloria Steinem is right. It's much more important to be true to yourself than to try to find yourself in romantic love. Somebody once put it this way, and I keep looking for a better quote, and I can't find it because it puts it so well. Love anything, and your heart will be broken. If you want to make sure to keep it intact, you must give your heart to no one, not even to an animal. Lock your heart up in a casket, safe, but I want you to know that in that casket, safe, dark, and motionless, your heart will change. Your heart will not be broken. It will become unbreakable, impenetrable, irredeemable. The alternative to tragedy, tragedy to the risks of tragedy is damnation, since the only place this side of heaven where you can be free from the risks of love is hell. And what the writer is trying to say is, it sounds, after you've given your heart to somebody and had, you know, that person trample all over it, it sounds good to say the most important thing is to be true to yourself. Never give your complete and absolute commitment. Never give unconditional commitment to anybody. true to yourself. Don't look for romantic love, you see. Don't let anybody break your heart again. And of course, what this writer is trying to say is, that's how the devil became the devil, you know. Tradition says it was selfishness that made the devil into the devil. And if you refuse to give your heart to anyone so it won't be broken, then the only alternative is you have an unbreakable heart. It'll become heart. It'll become stone. So you see, we've got two problems here. What are before we try to resolve it, let's, I think it's helpful to ask a question. And it's just a, it's, it's worthwhile to ask the question. Why do we have this, this battle going on in our culture between romanticism and realism? Some people would like to think, I think some people would like to think that this is basically the old culture wars thing. This is conservatism and, and, and liberalism. That romanticism represents the conservative traditional view of love. And realism, you know, is more of a liberal, secular, you know, hard-nosed view of love. And that's just not true. By the way, it's not true. Romanticism and realism both can lead you into lots and lots of sex. I mean, it's not necessarily one is more conservative and traditional and one of them is not. In fact, the whole idea of romanticism, this idealization of romantic love is actually a fairly new thing. You know, one of the things that's interesting about The Princess Bride, everybody's favorite movie, is that fairy tales were not like that. Real fairy tales never go into true love. That's something that's come from the late, the early 19th century onward. and there's a reason why that romanticism, the idea that if you find true love, it'll make everything right, that's just not the way traditional cultures ever spoke. The reason why is because Ernest Becker, the author of The Denial of Death, a secular, an atheist, a secular writer, believes that the rise of romanticism is actually due to the loss of God in our culture. This is what he says. It's very interesting. He says, we secular people, we need to know that our life matters in the grand scheme of things. We still want to merge ourselves with some higher self-absorbing meaning in trust, but if we no longer have God, how do we do this? One of the first ways that occurred to the secular person was the romantic solution. The self-glorification that we needed in our innermost being we now look for in the love partner. What is it that we want when we elevate the love partner to this position? We want to be rid of our faults, of our feelings of nothingness. We want to be justified. We want to know our existence has not been in vain. We want redemption, nothing less. But no human relationship can bear this burden. However much we may idealize and idolize our lover, he inevitably reflects earthly decay and imperfection. And if your partner is your all, quote unquote, then any shortcoming in him becomes a major threat to you. Needless to say, human partners cannot give us this. Now, what Ernest Becker is saying, I think is extremely important. He says the rise of romanticism, the rise of idealizing romantic love, he says comes because God has faded. And he says what we're looking for in romantic love is we're looking for something to actually justify us, make us feel sure of ourselves, give us meaning in life, connect us to the heart of the universe. Absolutely. He says that's a relatively new idea. People used to do that through religion. And that's the reason why we're getting whiplash back and forth between romanticism on the one hand and a hard-bitten cynicism that turns your heart to stone. Well, is there a way through? through. Now, as I said in the very beginning, let me just briefly give you a way through by looking at what does Christianity say that makes sense of this experience. I'm not saying that Christianity is the only way to make sense of it. I'm just saying that's what I'm here to do tonight to show here's one way that Christianity makes sense of our human experience and shows us the way through. And it goes like this. Let's go back to Violetta for a second. Remember in the very beginning what she said. Remember what later on she said? Here's how Christianity can help her understand why she feels the way she does. First of all, Christianity helps us understand, helps Viola to understand the first part of her song. It's through the doctrine, the Christian doctrine of the Trinity. Now, what am I talking about? Well, just this. She has a feeling, and we were laughing about it because of all the sappy love songs, but everybody has a feeling that at the very heart of the universe, there's something cosmic, and it's love. That when we start to fall in love, we're getting in touch with something bigger than ourselves, something that gets us into eternity or something. Now, where does that come from? Is that just a sham? Is that just our biology? Is it a sham? If this world is all there is, and if we are just a result of accidents, of course, it's a complete illusion. religion. But if there's a God, then what? Well, it depends on what kind of God. Now listen carefully. St. Augustine, years ago, in his book on the Trinity, brought something out that I think is very important. He says, if you have a unipersonal God, then love was not intrinsic to the origin of the universe. Why? Because this God, who is existing from all eternity, would not have had love or known loving relationships until he, she, or it created intelligent beings. It wasn't until creation happened that there could have been love, because there was no other beings. There were no other relationships. You just had God. And so if you believe in a kind of unipersonal God, then you'd have to say that the very heart of the universe wasn't love. Love came later. Love came secondarily. Love came along the way. but Saint Augustine said the Christian doctrine is that God is one God in three persons that from all eternity he has existed as three persons the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit and they have been knowing one another and loving one another and communicating one another and pouring joy and glory and honor and delight into one another's hearts from all eternity and Augustine says this first of all that means is at the very heart of the universe. In fact, he says, if you don't believe in a Trinitarian God, you either have an imperfect God, a God who doesn't grow into love until he invents some people. Or you have to say love is not that important, that it's not all that core, that it's peripheral, that it's going to pass away. But if you have a Trinitarian God, if you have a God, if you have the Christian God, the Christian God says that the very heart of the universe, at the very essence of God's being was loving relationships. It's the very core of the sappy love songs are right. And there's an accounting for it. Evolutionary biology doesn't account for it. It says your feelings are a sham. Eastern religions don't account for it because the whole idea of personality in Eastern religions is an illusion. And the idea of personal love and relationships is actually an illusion. It's going to go away. The unipersonal God doesn't account for it. But the tripersonal God of Christianity says, guess what? All that sappy talk was on to something. Secondly As they said the Trinity helps us Understand the first part of the song Jesus himself Helps us understand the second part Where she says folly I've had men I've had lovers It hasn't worked What's interesting is to compare this To a conversation Jesus Christ Also had with a woman In John chapter 4 The woman at the well And in this very interesting discussion saying to this woman who has come to the well to get water. He says to her, I have a water. If you drank of it, you'd never thirst again. I have water that if you drank of it, you'd never thirst again. And she looks at him and she says, sir, give me this water. What is this water that if I drink it, I will never thirst again? Give me this water. And what does Jesus say? Go get your husband. Why is he changing the subject? I don't know, but there we go. He says, give me this water that if I drink it, I shall never thirst again. Go get your husband. And then she said, well, but I don't have a husband. And he says, I know. You've had five husbands, and the man you're living with now is not your husband. Wait a minute What about the water thing here Jesus? And what are you doing? What are you coming on to me like this for? What are you hurting me for? He was not It was therapy Don't you see? It wasn't a non sequitur Here's what he's saying He says you want the water of life

The water that only I can give you And you've been looking for it in men You've been looking for it in husbands. You've been looking for it in love. You've been looking for it in sex. And you're never going to find it there unless you make me your true love. Unless you assuage the deepest thirst of your soul in me. Unless you make me your true love. You're going to go into one or the other dead end. You're either going to make an idol out of some human being out of your own selfish independence. You're either going to take some human being and put all the freight, all the weight of your spiritual thirst, you see, of your spiritual need on that one. Or else you're going to say, bah, humbug, folly. It doesn't work. Of course it doesn't work. And then you're going to make an idol out of your independence and turn your heart to stone. You won't even be a human at the end if it goes on long enough. But Jesus says, says, make me your true love. And if I am the true love that you've been looking for all your life, and it's so interesting because here's what, remember what Violetta actually sings? She says, when a child, a vision came before my eyes of a fair and gentle youth, my future Lord and my prize. And when in the heavens his beauty shone like a wondrous fire, my whole being throbbed with infinite desire. Jesus says, I'm the one you were after. Make me your true love, and that will begin to heal your sexual brokenness. And here's how it will happen, and then this is the conclusion. But how do you do that? How can Jesus Christ, being your true love, heal your sexual brokenness? Well, there's two steps. The first step is, you can't just say, you're my true love. You have to You know, it's interesting that in one of the operas, Rigoletto, you have a nasty guy, the Duke of Mantua, and you have another kind of nasty guy, Rigoletto himself, and the Duke seduces Rigoletto's daughter, Gilda, who's a wonderful woman and who falls in love with the Duke. But what's very, very interesting, she's trapped between these two nasty guys. Read or go to the opera sometime, and you'll see what's intriguing is Gilda gives her life to save the a Duke. Even though the Duke does not deserve it. Even though the Duke does not love her. Even though the Duke is just a cad. But she gives her life to save his life. She substitutes herself for him. She walks into a place where an assassin is supposed to be killing the Duke. And she does, she goes in wittingly knowing that she will die in his place. And in the end, of course, she dies in the arms of her father, who's another hard-hearted man. And as she dies, I believe, from what I can tell, she's changing his heart. And this is what you have to do. You can't just say, oh, what does it mean to believe Jesus is my true love? How will that heal my brokenness? It doesn't happen like that. You have to see that he died for you. You have to see that he came on the cross for you. I know I'm jumping ahead pretty far. I'm just telling you how it works. I'm just telling you how the Christian thing works. If you see him becoming radically vulnerable for you, giving himself utterly for you, body, soul, and spirit in every way for you. That turns him into your true love. And if that begins to happen, then when you move out into relationships, this is what happens. First of all, you want to, first of all, you don't need other people quite the same way because Jesus has satisfied you. Now, instead of going out into love in order to fill a need. In other words, falling in love to help yourself. You begin to fall in love and be actually attracted to people for their own sake. See, until Jesus is your true love, you run around looking for love, but it's all about you. You're filling your own needs. That huge hole. But if Jesus is your true love, then you can actually go out there and fall in love for people for their sake. Because you love them. But when you fall in love, you want as much as possible to shape your love in the same pattern of your true love in heaven. And this is the reason why, I'm sorry to push this at the end, the Christian sex ethic has always been no sex outside marriage. Why? That's kind of weird, especially in a place like New York. Why no sex outside of marriage? And the answer is because if you have sex outside marriage, you've given your body but not your whole self. You've even given some of your emotions but not your whole self. You haven't given yourself unconditionally and exclusively and permanently to the person. So you've given part of yourself, not your whole self. Jesus doesn't work that way. Jesus never gives intimacy without complete and total commitment. I mean, there was no half ways for the way he gave himself for us. And so all we're trying to do is we're trying to shape our love relationships after the pattern of his great love relationship. If he is your true love, he can move into your life and heal your sexual brokenness. And this is not, I guess, the only way to make sense of this whiplash. This is not maybe the only way to move forward. It's the best way I know. So let me pray briefly right now to close my lecture. Thank you, Father, for giving us a moment in which we could think about these issues. Father, some of us believe in Christianity. Some of us don't believe in Christianity. Some of us are members of other faiths. Some of us are or not members of any faith, we know you are concerned about all of us, and I pray that tonight, because of our time with these great artists, this great music, time thinking about this material, we will all have been moved closer to your heart, and to wisdom, and to spiritual truth, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.