The passage on which the teaching is based this morning is printed in your bulletin. It is Jeremiah chapter 17 verses 5 to 13. Judah's sin is engraved with an iron tool inscribed with a flint point on the tablets of their hearts and on the horns of their altar. Even their children remember their altars and the share of poles beside the spreading tree and on the high hills. the land and your wealth and all your treasures I give away as plunder together with your high places because of sin throughout your country. Through your own fault you will lose the inheritance I gave you. I will enslave you to your enemies in a land you do not know, for you have kindled my anger and it will burn forever. This is what the Lord says. Cursed is the one who trusts in man, who depends on flesh for his strength and whose heart turns away from the Lord. in the wasteland. He will not see prosperity when it comes. He will dwell in the parched places of the desert, in a salt land where no one lives. But blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence is in him. He will be like a tree planted by the water that sends out its roots by the stream. It does not fear when heat comes. Its leaves are always green. It has no worries in a year of drought and never fails to bear fruit. The heart is deceitful above all things and beyond Who can understand it? I, the Lord, search the heart and examine the mind to reward a man according to his conduct, according to what his deeds deserve. Like a partridge that hatches eggs, it did not lay as the man who gains riches by unjust means. When his life is half gone, they will desert him, and in the end he will prove to be a fool. A glorious throne, exalted from the beginning, is the place of our sanctuary. O Lord, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you will be put to shame. Those who turn away from you will be written in the dust forsaken, O Lord, the spring of living water. Heal me, O Lord, and I will be healed. Save me, and I will be saved, for you are the one I praise. This is God's word. It's a long passage, of course, and it's from the prophet Jeremiah to the people of Israel, and he was denouncing them for their sin. We're looking every week in a series of messages on what's wrong with the human race, Bible says what's wrong with the human race is sin. And if you find that is a kind of grating, if someone says, well, that's a primitive and old-fashioned analysis, well, the Bible's answer is that, yes, of course it's primitive and old-fashioned, but it's true and it's deep. Notice, we're going to take a look at what this middle section tells us about sin, in, a picture of two trees. You see what we have read? Cursed is the one who trusts in man who depends on the flesh for his strength. He's like a bush. But blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence in him, he is like a tree. One is a tree, a bush planted in the desert. Another is a tree planted by the river. And notice when we get down to verse 8, it says, has no worries. Notice that? Ah, the tree planted by the river. It has no worries. No worries. Hakuna Matata. That's Hebrew. No, it isn't. That's Disney, which is another language. Now, when you see that, you realize that this text is about how to deal with your anxiety and worries. This text, Jeremiah is claiming to have the secret. He knows the origin of your worries He can solve your worries for you. And right away, we suddenly get interested. Wow. Yeah, no worries. But see how biblical this is. We have problems. We have a problem of racism. That's a sociological problem. We have a problem of worry and anxiety. That's a psychological problem. And the Bible says, unless you look beneath the sociological and the psychological and see the real genesis of your problems, you will never deal with them. Unless you get into a deep diagnosis, you will never deal with them. Jeremiah says, I'll tell you about worries and how to deal with worries, but first you have to let me tell you about the nature of sin. Well, let's see what this picture of two trees tells us about sin. It tells us actually about the root, the fruit, and the cure for sin. First, the root. Notice, first of all, that this tells us that the root of sin is not putting your roots in God. for the last three weeks we've been talking about sin and every so often somebody comes up and says well this has been interesting, you've shown me what sin does and how dangerous it is and so forth but what the heck is it? every week somebody says, what is it? here's what it is this is the most profound analysis possible this tells us about two trees one tree, it's called a bush the translation calls it a bush and it's naked name, it uses a very rare name. It's called the yar-yar bush, but it's a dwarf juniper, but it comes from the Hebrew word for naked because it was twisted, it was ugly, it was stunted, it had no leaves, it was naked. And the other is a tree, a green tree by the river, big and full and green. The other one is naked and ugly. What makes the difference between the two trees. It's where the roots are. It's not even so much that the roots are different. The roots, I guess, would be different, of course, a dwarf juniper and a green bay tree. It's where the roots are that determine the whole tree, everything about the tree, the leaf, the branches, the stem, everything. And so what we have here is Jeremiah is saying that sin versus godliness is a matter of roots. Roots do two things. When I looked it up in every book I looked up and said what roots do, roots basically do two things. One is they anchor the tree into the soil so it doesn't blow away. it anchors it. But secondly, the roots draw out, absorb from the soil the nutrients. Now, what does that mean for us? What it means is that sin is putting your roots down into something besides God. This is extremely important because, you know, when you think of a violation. If you think of sin, in essence, as a violation of rules. If you think of sin as primarily a violation of rules. You will see sin and godliness as a sort of gradation. One shades on into the other. In other words. If basically what makes a sin, sin. Is it violates a rule. Well. Here's a person who violates fifty. Has fifty violations. Here's a person. You can say that's a sinner. And here's a person with only three violations. you can say that person's a godly person. Here's someone with 25 violations. Okay, that's someone in the middle. And, you know, that's what happens if you see sin that way. But Jeremiah says, no. Sin is an utterly different way of life. Sin and grace, sin and godliness are two different gestalts. They are two whole different orientations of heart. Two different orientations of roots. roots, two different orientations of life. You either put your roots down here or here, and that determines everything else about you, everything. It's not like, well, here's a person who's, you know, half as good as the other person. You either, you see, are rooted in one way or you're rooted in another way. So what Jeremiah is trying to say is sin and godliness are utterly different. Now, somebody says, what do you mean by rooted? What does it mean to put your roots down? and the answer is, the key word is the word trust. See this? It says, cursed is the one who trusts in man, who depends, whose heart, and then verse 7, blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord, whose confidence. Your roots and your faith are the same, and therefore Jeremiah is saying that everybody, no matter who you are, whether you think you're religious or not, put your functional trust, you've put your functional roots, your whole life is based on a system of trust in something, and everything else in your life, the whole course of your life, is determined by it. So someone says, well, I can't get into that. I don't know that I have a person of great faith. Many of us say, here's a religious person. That's a lot of faith. But I'm not a religious person. I don't have much faith. But Jeremiah is saying the heart is deceitful. Jeremiah is saying everybody's got faith just like every tree's got roots. And everybody puts their roots down into something for support and for nutrients. So let me give you a couple of tests. Do you want to find out where your roots are? Let's give it some tests. Let's take the negative and the positive test. The negative test, it's a place for support. The positive test, it's a place for drawing the nutrients out. First of all, let me ask you this. What do you worry the most about? That's the negative test. What scares you the most? What if you lost it, you would just blow away because you wouldn't have any substance anymore. There wouldn't be any meat to you. There wouldn't be anything about your life that would be worth living. Everybody's got something like that. What is it? What are those things? Now that's the negative test. And you've heard me use that. But let me give you the positive test. William Temple put it this way long ago. a it's a very searching test. He says your religion is what you do with your solitude. Your religion is what you do with your solitude. The heart is deceitful. So let's let's take a look. What does he mean by that. He says when you don't have to think about something else. When you're not busy with somebody's assignment to you. Where does your mind go to get refreshed. Where does your mind go to draw the sweetness. What does your mind draw the sweetness out of. Where do you go to get any kind of joy? Where do you go to get consolation? What are you drawing the sweetness out of? And I can say, look, there's a materialist culture, a cluster of things. When I say material things, I mean, do you think about things? Do you think about your home? Do you think about redecorating it? Do you think about buying something somewhere? Do you think about appliances or cars or things? Do you think about clothes? does that what makes you feel good? Is that where you get the sweetness? Is that what gives you a kind of restitution? Is that what your heart fondles? Because roots fondle the soil. Or let me give you a relational cluster. What do you think does your mind instead go to people? Maybe there's somebody that you're saving. You always need to have somebody. You're always saving somebody. You're always helping somebody. You need to feel like you're saving somebody. Or maybe it's romance. Or maybe it's your children. Or maybe it's, in other words, do you go to the relationships? Is that what you think about all the time? How you're doing with people. Or do you have an achievement cluster that you tend to go to? Do you think about how I'm doing in my career? Whether this accomplishment is happening. Or maybe you're really into a political or social cause. Or maybe you're into a kind of hobby. And you've got some goals you set for yourself. And someday you want to climb this. Or this mountain. Because you're a mountain climber. Where does your mind go? says, it's your religion. It's your ultimate concern. It's where your faith is. It's where your roots are. So when he says your religion is really seen in what you do with your solitude, what do you worry most about? Where do you get the sweetness? What do you draw? There's something in which you existentially rest. There is something which makes you feel that I've got some substance since there's something good about me. Something. Those are your roots. Everybody's got them, whether you're a religious person or you're an irreligious person or you're somewhere in between. And they completely control and determine the gestalt of your life. If you are a tree that puts your roots down in this particular soil, it affects everything else about you. It's not even the roots. It's where you put the roots that makes you either a bush or a bay tree. Here's one, I can't help but I have to use, one little example. It's such a good one. Out of the biography of Winston Churchill, there's an account of how at one point he had a spat with his valet, you know, a servant man. And afterwards, the valet tried to make up and he admitted that he'd been rude. And of course, Churchill had been very, very, very spiteful and nasty. And he says, but you know, Churchill, you were rude too. And Churchill said with absolute seriousness, yes, but I'm a great man. What is he showing? He's showing his roots. Where does he go when the wind comes? Where does he go when the heat comes? How does he justify himself? How does he figure, you see, how does he restore himself? How does he get his equilibrium? What is he looking at? That's an achievement a achievement cluster. He says, look what I've done. So what if I'm spiteful to my valet? What is he doing? It's his roots. That's how he's going to deal with everything. That's how he's going to deal if his wife leaves him. That's how he's going to deal if people criticize him. Look what I've done. I've brought this whole country through World War II. That's his roots. That's his religion. Everybody's got it. No matter where you go on Sunday. day, what is it for you? Okay, so everybody's got that. Everybody has the ultimate concern. Everyone. But there's one other thing we learn under this heading. So we now learn, don't we, what is the definition of sin? What is it? It's not primarily the violation of rules. the definition of sin is what owns the title to the functional trust and the final delight of your heart. What does your heart delight in? Sin is not making God your ultimate delight. Sin is not making God your final rest and your final trust. Here's a command, Psalm 37, delight thyself in the Lord and he will give thee desires of thine heart. Delight thyself. Sin is resting content in anything but God. Sin is delighting in anything more than God. There it is. That's what the Bible says. That's the reason why whenever somebody was asking Jesus about the law or what God requires, Jesus says, law, shema. Yeah, it's all there. But love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. That's the beginning. That's the whole thing. That's the sum of it. That's everything. Do you? how radical that is of an analysis. He actually goes so far to say, verse 7, but blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord whose confidence is in him. Now, why does he add that second little clause? The translation kind of masks how powerful this statement is. The same Hebrew verb is used for trust. It's translated trust, and in the second clause, it's translated confidence, but it's the same verb. And this is really what he's saying. Blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord whose trust is the Lord. That's what it says literally. Blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord whose trust is the Lord. Now why would he add that? Because it's possible to trust in the Lord without making the Lord your trust. See, in a sense, there's three kinds of people. First, you have the irreligious person. And the irreligious person is someone who says, my own life. But then it's possible to be religious, to do the things that God asks, and in a sense, obey and go to church and do all the rules, trusting in the Lord for something else. Do you see what I'm saying? Do you see what Jeremiah's getting at? It's not enough just to trust in the Lord. You could trust in the Lord for something else, which is your real trust. Another way to put it. If you say, I've been pretty good, I've been obeying God, I've done this and that and this and that, and he is not giving me this perfectly valid and understandable request. I'm just asking what any human being would ask, and God's not coming through. I don't know whether I'm going to stay. What good is it to be with God? What profit is there? You know what you're saying. You've trusted in the Lord, but you haven't made the Lord your trust. If anything is a condition for faith in God, then that condition is the real object of faith rather than God. If anything is a condition for faith in God, if you say, well, I'll trust in God, but if he doesn't come through here, what good is it to be a Christian? You know what you're saying. You're trusting in the Lord, but he's not the trust. Trust. You're really trusting the Lord for something that is your real trust, your real hope. The heart is deceitful above all things. So here you see, sin is delighting in anything, making God a means to an end instead of the end, making anything else but God a bottom line, making any other ending but just God himself the happy ending you're after. Therefore, if somebody says to me, why I'm ready to give up on God, why won't he give me this thing? What you're really saying is, this is my trust. Why the heck should he give that to you? Don't you see? Anything, this is what the text is saying, anything you put your roots down to, except into God, will make you naked and thirsty and twisted and stunted. Why should he give it to you? If it's a condition for your faith in God, then actually it's the object of your faith rather than God. the root of sin is to put your roots down into something else besides God. But now secondly, the fruit of sin. What's so interesting here, what's so interesting, is he shows once you put your roots down into either God or anything else, I already said, obviously, just the very idea of a green bay tree or a naked, stunted, thirsty dwarf juniper. Just by looking at it, you see what he's saying, and he shows you exactly how, what the consequences are of sin, what the fruit is, in a sense, or the fruitlessness is. Here's what's so interesting. There, again, is a parallel between the bush and the tree that doesn't quite come out in the translation. It says in verse 6, he will be like a bush in the wastelands. He will not see prosperity when it comes. Then down in verse 8, it says, he will be like a tree planted by the water. it does not fear when the heat comes. Now, actually, it's the same word being used twice. It says the bush will not see prosperity when it comes, and it says that the tree will not see drought when it comes. In other words, the bush cannot receive the good, and the tree cannot receive the bad. What does that mean? means this. When it talks about prosperity, it means that the desert tree is all set up for a desert, so that occasionally there really is a downpour, you know. There really is rain in the desert. Rain does come, but it doesn't change the tree, because it's all set up for a desert. Ultimately, this downpour, it makes the tree a little bit greener, I guess. It looks a little bit healthier, but it doesn't actually change it. It's still a tree. Meanwhile, the tree by the river can go through a desert-like drought, and I'm sure it's going to affect it. It's going to be a little brown around the gills, I guess, mixing my metaphor. But the source of the moisture is the river. It's not the weather. And as a result, you see, drought doesn't really affect the green tree. It doesn't really make it really less vital. But prosperity doesn't really affect the desert tree. It doesn't really make it any better than a scrub bush. And this is what he's getting after. First of all, he's saying, if you put your roots down in anything but God, and you hope and seek and say, if only I had this relationship, this material thing, this achievement, if only I had this, you will find there's only a few of you. Because, you know, rainstorms don't happen very often in the desert. Occasionally, some of you will actually get the flood. Some of you might actually hit it. Some of you that would like to make money may get rich. Some of you who would like to have achievement might get famous. Some of you who would like a relationship might get exactly what you want. You may have a flood. Prosperity may come. It'll be one of the worst things for you. I, you know, I lost it. I couldn't find it. Some of you remember it. some old tape to figure it out. But years ago, in the Village Voice, there was a little article by Cynthia Heimel. And she knew a lot of people like a lot of the people who are here. A lot of you have come to New York to make it. And you're working at Macy's. And you're working in restaurants. And you're hoping to make it in music or the arts or acting or whatever. And Cynthia Heimel pointed out that she knew thousands of these people over the years in New York. But there was three or four that she knew that actually became famous. Marquee names. Stars. And she said it was one thing she

They're very unhappy. You know why, she said. She says, the morning they woke up, the day after they got famous,

the disappointment overwhelmed them. Why? She said, because when they got famous, they said, finally I'll be able to have confidence. Finally I'll feel good about myself. Finally I'll be saved. Finally I'll be different. She says, the morning they woke up, after the day they got famous,

they just screamed. This, of course, is a paraphrase. I mean, this is a way of saying it. They screamed. You know why? They woke up, they were famous, and they were still them. And their disappointment turned them howling and insufferable. Now, that is exactly what Jeremiah said. A storm in the desert, you'll still be thirsty. And the flood will make you see it. Thirsty, thirsty. I'm still thirsty. I wake up, I'm famous. What happened? You can't see prosperity. You're not set up for it. all of the prosperity, all the success, one of the worst things for you could be a flood because you'll suddenly say, it hasn't saved me, it hasn't healed me. I'm still a bush. I'm still a scrub. How could that be? On the other hand, Jeremiah says, it's the other way around for the person whose roots are down in the river soil, down into the river of God, down into God. And here's the reason why. if bad things happen to you, you say, Really? This isn't the main thing I need. This isn't the main thing I want. This isn't the main thing I'm living off of. Oh, okay, I'm a little brown around the gills. This isn't the main thing. And therefore, there's no fear or worry. Put it to you this way. This is the way you need to look at your life. When you look at the weather, when you look at the circumstances and you say, All of my problems are because it's not raining. If only I had a wife or I had a new wife. husband, if only I had a job or a new job. Circumstances, if it would just come on down, it won't make a difference. A little greener, a little browner, it won't make a difference. You know why? It's not what comes down, but it's whether you're near the river. You need, if you're worried, if you're afraid, if you're anxious, what is it saying? It is not a function of the circumstances. Here you're saying the reason I'm I'm worried. It's because of his behavior or her behavior or because of something that hasn't happened or something that is happening. No. It's because these things are your trust. You're as worried as you put your trust into anything but God. You have to look at the things. They may be good things. And you have to say, I have my roots in you. That's why I'm worried. That's why I'm anxious. I'm not My roots aren't toward the river. You see how, on the one hand, it's very liberating because you're not a victim anymore but it's incredibly convicting. Your worries, your fears, your distresses, your bitterness. It's not the weather. It's the soil. It's not the weather. It's the river. Don't you see? A lack of rain will not ruin a person whose roots are in the river. And all the rain in the world will not change a person whose roots are not. And this is God talking through Jeremiah. You know what God is saying? God is saying, think about it. What do you really want in love and sex? You want closure. You want commitment. Well, know me. And what do you really want in career? You want significance. You want to feel like you've made a difference. Serve me. And what do you want in money? Oh, you want security. Trust me. Don't you see? What is a raindrop to a river? Your problem is where your roots are. Your problem is in your faith commitments. It is not in the circumstances. Stop blaming them. You're liberated, but you better be convicted. Gee, do you see that? What does it mean to be a sinner? It means to turn your heart toward anything but God and make anything but God your functional delight, and that is the source of all your problems. what is the cure well here's what the cure is you know i if you go down to verse 14 you see jeremiah saying heal me lord if you look up at verse 9 though it says the heart is deceitful above all things who can cure it now is he contradicting himself he says the heart sin is incurable. But then down at verse 14, he says, heal me. Now, here's what he's saying. It's very simple. He's saying it's humanly incurable. If you look carefully, you'll see that verse 5 and 6 tells us that the desert bush is just in the desert, but that the tree is planted by the river. Now, somebody says, why would Jeremiah say it's planted? Surely, trees grow naturally along the river, but that's his point. He's trying to make a point. Here's what the point is. He says, here's what you need. You need to be planted. Trees can't plant themselves. You need rebirth. You need outside intervention. Let me say, therefore, let me just, in the end, let me address people who need rebirth. You will never be cured of your anxieties without regeneration. That's what this is saying. You will never be cured of your problems by looking up. You have to look down. Trees don't walk. If you're going to be planted, if you're going to get leaves, if you're going to become evergreen, you've got to be replanted. You need somebody outside. A non-tree type to do it. Someone from a different realm. Someone from a different dimension. And that's who the Lord is. To be planted by the river of God, it takes the God of the river to come and take you and put you down. does. Somebody says, how do I know if I need to be reborn? Well, some of you know you do. Because some of you have been through floods or through heat. When the heat comes and you have not been able to deal with it. You haven't been able to deal with the heat. Either the flood has shown you. Maybe it's turned you howling and insufferable. Or maybe the heat. People get a lot more heat than there are floods in the desert. The heat has come. And you're dying. And you know it. But now let me just suggest this. Some of you don't know And here's my suggestion. Have you ever had a turning point in your life? You see, the desert tree is a natural. It's just grown wild. But the river tree has been planted. So here's what I want you to know. Trees know if they've been planted. Have you ever felt something pulling your roots off of the old things and putting them on the new? Have there ever been spiritual turning points? Have you ever had a spiritual struggle? Or have you said, no, I've always been a pretty good person. I've always gone to church. very bad sign. Have you ever had your roots pulled off of something and put onto something else? Well, no, I haven't experienced that. You need to be born again. You need rebirth. You need this regeneration. And here's how it can happen. Now, by the way, if somebody says, all this sins, listen, if you think Christianity is weak, if you think you're okay without religion, you just haven't experience the heat. Have you got something that can give you roots and can give you nutrients no matter what? What if the doctor comes to you someday and says, I've got bad news for you. Pretty soon you'll be in a wheelchair the rest of your life. No more career, no more money, no more financial security, no more sex, no more looks. Do you realize that Christianity gives you something that can make you face that? You can still have love. You can still have significance. significance. You can still know you're part of a cosmic drama. Have you got something that can face life as it is? Life gets like that. Lots of people are like that. If you don't have something that can take the heat, don't you dare say Christians are weak people. They need this. Christians are the only people who can face anything. Anything at all. Have you got something like that? If not, you need to be replanted. Well, how can you be replanted? Number one, get convicted of sin. The best way to get convicted of sin is to look at this definition. well, I'm a pretty good person. Do you love Him with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind? Do you delight in Him utterly? Don't you see how great this definition is? I'm sorry. You see how great this is? If He's the source of all glory and goodness, if He's the source of all beauty and harmony, of course we should love Him above everything else. But we utterly fail. And we say, if you see the definition of sin, you will see your need. You will see that you are a failure. and say, heal me. But how can he heal you? Here's why. Many people in the history of the world have been taken out of the desert where they're thirsty and naked spiritually and put by the river of water. God did it to many of us. But only one person in history was by the river and was uprooted and thrown into the desert. Only one. Why was it that Jesus Christ, when he was tempted, was thrown into the desert? remember he was tempted of devil and desert it was boot camp do you know why because when he was on the cross he said I thirst I'm thirsty you know why it was the real desert Jesus Christ is the only person all of his life on earth he had been right by the river he had known God and known his favor and known his love he'd known the river of God and he's the only person who was ever uprooted and thrown out. He was forsaken. He was thrown into the spiritual desert. He thirsted. His soul dried up and broke into pieces and crumbled into a million parts and was blown away. And because he lost the river, we can get it. Because he became a desert, we can be by the river. One time, a long time ago, the final answer. A lot of you Christian friends say, you know, I've heard this before. This isn't really for me. I'm planted by the river. Well, let me just think about this. Are you still worried? Aren't some of you deeply worried? Aren't some of you very distressed today? You know, in the book of Job chapter one and two, it's about God and Satan having an argument about Job. Job's having a good life. You know what Satan says? He says, does Job serve God for nothing? You know what He says he trusts in the Lord but he doesn't trust you. You're not his trust. Take away his good things and you will see that he will curse you. And God, through all the troubles that he allows to come into Job's life, discovers that Job's not a hypocrite. Job is a believer. He is planted by the river but he needs to be planted closer. And some of you are by the river but you need to be a lot closer. And the troubles that are in your life are there because of that. how can you therefore turn your roots more to the river it says in ephesians 3 Paul prays for the ephesians and he says i pray that you'll be rooted and grounded in love and you'll know the love of god that you'll know the height and the width and the breadth and the depth that is a discipline when you see ephesians 3 you say well they're Christians they already know the love of god and what's Paul praying for Paul's praying for communion with the love of god Paul is praying that they get their roots, their roots, closer to that river. Two years ago, I meditated in prayer where Jesus thirsted. I thought about him leaving the river, being thrown into the desert. I thought about the thirst. And as I was meditating, God, in his graciousness, I can't do this at will, I felt a flood of his love. And I felt like I could face anything. You know what happens? when you think about his thirst, it's the end of yours. But you have to do that. You have to take time. I'm not doing it like I should. I still get scared. I woke up this morning. I wasn't prepared. I was scared. I started writing this sermon. I said, what's the matter with me? But it's because I haven't been taking the time this week to turn my roots. I know you're worried because I get worried. I know you're scared all the time because I often get scared. Why? rooted and grounded in love, looking at his thirst until your thirst goes away, meditating on what he's done and communing with him, putting your roots there until finally you're like him. As he said, whoever believes in me, as the scripture saith, streams of living water will flow from within you. Let's pray. Our Father, I ask that you would help us see what it is that you're calling us to. I pray that people here who need the rebirth, the planting, might seek you for it, might say, heal me, O Lord, and I will be healed. Save me, O Lord, and I will be saved, for you are my praise. And Father, as many of us who have been replanted, we know that, but you are not our praise. And because we don't praise you like we should, we're not as healed as we could be. Let each of us here this morning appropriate this and be changed through the application of this truth to our hearts by the Spirit, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.