Tonight and right now and tomorrow, talk a bit about, very directly about the third of the three perspectives, adoring Christ. If you remember, we said that the goal of the sermon worship now that's actually not as simple as i guess it might sound one thing i ought to tell you about is uh let me give you an orientation there's huge sections here obviously i'm not going to touch on let me orient you to a chapter it's on page um well i'll just tell you something about chapter 11 page 98 what this is about is this when you say to people a sermon isn't a unless you're calling people to adore christ and actually helping them do it on the spot You haven't moved past lecture into sermon unless you do that. It does raise a question, and people's question is, well, how could that always be the goal of a talk or a sermon? Worship's for Christians. If you were doing an evangelistic talk, you're not inviting non-Christians to worship, are you? Or you can't get them to worship, do you? And it brings up the whole question, which I think is a big question right now. On the one hand, you have the Willow Creek approach, you can either evangelize non-Christians or you can edify Christians, but you can't mix them. And the response to that, amongst many more conservative Christian people, I think, is to say, no, worship is just for the Lord and for Christians. And what I just try to lay out in here, which I think is actually quite important today, is that maybe it used to be different, but I'm finding that postmodern... Now, the reason I can use this term without defining it is because everybody does that. everybody kind of knows what we're talking about. It's kind of. Post-modern people are not as rational. They are not going to be drawn to Christ with arguments. What they want to know is how it works. And therefore, I think, that post-modern non-Christians want to be in worship. They want to see how things go. They're not going to be drawn in unless they're actually part of your small groups and part of your worship. I think the idea of, we have a seeker service for you on the weekend education service. I remember a kind of person like that when I was young, you know, who's really once, you know, once sort of reasoned arguments and says, if you convince me, then I'll become a Christian. Postmodern people sort of try Christianity on like a dress. Even though they haven't bought it, they want to put it on and see what it looks like. I find that they come into your worship services and they come into your small groups and sometimes they'll even talk like they are Christians, until you actually ask them, and they say, oh, no, I'm not. But they're trying it out. Does that make any sense? They want to know how it works. Christocentric preaching that says the way you handle a Christian's problems is by taking them to the finished work of Christ actually makes it possible to unite people in a real worship service. Because two ways. One is when the Christians hear me, let's just say, address non-Christians directly, to talk to their non-Christian friends, I'm modeling it for them. And when the non-Christians hear me talk more directly to Christians, they're hearing how Christianity works and they're actually learning the gospel in another perspective, because you are talking about the gospel, you're not just talking about biblical principles in a general way. So, you might say, and this is an oversimplification, that if you aim at edification in your sermon, you'll lose the non-Christians, if you aim at evangelism in your sermon, you'll bore the Christians, but if you aim at worship, if you really aim to give people a sense of Christ on their hearts, you'll actually be both evangelizing and edifying. Now, what the chapter's about is about what I call evangelistic worship, which is just my slightly more mundane version of what Ed calls doxological evangelism, which is much more grand and fun. And it's really my practical working out of what he says, which has had a big impact on me. And by the way, it's a great thing about living to be 120, is that you get to see so many of your ideas get into fashion eventually. Because I really think the idea that what people need to be evangelized is they actually need to be drawn into worship and see people worshiping. I think it's time has come, especially amongst, you know, I really do think the idea of, you know, needing seeker services versus edification services might be passe. Might be, okay? I'm trying to be too doctrinaire about all this stuff. I know that the way you change a person's life, well, let's get into this, is to change how they worship, change what they worship, that's the problem. The way you change personality is to change what they find the most delectable. So, in worship, you're trying to show them, look how beautiful this is, so anyway, it's all about that. By the way, there are some ideas, how do you create evangelistic worship? And let's go back to the one little thing before we move on to the next chapter. when I said that Redeemer puts a high emphasis on excellence, a lot of you have heard this idea about excellence in music. We don't use the term excellence around the church because it does seem to be a snotty thing to say. We also recognize that if you're in Nashville or you're in New York, it's easy, right, Carter? I mean, there's just all these great musicians all around. You know, what's scary is if you're a musician, you come to New York to make it. You can't quite have this experience in Nashville, but maybe you can because you don't have subways. You go into the subway and there's somebody playing in the subway begging for money who's twice as good as you are. And you say, oh, no. This person is better than me and doesn't have a job. And, I mean, you get into it. For some reason, there are certain places where all musicians go. And sometimes in places like Nashville, there's also tons of great people that are vastly better than anybody, you know, in Atlanta maybe. And yet they don't get a job because they're all there trying to get the same jobs. So there's some of us are, it's sort of an embarrassment of riches. I don't know what to do about it. So it's easy for me to talk about excellence. And a lot of you realize if you go for excellence in music, you're not going to be able to find a Christian around who can do it. And I mean, so it's tough. And the performance thing, we talked about it. But here's the one thing I want you to know. The better the music is, the more spiritually inclusive it is. What I mean by that is, if Aunt Sally's little niece plays the clarinet, it only warms the cockles of the heart of the people who know Aunt Sally and her. Mediocre music by people inside the church is very much an insider's game. It is somewhat edifying to have a dear friend up there using his or her gifts to sort of praise God. them if you're an insider. If you're an outsider you're just, you know, it's really completely wasted time because it's bad music. It's not, the person is not gifted. Person's really not called in a sense to do it. So what's really weird is the better the music is the more that both the Christian and the non-Christian or the insider and the brand new person both can appreciate what just happened. They both are called toward God by it. But if it's lousy or even mediocre only the insider is called to God by it. So there's certain things like that you're going to have to take into consideration if you're really going to have what I would call sort of a spiritually inclusive worship service. And I think you need to be aiming for that because I think the purpose of the sermon is worship and therefore you need to you want to both edify and evangelize in a worship context. Now to really get right down into it, if you are we're going to move beyond information transfer into sermons that really call people to worship. I would rather you turn now to page, to the next chapter, which is actually page 108, no, 109. And there's two issues we're going to talk about this afternoon, then we knock off for the day, come back tomorrow. If you're going to actually lead people to worship, I want you now, this is going to be a kind of time for self-examination, just between us preachers, all right? I want you to consider that, though you may say, oh, yeah, that's great, let's lead people to worship, I want you to consider that there might be, there might be some purposes going on, which I'm going to call sub-text, there might be some, some things going on in your heart that actually will contradict the purpose of worship, in other words, I want you to really ask yourself, when I preach a sermon, am I really, is my real purpose of the sermon, is the real purpose of the sermon to call people to worship,

And here's what I mean by that. Let's take a look at the three perspectives, normative, situational, existential, prophetic, prescriptive, with another twist, with another way. One of the ways to understand the tri-perspectival model is to be clear about the text, the context, and the subtext. And here's another way to think about the three perspectives. You want to be clear about the text if you're preaching a sermon. You want to know what it teaches about Christ. Secondly, you want to be clear about the context, which means you want to know how to appropriately present and apply it to the particular people and culture to whom you're speaking. You've got to be clear about the subtext. Now, what is the subtext? The subtext, what you really, really are saying underneath everything else. A subtext is the real intended meaning of a message which is more than the surface vehicles of the language. For example, let me give you a perfect example of something your mother has done to you over the years. All right? Almost for sure. For example, the statement, No, I'm just fine, may have a subtext or meaning which is, with what you're doing. But it may also mean, I am not at all fine, and I don't want to have to say it to you, I want you to know. In other words, for example, how many times do you remember saying, Mom, is it all right if I go out tonight? Okay, that's just fine.

Now, Mom, you're really sure it's all right? Yes, I'm just fine. I am just fine. Just go ahead.

Now, the text says, you may leave. The subtext is,

And it's called the double bind, but really, the subtext is not just on the date or not, the subtext is, I wish I didn't have to tell you right now, you should know I don't want you to leave, I shouldn't be in the position of begging you, it's not quite as awful as I made it sound, it's not quite as heinous as I made it sound, well, that's what she's saying, now, you see what I mean by the difference between, you need to know the text, you need to know the context, but you've got to be careful, because the subtext come through And if the subtext is different than what you're saying with your language is your message, it's going to undermine what you're trying to say. What you're saying with your language, if it's different than what you really mean with your heart at a spiritual level, it will undermine what you're saying with your language. Now, what do I mean by that? Let me give you four subtexts of sermons. four subtexts that ministers are really trying to, you know, the real purpose of the sermon under whatever is said on the top. The first is what I call a subtext of reinforcement. This isn't quite probably, for people who take demons at Reformed Seminary, this is probably not you. But I want you to know who this is. One kind of subtext is the aren't we great. I mean, the purpose of the message is to say, aren't we great? This is what we call a ritual or stylized communication. which is used to reinforce boundaries and contribute to a sense of security and belongingness. Jump down to the bottom, the last paragraph. Many churches are committed to a reinforcement subtext I'll call gatekeeping. These churches do not want to be challenged, they don't want to be convicted, they don't want to be stretched. What they want in a sermon is they want you to say the things that we say because we're this kind of people who believe these kinds of things. You know what I mean? In other words, the purpose of the message is, I want to proclaim Christ to you, But the actual subtext is we're here to remind ourselves that we're neat people and we're the kind of people who say these sorts of things and believe these sorts of things and we're not like the people who don't. It's a social reinforcement subtext. The people do not want to be challenged, they don't want to be pushed, they don't even want to learn that much. They want to hear the familiar, they want to hear the jargon, they want to hear things that remind us that we're the kind of people that have always believed this and that's who we are. Do you understand that? The motive is really just to strengthen the ghetto. Make sure that the walls are nice and high. And that we know exactly who's on the inside and who's on the outside. And you don't need many skills at all to do this kind of thing. The skills needed for this kind of subtext is you just need to know the jargon. You need to know the tribal dialect. You need to know the kinds of things you've got to say. Alright? Now, probably if you're doing it... I mean, this is... I hate to stereotype you, but probably you wouldn't be doing D-Min at Reform Seminary if that was how you are. But you might. It might be. You've got to be very careful. Or you might have a church like that. One of the reasons why you're having trouble is you have a different subtext to your sermons than they want this. That's what they really want. Okay? All right. Okay. Am I being clear? Or is it just late? Turn over. Turn over to the next page 110. Now here's the one, especially if you're new, I don't know how you avoid this. If you're at a seminary, The court of the Gentiles, you get out of the seminary. This is a hard one to avoid. But the next subtext is what I call the subtext of performance. And this subtext is, am I okay? Don't you think I'm good? That the purpose of the sermon is not a reinforcement goal, it's a performance goal. The speaker is seeking to exhibit his or her skills. I put her in there. There's a lot of women preachers, I just want you to know that. And I live in New York. And we promote the products of the church. In other words, here's the subtext, here's your real subtext. Don't you think I'm good? Don't you think this is a great church? Don't you want to come back? Don't you want to bring friends? Don't you want to give money? That's really the purpose of your sermon. The performance goal is, look at me, listen to me, see how worthy I am of your respect. The problem here is that every communicator does need to establish credibility with an audience, but if it becomes the main goal, it destroys the sermon's ability to really change lives, because that's what it's really about. out. Because at some level the audience will realize that the speaker is actually not concerned about them. And there just will not be a connection. This is the only way I can explain why some people, some guys seem to do it all just right and there is no connection. There's a slight nervousness, but it's not terrible. But you can just tell underneath what they're really doing is they're trying to say, don't you like me? Don't you think I'm okay? Don't you want to come back? This subtext does, unlike the first subtext, rely on real teaching and To do this, you've got to actually be a good speaker. The first kind of person doesn't need to. The goal is to get across a body of information the hearers do not have. However, the reason for the teaching is mainly to win people over to the organization or the church as an institution. That's really what you're after. Many churches are committed to this performance subtext. I call this the selling subtext. The focus of the communication is more for the benefit of newcomers and outsiders. At least that's what it looks like. But the motive is basically to build up the church. The skills that are needed are rhetorical skills. for rousing and keeping interest and getting people to come back. Third subtext is a subtext of training. Now, this is better. This is more emotional and spiritual maturity here. The third kind of subtext is saying the purpose of my sermon is to train, is to teach people things that you don't know. Now we're into kind of familiar territory because I said I think the average, secure, spiritually mature preacher, in America at least, is still probably aiming here. the job is a teaching subtext I want to inform you I want to teach you things you didn't know before I want to give you things that you can use but lastly the final subtext is the subtext of worship the last kind of subtext is not are little ghetto great or don't you think I'm great or isn't this a great truth but isn't Christ great there is a difference between the C and D and that's what we're here to talk about that's what I'm trying to get across to you is the most complex subtext. It takes the most skill. It aims beyond information and even change of behavior toward capturing the imagination and a change in what our heart sets its affections on. The subtext, don't you see how Christ is so much greater and grander and wonderful than you thought? Don't you see all your problems stem from the fact that you didn't see that? Churches should be committed to the worship subtext, and I'll call it preaching. They say, this is preaching, I think. I mean, maybe this is being a little unfair, but this is different than teaching. it's certainly different than selling. And it's way, way, way different than gatekeeping. And the motive is to get people to worship. To worship Christ instead of the things they are worshiping. And if that's in your mind deep enough, then that's going to influence. So in other words, be careful that you look and see where you are. And I don't know, quite frankly, how a new minister can completely just get there. You see, this B subtext,

I'm all right, and that maybe I'm in the right job. It took me five years to convince myself that I was in the right job. And it's pretty hard. It's really hard to get people to worship Christ when actually you're up there kind of solving your own problems in the pulpit. I don't know how you overcome that. My mother-in-law had five children, and she would always say when we were nervous about our kids, she would say, I'm going to write a book, and I never got to. I'm going to write a book, How to Raise the First Child Like the Fifth. Because the first child, there's tons of pictures,

And the last child, there's no pictures.

And you're totally laid back, and the first child grows up all neurotic, and the last child is happy, and say, I'm going to raise the first child like the fifth, but you know what? You can't. There's just no way. You can be told, you're going to worry about this child, and you shouldn't worry about this child, and you're going to worry about this child, and you're going to feel burdened by this child, and you're going to feel wiped out. And I don't know how you get past, but I just want you to realize there's stuff going on in there besides what you say, is the goal of the worship, so watch your heart, that's all. Well, you see, I would have to say, I would have to say, that what Leah was doing there, cause she even used the word Praise, and she uses the covenant name, that she was pulling the deepest affections of her heart off of her husband, and she was putting them somewhere else, and therefore, that's exactly what you want people to do, you want people at the end to be saying, this time I will Praise the Lord, that's right, so, not bad, preach the sermon on how to preach, preach sermons, Okay, now, that's the first thing. The first thing is, I just want you to realize there is stuff happening in your life that could contradict what you say you want from people. And just do some self-examination, and say, Oh my God, you are right, I do that, what am I going to do about it? Practice, practice, practice, I don't know, I'm saying, it is going to take time, if you are aware of it, it is a little bit like if you can name the demon, you have got control over it, to some degree. If you can name the demon, you can do some work with it. If you didn't even know it was there, the demons got you totally bound and tied and gagged. All right, now the next thing is I'd like to say, I'd like to say, having said that, let's talk about what you really are after and let me give you a way of thinking that might make it easier for you to seek this goal. And I'd like to talk about what Jonathan Edwards calls spiritual reality. Turn over to page 111. Let's start at the third paragraph, but let me give you this intro before we start kind of reading. You know, I've read Religious Affections about six times, and I don't want anybody out there to feel like, you know, you can't admit that you don't get it. He's hard to read. He's very hard to read. But here's what I think I get from him. The reason it's so hard to read Edwards on the Affections is Edwards really actually rejects a way of thinking about human personality deeply ingrained in us we really can't imagine the alternative. We believe mind, will, emotions and we pit them against each other. I mean we are so deeply ingrained in our thinking that my mind says this but my emotions say this, my head says this, my heart says this. And obviously there must be to some degree that must be true. Edwards in The Religious Affection says, I want you to consider that there's really only two faculties and they're both completely grounded in the heart. And I really think he's probably more biblical than we are about this. He says the two faculties, not three, he actually takes will and emotions and collapses them. He's kind of, I mean, you know, John Gerstner had a pretty good handle on this when he says what Edwards would say is you have never, ever, ever, ever, ever really done anything against your will. You have always done what you most want. You have always done the thing you most wanted to do. Always, always, always. Now, this is a very Edwardian kind of illustration. And somebody says, that's not true.

and put it to the back of my head, and said, give me your wallet, and I didn't want to give him my wallet, but I did, so I did something against my will, and what Edwards would say, what God would say, oh no, you didn't want to die, worse than you didn't want to give him your wallet, and you did exactly what you wanted, you didn't want to die, now, here's why we're saying this, he says there's really two faculties, there's the perception, or the understanding, and there's the inclination, you perceive something, and then, you either hate it, or love it, and you act on the basis And he even goes so far as to say that the Bible says the heart is the seat of the understanding. He will not say there is the head and there is the heart, but he says there is the cognitive side of the heart, the understanding, and the inclination side of the heart, what we do about things. And, therefore, look at this third paragraph, now listen carefully, Edward's contributions is important regarding the unity of the faculties, he refuses to suppose an opposition between the understanding and the affections, at least the complete one. Raised-up-only-when-a-person-has-a-spiritual-understanding-of-the-true-nature-of-God." Your heart only starts to move with its affection. I'll talk about what that word means in a minute. When you really understand the true nature of God. In other words, if a person says, I know God cares for me, but I'm still paralyzed by fear, Edwards would actually say, now, I'm not saying he would say this to the person in counseling, but Edwards would say, what that means is you don't really know God cares for you. If you say, I know God cares for me, but I'm still paralyzed by fear, know it. In other words, the knowledge has not really touched your heart. Your heart has not really grasped. Now you can see why, by the way. This is remarkable. This gets you away from both a rationalistic approach to preaching, but it also gets you away from an emotionalistic approach to preaching. There's an awful lot of people I know, pastors, that feel like, my people know what they should do, but I just have to beat them into doing it. And that's the reason I just sort of rant and rave, and I tell them heart-rending stories, and I make them feel guilty. And Edwards would say, no, they do need the doctrine. They need the truth that they think they know, but they need the truth more clearly, more brilliantly, more lovingly, more firmly expounded to them. That's wonderful for us Reformed types, or anybody who cares, okay, about truth. So what he would say is, for example, let's keep going. Now we're in a position to see how important this is for preachers. There is no ultimate opposition between head and heart, no ultimate we must not assume

we must not assume their hearts' affections, their inclinations, love something more than Jesus. You see that? We mustn't simply tell stories of people's lives being changed through acts of generosity. We mustn't simply say, now you know what's true to be done and you need to do it. That will raise what Edwards would call the passions, which he means emotions, superficial emotions, without really changing the heart, without really changing what the heart at its most fundamental level loves and delights in and affirms and hopes in.

if the people are materialistic and ungenerous it means they haven't truly understood how Jesus, though rich, became poor for them and you've got to depict that for them it means they have not truly understood what it means that in Christ we have all riches and treasures on the one hand, they're too nervous they don't see what they have in Christ on the other hand, they're too proud they don't see what Jesus has done for them they don't see it they don't sense it they don't know it they don't really know it means their affections are clinging to material things their souls are inclined toward riches as the source of spiritual

They may have superficial intellectual grasp of all these things, Jesus, spiritual, God, God, God, but they do not really grasp it. Thus, in preaching we must represent Christ, represent Christ. We are represent God, but that means represent. We represent Christ in a particular way that replaces the place of material things and the affections. The particular way. This does not take just intellectual argument, but the presentation of the beauty of Christ, obviously. Edwards believed that the root of the heart's affections was a search for excellency. years to figure this out. I believe, for a while, whenever I would see Edwards talk about excellency, if you've ever read Edwards, he talks about it. I used to think that was just an old archaic word. He almost coined it. I mean, I have seen other Puritans use it, but he almost coined it. And for him, excellency is really beauty, basically. He says, Excellency is that which is appreciated and rested in for its own sake. Edwards essentially Christian is someone who finds Christ useful to get the things the heart actually finds excellent or beautiful, while a true Christian is one who finds Christ beautiful for who he is in himself. And that is the goal of your preaching. There's people out there because their lives are not what they ought to be only because Jesus is a means to the end of something that the heart is finding beautiful in itself, excellent. You've got to say, you've got to say, that is wrong. You have to take the grimy little claws of your heart's fingers, the affections of your heart, off of where it is and put them on Jesus, and then your life will start to straighten up. Now, what does that mean for preaching for spiritual reality? This understanding profoundly affected Edwards' own preaching. In one of his sermons on Genesis 19, 14, which is now, by the way, in print, like I said, in those wonderful $80 Yale. If you're smart, you'll find some seminary library. make a copy. Hey, he's dead. He doesn't have the copyright. Anyway. Oh yeah, but maybe the Yale does. Anyway. This is what he says. He says, now don't forget, he's talking in a kind of Christian society, you know, Northampton, Massachusetts. He says, the reason why men no more regard warnings of future punishment is because it don't seem real to them. That was colloquial way of speaking. That's the way he actually wrote. In other words, he in future punishment because, don't forget, this is a Christian society. They believed in hell, but it wasn't real to them, so they weren't being affected by it. Essentially, the main spiritual problem and the main purpose of preaching is that. Though people may have a superficial understanding of the truth, God's truth isn't real to them. If it were, their affections would be engaged, their actions accordingly changed. How do you do that? That's what we're talking about. Well, look at the next paragraph. In that sermon, Edwards says there are basically two things Two ways you overcome the prejudice of human nature toward the truth in order to have divine truth become real. And these two things are, he says, there are two things in realizing a thing or necessary in order to things seeming real to us. Number one, believing the truth of it. That's with the rational side of the heart. And two, having a sensible idea or apprehension of it. Now, what that means is Edwards saw spiritual reality as being more than rational conviction, but not less. reason and argue strenuously, that's only the first step. You have to give people sensible ideas. Now, by the way, this is coming right into all the stuff Ed said about metaphor. Edwards has a very, very, very famous sermon called A Divine and Supernatural Light in which he says this very famous... Here's the most famous part of the famous sermon. It's in close here. It's in italics. He says there's two kinds of knowledge, there's two-fold knowledge of good of which God has made the mind of man capable. By the way, that word mind, that word heart, in Edwards is the same thing. Whenever you see the word mind, you might as well say heart. The first, that which is merely notional, and the other is that which consists in the sense of the heart as when the heart is sensible of pleasure and delight in the presence of the idea of it. In the former is exercised merely the understanding and distinction from the disposition of the soul, that's the inclination. Thus there is a difference between having an opinion that God is holy and gracious and having a sense of the loveliness and beauty of the holiness and grace. And here is his illustration. There is a difference between having a rational judgment that honey is sweet and having a sense of its sweetness. A man may have the former that knows not how honey tastes, but a man cannot have the latter unless he has an idea of the taste of the honey in his mind. What a wonderful Puritan. He says it in the most circular way. You know what he is saying. In other words, he is saying you can rationally know that honey is sweet without experiencing it, but you can't experience that honey is sweet it, you see. And he says, there's just an awful lot of people that know Jesus is this, and this, and this, and this, but they don't have a sensible apprehension of it on the heart. He believed that the heart acted like a sense. Now, if that's true, and the purpose of preaching is to present Christ, not just as true and right, but as sweet and beautiful, preaching must aim at sensible ideas. How can it do that? And here are five ways. The first way is, you do need to use the reason, and this is what I liked about Edwards, you do need to be very clear. I'm not going to read this whole paragraph. You need to be very clear, very lucid, because he does not say, mind, heart, and I'm after the heart. The understanding and the disposition are in the heart together. And ultimately, ultimately, as we said, if you're not affected by who Jesus is, affected with an A, you don't really know who he is. You haven't really seen it. So the first thing is clarity. Really rationally engage people. But number two is analogical illustrations. And analogical illustrations show the relationship of the truth to some other part of reality. Some other discourse. Remember that? Metaphor is taking two universes of discourse together and that creates aha. Aha! Edwards would say that is probably the sense on the heart. So, for example, well, I'll get to this in a minute. If you say, language must be vivid and sense-evocative, as it must be clear and reasonable. Therefore, you can say, sin is crouching at your door. Remember, that's what God says to Cain. He says, sin is crouching at your door. It wants to have you. So, God pictures sin as a crouching animal. predator crouching in the in the shadows just outside the door why didn't God say sin will get you into trouble well I don't think you get a sense of the reality I don't get you don't get a sense of the danger so this number two thing is by is by taking the truth and using it metaphorically using illustration so that you're bringing two universes of discourse together that you In other words, you engage the senses in the illustration, it seems to engage the sense of the heart. Things that didn't seem to be very real to you start to get real to you. There is some kind of cross-modal relationship between the five senses and the sense of the heart. That's what Edwards thinks, and I think that's true. Turn over. Third thing is narrative. Edwards does not use narrative a bit, so I'm not relying on Edwards for this one. See, Edwards believed you have to be reasonable, very much in illustration, very much in metaphor. So it's extremely important to show that the same truth works well in all these different universes of discourse, and that's the way you get to the heart. But the fact is, the narrative or story, look at the example I give at the end of the paragraph.

Is it more evocative to say, we will always be disillusioned in this life, or to tell a story and say, in the morning it's always Leah? You're going to remember that, aren't you? You're going to remember that. It strikes the heart because what we did was we made it concrete. It's beyond a metaphor in a way. It's beyond the simple illustration. It's bringing it really into concrete reality. And this is another way you create this sense on the heart. So you have rational clarity, metaphorical illustration, thirdly, narrative or story, fourth. Now, I don't like the way I say it here. I don't know if that's clear. I have to evoke the existing excellencies or idols of the hearers' hearts on the spot. I don't know how, I don't say this well. Let me read it. They already have their affections engaged in something. So go ahead and, maybe it's all right, go describe it. Tell stories of people involved in it. Use illustrations from it. Show that you know it. In other words, get their hearts kind of lusting on the spot for what they are already lusting for. This will get the people's hearts engaged. get the affections kind of, you know, juicing going. Then show the inadequacy of it and turn immediately to Christ saying, but Christ has done that. Use definition, description, illustration, narrative. In a sense, transfer the affections to him as their new object kind of right there. Now, they may not go with you, but I'm saying don't just illustrate Christ in general, but as an alternative to the common idol they've got. Examples are numerous. You can say people have let you down. They've let you down. You want a friend. you want somebody who will never let you down, who will always understand, but there's only one shepherd. Marriage has let you down, but there's only one true bridegroom. So what you do is you, now that's a bad illustration. That's what I didn't like about it. Because you have to work it. You can't, it can't be a soundbite. You have to talk. You have to go after what you know a lot of the people's hearts are essentially really longing for, where their affections really are. Describe it, bring it out, get them going, and then saying, you're always going to be unhappy. Unless you say he is the bridegroom, he is the friend, he is the wealt, he is the shepherd, he is the whatever…. And then we say….

And then we say…. Suck on. Do you know what I mean? Suck on spiritually. Let's see. Fifth, and here's the worst for you to hear. So we have the reason must be engaged, analogical illustration. But fifthly, the fifth thing that supports sensible ideas is a worshiping preacher. Maybe the most basic way to move from information to sensation is by the preacher actually worshiping in the act of preaching. Very hard if you're nervous. Very hard. This is where your subtext will take you away. you out. Are you sensing Christ on the heart as you preach? In other words, what is the subtext of your message? Are you mainly concentrating on the sermon performance? You know, that's what I said. Put another way, are you in a sense meditating and contemplating him as you preach? There is, by the way, look up here for a second, years ago I read, and I don't know where I read it, but it was advice by some Puritan to other preachers. I can't remember where I read it, but he said, make sure you taste the food you're feeding to the children. Now here's what he means by that. He says, you know, you're feeding your kids and you say, open up. You know, open up. He said, no, let daddy do it. Mmm, that's great. Now open up. All right, well, taste the food. In other words, show that it's sweet to you. I mean, I mean, how do you do that? I don't know. You have to be very careful. If you let your emotions run too far ahead of where your people are, they'll just be sitting there waiting for you to finish. I mean, they'll be saying, I'm glad he's excited about this. If you run on too fast, or actually if you don't get emotionally involved at all. I mean, this isn't easy to figure out. I know it's not. But the fact is that you yourself have to be a secure be having a decent that's tomorrow morning We'll talk about your own prayer life has to be going fairly well. Have you moved beyond information? Well, yeah, I'll talk about that tomorrow. That's interesting In other words the sermon must be heavy with a sense of God must make it seem to bring people to worship before the beauty Of Christ now by the way, here's just one other little thing to tell you and I could just to make sure that I hate to wait till tomorrow i'll take a couple of questions right here after i tell you one more thing rather than bring ed and i up here and sit down for 20 minutes because i don't want to go past four but you know the bible talks about remembering see this all this stuff by edwards sounds kind of cool and you say well how biblical is this and i think a big part of if you understand the word remember you'll realize that he's really talking about the same thing look down here. A basic biblical concept is the sinful tendency to forget the Lord and the need to remember. This cannot mean mainly a matter of intellect and information, because when God uses the word remember, he's not talking that way. When he says, I remembered my covenant to Abraham, that does not mean, oh yeah, Abraham. No. I mean, we're not, see, when God uses the term remember, what it really means is I'm acting now. I'm, you know, my heart is engaged. It doesn't mean, it's not just intellectual. And what that means there for us, the problem is the information we have, we spiritually forget. It automatically becomes real to us unless someone's fanning the flame all the time. 2 Peter, by the way, 1.8.9, if you preach that, it says, you've forgotten you were cleansed from your former sins. If you're not growing, he says, you've forgotten you were cleansed from your former sins. Now, how could that be? Does he really mean that one day he woke up and said, I'm a Christian. Or I forgot that I was saved. No. What does he mean? He's talking about spiritual forgetting. You forgot. It's not vital anymore. You're not engaged. It's not real to your heart. In Joshua 4, 21 to 24, God tells the children of Israel to take 12 stones from the place where he dried up the Jordan in order to make the pillar of remembrance. It would seem ridiculous to imagine that people could forget such a remarkable miracle. I mean, obviously, what do you mean, remembrance? You mean they're going to forget? Yet? I mean, you see the Jordan River dry up and you walk over and you sit down, I mean, the rest of their lives are going to remember, that's not what he means. The main difference between a Christian and a nominal Christian is that the truth has become spiritually real to the heart of the Christian. The main difference between a growing Christian and a stagnant Christian is the truth has been refreshed regularly in the growing Christian. Here's how I like to put it to my own folks, it used to be on video but now it's just on audio.

You know what I mean? If you have video and audio, what wins? I mean, if you've got a TV going and you've got a radio going, constantly get drawn over the video, right? You're married, but here's a woman that's coming on to you, and you also know, of course, you need to be faithful to your wife because Jesus was faithful to you. Which is on audio and which is on video. What ends up happening is almost automatically the stuff about Jesus goes on audio, and, of course, the real world is always on video. So nasty things, you know, it's interesting. Nasty things our parents told us 20 years ago are still on video. You know what I mean? They're still affecting us. But Jesus, anything about Jesus will move from audio to video. I mean, somehow it goes off. Now, how do you remember? Well, the answer is, so the fundamental problem in living in the world is remembering. So turn over to 1.14. What is the Lord's Supper about? Remembering. That's not primarily an intellectual thing. The Lord's Supper and the worship service in general is designed to recreate sensible ideas of the gospel. principle. Hebrews 3.13 says we need at the very least Christian community daily to exhort us lest we be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. All our problems with worry, temptation, guilt, anger are due to the fact that God and his salvation is unreal to us. We're not remembering Jesus. The English word remember does almost mean, you know, to, I mean, it's a pretty strong word if you think about it. It means that something has been cut off and amputated, is sewed back on, it's pretty strong. And therefore, look, last verse. I mean, last verse. The last verse. Ah, yes. I have written more scripture. All right. The last line. I worship when I treasure God, when information and imagination come together, when I find him more beautiful than anything else. I'm remembering, I'm worshiping, it's all the same thing. By the way, after that, there's a section on illustrations, how to use illustrations, why illustrations are important, ways to use illustrations because they're so important.
