I'm going to read to you from Genesis 3. This time I'll read verses 1 to 15. For a whole month we're looking at Genesis 3, which is the classic text on the nature of evil, the nature of sin. Let me read to you from that chapter. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman,

And when the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. And then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked. So they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves. Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. The Lord God called to the man, Where are you? And he answered, I heard you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. And he said, Who told you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree I commanded you not to eat from? The man said, The woman you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate it. The Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all the wild animals. You will crawl on your belly, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. And this is God's word. This is such a tremendously full passage, and I just wish in some ways I could go word by word over a long period of time. But for today, let's just look at this feature. There was a psychotherapist named Viktor Frankl who, along with his family, was put into the Nazi death camps during World War II. and Viktor Frankl lost everyone in the death camps. He lost his father and his mother and his brother and his wife. They all died, either in the ovens or in the camps themselves. Only he and his sister survived World War II. He was in the death camps for years, and as a psychotherapist, he couldn't help but notice something, and he wrote about what he learned in a very influential book that's really, you might say, like the war horse of the existential psychology school. He wrote this book after World War II called Man's Search for Meaning. But anyway, in the book, he noticed that there were some kinds of people that could handle the death camps. They were indomitable. They could face the suffering. They could face the problems. No matter what was thrown at them, there was a greatness about them. They could suffer. they never lost their meaning in life and there were others who even though many of them of course were killed, slaughtered, even before they were killed and slaughtered, they died, their humanity died they just, they withered they went out like moths flying into a flame and as a psychotherapist, a trained psychologist Viktor Frankl was saying to himself Why? And as he looked, he realized what it was. And he developed an entire therapy, an entire school of psychology out of his experiences in the death camp. And it was this. He noticed that some people had a personal mission in life that was adequate to face anything, and other people had a personal mission in life that was not. he developed a therapy called logotherapy from the Greek word logic which means your meaning or your mission in life what is your life's logic what is your reason for getting up in the morning what is your personal mission statement Viktor Frankl recognized that everybody had one whether it was implicit or explicit and he realized everybody had a telos which means an aim, a mission. Some people, most people, their highest mission in life was to be comfortable, to be professionally successful, to have a nice family. What's wrong with that? It was inadequate. It couldn't stand up to the test. It couldn't stand up to reality. And he noticed that there were other people that had a mission that was higher. They had a purpose, a mission. They had something that they served that was higher than their own personal comfort or even their own family life or their professional success. There was something more highly spiritual about them, and they could handle everything. Now, my question to you is, how about you? Can everybody in this room, according to Frankl, and as I'm going to show you, according to the Bible, everybody in this room has a personal mission in life. What is yours? No, not what you would tell somebody if they asked you. What is it really? And one of the big questions is, why is it that so many people, maybe most people, have a mission in life that cannot stand up to reality? Why? Genesis 3 tells us. And Genesis 3 shows us two things. It actually shows us lots of things, but today we're only going to look for two things. First of all, it shows us that sin leads us to find our meaning and mission in inadequate things. In other words, first of all, sin leads us into false missions. Secondly, that God shows us the true mission that we must live for that is adequate, that will meet the test, that will result in a life of greatness regardless of what we experience in this life. So first of all, let's look at the first point. This passage tells us that sin actually leads us into a false mission in life to find our meaning, the focal point of our meaning. By a focal point meaning a name, a goal, a thing that we're reaching toward to find our meaning in life and focal point in false inadequate things. Last week we looked at the first step in the fall of humanity, according to Genesis 3. And today we're actually looking at the second step. Just briefly, but it's important to see how they lead to each other. The very first thing that Adam and Eve did, the first mark of sin, the first step in the fall, was they believed the big lie. And the big lie was that you can't trust God. In other words, we said last week that the essence of sin is to sit on the morality, sit in judgment on the morality and goodness of God. And I submitted to you last week, and I just submitted to you this week. Again, that at the root of all of our problems, the Bible says the sin underneath the sin, the root of all of our problems, our intellectual problems, our emotional problems, our moral problems, is that we believe because this is a lie that passed into us of everybody in this room, at the root of our soul, it's like a cancer eating away at us, we believe that we are more compassionate, we are more understanding, and that we're wiser than God. Hmm? Listen, look at your intellectual problems. Many of you who have intellectual problems, what is your problem? You say, well, I could believe in God if he could account for why the world is such a wreck. See, you know, you're on the bench, God's in the dock. You're the judge, He is the defendant. That's the way the natural mind goes intellectually. Sure, I could believe in God if he could show me why the world is such a wreck. In other words, I'm compassionate. I'm wise. I'm understanding. If God can prove to me that he's up to my specs, I'd be happy to believe in him. Look at your emotional problems. Why are some of you anxious today? Really anxious. Even though you may say, I believe in God, why are you anxious? It's because at the root of your soul, You think you know better than God how your life has to go, and you're just not sure he's going to come through. At the root of our pride, at the root of our anxiety, at the root of our guilt, the lie passed into us. When the serpent said, God knows, in verse 5, he says, God knows that the thing that he forbids is good for you. God knows that you could reach your fuller potential if you get out from under his clammy hands God knows and so you can't trust God to look out for your best interest you can't trust him that passed into everyone no matter who you are in this room if you're a Christian if you're skeptical of Christianity if you really don't know where you stand it doesn't matter it's in all of us and that's the first thing that happened to Adam and Eve essence of what the Bible says sin is. We sit in judgment on the morality and the goodness of God. Now, what does that lead to? As soon as you believe that, and we all do, that means that we all have a new mission in life. Since we can't make God the focal point of our meaning, since we can't make God the thing that we live for absolutely, since we don't trust God to meet our needs, what will? And that's why we see immediately Adam and Eve begin to look at the world through new eyes. As soon as you believe you can't trust God and you can't live for him, well, what are you going to live for? The fact is we have to live, as Frankel points out, we have to live for something. We have to have something that we think is good. So what Eve does, she turns to the tree, and we read in verse 6, it says, now Eve, see now she believes a lie, everything looks different. Now the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye and desirable for gaining wisdom. And so she took it. The human condition is this. We look at everything out there, every item in creation, and we ask, Will this give me the wisdom I'm looking for? Will this give me the pleasure I'm looking for? What Viktor Frankl points out. Is that everyone has got to have a summum bonum. That's a philosophical term. It means the highest good. See, Eve is saying. Is this good? Is this the good I'm looking for? In philosophical circles. The summum bonum. Was a philosophical concept. That philosophers debated for years. And that is. if I make it my highest aim will bring about the most good in my life and the life of those around me. Now what the psychologist Frankel points out is that everybody's already got a summon bonum. There's got to be something which is a source of our a. Security b. Our wisdom and c. Our power. If I live for this If I make this the focal point of my meaning, then I can feel good about myself. That's my security. If I live for this, then I'll have power. Then I'll have wisdom. I'll know how to make decisions. I'll process all of reality through it. And he said, everybody's got one. Everybody has a meaning focal point. Everybody. Of course, the Bible explains why. Why? Since we decided not to make God the thing we live for, we have to find something else. And what we do is we fasten on these other meaning focal points. And when we do, we will find them all inadequate. They can't stand up to reality. They can't meet the test. Let me give you some examples. These are the kind of, you might say, meaning focal points that Franco found were inadequate in the death camp. some. They're inadequate anyway. Look, first, some of us are spouse-focused. The meaning, our focal point for our meaning is our spouse. If our spouse is happy, if our spouse loves us, if our spouse thinks we're great, that's what gives us our security, our wisdom, and our power. That's mighty nice for short periods of time if you're married to somebody like that, Somebody for whom you are their meaning in life. There are lots and lots and lots of us that way. However, you realize what this means. Is that if your spouse is your meaning in life. If your mission in life. Is to get a good spouse. And then once you get a good spouse. Is to make that spouse. The person on which everything hangs. Do you see how vulnerable you are. And do you see how you'll crush your poor spouse. Your spouse is a sinner. Your spouse is a human being. means your spouse goes through periods of time of weakness, of hostility. You will have no resources with which to help him or her because you get all your security, you get all your wisdom, and you get all your power out of the approval of that person. Doesn't work. Certainly not only not in the death camps, it doesn't even work when things are going all right. Let me give you another one. Some people, their meaning focal point is their children, their family. A lot of the psychologists will tell you this. If you're familiar with the literature, this won't be a surprise, but to many of you, it will. People who abuse their children are very often not people that hate their children, but people who center their lives completely around their children. You see, if the most important thing to you, if your mission in life is to have well-behaved children,

children who love you, children who are happy, then you're up or you're down, all depending on your kids. Your children will never be able to bear the weight of your meaning, the meaning of your life. You may not turn into an abuser, but I'll tell you one thing. They will be crushed by it. You might make them emotionally dependent on you, or else they'll just have to get out from under you as soon as they possibly can. because it leads to breakdown. Some people are work-focused. Their meaning in life is their work. Sometimes you see these ballplayers, all these great ballplayers, they all retire in their mid-30s. A lot of them go off into pretty decent careers, but a lot of them absolutely crash. You know why? Because their identity, their security, their wisdom, and their power, to use Frankel's ideas, their security, their wisdom, and their power meaning focal point. The thing that gives their life meaning. Their mission in life. Their identity is I'm a football player. I can't be a businessman. I can't be a salesman. I can't do anything else. I'm a football player. That's one of the reasons why they have to hang on for so long. It's a reason why they keep coming back even when they shouldn't be coming back. It's a reason why their life crashes afterwards. And let's not pick on athletes, of course. The fact is that some of us are so oriented. Our security and our power is so Bound up in our work. That's the reason why we alienate people. That's the reason why our families can't get along with us. That's the reason why. If that's your focal point. It becomes inadequate. Some people are money focused. That's not the same thing. As work focused. Both money focused. And work focused. Can make you a workaholic. But they're different. If you're money focused. It's not the product you have pride in. It's just the power that comes to you. By having the money. There's a place where Ted Danson, who's the father of the younger man, the younger man comes to Ted Danson and says, why did you leave my family? Why did you leave me and mom and my sister? Why did you leave us years ago? Ted Danson says, because money made me feel powerful. And I couldn't make the money I wanted to make and still have a family. And that's what happens. When money is the focal point, it leads you to fudge. It leads you to do ethical things that are wrong. It eats you up with anxiety. Let me give you another one. Some people are enemy-focused. Their meaning in life is their enemy. Now, I have to be careful of this, but I think it's fair to say many of the most ardent political activists have actually built their life around the enemy. ardent political activists of the left or the right believe that the real problem with life, the real problem with our society, is them over there. And they get their security, and they get their meaning, and they get their power, and they get their wisdom all out of that. Some people are pleasure-focused. That's the reason why you're addicted to things. Because you get all of your... You get your wisdom, and you get your power, and you get your security out of feeling good. Now, all of these things have something in common. Spouse, children, work, possessions, money, pleasure, friends, enemies. Here's what they have in common. Some of them look better, others look worse. But the fact is, they all break down. They all are dysfunctional. Of course, the reason that this one psychotherapist could see it so obviously Death camps, they all break down except for those people who have an infinite reference point. All finite reference points, all finite focal points die. Most of us will never be in a death camp. But we're going to find out about it anyway. Because you don't have to be in a death camp to see the breakdowns. As I describe them, you say, yes, of course. Look at yourself. Everybody in this room has got some of the effects of this. because we're all sinners. Whether you're a Christian or not, you're a sinner. And the Bible is telling you right here that therefore the effects of sin is, number one, to believe that we can't trust God, that we can't really trust him to meet our needs. And number two, therefore to find another meaning focal point. And everybody here has got them. Sometimes we move around during our life, but we've all got them. And our misery comes because we experience breakdowns. the only way out, the only way out is to do what Augustine said. You know, St. Augustine, he says, God, our hearts are restless till they find their rest in thee, which means Augustine is giving us a tremendous compliment. He's saying God alone can be your meaning focal point. God alone is the thing that you can look at and say, is this good for pleasure and for wisdom? him. God alone has to be your sum and bonum because you were built on that scale. Your soul is so great, there is nothing else that will satisfy it. You see what a compliment it is to say that you're a wreck until you find God? It's a compliment. I hope everybody here can see that what Genesis 3 is saying is true. And it's tremendously practical. When I was in college and I got depressed and I went to a couple of counselors, I'm not saying the counselors were trained in this particular kind of therapy I was talking to you about here, just as an example, but it was common sense. They would look at me and they would say, okay, you're depressed. And I'd say, kid, son, look, you can't let your whole life revolve around graves. grades. You just can't do that. That can't be your meaning focal points. I mean, it's just common sense. Any counselor is going to say, look, you're going crazy over grades and over getting ahead. You just can't do this. You're being pressed. You're being stressed. You can't do this. So I'd look at them. This was before I really understood Christianity. I would say, okay, what should I live for? Well, the problem with counselors aren't supposed to give direction, but they had to. So what they said is, well, one guy said to me this, don't live for grades, live to make the world a better place. That worked for a couple of weeks until I realized, okay, I want to make the world a better, how am I going to do that? Well, I could do that by attaining a place of influence in society. How can I get there? Well, I do that by... Gosh, I still got to get good grades. Well, here's the problem. No matter how much you finesse it, unless you're willing to get religious, no matter how much you finesse it, unless you're willing to get religious, unless your mission in life is God, to serve God, to know God, to see God, God, you can gussy it up and say, I'm really here to make the world a better place, but it all is going to come down to the same thing. A finite reference point, a finite focal point, which will not in the end be able to uphold the greatness of your being. Just won't. Until I was counseled into the fullness of the gospel, I didn't get that. And I remember coming across 1 Corinthians 4, where Paul says, he says, it's a little thing whether I'm judged by you or any human court. Yea, I judge not myself. My conscience is clear, but that does not make me innocent. It is God who judges me. What's he saying? He says, I don't care what you think. I don't care what my spouse thinks. He didn't have one. I don't care what money. I don't care if I'm making money. I don't care what my friends think. I don't care about professional status. I don't care. I count these things as loss, he says in Philippians 3. If you read Philippians 3, you will see Paul psychologically, methodically stripped himself of every single one of these inadequate meaning focal points. He says, I was a Hebrew of the Hebrews. He says, I was religiously faultless. I was academically peerless. He says, but then I was worried about everybody thought. He says, I don't care what they think. I don't even care what I think. He says, right now my conscience is clear, but does that make me innocent? Maybe I'm wrong. He says, it's God who judges me. God is my security. God is my power. God is my wisdom. Because when I make Christ my savior, when I rest on him, God looks at me in Christ and says, you are my child. You are my prince. You are the apple of my eye. You know, when God says that to me, and I can say, I don't care what you think, I don't care what I think, it's God who judges me. You finally got something that you can face a death camp with. This is my mission in life. So, the Bible tells us that sin Step one makes you say, I can't trust God. God's not going to come through for me. He won't. If I make myself completely obedient to him, he's going to use me and manipulate me. So then the second stage is we have to find, we have to find something else that will be our summum bonum. Something else that we can really live for and that will be our mission in life. You know what the irony is? The irony. Christians have found this. if you have nothing more significant than you to live for. Nothing more significant than your own happiness and your own comfort and your own success and your own advancement. If you have nothing more significant than you to live for, you lose significance. See, if you have nothing to die for, nothing to sacrifice for, you don't make a difference in the world. You're just out for yourself. What's ironic, what the ironic thing about it is if there's nothing more significant significance because you make no difference. Nothing you do is making any difference. Now, because sin tends to make us have personal missions that are false, God comes through and makes a tremendous statement at the very end of the passage that I read that we can look at just briefly in which he says, I am raising up a group of people who have a different mission in life. And in verse 15, he puts it this way. It's a very subtle and wonderful passage. This verse is the very first preaching of the gospel. This is the first announcement of Jesus Christ, the first announcement in the Bible of the good news. He says to the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will bruise his heel. If you look carefully, you see three things God is doing. First thing he says here, he says to the serpent, I declare war on evil. You know, the serpent is never actually told, we're never told in chapter 3 who the serpent is. It's Satan, but he's more than Satan. He represents sin and evil in all of its forms. And God here declares war on evil. God says, I am not giving my creation over to you. I declare war on you. But then here's how he does it. he says I will put enmity between you and the woman between your offspring and hers now does this mean God is going to create a war between humans and snakes no in John chapter 8 Jesus says to the religious leaders something very significant listen careful he says in John 8 to the religious leaders you are unable to hear what I say because you belong to your father the devil he is a liar and the father of lies He who belongs to God hears what God says. Oh, you see what he's saying? He says, your father is the devil. You are his offspring if you believe the lie. What was the lie? The lie is you can't trust God, so you better find your meaning somewhere else. It's deep in the philosophies. Jean-Paul Sartre says, Jean-Paul Sartre is called the father of existentialism, and the essence of his philosophy was this. Existence precedes essence. That you are precedes what you are. Which is another way of saying just this. You don't have to find out what your essence is. You don't have to find out what your meaning in life is. You make your own meaning. You decide what you want to make your meaning. You are authentically free to build your life around anything you want. You create your own meaning. But see, that's the lie. That's the lie. And what God is saying here is. There will always be offspring of the serpent. who believe that lie. You can't trust God. You don't submit to him. Create your own meaning. Go get your own personal missions. Go get your own focal points and decide what you want to live for and do it. But then God says, there will also be an offspring of the woman, and I will create enmity between them and all the fruits of the serpent. And here's what he means. He's saying to the a serpent. Look it. Your lie has passed into all of the people that I created. But I'm not going to leave it at that. I'm going to raise up a group of people. And I will put in their heart hatred for your lie. God says, I will create another humanity. There will be two humanities. I will create an entire race of people, in a sense. And I will put in their heart the ability to see the lie for what it is. And they will hate the lie. I will put enmity heart toward the lie. You know who these are? You know, the fruit right here in Genesis 3, we're told that as soon as Adam and Eve believed that they couldn't obey God, all kinds of terrible things happen. Emotional brokenness. We'll look at this in the future. Social brokenness. The genders couldn't get along. You know, part of the curse of sin is that the husband will tyrannize the wife and the wife will her desire be for her husband. That's in verse 16. We didn't read that today. They experience fear and social and emotional and psychological brokenness. They have to hide from each other. They have to create aprons, clothes to stay away from each other. Social brokenness, emotional brokenness, disease, death. The sexes can't get along. All of these things are the results of the lie. Every human being understands that. These things are terrible. But there will be a race, God says, I will create a race of people who realize that the bottom reason, that the cause of all the problems in the world is that people believe that they'll be happier if they stay away from God. And therefore, there will be an entire race of people who hate the lie and who know it's their mission in life to destroy the lie. It's their mission in life to say to everybody, to the degree that you come back and trust God, to the degree that you submit to his kingship, you'll be healed of these things. These are people with a new mission. You see, these are people who don't just do social work. They don't just counsel. They don't just feed the poor. They do it in the name of Christ. Because they do it knowing that the ultimate, ultimate solution for all the problems that we've experienced that God can be trusted. He must be brought. We must bring people to him. And that's the last part of the prophecy. The last part of the prophecy, here is how God is going to raise up this group of people who will hate the lies of the serpent. He says, as the very, very last part, he says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. this verse is God goes from the plural to the singular. He says, I will put enmity between your offspring and this woman's offspring, and they're the words plural. I'm going to create a battle between a group of people, the offspring of the woman, plural, who hate the offspring of the serpent, plural. Then suddenly, in the very last part of the sentence, he says, he will crush brush your head. Suddenly it gets singular. Who is this person? God is predicting that there will be one single descendant of Eve who will wrestle with evil itself and destroy it. This person will be of such a stature and such a high order of being that he'll be able to take on evil and take on Satan and take on sin itself and he will crush it. But it will be such a momentous struggle that even this great one will himself be bruised, but he won't be demolished. Who is this? It's Jesus. And if you want a perfect example of how Jesus Christ undoes what Adam and Eve did, you have that little couplet in the George Herbert poem. It goes like this. Jesus is up on the cross in the poem, and he's looking down at everybody, and at one place in the poem he says, O all ye who come by, behold and see, man stole the fruit, but I must climb the tree, the tree of life for all, but only me. You see, here's the irony of ironies and the glory of glories. The original tree of life in Adam became a tree of death. But the cross in Christ, the tree of death, becomes a tree of life. All ye who pass by, behold and see, man stole the fruit, but I must climb the tree, a tree of life for all, but only me. Who are the seed of the woman? These are people whose mission in life is not their spouse, is not their friends, is not approval or pleasure, it's not money or work, it's not trying to make the world a better place. and yet it's all those things because we know what it says seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things will be added to you the seed of the woman are people who know my mission now in life is not only to make Jesus my meaning in life but to show other people the lie

man stole the fruit but I must climb the tree a tree of life for all but only me look at the lie Is that the way a God who can't be trusted would act? Trust him. Let the lie be healed in your own life. Make the spread of the gospel your mission in life, and everything else will be added to you. Let's pray. Father, would you grant that we could appropriate these things today? Many of us, Father, we've made you our meaning in life. We've made you, intellectually, we've made you our meaning in life. And yet we realize that one of the reasons we're so unhappy today is because so often there's parts of our heart that just want to go back to other things. Other trees, other fruit, things that we think are good for wisdom and good for pleasure. Father, we would be more wholly committed to you and more wholly sold out for this mission. We want to be the seed of the woman. We want to be the offspring of the woman. Put in our hearts hatred for the lie that operates in us and hatred for the lies that operate in the people around us. Show us how to free people from the effects of a lie. Show us how we can do what your son did. he sacrificed himself on your mission and found himself as he gave himself to you he found himself help us to see only as we deny ourselves and take up our cross will we find ourselves give this truth to us apply it to our hearts by your Holy Spirit and we ask it in Jesus name Amen