The scripture is Isaiah 9 verses 1 through 7.

a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest, as men rejoice when dividing the plunder. For as in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. Every warrior's boot used in battle and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fuel for the fire. To us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. This is the Word of the Lord.

The accounts of the Gospels regarding Jesus' birth are filled with references to David. Filled with references to David. So you'll see that the passages about the birth of Christ will talk about the fact that he was born in the city of David, that he's the son of David, that he's going to take upon himself the throne of David. And we said last week it's because David, through the prophet Nathan, learned that one of his descendants would be the king. The king that would heal the world. Now, of all the passages that talk about Jesus being the Davidic king, this is probably the most famous one of all. Isaiah chapter 9. And it tells you, well, there's a lot in there, of course. But let's just for tonight, just before Christmas, let's meditate on the fact that it tells us two things about Christmas. It tells us Christmas is about how to handle the dark and about how to open a gift. How to handle the dark and how to open a gift. Basically the two things that we've needed since we were five years old anyway. First of all, the first part has to do with how to handle the dark. Notice how many references there are. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who were in distress. stress. The people walking in darkness have seen a great light. On those who's living in the land of the shadow of death, light has dawned. Now, as a kid, I was very scared of the dark. This was very humiliating. I had a younger sister, wasn't scared of the dark. I was very scared of the dark for many years as a kid, and I could not sleep without a nightlight. It was, like I said, very embarrassing. I couldn't sleep without a nightlight, and I was just frightened very much of completely dark rooms, but I loved Christmas. And do you know why I loved Christmas as a child? Think about it. In every single room, there were nightlights. It was like a paradise for me. In other words, either there were lights on the windows outside, which of course shed light into to the room. Or there were ornaments. Or there were candles in every window. Or there were, of course, it was the Christmas tree itself. It was like a paradise for a kid who was scared of the dark. Christmas. Because every room, every hallway was filled with lights. Little lights. And it was at Christmas time. And only at Christmas time. For those two or three weeks of Christmas. I lived without fear. And boy did I hate to see them but you know what? That's a metaphor for how Christmas

can shed light on every part of your life, your whole life, your whole world, how you can live in the whole world without fear. What is the fear that's mentioned in verse 1? It's actually the fear of death. The first time it says the people walking in darkness, doesn't tell us what that darkness is, but Hebrew parallelism, in which the same thing is said twice in a row, on those living in the land of the shadow of death. Literally, the Hebrew says, in death darkness. And this is saying that all human beings live in the shadow of death. Or another way to put it is, this is a way of saying that death casts a shadow on everything in life. Death is the greatest struggle we have with living life. Now, some of us might say, well, now, wait a minute. That was then. This is different now. Things are changed. Then, of course, death cast a shadow on everything. My wife Kathy was reading about the cholera epidemics. And the cholera epidemics in New York City in the 18th century, how do you like this? Five hours after you develop your first symptoms, when you start coming down with cholera, five hours after you had your first symptoms, you were dead. Five hours. I mean, people literally were falling dead, dropping dead in the streets. I was reading just a, and it was a little unusual, but not real unusual. I was reading a biography of a minister who lived in Boston in the 18th century, 17th, 18th century. He outlived not only both of his wives, but outlived 13 of his 15 children. He buried 13 of his 15 children. And, of course, that was a little unusual, but that was then. And you say, yes, that's the way it was. I mean, people were dying all the time. They died young. Half your children wouldn't live to be adults. That was then, this is now. But the most astute commentators will tell you, and I will tell you right now through those astute commentators, that we actually live in a time, in a civilization, modern Western civilization, is more haunted by death, is more darkened by death than any civilization that's ever existed, that we live more in the shadow of death. Now, how could that be? Well, yes, on the one hand, You, if you live in a modern Western society, you are less likely to actually come into literal contact with dead bodies than probably any group of people who's ever lived. I mean, the old days was when, you know, your loved one died, they died in the bedroom in your home, and then you fixed the body up and buried them in the back in the farm. I mean, those days are gone. We live in a technological society, we live in an institutionalized society, and experts do that for us. We don't deal with that.

However, if you think about this, the death rate hasn't changed. It's still one per person, by the way.

And more than that, what the commentators I'm thinking about, and I'm thinking of two, I'll tell you who they are. What the commentators, the smart thinkers of the 20th century have pointed out, is that we are unique in one way, that modern Western civilization is the first civilization in history that's lost its consensus and lost any certainty that there is anything after death. Every other civilization that's ever lived believed that this life was nasty, brutish, and short, but only part of our life. That after we died, there was another world, there was another life. And every civilization that's ever lived, every civilization that ever has existed had consensus and certainty, social certainty on the part of most of the people, that it was possible after you died to have more fulfillment, more love, more glory, more joy than you had in this life. And as a result, in those other places, in spite of the fact that people were dropping dead on the street five hours after they got, you know, their first symptoms, they were not as dominated by the fear of death as we are. Albert Camus, let me give you these two commentators. Albert Camus, for example, says, he says, especially the educated classes of Western civilization no longer are sure that there's anything after death. There might be, there may not be, but who's to say? You know, that's what you're taught in college. Nobody knows for sure if there is a God. Nobody can be sure that there is a heaven. Nobody can be sure there's anything after death at all. Albert Camus says, have the guts to admit that means that everything in your life is meaningless. He wrote an essay called The Myth of Sisyphus, and I'll years ago in college one of my professors lectured, was teaching Camus' essay, The Myth of Sisyphus. And he says, let me tell you the essence of what Camus says in this essay. And he gave an illustration. Now the illustration is not in the mess of the essay, but it's the essence of the essay. It was a very good deductive device on the part of the professor. He says, Camus is basically really saying this. Imagine it's your day off. On your day off, you do things that really make your life happy and meaningful and fulfilled. There's a particular book that you love to read or a kind of book you love to read. You love to read it at a sidewalk cafe where you're drinking espresso. You love to run around the reservoir of the park. There's a certain kind of music that you love to put it on and listen to it. Your system, your sound system. Those are the things to doing on your day off because they're one of the, that's what gives your life relish, these things, the music, the book, the sidewalk cafe, the running, you know, in that beautiful place in the park and so on. And so suddenly, imagine a man breaks into your home and puts a gun to your head and says, I'm going to shoot you, I'm going to kill you. There is no possibility of you not being killed by me today, I'm going to do it. But I've been thinking, I'm a merciful murderer, as murderers go. I'm going to give you two hours to do the things that you enjoy doing so that you can enjoy these last two hours of your life, and then I'm going to shoot you. What would you like? I want you to run around the reservoir and enjoy that. I want you to drink the espresso at the sidewalk cafe, and I want you to enjoy it. I want you to listen to that music. I really want you to enjoy these last two hours of your life. I want you to do the things that fill your life with meaning, and then I'm going to shoot you. What would you say? You say, I'm not sure I'm going to probably enjoy the music today.

I'm not really sure I'm going to enjoy that espresso. I'm not sure I'm going to enjoy the jog around the reservoir. I don't think I'm going to enjoy it all because you see, my imminent death makes all these things that ordinarily give me happiness meaning. They make it meaningless. And Camus says, but don't you realize that if you live in this world, if you live in modern Western society and you have no idea what's on the other side of death, as far as you know, bit of happiness that you've actually got to have. You've got to have to cram into this life. But all the things you really want, you want love that lasts and you want to make a difference in the world. If this life is all there is, if when you die you rot, don't you realize that makes everything in your life meaningless? You're going to die. And you have absolutely no way of knowing or believing that anything of you is going to continue. That love is going to continue. That learning is going to continue. The things you do is going to last forever. says Camus, that if you are a thoughtful 20th century person who, as far as you know, there's nothing on the other side of death, that makes everything in life meaningless, admit it. Don't just hide from that fact. Now, Camus was a gutsy existentialist who says what he was trying to say is we need to live life heroically in the face of the fact that life is absurd and that life is meaningless because death is the end. And don't try to hide from that. You see, Epicurus actually said it years ago. He says the problem, he says what people fear most about death is not that maybe death is annihilation. What people fear most about death is that maybe death is not.

And see, what Camus was saying, what Epicurus is saying, if we're the first civilization that has no idea what's on this side of death, could be that there's nothing. And that makes everything meaningless, according to Camus. But it could be that we've really miscalculated. And there's some kind of afterlife that depends on how we've lived here. And then we've really miscalculated. And how can anybody be sure? And if nobody can be sure in this world, how can we not live with a kind of shadow that death casts over us that has never been cast over a whole society the way it's cast over ours? and then there's another commentator Ernest Becker who wrote a book in 1975 that won a Pulitzer Prize it's not very well known now but I like to promote it every so often I talk about it because it's so good it's called The Denial of Death and in that book Ernest Becker makes an incredibly good scholarly thorough persuasive case for this and is what he says he says in all civilizations sex, money, and politics have been important but only in Western civilization is sex money and power all important. There's never been a culture in which sex and romance and physical beauty is absolutely obsessed upon as it is in our culture. There's never been the kind of obsession with beauty, the kind of obsession with romance and love. There's never been, he says, a more materialistic culture with an obsession with accruing and getting and pleasure and money. And he says, Why? It's the shadow of death. He says, We're the first culture that has ever believed you have to cram all of your significance and all of your happiness into this life. He says, Human beings need to feel significant. But if this life is all there is, then the main way we would feel personally significant and valuable is through sex. And the main way we feel socially significant and valuable politics. And he says when you have a civilization in which there's really, when there's this fear of death or this is a shadow of death and we have no idea there's anything after death, there's nothing to life but sex and politics. And by the way, just count the number of stories every day on the cover of the New York Times that are about sex or politics. It's almost all of them. What else is there?

and Becker says it's the shadow of death there has never been a civilization more dwelling in the land of the shadow of death than ours though so many of you are young that's because you don't personally think much about death I mean you're I'm almost positive that I mean when young people saw people drop dead in the streets like they did you know up until about a hundred years ago They must have thought more about death than we do. But most likely, all young people have always tended to feel like you're going to live forever. That doesn't mean that the shadow of death is not over you because you're part of a culture. You're part of a society that's frantic in a way that no other society has ever been frantic. To have sex, to have romance, to have power, to get the power, to make a lot of money. There's never been a place that felt like this life is all we've got. or you know, remember the old beer commercial? You only go around once in life and you've got to grab for all the gusto you have? There's never been a civilization that's ever said that. Never, and nobody's grabbed for gusto like we do. Nobody's been so frantic. Now let me give you a contrast. Let me give you a contrast. Dietrich Bonhoeffer. Now he, Dietrich Bonhoeffer nowadays, rightly so, is a hero. Whenever he's mentioned in the press, whenever he's mentioned, he's a hero. There's been a movie of his life recently. There's been books written about his life, essays written, and he's a hero, and rightly so. He was a German Lutheran minister of the Church of Germany. And in the Church of Germany, when Hitler rose, there was a lot of people who went over and just kind of fit in with the Nazi program. And Bonhoeffer wouldn't do it. And when Hitler rose to power, actually Bonhoeffer was outside of Germany. He had a job teaching. I mean, he was getting pretty prominent. And he taught here in New York City for a year. He's taught other places. And his friend said, don't go back. You're out of Germany. Hitler's coming into power. Don't go back. It's too dangerous. And he went. He says, I've got to be part of this. These are my people. I've got to be part of this. And he went back. And he resisted. And he protested. And he was arrested. And he was executed. Why? Well, he says he was a hero He's one of those sterner stuff people He made a heroic stuff Uh That's not what he would say Here's what he said right before He died He wrote this He knew he was going to be executed Just before he was executed He wrote this to a friend Death, he wrote Is the supreme festival On the road to freedom Death, he said Is just the supreme festival On the road to freedom Boy, that sounds a lot like George Herbert who said death used to be an executioner, but because of the gospel, Jesus has made death just a gardener. All death can do is plant me in his love and make me come up in ways that, you know, I've never been before. What is Bonhoeffer saying? What is that? A light dawned on Bonhoeffer in spite of the fact that there was darkness all around him, the shadow of the fear of death, because he believed that Jesus Christ was from that other world, born into this world. Jesus Christ died on the cross to pay the debt that human race owed to justice so that when we die believing in him, we can have no fear of anything that we have done which somehow stymie us or draw us down so we don't have to be afraid of death anyway. What did that mean? Because Bonhoeffer wasn't afraid of death. He wasn't afraid of anything because Bonhoeffer wasn't afraid of death. He didn't care about comfort. care about affluence. He didn't care about power or pleasure or sex or money. He didn't care. That's why his people said, you've got it made. You can be a successful professor out here, away from Germany. You don't have to go back in there. He didn't want to go back. Why not? The shadow of death did not fall on him. He lived in a dark world, but because he believed in Jesus, a light dawned. Because Jesus was born in a manger. That means this world is not all there is. do you want to be like Bonhoeffer see what Bonhoeffer was Bonhoeffer wrote Bonhoeffer lived out

writ large what I experienced as a scared little kid at Christmas every year only at Christmas did I live without fear only at Christmas was I able to walk through the entire house not be afraid of any of the rooms but if you let the knowledge of what Jesus Christ is and has done dawn in your life. Like Bonhoeffer, you can walk around in any part of the world, any century, any situation without fear. Bonhoeffer is the exact opposite of the kind of person that Western civilization, according to Ernest Becker, is producing. He wasn't obsessed with romance and love. He wasn't obsessed with money. He wasn't being driven to be successful. There was nothing frantic about him because he wasn't afraid of death. He wasn't afraid of anything. Christmas means fear no darkness. Christmas means fear not. You know, the angels are always showing up in all the Christmas stories saying, fear not, Mary. Fear not, Zechariah. Fear not. Fear no darkness. So the first thing is Christmas is basically about how to handle the dark. But secondly, Christmas is about how to open a gift. Because the rest of the text is all about the fact that this light that can come into your life and make you like Dietrich Bonhoeffer can only be received as a gift.

The language all through this text is about gift versus merit. So, for example, in verse 4, it talks about, defeat. That's a reference to the time in which God delivered the Midianites through Gideon, delivered the Israelites from the Midianites through Gideon, but he told, he made Gideon send the entire army home before God defeated the Midianites to show them that salvation never comes through human ability or power, but through God's grace. And then look at verse 5. Every warrior's boot will be used in battle. Every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be filled for the fire. This is Isaiah saying the deliverance that this son, this child who is born, is going to bring means you don't need to do a thing to contribute to it. You'll need no military hardware for this. You can burn it all.

But ultimately,

the language gets down to this. For unto us a child is born, for unto us a son is given. Who is this child? Who is this son? He's the mighty God. Now, even though the terms are sort of separated a little bit by some words, I don't want you to miss the connection. This is one of the most astounding things that has ever been said anywhere in any literature. This text says the mighty God was born. This says the mighty God was born. And that is the reason why salvation is a gift. Huh? It's a gift because the mighty God was born, not because the mighty God just sort of showed up and gave us visions and gave us messages. The mighty God had to be born into history. Now, another person that says it this way is John in his first epistle. In 1 John 1, 1 to 4, John writes this, that which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked at and our hands have touched, this we proclaim concerning the word of life. The life appeared and we have seen it and testified to it and we proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and has appeared to us. Now both Isaiah and John are saying that when Jesus Christ came into the world, he came physically, he came literally. John says we saw him with our eyes, we felt him with our hands. Isaiah says God was born. He was born in the manger. Now somebody says, why are you putting all this stress on whether it really happened, literally happened? This is what the typical New Yorker would say. It doesn't really matter whether Jesus was really born in a manger of a virgin, whether these things historically happened or not. That doesn't matter. What's really great about Christmas is the story. The story tells me how I should live. The story tells me to live a life of love, a life of hope, of generosity. The Christmas story is very effective whether it happened or not. Doctrine doesn't matter whether you believe in the incarnation of the deity of Christ or the virgin birth. Doctrine doesn't matter, says the typical New Yorker. What really matters is that you are a good person and you live a good life. Now here's the irony. When someone says to you doctrine doesn't matter, what you believe doesn't matter, what really matters is whether you live a good life. The irony is that is a doctrine. It's a doctrine of justification by works. It's a doctrine that, it's a statement, when you say doctrine doesn't matter, what matters is life, is how you live. That is a statement chock full of doctrinal assumptions about God, about sin, about human nature, about whether we're good enough to merit our salvation. And let me tell you why. When you say, oh, it doesn't matter whether the Christmas story really whether it happened literally or historically. All that matters is it shows me how we're supposed to live lives of love and hope. You're not thinking. Listen, every other religion, there are lots of miracle stories. Buddha, Muhammad, Confucius, they all had stories about things that had happened in their lives. And they all had didactic value. That is, they had value because they exemplified things about how you should live. But in every other religion, whether those stories happen or not, affect your salvation because your salvation is completely dependent on you doing the teaching of the founder. The founder says, here's how you must live and you're saved if you do it. The Christianity is completely the opposite. In every other religion, what you do, what you give is what saves you. But in Christianity, it's what Jesus does and what Jesus gives that saves us. Unto us a The child is given. For us, a child is given. For us, a child is born. The reason Jesus had to be born, had to live, and had to die on the cross, it's not just a nice story, is because in Christianity, he's not just born. He's born for us. He's not just living. He's living for us. He's not just dying. He's dying for us in our place, as our substitute, as a representative, which means in every other religion, you're saved by doing what the teacher said.

by what the Savior has done. If Christmas is just a beautiful story about how I should live, it's not beautiful. If it's just an inspiring story about how I should live, it's not inspiring. It's crushing. It's depressing. I'll never live up to it. But if Christmas happened, if Jesus was born for us, a child is born for us, if he lived for us, if he died for us, if he paid the debt that we owe on the cross, then Christmas, and only then is Christmas good news. In other words, The light that can come into your life and make you like Dietrich Bonhoeffer, the light that can come into your life can only come if you understand it as a gift. If like typical New Yorker, you see it as not real, as just a wonderful story telling you how to live, it'll just crush you over the years. But if you see the Christmas story, the story of something that really happened for your salvation, for you, so that when you say, Father, forgive me and accept me, not because of what I've done, because of what Jesus has done. Not because I was born, I lived, I have suffered, because Jesus, what Jesus has done and how he has lived and how he has suffered. And then God can receive you. That's grace. Christmas, therefore, is about opening a gift. And only if you open it as a gift, only if you receive it as a gift, will the light dawn on your life. See? Now, one last thing. If you open the gift of Jesus at Christmas, If, in other words, you say, finally I realize that the story of Christmas is not just a wonderful story of how I should live, but it's the account of how the mighty God was born into this world in order to be my Savior, so that I can be saved by sheer grace. In other words, when you believe that and open it as a gift, what will you find in the box? There's at least three things. We already mentioned one of the four great names in here, the mighty God name, names to show you. If you open this gift, if you really receive Christ by grace, you got three things in the box, at least. Three things that come with a gift. First of all, Christmas can make you deeply mystical, happily material, and free to be emotional. Deeply mystical, happily material, free to be emotional. Real brief, just go through it. First of all, Christmas, if you understand it, if you take it in, if you receive it as a gift, the teaching of the incarnation

can make you deeply mystical because the one who's born in a manger is everlasting Father. Why the word Father? Because even though he's a king, even though he's a great God, he wants to come close. He wants intimacy. He doesn't just want to be a concept. He wants to be your brother. He wants to be your father. He wants to be your lover.

Put it this way. What other religion gives you a God, a God who comes to earth and becomes so human, so much like you, that you can relate to him? Here's a God who says, takes a hold of a woman's hand who lost her son and says, don't cry.

Here's a God who takes the hand of a little girl who's dead and says, Talitha Kum, honey, get up. here's a God who cries out on the cross that he's forsaken here's a God that has moved heaven and earth literally to get so close to you so that you could be so he can be real to you so he can be personal you can have a personal relationship with him so he's not just a concept but you can have a personal relationship with him and if God did all that to come in this world to be real to you, don't you think if you ask him, he'll send the Holy Spirit to make him real to you in your heart? Do you realize the intimacy he wants with you? The incarnation, Christmas, means that at least. So Christmas can make you deeply mystical. Secondly, Christmas can make you happily material. Now what do I mean by happily material? Well, Jeff White was talking about it. Look how many places the word peace shows up. He's not just the mighty God and the everlasting father, he's the prince of peace, of the increase of his government, and peace, there will be no end. Now, here's a little note on biblical interpretation. When you, as modern Western people, see the word peace, you almost immediately psychologize and spiritualize it. When you think of peace, you're thinking of inner peace, right? You're thinking of inner happiness and calm, right? But the word shalom, which is the Jewish word, which is the Hebrew word in this text, He is the Prince of Shalom. The word Shalom means absolute wholeness, complete flourishing. Peace on earth, Shalom on earth, has to mean where there was poverty, there's prosperity. Where there was disease, there's health. Where there was death, there's life. Where there was hunger, there's satiation. As well as where there's alienation from God, there's now reconciliation. Where there's unhappiness now, there's inner peace. and what this means is Christmas means that at Christmas God got a body. He came into this material world. This means this material world matters to God. It matters. Or put it this way, at Christmas God moved into a very bad neighborhood and began rehabilitation of it.

And everybody should be doing the same thing to some degree or another. Christmas means Christian salvation is not just an individual thing but a corporate thing.

individual renewal, new birth, inner peace, but it's also neighborhood renewal, rehabbing houses, and helping the poor. So Christmas will make you happily, deeply mystical, happily material, and last of all, free to be emotional. Hmm, what do I mean by free to be emotional? Let me give you a, well, it has to do with him being a wonderful counselor. That would be a whole sermon. Maybe one of these days I'll give you a sermon on what it means to say Jesus is the wonderful counselor, the counselor who brings wonder. And wonder means beauty, joy. This is telling us that Christmas means that Jesus Christ is not just simply something remote, but that he comes into our lives as a counselor that fills us with joy. I know almost nothing about home ownership, home purchase. I've only once in my life owned a and I lived in Philadelphia. It's the only purchase I ever made, maybe the only purchase I ever will. And partly because of that, I wasn't very smart about it. And it wasn't long after we owned the home that we came to realize we had a water problem in the basement, a big water problem. If there was a heavy dew outside, we had water in the basement. And even when it was a drought, even when it was a summer drought, it was still mildew. It was always damp, and it was mildew, and we had mildew problems and all that. And I tried to figure out what is going on. And finally, I started talking to my neighbors, and I discovered something I should have done due diligence and figured out before I bought the place. They said, oh, don't you realize there's a river, a subterranean river that flows underneath our homes just a few inches from the foundation. So we always have water problems. We always have mildew problems. It's always too damp and wet in our homes, even when there's a drought outside. It doesn't matter about the weather. We've got a river flowing underneath. Now, let's take this very, very sorry homeownership story and turn it into a lovely metaphor.

Jesus is the wonderful counselor. And you know, ultimately, some of us are professional counselors, but all of us have done counseling. Why? If you're a friend, you've done counseling. Because the job of a friend is to take a person's heart who's empty and try to fill it. Do you realize that some of us are desperately out there trying to emotionally invest in people because we desperately need them? We need to be needed. good about ourselves. And others of us are desperately afraid of investing in other people. We're afraid of committing. We're afraid of giving ourselves. We're afraid of commitment. Why? Because we're afraid of being disappointed. But what if you had a subterranean, regardless of the circumstances of your relationships, what if you had a subterranean river of joy? What if you had a wonderful counselor? Somebody who was able to remind you spiritually of the things that he'd done and remind you of your own value, fill you up all the time regardless of what was happening outside, then you wouldn't be overly invested in other people emotionally or under-invested emotionally because he's the wonderful counselor. Christmas means if you open the box, if you open it as a gift, not see it as a beautiful parable of how we should live, but you see if you open it as a gift and receive it as what Jesus Christ has done for you to procure your salvation, it'll make you deeply mystical and happily material and free to be emotional there's a hymn about what it means to let Jesus be your king goes like this in your hearts enthrone him there let him subdue all that is not holy all that is not true crown him as your captain in temptation's hour, let his will enfold you with its light and power. Let's pray.

Father, Christmas, I'm hearing everybody in this room is going to hear so many things about what Christmas really means. But we know one of the things it really means is a gift. Light in the darkness. The end of fear. Intimacy with you. hope for the material and physical world, and a subterranean river of joy flowing through our lives. We pray that you would help us to open these things, that is, that they would become real to us, that we would participate more in the benefits of what your son has done for us by being born for us, by being a son and a child for us. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
