John Stott, in his book, Christian Mission in the Modern World, I think it is, he says this is the better Great Commission. That takes guts. That's why I quoted John Stott. You know, I didn't want to say... It takes some guts to say this is a better Great Commission than the one in Matthew. And he says it's more complete, it's more comprehensive. It actually is better for our purposes here this weekend. And he says because if you only read the Matthew Great Commission, you might get the impression that the main thing, the only thing that we were supposed to be doing was simply evangelism. But the relationship of a Christian to the world is a lot more complex, a lot more nuanced, a lot more full-bodied, a lot more multidimensional, according to this. And Stott says, for example, first of all, he says, if you want to know where we're supposed to go, he says, look very carefully. There's a lot of times that Christians say, we're in the world but not of the world. that best conveys what our relationship to the world should be. Notice, it does say in verse 16, they are not of the world. But it doesn't say they're in the world but not of the world. As Stott points out, it says, I have sent them into the world. That's your preposition. Get a hold of it. Stott says, put it this way. He says, what does it mean to be into the world? Not of the world, not just in the world, but into. He says, it means to come close. It means not shouting the gospel from a distance, but to put ourselves with loving sympathy inside the questions of the questioners, the loneliness of the lonely, the pain of the hurting, to come into such a relationship with people that we infect them with the truth in our hearts. Another way to put it, I think he mentions it there, maybe I thought it up, I don't remember, it's been such a long time, but he says there's a difference between being an ambassador, being a tourist, and being an immigrant. a tourist is a tourist is So you'd be utterly acquainted. Otherwise, you can't do the job of an ambassador unless it's clear that you understand the host country and culture. You're a tourist but you're not a immigrant. Mmm. The haunted house. Anyway. You're not a immigrant. You're not a missile. You're a missile. of the place you came from. The laws of society is different. The laws in the embassy are the laws of the country you're from. You're neither a tourist nor an immigrant. You're neither of the world nor are you in the world. You're into the world. And the second thing that Stott says is Jesus doesn't just tell us where we're supposed to go, but he also tells us what we're supposed to do in there. because instead of Matthew, Great Commission, what you have here is, as you sent me into the world, Father, so send I you. I send them. Actually, he says this to some other place as well. Now, the point is, as John Stott says, we're supposed to go into the world not simply to do evangelism, frankly, but we're supposed to do everything Jesus did. And that was our idea here tonight. all weekend. Jesus went into the world, not just in word, but in deed. Not just to speak, but also to embody the kingdom of God. Jesus, we said, went into the world not just announcing greed and lust, but befriending rich men and loose women. We're supposed to go into the world as Jesus went into the world. We're supposed to go into the world embodying the kingdom. Then we can go one step further. where does the ability to be Jesus in the world, to get into the world, and to be both a prophet and a priest, see? Denouncing and befriending. Word and deed. Not just talking about the kingdom, but embodying the kingdom. Well, where do we get that from? It's from the gospel. Well, where's the gospel? Well, it says if they're going to do this, you have to sanctify them in the truth. But what's the truth? And this has been the point of the weekend. Look down here. sent me and have loved them even as you've loved me. Now, by the way, if you haven't heard it before, there is no better, no better description, no more radical statement of the gospel than those last few words. That's not hyperbole. If that's not hyperbole, that's the gospel. It says how, how amazing it is that Jesus says, Father, this is what the Christian faith, you love them exactly as you love me. You love them even as... Is this hyperbole? Preachers tend to do that. Is this just, well, you know... Even as. In Christ, we're perfect in God's sight. In Christ, we're as much a hero as he is. You see? To the Father, we're heroes because he's a hero. To the Father, we're beautiful because he's beautiful. We're everything that he is. Even as... What is that? Is that an exaggeration? No, if it's not an exaggeration, it's the gospel. Even as... Now, how is the world supposed to know this radical thing has happened to us? How are we supposed to let the world know? If you look up, it says we've become a sociological reality. See? It says, Father, I want there to be, in the way in which they relate, an embodiment of the gospel. That's what it's saying. That's what it's saying when it says, may they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you love them as much as you love me. So, now, what I've been trying to get at, what I've been trying to push is, around the New Life churches, and Redeemer is, you know, maybe not a daughter church of the New Life churches, but it's a niece. Okay, you're maybe not our mother, you're our aunt. Okay? But we all are very good at talking about how the gospel makes us a unique psychological reality. We're very good at it. In fact, I got most of my ideas from hanging out in New Life because at New Life they said, put it this way, this is my distillation of it, the gospel is neither legalism nor antinomianism. The gospel is neither that we're saved by works, that God is holy, and we have to try to live up, nor that God is just love and not holy, but rather, this is the gospel, to see the law by love fulfilled and hear his pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. That's John Newton, or maybe it's William Cooper, I forget. It's a hymn, it's an old hymn, perfect. To see the law. God is not love and not law. God doesn't just love everybody, doesn't really matter. God is not law but not love. love. But here's the gospel on the cross to see the law by love fulfilled. And here is pardoning voice transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. That's everything we've been talking about. Because of what the gospel does to me, I'm a new psychological reality. Dave Pallison, of course, has a perfect way of putting this. He says, psychologically, Christians are unique because we're neither legalists nor antinomians. We're not moralistic. You know there's a place his articles. He says there's a moralizing approach to counseling and a psychologizing approach. That's exactly what Camille Paglias says. That's exactly what Heather Higgins says. The moralistic. The therapeutic. He says the moralizing approach to problems. Is to say. Repent. Just do the right thing. Puts all the emphasis on behavior. And a psychologizing approach. A therapeutic approach. To counseling. To problems. To say. You just need to love yourself. You know. Puts all the emphasis. On feelings. But the gospel approach is to say, here's what your problems are. Not simply behavioral sins and not simply you don't love yourself. Something besides Jesus Christ is operating as your functional savior. Your functional righteousness. The reason you're angry. The reason you're worried. The reason you're depressed. The reason you have all the problems you have is there's something besides Jesus that's more important to you that's your functional salvation. Repent. Now that makes us a unique psychological entity. We have a unique self-image. And everybody's job throughout all of your life is to figure out ways to preach the gospel to yourself that work for you. Now, just to give you an example. One not too long ago, one morning. And this has helped me for several months now. One morning not too long ago. I was jogging on a Sunday morning before. Something I will not be doing tomorrow. Before my morning service. And I didn't like my material. I didn't like the sermon. I didn't like the stuff. I just didn't feel like I had much to offer. I didn't feel like I had many insights. And I was tension. Tensing up. I was clutching. It never happened to you, has it? No. Angelo's nodding. I just thought... I'm starting to clutch. I'm starting to get tense. I was meditating on one of the great places, of the many places in the Bible, that really puts the gospel in a nutshell. In Romans 1, Paul says, for now, in the gospel, a righteousness from God is revealed, which is received by faith, as it is written, He who through faith is righteous shall live. He who through faith in Christ is righteous shall live. And it suddenly hit me. Wait a minute. If that's true. That's Romans 117. It says, The just by faith shall live. Or the righteous by faith shall live. And a good translation of that is, He who through faith in Christ is righteous shall live. Suddenly it struck me. He who through faith in preaching shall die. He who through faith in preaching is righteous shall die. That's the reason that I was dying. I was dying out there. I said, well, because what? He who through faith in preaching is righteous shall live. But he who through faith in Christ is righteous shall live. He who through faith in preaching is righteous shall die. In fact, he who through faith in anything is righteous besides Jesus will die. That helped tremendously. My head went up at that point. I said, oh my God, I was released. What are you doing? You're getting that unique self-image. You're working underneath. Moralizing, not psychologizing. Okay, we're good at that. We've actually gotten pretty good. We've been doing this for years. We have not been applying, though, the gospel to say, we have been thinking how the gospel makes us not just a unique psychological entity, but a unique sociological entity. Not just a unique psychological person, people. Jesus says, if you know your love even as me, that should make you a unique community. And what we've been trying to get at is that means we move out into politics. It means when we move out into culture. It means we're politically unique. It means we're sociologically unique. It means we're culturally unique. It means we're vocationally unique. We're unique in our relationships in the world, not just our psychology. We just haven't, I don't think, as a group of churches, thought this out very well. We haven't talked that much about it. Now, when I say unique, I mean something like this. How can you get a sphere into a square? I didn't say a cube. I said a square. How can you get a sphere into a square? Well, the answer is, since the sphere is three-dimensional and the square is two-dimensional, you can only get a slice. They can intersect, but frankly, it might say the square can intersect the sphere, but the square cannot contain the sphere. And in the same way, Christians, where are you on the political spectrum? Where are you on the cultural spectrum? I say we intersect those spectrums of the world. We show up on it. At different points we say, yeah, I vote for that. Yeah, I'm for this. Yes, I'm for that. But we cannot be contained. We are unique. unique. Just like if you draw a line back between moralizing and spiritualizing, I mean psychologizing, if you draw a psychological spectrum, we intersect at certain points, at several points. We're both and yet we're neither. We're neither and yet we're both, and yet we're off the scale. Now, I gave some examples. Let me just kind of just remind you of a few. Politically, why are we unique? Well, how would the gospel keep us from both liberalism and conservatism, both moralizing, you see, and therapeutizing, we were talking about. Well, we said this morning, for example, our attitude toward the poor. Conservatives despise and fear the poor? Moralists, I mean. See, somebody's going to be unhappy because you say, I'm a political conservative, I'm a political liberal. Fine. If you're a Christian and you really understand the gospel, surely you have seen that you intersect, but you're not in the square. You just aren't. You can't be. I'm afraid that you haven't thought out the gospel way in. So the moralistic people, they despise the poor and they fear the poor. The liberal people, they pity the poor, but Christians actually can respect and love the poor. Or look at the way people do politics. It seems to me I see utopianism on the one hand, if everything goes the way our program says, the world would be a great place, or cynicism, indifference. The gospel doesn't lead you to either of those things. tomorrow night I'm preaching on the place where in 1 Kings 19 where Elijah says I give up I give up I've been a total failure there's nobody around, it's interesting to see how God counsels him I think with the gospel because all of the he shows Elijah that he's not a God of judgment he comes in with a still small voice but the interesting thing is on the one hand he slaps Isaiah. He humbles Isaiah. But on the other hand, he builds them up and he says, you're going to go pretty soon. He sends them off to anoint a new king of Israel, a righteous king of Israel, Jehu. But you know who else he sent off to anoint? Yes, somebody remembers Elisha, a new prophet. Who else has he sent off to anoint? No, Haziel. He sent off to anoint a new king of Syria. What? A prophet of Yahweh? Was this new king of Syria a believer? No. What's going on? You know, God is saying to Elijah, on the one hand, he's getting him away from utopianism or cynicism. He's saying, I'm in control of the pagans. I can do great things for the pagans. Cyrus is my anointed prince, so is Hazael. Go and anoint him. He actually sends a prophet to anoint a king of Syria as a way of saying, on the one hand, see, Elijah has just, I'm giving my whole sermon for tomorrow night, Elijah thought that he was about to wipe out unbelief when he destroyed all the prophets on Mount Carmel. And he was tremendously disappointed to find out that he had put his political program into position. He'd gotten everything he wanted, and guess what? There was still sin in Israel. And so, you see, he was a utopian, to move all the way back, and he says, he's cynical, he says, I'm the only one left. I'm the only Christian, in a sense. And everything's out of control, and God comes and says, Elijah, there's at least 7,000 other people. You know, what makes you think that you're so special? And then he says, and I'm still working, go and anoint Elijah, go and anoint Jehu, and go and anoint Haziel. The gospel pulls us out of the utopianism, the hard nose that says, if we get our entire agenda in there, the country will turn around. But on the other hand, it gets us away from cynicism and indifference. Now, listen, I'm just beginning to think about it. I'm not saying that this is it. I'm saying that we just haven't, as a group of Christians, in a sense, as a movement, a kind of Christian movement, we haven't thought out how the gospel makes us unique in our relationships with the world. We've thought about evangelism only, but not overall. What about vocation? For a second, I've been thinking about this. Like I said, Dave Pallison's

and psychologizing, in a sense, conservatism and liberalism, legalism and antinomianism. He's thought about it in psychology, but have we thought about it in politics? No, not much. What about in our vocation? I would say the moralistic type gets a job because it brings me money and power. And the psychologistic type, the therapy, therapeutics type, says, I've got to get a job that really fulfills me. I work for fulfillment, satisfaction. They're both going to tend to a different kind of workaholism. The moralist is a kind of person who basically says, I want a job that pays. I don't care whether it fulfills me or not. In the long run, that can create a tremendous inner emptiness. On the other hand, another person may say, well, I haven't taken a job that pays. I have a job that fulfills and satisfies me. I don't think the gospel does either of those things. I think the gospel says, find a job that's useful. useful. In fact, because you don't need, you see, the work. You're not afraid of work. It's not a curse anymore. But on the other hand, it's not your God. It's not something, you see, in that way. Well, in that case, what do you have? I'd say, here's my idea. The gospel makes me go and choose a career like this. I want to find something that I can do and something that's useful to other people and something that gives me some financial return. In fact, if I was going to figure out how I would say if I had these three things. I want to find something that I can do. Something that is useful. Something that is useful to do. Something that I'm able to do. And something that gives me a return. Then I should seek. Once I've figured what that out is. I should seek just to do it. For the delight of doing it. I should cultivate a love of the work itself. Because I see that it is useful for people. I see that it is making money. So I can be a steward. And I see also that I am able to do it. But in a sense, I feel like without the gospel, you're either going to hate work. You're going to utterly hate it because it's not giving you the money which you feel like you need. Because without the gospel, you're either going to try to get your identity from money or you're going to try to get your identity from the feeling like I'm a great, I'm great in my field. You see that? And as a result, you're either going to absolutely hate your job because it's not saving your soul the way you need it to. Or else, actually, you're going to succeed. And it's going to totally absorb you. Absolutely absorb you. The gospel will give us a different attitude toward our work. We're going to work, I think, without a feverishness. We're going to work, I think, with a lot of integrity. We're also going to choose our career. We're going to choose our work to say, is this really doing something for the human race? Vocationally. I don't want to keep going too much. Culturally. As we said a little... morning. When you become a Christian, your ethnicity becomes less central to your identity. Just like in work, work becomes less central to your identity so you can actually enjoy it. And as we were saying, in politics, the same thing. You're not either utopian or cynical. When we get into the idea of the culture, one thing that I've noticed is a lot of times when Christians move to New York, it's not the same in Philadelphia. In fact, nothing's like New York. a fact. But when you get to New York it's a very, very difficult to avoid having pretty close working relationships or pretty close living relationships in a way. With people a very different culture. Some people just fritz. Some people who are Christians. They need to be with their own type. Period. They need to be with their own type. If things just aren't right. Culturally. If the customs aren't right. If the people around aren't right. They fritz out. That's not in line with the truth of the gospel. On the other hand, if you're in reaction, there's a, I won't mention, I mean, some of my own relatives, you know, on one side of my family, Kathy, my wife, is the same way. One side of our family were very old Americans in the sense of, you know, German and Scots-Irish. And on one side of each of our families were here for a long time, whereas on the other side, fairly recent immigrants. Croatia and my grandfather came from Italy. One thing we could see that almost nobody, without the gospel, you either run away from your ethnic identity out of a fierce desire to look like everybody else here, or else on the other hand, you sort of stay, you hold on to your ethnic identity as a kind of life raft, and you're always feeling victimized very often. The gospel pulls you out of that. The gospel makes you critical of your race. It does. On the other hand, it makes you loyal to it. It relativizes it as a component in your identity. And therefore, Christians should not just be able to have better cross-cultural friendships than almost anybody else, but you should even want them. You should look for them. We should be the leaders in a bit of diversity training, frankly. We ought to know all about it. And we shouldn't have to base it on relativism. As a matter of fact, relativism is not the basis for multiculturalism. Because, frankly, if everything is relative, then tolerance should be relative too. You say, if everything's relative, give me one good reason why I shouldn't punch you in the nose because your face is a different color than mine. Give me one reason. You can't. You see, Christianity has a basis. And we should be the leaders. And we should be showing. So what do you think Jesus says when he says, if you are loved even as I am loved by the Father, that should show up in the way you are sociologically, not just psychologically. One more thing, and then I want to kind of go back to the text and try to give you a final motivational thought. When it comes right down to how we actually are going to work these things out, how are we going to create, in a sense, a sociological reality a reality that is unique to the gospel. How are we going to be thinking out the way Paul was with Peter. What does it mean to be in line with the truth of the gospel. In a way in which we work. In a way in which we relate to other people. In a way. In politics. You know. I gave you a example. I think one example will be that. If. When we start to get in a line with a gospel. We will rise up as Christians. And go to our local neighborhoods. And our local cities. And sit down. And say. On a one hand. And a other. See. see, against the moralistic, against, you know, not conservative or liberal, come in and say, you don't trust Christians, and you have a right to, and we don't even ask you to trust us, but what we want to know is, what are the needs in this community? Show us what we can do for the common good, and we'll show you what Jesus has meant to us. We're going to, in the name of Jesus, meet those needs. What needs to be done? Don't trust us until you see that we're the best We're the best neighbors. The early apologists for Christianity, the early apologists, back when the Roman Empire was sort of dying down, everybody thought Christianity was a bad thing. The early apologists said, look at the kind of citizens we are. There's nobody who's the kind of citizens that we are. Nobody. They were able to say that. Nobody can say that about Christians. Absolutely not. Now, how are we actually going to do it? One thing that's interesting to me, is going to go by very quickly. Some people say, be more specific. And of course, one of the problems I got here is I realized that some of you have been in Christianity and Christian ministry as long as I have. And others of you are brand new Christians, and some of you are not even sure you're Christians. So how in the world I think I'm going to say something intelligent and interesting to all of you. I think it's the stupidest thing. Why did I even start? But now I have to finish. I don't know. Some of you might say, what was that? Okay, but some people come up and say, some people say this is almost too specific for me. Others have said, give me more specifics. How are we actually going to do this? All I know that out of the Reformation came three strains, three basic strains of Protestants. And they all had a different approach to how Christians related to the world. The Anabaptists said we need to be countercultures. We need to be separate in our politics and our work. In other words, we need to create a little environment in which the world can see what a renewed society would look like. We have to create a place where race relations, business practices, economics, in other words, a little society, and we have to, in a sense, we have to have separate Christian work and politics. The Lutherans, as Niebuhr says, he calls that Christ against culture, culture. The Lutherans had a view that basically was said by Niebuhr to be Christ and culture in paradox or tension. Luther and the Lutherans basically said, what you just need to do is be excellent in your work and your politics. Luther would say, somebody says, what does it mean to be a Christian politician? He would say, to be a Christian politician is simply to be a good politician. He said, just go out and do it well. Be good. Be excellent. Lutherans had a tendency to say, out there in the world, there's not a lot of differences between a Christian politician and a good politician. Just get out there and be excellent. That's how you can be a witness. That's how you can get into the world. That's your mission. Then you had the Reformed. You had the Anabaptists. You had the Lutherans. You had the Reformed. The Reformed said, you need to get into the world and do your work distinctively. There is a Christian way of doing politics, and there's a Christian way of doing your various sorts of work, and there's a Christian way of doing things. Now, you know, to some degree, as you can hear from me tonight, all weekend, I'm Reformed, and therefore I believe that. And I would go one step further and say, We've got to think how the gospel, as opposed to the moralistic, the Apollonian and the Dionysian on both sides, how the gospel actually affects the way we do work. And I think to some degree we can do that. Some of you are in the arts. Well, you see, the conservative theory of art is art is only good if it's telling my side of the story. Art is propaganda. And the liberal view of art is art is okay as long as it's self-expression. but as we were saying Jonathan Evers points out that until you've experienced grace you can't ever do anything for it's own sake everything is a tool you never delight in anything for it's own sake the conservatives say this is fine art's fine as a social tool and the artists say art's fine as a psychological tool but a Christian says art is fine for it's own sake in other words we believe as Christians in the gospel we understand that you should do beauty for the sake of gratitude creates a world of beauty. It can get all the way down to this. I was talking to a lady who was trying to apply the gospel to her work as a therapist helping to rehabilitate children and youth who have physical handicaps, physical disabilities. And you know what she said to me? Oh, it was fascinating. She said she decided that the problems that people have when they suddenly wake up in the hospital bed and they're told that they won't be able to see again or they're not or whatever. It says, on the one hand, some people deny that there's going to be any change. They say, I'm going to do everything I could before. So they're in denial. Other people just collapse and give up and try to do nothing. She says, actually, the only way they can really go is they have to find a tension between resistance and acceptance. They have to push and push and resist, and at the same time, they have to accept. And she says, it's only because she's a Christian that she can even understand. Because only the Christians really understand that. Only the Christians really understand that, yeah, I'm a sinner and this is a broken world, but I'm also accepted and someday I'm going to walk for good. And they're able to pull together resistance and acceptance. They're able to avoid both denial and collapse. And she says the gospel is giving her a theory, an approach to her physical therapy. a person. Definitely, we need to ask ourselves how does the gospel actually affect the way I work. But, I have a feeling that all those Reformation traditions are right. We do need to do separate work in politics. We also need to do excellent work in politics. We also need to do distinctive work in politics somehow. Until we learn how to apply the gospel and do all of that. All of it. We're not going to make a dent. The world's not going to know that he loves us even as he loves his own son. Now, look, the last thing, and this is this, as I mentioned, finish with motivation. When Jesus says, I send, well, here he says, I send them into the world even as the Father sent me. But there's another place later on, as you know, later on in John, where he says, as the Father sent me into the world, so send I you. you. The word send in Latin is missio, mission. Jesus says, my relationship with the Father made me a man in mission, and now your relationship with me will make you men in mission, or you've never met me. You see, he says, oh boy, he says, as the Father sent me, so I send you. Now, everyone who ever met the real God became a man in mission. Everyone who ever met the real God went out there into the world. And to go into the world is very, very frightening. So God shows up and he meets Abraham. And what does he say? He says, Abraham, I'm going to bless you, but why? So that you will be a blessing. So God meets Abraham and what immediately happens? Get out, he says. God never calls you in God is a tornado. He's a spiritual tornado. He will never bless you except to make you a blessing. He will never call you in except to send you out. And anyone who has ever met the real God is always shot out of a cannon. Jesus says, my relationship with God has sent me out. He says, I want, get this, what does he say there in that one verse? He says, for their sake I sanctify myself. Now, sanctify means set yourself apart. Sanctify means, literally, not only sanctify sounds like it means make yourself holy, but the original meaning of sanctify means to set yourself apart. It means to give yourself away. Jesus Christ says, I now live for them. He gave himself away. God comes in and meets Abraham. And Abraham gets out. God comes down and meets Moses. What happens immediately? Go to Pharaoh. Pharaoh. God comes down and meets Isaiah. First thing that happens after... See, Isaiah and Moses and Abraham kind of knew the Lord, but as soon as they really meet the Lord and see who he is, they're immediately in mission. You see? So down comes God, Isaiah sees him, and what immediately happens to Isaiah, who will I send? See, God says, I have a job. I want you to go to people who will never listen to you. And Isaiah jumps up and says, you know, gets in the front of the line and signs up. What's the idea here? The idea is not, you cannot really know God without becoming a person in mission. In fact, the reason for that, you can't even be godly without being a person in mission, because it says here, sanctification and mission go together. If you are not in mission, if you're not willing, like Abraham and Moses and Isaiah, to get out of your comfort zone. Get out! As soon as he brings you in, he gets you out. Why? Because, as Paul says, the love of Christ constrains. The love of Christ radically frees you. Radically frees you. You start to say to yourself, what kind of monster would I have to be to keep this stuff to myself? And if you've never had a thought like that, you really don't see what he's given you yet. simple as that. And so God comes in and brings you in. As soon as he brings you in, he always says, get out. And Abraham got out, not knowing whether he went. You see, that's the frightening thing about mission, because when you say, I know God, he loves me even as his own son, the knowledge of that, if I really have any grip on that, that will shoot me out of a cannon, like a bat out of hell. I will be out of there, and I don't even know where I'm going, To get out of my comfort zone. To get out not knowing whether I went. Not knowing whether he went. And if you really want a bottom line. If you really want an ultimate motivator. You have to look at Jesus. Because Jesus is not asking you to do something he didn't do. He knew the Father. And as a result. Jesus got out. Not knowing whether he went. And when unfortunately. Actually Jesus got out. Knowing exactly whether he went. anyway. He says, I sanctify myself for them. I give myself away for them. Jesus lives for you. He does everything for you now. He laid himself out for you. He went into the world, and he got all beaten up, and he got destroyed. Now, if you go out into the world, you'll probably get your toes stepped on. Wow. And yet we're afraid of even that. If you look at the dynamics here, if you see him sanctify himself for you being sent into the world and then saying look what I've given you now I send you into the world even as the father sent me get out get out of your comfort zone get out let the gospel really change you in all these ways let it make you a man in mission get out and if you say this isn't grabbing me, fine go back to the gospel until it does Those of you who understand the gospel will sit down and say, Lord, send me into the world. Let me get out. Show me what I should do. Let me pray, and then I'll give you a couple of questions for your small groups. Let me pray. Father, I thank you. I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that you have hidden these things from the wise and the learned and revealed them to little children,

for such was your good pleasure. We are the children. We are the little ones. We are the helpless ones. And now it seems that we are the ones that you want to send out into the world. We've just spent a little bit of time insights, O Lord, into how we have to let the gospel change the way in which we are in the world, change our relationships with people in the world. Give us the same. Make us knights of the Lord's table. Make us fearless, gentle men. Let us walk in the footsteps of the one who sat down and the women and the children came to him and the children couldn't get enough of him, and who sent the money

and who denounced the religious leaders to their face, knowing that they were going to kill him. Father, make us knights of the Lord's table. Make us men in mission. Make us fearless, gentle men. Help us to understand what that will be and what that will mean. So what we ask is, first of all, give us that motivation, and secondly, enable us to think these things out clearly in line with the truth of the gospel. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.