Well, all year we've been looking at the Christian leader under the image of the steward. At this point, though I didn't do the research real recently, but my overall impression is that the two images in the Bible that are most often connected to the idea of a Christian leader is the steward and the shepherd. shepherd. I recently saw a book that just traced the idea of shepherding and what the shepherd image and what that means for Christian leadership all the way through the Bible. It's a new book out by, I recently saw, I still haven't found a book on tracing out what we've been trying to do this year, which is the idea of the leader as steward. And we said on the front of your handout out that a steward is someone who takes resources and nurtures, cultivates, and multiplies them for God's glory and the good of human flourishing, the good of the Christian community. And so each week we've taken a look, each month we've taken a look at some resource you've got. Very often it's resources you may not even think of as resources, like, for example, your relationships. How do you steward the relationships you have in the world for evangelistic purposes and so on. This last one might almost seem obvious, but I don't think, actually, as I was thinking about what does it mean to be a steward leader, it didn't occur to me. The reason it's happening in May is because it didn't even occur to me at first how important this was, and this is the subject of being a steward leader through prayer. Now, by that I don't mean that if you're going to be a Christian leader, you need to have a prayer life, of course. You need to have a relationship with God. Through Christ. You need to have. Sound doctrine. I mean. All that's true. I mean. Something different. Unless. You're praying. For. The. People. That. God. Has. Given. You. To. Care. For. You're. Not. Stewarding. Them. You're. Not. Nurturing. Them. You're. Not. Multiplying. Them. You're. Not. Caring. For. Them. You. Have. Got. To. Learn. How. To. You. Got. To. see, I shouldn't say how to, you've got to see and become diligent in praying for other people. And the more I thought about it, the more I thought this is worth spending some time on with you all. Because it almost sounds too obvious and too simple. And as a result, we might not realize its importance and we might not give it the importance in our lives that it should have. So take a look at the first heading. Let me talk to you about what I mean by prayer for others. We don't even actually have a good word for it. See, let's talk about types of prayer for a second. All prayer is toward God, of course, but there's praying to God about God. There's praying to God about yourself. There's praying to God about the world in general. And finally, there's praying to God about other people, particularly. See, when you're praying to God about God, we call that adoration. And when we pray to God about ourself, there's a lot of ways to do that. There's repentance and confession. There's thanksgiving. There's petition and supplication. And then, when you pray to God for the world, you're praying for peace and justice. us. But when it comes to praying to God for other people, we don't actually have a good word for it except maybe the word intercession. Though I want to show you that intercession is only one kind of prayer for people. But in intercession, you really are a priest. You're going between the person and God and you're taking their needs to God. You're a priest. You're a mediator. You're a high priest. You're an intercessor. But the reason to bring this out is because traditionally when we think about forms of prayer, I don't know whether you've heard this particular schema, but very often we talk about adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication. The reason we talk about adoration, confession, thanksgiving, and supplication is it creates an acronym, ACTS, A-C-T-S. Yes. Supplication is the same as petition, but you don't want to say act. So anyway, there's your four forms, right? Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. That's pretty much all the forms of prayer, right? The trouble is that you could do all four of those basically selfishly. I mean, adoration is to God, but you can do confession and thanksgiving and supplication, mainly about yourself, and we have to be careful to avoid that. The third paragraph down, Don Carson has written a book, and actually I put the name of the book is actually, I think, at the end of the handout, isn't it? Yeah. A book called A Call to Spiritual Reformation. It's a book that he wrote many years ago in which he just looks at the prayers of Paul in the New Testament. And the one thing that's striking, I was rereading through the book, getting ready for tonight, and one of the things that's striking is the percentage of Paul's letters that are actually concerned with prayer for others. If you think about it, there are large parts of his letters in which he's actually praying for people as he's writing to them. You know, he'll be saying, I always thank God for you, and I'm always praying this for you, and I ask that God will strengthen you by might in your inner man, Basically, if you read the paragraph or two paragraphs, you'll see he's actually praying for the people as he's writing to them. Then there are other places where he reports on his praying. He says, this is how I pray for you. And then there are other places in his letters where he asks them, please pray for this for me and this for me and this for me. And if you put together all those things, there's a huge percentage of Paul's writing, which is actually taken up with praying for other people. Very, very specifically. that means. That was an enormous part of his own ministry. If you're not praying for your people deliberately, intentionally, spending a lot of time on it, praying very specifically for them, you're not actually a steward leader. You're not stewarding them spiritually. You're not caring for them. You're not actually bringing all possible to bear on their spiritual good. So, what is, why? Okay, let's go down to the next paragraph. There's really two kinds of prayer for others. Intercession and thanksgiving. In intercession, pardon me, wow, this is a really sensitive mic, it is. In intercession, you're longing for what's best for someone. before God. And to do intercession, you have to have a clear and concrete understanding of two things. You have to know their needs and you have to know their flaws. You have to know their needs so you can ask God to meet the need. You have to know their flaws so you can ask God to redeem the sin. And so you have to really pray for someone intercessoryly. To intercede for somebody, you need to know their needs and you need to know their flaws. The other side is thanksgiving. And in Thanksgiving, and Paul does a lot of thanking God for individuals. In fact, I think that when I was preparing this tonight, that was the thing that struck me that I don't do much about. I do have a regular time in my own prayer life in which I intercede for people. And almost always everybody on my intercessory list are people who've got problems. You know, people who are sick, people who are facing crises. Please pray for me. So I say, okay. Something I didn't put on here, but I don't have a palm pilot anymore now, so I can't call this. But I've often talked about palm pilot prayer. And palm pilot prayer is, I've talked to you before about this. I do think it's important to pray in the morning and at night, if you possibly can, that you should. If you're only going to do 30 minutes of prayer a day, it would be better to do 20 in the morning and 10 at night. I think it frames the day. a great time. What I always do is I used to go back. I don't have a palm pilot. I just use my head now because I don't get my outlook up. But I go back and look at everybody I talked to that day. I remember everybody I talked to. And I say, now, is there anybody today that I talked to that needs prayer? And usually quite a lot. It's almost impossible for me to maintain a list long enough so that I'm praying for everybody. Only the most severe problems get on my intercessory prayer every single day. But what I can do is go do my palm pilot prayer. Think back on the day. Think about the needs. But I almost never do the thanksgiving stuff. See, thanksgiving is praising God for great things that people are doing in the church. Great things that people are doing in your life. Great. Thanking God for things. Paul does this all the time. And I suddenly realized, I almost never do that. And I'll show you why that's just as important. To do thanksgiving prayer. You've got to have a specific understanding of a person's strengths and potentials. So you can give God praise for their strengths and ask them, ask God to make them even better. And if you intercede for people with a list of their needs and their flaws, and you thank God for people with a list of their strengths and their potentials, and you're working over the people under your care in those ways, it's going to change things. How? You might say, well, what's what's the good of all that? Next, why do prayer for others? I'll suggest five ways that it really, really brings great benefits. Number one, first of all, it brings the mysterious power of prayer to bear on the lives of your people. We're told that many great things won't happen unless we pray for them. You have not because you ask not, James 2. When you pray for people, things happen that otherwise, James 4 says, as the Bible says, things are not going to happen in your people's lives unless you're praying for them. Now, this brings up a big issue, and I decided, no, not tonight. We're not going to do a theology of intercessory prayer and petitionary prayer. How does prayer work? Here's the only thing I can tell you in a nutshell of a nutshell. On the one hand, prayer changes things, but it does not change God's plans. plans. We don't quite know how that works. It's a little bit like predestination and free will. We are absolutely responsible for our choices. God is not forcing us, and yet after we've made our choices, it's part of God's plan. Well, you say, it's got to be one or the other. No, it doesn't. He's God, you know. He can say, you are free. I am not coercing anybody. You are totally responsible for your decision for or against Christ, but if you decide for Christ, Christ, that was my plan. That's what the Bible says. It's a tension. It's a both and, not either or. In our little minds, we think it's got to be either or. Same thing with prayer. Prayer changes things. If you don't pray, these things don't happen. And yet you can't screw up God's perfect plan for your life and everybody else's life. We say, well, wait a minute. minute. They're just both true. At the very least, it's pretty easy to see that, I mean, I can see, if I hadn't prayed for something, my own heart wasn't prepared for it. And therefore, I can see at least one reason why God doesn't give us things unless we pray for them. If we don't pray for them, they're bad for us. They just enhance our idols. We don't see them as God's gifts. Only if we pray for them, for example, when good things come, are they God's gifts? In fact, if you don't pray for something before it happens, you are robbed of joy. Things happen, you haven't prayed for them, and you say, oh, there we go. And you don't have any joy. You're robbing yourself of joy if you don't pray for things. Now, that doesn't completely exhaust the question by any means. The question is the question is how could prayer change things and at the same time not foul up or change God's sovereign plan? The answer is it is a mystery. The important thing to know is on the one hand, you can pray without fearing that you're somehow changing God's course of history. But on the other hand, you better pray because God says you have not because you ask not. So first of all, when I to pray for my friends and my family and my folks, I'm bringing some kind of divine power to bear on their lives that otherwise wouldn't be brought to bear. And that's just the way the Bible, that's what the Bible says, number one. Number two, though, and I've already actually said this,

secondly, prayer prepares you to receive blessings. But more importantly, now I'm talking to you as leaders, it is astounding how much of a better leader you are in your interactions with people that you've been praying for regularly. You are smarter because the praying forces you to think about the person. You start to think of their needs. You start to think of their strengths. You start to think of their weaknesses. And that makes you a better steward of them. Because you're praying for them. It moves you to love them more. Because you're longing for their best before God. And you're praying for them. And you're appealing to God. Then you meet them two hours later. And there's a love in for them that wouldn't have been there otherwise. And usually, very often, there's an understanding. So many times when I'm praying for somebody, it's as I'm talking to God about them, I say, yeah, that's what that person needs. Yeah, wait. So secondly, prayer prepares you for interaction with your people. Thirdly, it makes you more like Jesus because when you intercede for people, you are putting yourself in Jesus' shoes. When you pray for others, you're assuming on a very small derivative scale the role of a mediator or a priest. You're standing in Jesus' shoes. You're being pulled out of your natural self-absorption, turn over, and becoming someone who longs for the good of others. And that's the very essence of holiness. Here's what's so weird. It is sanctifying to think of something besides your own sanctification. The more you're concerned for other people's sanctification, their growth, the meeting of their needs, their Christ-likeness, there's nothing that is more, there's nothing that makes you more Christ-like than longing for somebody else's Christ-likeness. Nothing. Because that's what Christ did. He came not to be served, but to serve. He came to give himself. Humility is not thinking less of yourself, but thinking of yourself less. Who said that? Okay, fourth, praying for others helps keep your relationships clear. This doesn't happen every day, I hope. It doesn't happen every week, I hope. May hopefully it won't every month. But when you're praying for everybody around you that you have regular relationship with, you will soon discover that some people that you're supposed to be praying for, you're ticked off at. And you'll be forced to acknowledge this more quickly, and you're forced to assess what the level of ticked-offness is. Now, this is another subject, but another teaching. The Bible says love covers a multitude of sins. And when people have abused you or kind of let you down or hurt you in certain ways, to a certain level, the best thing to do is just ignore it. Just absorb it. Be like Jesus. Just absorb the debt yourself. At a certain point, either for your sake or for the other person's sake, or maybe for both of your sake, you can't just overlook what's been being done and you need to go and talk to them. But I'll tell you something, you're more likely, if you're regularly praying for people, you're not only more likely to see where that has to happen, so you won't be in denial a long time, but you'll also be put in a very much better frame of mind. I mean, it's very difficult to stay angry at somebody when you're praying for them, no matter what they've done. In fact, I can't tell you how often over the years I've said to people who are struggling with forgiveness, I say, well, do you intercede and thank God for that person. You know. For their strengths. Their flaws. You know. Their. Their potentials. And they say. No. Of course. I don't. I said. Well. Get to it. That's part of your healing. And then. Fifth. It helps. Put your heart. At rest. Because a lot. Of us. Have a problem. With worry. At least. A few. Of us. Have a problem. With worry. And one. Of the problems. Of being a leader. And. One. Of the. Big. Problem. With. Being a leader. Is. That. You. and somebody's having a problem in the marriage and you're supposed to be a kind of spiritual leader, do you feel a responsibility to kind of help them or talk with them? Yes, of course. And you can't bear that as a leader unless you pray. Otherwise, worry will eat you up. So there it is. The only other thing to say, because the time is really up, I'm just looking down here. If you go over, you can read the rest of this, but if you go over to the bottom of the third page,

yeah, you see where it says Jesus told us to pray? Here's something you ought to keep in mind, because you are going to have a problem, perhaps, if you start to really pray for other people a lot, really hard, really hard, one of the things you're going to come up against is the problem of unanswered prayer. prayer, you're going to start to say, I've been praying and praying and it just is not getting any better. And keep this in mind. You may have heard me talk about this before. You will certainly again, because we'll get back to whenever I preach on praying, on prayer. In the middle of that paragraph, here's what we have. We have the assurance that God will always give us what we would have asked for if we knew everything he knows. This is all part of the assurance we have that goes deeper than, well, I don't want to recount. I don't have time to recount everything in this section. But one of the things you have to recognize is maybe you're not getting what you want. How do you reconcile that with a good God? And the answer is assume your ignorance. Assume from his point of view that what you're asking for might not be the best thing. In spite of the fact that in the short run, it seems like what you're asking for would certainly be a huge help. The person's in agony. The person's in misery. God always gives you what you would have asked for if you knew everything he knows. Very, very helpful little perspective to put on these things. Okay, now there's maybe some other things you want to ask about petitionary prayer for other people. but it's in here but if it's in here I can refer you to it because let's do some Q&A like we usually do

okay questions about praying for others or anything we just talked about it was certainly a top level overview so there's plenty of questions if you've got them I'll try yeah

oh Beth give it back to Beth Hi, Tim. Hi, Beth. We have in our group, I'm a fellowship group co-leader. We have in our group one individual in particular that almost never will share any prayer request. And it's as if he's saying, no, I don't want to make up something. I don't have any real need right now. I'm just not going to, I'll just pass. And so he passes almost every week. And we've been talking about how to, he's kind of a shy person besides that. And we've been just talking about how we can positively and lovingly not confront him, but encourage him to be a part of this. How long has he been part of the group? Long time. Several years. Yeah. Really? Wow. And he's a member of Redeemer. I don't know, Beth. I mean, first, obviously, if everybody else in the group tends to share, I mean, we just did this on a staff retreat. I don't know. I was in a group, and the first, you know, he said, share something. It was a question that tried to get you to share out of your past. And the first person provided something kind of at this level. but as we went around the circle each person started going a little bit more vulnerable a little more deep and by the time we got back to the end I realized the first person probably would have probably said well if you're going to go that deep I have something a little juicier and so if everybody else in the group is actually two steps ahead of him maybe you could lighten up that's the only thing I know

if there was some other kind of need on the lines of what he feels free to share. If somebody else is doing it so he doesn't feel like he's the only one sharing at this level and all the rest of you are like this, maybe. But it could be there's not much you could do besides that. I would say give the guy time. You've already given him time. Number two, be sure that you don't go on beyond too far. Let's just say there's four levels of sharing vulnerability. And if you're down at level three and he's up here, he just may feel like I can't even get started. So if somebody was, if you lightened up. it's not the issue. Well, then I think you just have to pray for him. Okay. Anybody else? Tim, it seems like most of Paul's prayer towards Christians or for Christians, what does the Bible say about believers praying for non-Christians? Yeah. Well, for example, in 1 Timothy, you're supposed to be praying for the kings and the rulers. And Jeremiah 29 says you're supposed to pray for the, you know, this is Redeemer, so you know how I'm always talking about Jeremiah 29, where Jeremiah says, seek the peace of the city, go into, you know, settle down. This is Jeremiah 29. He also says, God says through Jeremiah, pray for it. Babylon. Now, Babylon was a wicked city, and it was the capital of the empire that had destroyed Jerusalem. And yet God says, I want you to pray for its shalom, for its well-being. So there's quite a lot there, I think. And I mean, if you want an example of... I'll bet you there are some examples somewhere of Paul praying for people that he was in doubt about. But anyway, there's places right there. You're supposed to pray for the kings and the people in power. That's in 1 Timothy 2, I think it is. Jeremiah 29 says you're supposed to pray for the flourishing and shalom, justice and peace of the wicked big city. We're supposed to pray for New York City and that kind of thing. That's probably enough to go on. Okay? Yeah. Does frequency and duration affect the power of our prayer, the effectiveness of our prayer, the efficacy of our prayer? well yeah in luke 18 there is a very there's a parable that never quite goes down well when you first read it's about the widow um and the and the justice and the justice is not really concerned about um i mean the judge is not concerned about justice but the widow bothers him and wears him out. And finally, he says, even though, it's really funny, it's in Luke 18, he says, even though I'm not a man, this is a parable, of course, he says, even though I'm not a man who's really that concerned about justice, yet because this widow is bothering me over and over again, I will give her justice. And then Jesus has the audacity to say, that's how you ought to pray. And the reason why some people find that very strange is it looks like that God is being depicted by Jesus as an unjust judge. And part of it's an interpretive thing with parables. Parables, they're not allegories, so you can't make every single part of the parable represent something, and that's where we get tripped up. But what Jesus is definitely saying is, wear God out. In fact, Isaiah 62 says, says, don't give God any rest until he makes Jerusalem the joy of all the earth. So there actually are some pretty surprising places where the Bible says be deliberate and be importunate. He's constantly, constantly talking to God about it, crying out. I find that if I overdo that, it's not a problem with God. And I also, by the way, the vain repetitions There's nothing wrong with repetitious prayer. Vain repetitions is talking about Phariseeism. It's vain repetitions, not being repetitious. You know, there are some Christians that do not repeat the Lord's Prayer because that would be repetitious. And Jesus said, you know, don't do vain repetitions. I don't think that's the problem. I have a problem with praying for something like every hour on the hour because I find it actually makes me worried. So I have a limit that I'm able to do. regular prayer, constant prayer, prevailing prayer. There's a lot of places in the Bible that say that's how we ought to pray. Generally speaking, it melts your heart, turns it outward toward other people, makes you more concerned about justice, makes you more concerned about other people, you know, makes you more concerned for the glory of God. It's a good thing. So, yeah. I have a question. My husband and I are co-leaders in our group, and we've been in sort of preparing ourselves to confront a couple who has been new to Christian belief, who have been leading a certain lifestyle that does not correlate to Christian teaching. And I think, you know, people have been praying for them that they're now giving us the pressure to talk to them about the sin, the nature of sin that they are in. and so I feel like we are also close enough to the couple that we should do something as a leader. In addition to praying for them, we should talk to them about maybe changing something in their life and I would like to get some advice on how to be sensitive to how they have led their life and their, I guess, soft points that have led them to basically sort of continue living in such a way. But we are kind of like, I guess, too afraid to address the issue without sounding self-righteous. Well, praying for them helps you get some courage, I think. It depends on what makes you... Now, here's what I want to know. Well, now, don't... It's not fair to get in a dialogue in a big group like this, so let me just respond, even though I may be. One of the reasons why you can be scared... I mean, every... My wife and I, for example, would both be... In a situation like that, Kathy and I would both be... you know, anxious and, you know, it's a difficult conversation to have, but we'd be scared for different reasons. One of the things you might be scared of is they would never come back. That wouldn't bother my wife. She'd be more scared that she would say something wrong that would harden them and make them less likely to repent later, which is, I think, the right thing to do. I actually am afraid they won't like me. It never bothers Kathy, frankly. We're just scared about different things. So watch, see, that's the great thing about praying for somebody. If you're kind of frightened, which you should be, you know, about making the confrontation, use it as an opportunity for your own spiritual growth and say, okay, what am I afraid of? You know, what does it tell me about my sins and my idols? But then ultimately you do have to do the, you know, and of course you're also praying to God, that I won't be too abrasive or too unclear. So if you're too sweet and too gentle, you're not clear. And if you're too, sometimes in your clarity, you can be abrasive and not persuasive. It's amazing how saying things, three statements in this order, one, two, three, they still may not accept it. But if you say it three, if you change the order, you'll lose them completely. If you say this, that'll kind of open them up to this, and that will kind of open up to this. So you do need to think about a strategy and try to somehow have that balance of truth and love. And by the way, now you have to make this decision on the basis of your own community. Various different small groups. Groups, there is no template for how thick community is. Some of your small groups feel very open and you've got some blatant non-Christians in them and Christians and you're able to be a kind of community even though you're really, in some ways, not even a Christian community, and yet you are a community. Maybe there's no groups like that right now, but over the years, I've seen Redeemer small groups like that, in which there were people leading blatantly, openly wrong lifestyles and disagreeing, and yet people were coming regularly, and everybody accepted them, and they knew that they weren't in line. And yet everybody, you know what I mean by saying it was a kind of mixed community, and that was great. great. But they did have to know where they differed from what the Bible taught about how Christians were supposed to live. In some fellowship groups, it's really a much thicker Christian community, and really people need to be confronted, and if they just won't come, they may not want to come back. So there's no... If I was... I can't do this, but I would sit down with you perhaps, or somebody could sit down with you and think about, are they members? If they're Then they haven't taken vows of obedience. And it's really a voluntary thing. Where you're saying. We really think it would be better for you. To live like this. And if you don't. We would like you to still come. Because we would rather. You heard the word. And had relationships. If the. If. If the people are. Clearly violating the word of God. They took vows. To obey the word of God. They're members. And that sort of thing. And they don't listen to you. Then you have to go up the line. And you have to. If they won't listen to you. Then you try to get somebody else. Then you try to get. Your. Coach. You. for everybody. Those are two totally different things. If they're members, then you have to go up the line. They don't listen to you. If they're not members, then you have to decide on the basis of the thickness, you might say, of the group whether they can stay and be part of it and just hopefully grow and listen to you later on or whether they might want to turn around and leave. So you see, it's very complicated. You have the right to be filled with fear and trembling before God. You do need to pray about it. You need wisdom. You need graciousness. You need directness. is both courage and gentleness. And God will work. He really will. And fortunately, you don't have to be perfect either because you're saved by grace. And you probably will put your foot in it maybe a little bit. But these people's lives are in God's hands. You can't screw up their lives. Just remember that. Okay. Somebody else. Yeah, Mark. Tim, how would you advise me an intercessory prayer? It's very easy for me to define someone else's weaknesses characteristics that annoy me, and they may not be real weaknesses. It may be a weakness on my part. How do we deal with that honestly? I don't know, because I think you have to be charitable. You certainly can't go checking out with other people. Hey, I think this is so-and-so's list of flaws, what do you think? Because then it just becomes gossip, you know. So I think, I wouldn't worry too much about it, Mark. I think you ought to say this. In a prayer where you're not sure you really are being, you're not even sure whether you're praying for the right thing, you need to ask God. Part of the way your intercessory prayer might actually, God might use the intercessory prayer in your life, is that you may, as you pray, say, say, Lord, I may not have this person's number. I may really be misreading this person. And maybe they're not like this, but I'm going to pray for them like this. And if I'm wrong, please show me otherwise. And it could be that, you see, the process of prayer is making you think a little bit more about the person. Hopefully before God, before God, almost always, praying almost always makes you more charitable for a person as you're praying for them. So it could be a way in which you, the prayer is actually a way in which you're able to become kinder in your heart toward him and get a better grip on it. But basically it's between you and God. Say, God, if I'm not praying for the right thing, help me. That's all. There's no other way to do it. And also spend enough time with the person that you're getting to know them. Yeah. Hey, Tim. This is just a kind of a more general question on prayer. prayer. I was wondering if you could speak a little bit to the idea of really centering your heart and feeling kind of more of a passion or a power behind the prayers that you're making. I find that I have for a good long amount of time been kind of sticking to the routine of, you know, getting up early, read the Word, praying before I go to bed, read a little bit, pray. pray, but I sometimes kind of feel like there's not a whole lot of meat. I'm just kind of going through the motions. It doesn't necessarily feel really sort of, you know, vibrant and, you know, I don't know, compelling or so to speak. So do you have any thoughts to that? So you're saying, you're asking what about times where you just don't have any passion? or any sort of advice as to how to incite more yeah

it is inevitable you're going to have times of dryness in your prayer life it is absolutely inevitable and I find that when I'm just absolutely dead I just don't I want to pray for Mr. X, Ms. Y, and Ms. Z, but I don't give a rip about them. I don't seem to give a rip about anything. Sometimes you never know why those times come. It's not just you're having a bad day, you were tired, and you got up early, and you really need another hour of sleep. I mean, sometimes you have these seasons in which there's deadness and prayer. And actually, those are wonderful times to add repentance, to say, I am weak, I am frail. It's clear I'm saved by grace because my feelings come and go. And those dry periods are times in which you should do the petition anyway. You do your intercession anyway. You pray anyway. It's absolutely crucial to keep your stated hours in spite of your dryness. But during that time, confess to God your fragility. Confess to God how selfish you are. Confess to God how maybe it's just your body. Maybe you're just tired. and, you know, it's a time to really praise God for unmerited grace in my dry times. And very often it's when I'm repenting, not saying, oh Lord, it's wrong that I don't have good feelings. Be careful about that. But it's, oh Lord, look at what a weak creature I am. If I really had a right relationship with you, I should always be so grateful for your grace, but I'm not. I should be so amazed at your glory, but I'm not. I should be so passionate for the people around me, but I'm a passion for the peace of New York City, but I'm not. You're confessing. You don't beat yourself up particularly. You're not making atonement for your sin. Jesus did that for you. You're just simply confessing it. And very often the melting happens as you're confessing your dryness. It's amazing how often that happens. I just don't know quite, you never know how long it's going to take because God's got a purpose for the dryness. And I think usually the purpose is to show me that I'm saved by grace. not by my feelings, not by my passions, not because I've really got this surrendered heart to you. It's at times like that when I don't feel any surrender at all that I really know the gospel. And so during times of dryness, stick with your stated hours and praise God for salvation by sheer grace. Even when you're absolutely dead on the inside, you know that I'm not a Christian. I'm not saved because I'm alive to God. I'm a Christian because of what Jesus did for me. that actually gets a certain liveliness going. I think, I think, I'm afraid. You know, I'm sorry, Chris, time's up, I think. Sorry. You want to do one more? All right, I'll be real quick. This will be a short answer no matter how good the question is. Okay. One of the scriptures that's informed me about intercession is in Exodus when it talks about the high priest going into the Holy of Holies because he's kind of like bearing kind of the weight of the Israelites on his shoulders and all this stuff. and I'm praying for others. But one part of that's always kind of confused me and scared me a little is why is his life in danger when he does that? Because before Jesus, whenever the high priest went into the Holy of Holies, his life was in danger. No one can look upon my face and live. You know, when God's holy Shekinah glory came down on the top of the mountain, not even an animal could touch Mount Sinai or it would die. Because the bridging between the holiness of God and our sinfulness had not happened in Jesus Christ. And it was fatal to actually come into raw contact with the glory of God. That's the reason why it's so astounding that in John chapter 118 we're told, we beheld his glory. Jesus Christ has revealed the glory of God to us. We behold his glory, even though Moses asked for that and God said it would kill you. And now the Holy Spirit dwells in us. And yet when the high priest even got close to the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament, it was almost fatal. It's an amazing thing that we've got. And it also means we've got an access to God through prayer that even the high priest didn't have. That's not a long enough answer, but I hope it'll have to do. So, okay?