Okay, should you take a look at your handout? We're going to talk about prayer again. And the beginning of the handout is a recap of what we've done both in September and October. And for those of you who missed either or both of those, here's a quick recap. We're looking at corporate prayer. We said the first paragraph is that spiritual revival or renewal

is when the church is beautified and empowered because the normal operations of the Holy Spirit are intensified. That's the model of revival we're working off of. There's a model that says revival means miracles and prophecy and healings, but we're working off the model that says that sometimes those are, in history, those things have characterized revivals, but sometimes they haven't. And the commonality is that the normal operations of the Holy Spirit, which is conviction of sin and conversion, enjoyment of grace, access to the presence of God, creation of deep community, that's what we mean by revival. When this is restored across the face of a church. Secondly, how does spiritual revival or renewal come? And we said there's many, many, many ways. But there seems to be one factor that's always the case. Corporate prayer. Intense corporate prayer. Corporate prayer is different than personal prayer. Because corporate prayer is not just prayer together. It's prayer not so much for personal needs. But for the glory of God. And the coming of the kingdom. It's prayer for the corpus. For the body. Not just prayer for me. So. Starting then in October. We talked about. We began to break this down and say, well, what does corporate prayer mean? What is this kind of corporate prayer? And the first mark of it we talked about was we said it was extraordinary prayer. And by extraordinary prayer, we mean that some people, at least some, begin to pray for the presence of God in ways that are out of the ordinary. It's not just prayer that happens in worship services. It's not just prayer that happens in your daily devotions. It's not even just prayer that happens in your small group. but some people begin to start to create new prayer groups, prayer walks, prayer vigils, new prayer meetings, round-the-clock prayer. Did I tell you about the 100-year prayer meeting? Did I tell you about that last time? I didn't? Count Nicholas von Zinzendorf,

the founder of the Moravians, a very wealthy German Christian man in the 1726, I think, sometime in the 1720s, began the 100-year prayer meeting. And his home is called Heron Hood. They began a prayer meeting, and they designated a room in his home. It was a mansion, of course. That they always had someone there praying for world revival and world evangelization. Around the clock, 24 hours a day, there was always at least one person there. They had prayer meetings all the time. There's always at least one person there, and that went on for 100 years, from the 1720s to the 1820s, during which time the most massive, you know, great awakenings, the first great awakening, the second great awakening, all kinds of incredible things happened. That's extraordinary prayer. A hundred-year prayer meeting, that's extraordinary prayer. All right. Secondly, we said the prayer that brings renewal and revival is prevailing prayer, and we talked about that. That prevailing prayer is something that both in the Old Testament and the New Testament, Isaiah, Jesus presses us to say, pray repeatedly, pray in a sustained way, pray over and over and over again. Jesus himself says so. He even gives this astounding parable in which Jesus tells a story about a widow who's nagging a judge and then says, you need to pray like that to God. So it's got to be extraordinary. Bailey. Now tonight, let's keep on going. Thirdly, and you could call this a third answer to the question, how should we pray? I also put down here, why should we pray? But there's a third, let's just say there's a third characteristic of this prayer. And it's basically corporate repentance. This prayer has got to be corporate repentant. See, it's one thing to pray and repent for your personal sins. It's another thing for a body of Christians together to repent corporately for their passionlessness and lifelessness. And that is something that has to happen. Now, what do I mean by that? In November 1740, Jonathan Edwards preached a sermon called Praying for the Spirit. it. It's only recently after many years, obviously a couple hundred years, actually about 160 years, lay in the rare book room of the Yale University Library and recently was published. It was, somebody transcribed it. And it's a sermon on Luke chapter 11, verse 13, where Jesus says, how much more shall your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him? and the thesis of the sermon, Edwards says, is that there's basically two kinds, two categories of things we pray for. The first are what he calls temporal blessings, food and clothing, adequate housing, health and economic prospering and of course for us today, it's not so much that, we don't really take those sort of things for granted but it's things like getting the job, making the money, getting the girl or boy that we want to fall in love with us, fall in love with of this, favor, opening circumstances, temporal blessings, guidance, helping me make the right decision, what school should I go to, should I go back to school, and that sort of thing. And the second basic category of things we pray for is what he would call praying for the Spirit. And this is a list. Praying for our growth and holiness through the Spirit. Praying for deeper participation in the divine nature. Having the love of God shed abroad in our hearts by the spirit. Having the spirit of sonship, which is an awareness and experience a practice of being adopted sons and daughters. Having the light of God's face. Having fellowship with God through the spirit. These are all things that the Bible says we ought to pray for. These are all things the Bible says are available to us. And these are things that, you know, the second category of things that Jonathan Edwards calls spiritual blessings. And then he says, Take a look and compare how differently the quantity and quality of prayers in these categories, how different the quantity and quality of prayers in the temporal blessing category are versus the spiritual blessing category. And the way he puts it is like this. And I find the quaint English kind of fun to read. He says,

a little in one of them, even if they be not, be it, come to that, but only foresee the danger of it. In other words, they haven't even lost them yet, but they know that it might happen. How will they bestir themselves in prayer? And if they begin to suffer for one of those things, how much do they make of them? You know, if they're suffering, how much do they make over their suffering? But when their souls languish for one of spiritual blessings, when it be a time of great scarcity and even famine on that account. How little are they affected with this? They seem to be quiet about it. How little is there any cry of their necessitous distressing circumstances? And when God has prayed to bestow the Spirit, it is more a matter of form than anything else. He says, people always pray, O Lord, send your Spirit. O Lord, give us your love in our hearts. O Lord, but never with the intensity that you pray for the other things. never with the frequency with which you pray for the other things. And then he says, this is the last paragraph, and he makes an incredibly strong argument. He says, what did God call you to? Had God nothing better to bestow upon you when he had made you his children than a little money or land, that you seemed so much to behave yourselves as if you thought that this was your chief good? I am bold to say that God is now offering the blessing of his Holy Spirit to this town. And I am bold to say we may have it only for the asking,

If we ask in such a manner that at the same moment we ask, we show we have no sense of the value of what we ask. If we ask in such a manner as implicitly to ask and deny at the same time, then we have no reason to think that we have truly asked. In other words, when you ask for something which is a thousand times more valuable. In Category B, the stuff is a thousand times more valuable than Category A. If you ask for this stuff in category B, which is far more important than category A, with almost no passion, you show you have no idea what you're asking for, and therefore you actually deny rather than ask. and it's a very powerful argument because look at my next paragraph here the fact that we pray so much more instinctively consistently and fervently for money health reputation approval social status than we do for the glory of god and the work of the spirit shows what our heart is really after and as edwards argues formal infrequent dispassionate prayer for the spirit is not genuine requesting at all. To ask in a way that shows we have no idea what we're asking for is the same, if not worse, than not to ask. So why should we begin to pray for the Spirit? And this is crucial. You're not supposed to just say, Oh, you're right. I just need to ask more fervently for the Spirit. No. You need to ask yourself the question, Why don't you care about the fact you don't have the Spirit? that you're praying about three times a day, five times a day. Why? And the answer is the idols of your heart, the things that you really, really love are not those things. And unless we are willing to not just, unless we are willing to repent for the reasons we haven't been praying for the Spirit, we're not going to get the Spirit. A perfect example of this, there's always repentance for idols, which is part of revival. My favorite passage in the Bible that speaks to this is Judges chapter 10. You see the italicized, indented place here in the two-thirds of the way down to page two? This is from Judges chapter 10. This is so funny, actually. The Ammonites crossed the Jordan to fight against Judah. Benjamin and the house of Ephraim and Israel were in great distress. Then the Israelites cried out to the Lord, we have sinned against you. We forsook our God and served the idols, the Baals. And the Lord replied, yes, you have forsaken me and served other gods, so I will no longer save you. Go and cry to the gods you have chosen. Let them save you when you're in trouble. Don't come to me. You've been worshiping the Baals. Let them bail you out. Didn't you like that? Let them bails you out. But the Israelites said to the Lord, we have sinned. us whatever you think best. We do ask that you rescue us now. And then they got rid of the foreign gods among them and served the Lord. Isn't that interesting? They said, look, okay, maybe you're right. We have sinned. Do whatever you think, but we're going to get rid of our bales anyway. And the Lord could bear Israel's misery no longer. Interesting? See, notice how the Israelites prevailed in repentant prayer despite the initial brush off. Because when they said, oh, come down and rescue us. And God says, no. Go to your bales. I'm not going to rescue you anymore. And they said, okay. If you're not going to rescue us, we wish you would rescue us. But whether you rescue us or not, we're getting rid of our idols because they're just wrong. Which showed that they were beginning to serve God not because of what he could give them, but just because of who he was. And that was the beginning of repentance. When they began to repent of their idols, the revival began. bottom of page 2. To begin praying for the operations of the spirit is not simply a matter of scheduling more time for it. We have to repent for the reasons we haven't been praying for them at all. Why haven't we been praying? Don't say, oh, okay, now I see. The recipe for revival is we need to pray more for the spirit. So let's schedule more prayer meetings for the spirit. That's not it. Why haven't you been? Why haven't I been? Why haven't we been? And when you look at the roots of your heart and begin to see the passionlessness comes from the idols of the heart and you begin to put those things away and say, Lord, we're going to do it just because it's right. Whether you come in and help us right now or not doesn't matter. Whether you come in and help us raise the money we need doesn't matter. Whether you help come in and give us the temporal blessings we're asking for doesn't matter. We're going to serve you because you're God. A real revival can only start when you start to become that unconditional. And that repentant. Okay. Lastly. The last thing I want to talk to you about is so how do we pray for this? How do we do this corporate prayer? It's got to be extraordinary prayer. It's got to be a prevailing prayer. It's got to be a kind of corporate repentance prayer. Repentance for your idols. There's got to be an abject repentance. Now lastly. What do you pray for? The last thing I want to talk about. corporate prayer for. What should we be praying for? We said it's not for personal needs. So what are we praying for? And I would like to propose that there's three things you have to pray for. And it's not going to be easy to do all three. If you come from a charismatic background, you're used to praying for the first one. If you come from a mainline church background, you're used to praying for the second one. If you come from a fundamentalist conservative background, you're used to praying for the third one. I don't think that any one of them is sufficient. We have to pray for God's spirit in our hearts. We've got to pray for God's presence in our community. And we've got to pray for God's glory over the city. Three. Okay. Number one. We have to pray for God's spirit in our hearts. We talked about Exodus 33 before. But look at this quote from Exodus 33. In Exodus 33, look at the second and third sentence. Here's Moses talking to God, and here's what he says. And listen carefully. You have said, Lord, I know you by name and you have found favor with me. But if you are pleased with me, teach me your ways so I may know you and continue to find favor with you. See, Moses says, you say you know me personally by name. name. But here's what I want. I want to know you personally. What's that? What's he talking about? What he's actually saying is, I know with my head that you accept me. I know with my head that you have accepted me by your grace. But I don't feel I really know you. you, I don't know that I have a sense of that. I don't know that actually the fact I know with my head is not real to me. Now, to press this home a little bit more, let's look at something that Paul says in Ephesians 3. Look at the very next prayer. This is a prayer that Paul makes for Christians in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 17 to 19. Let me read it to you. Paul says, It says, I pray that out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power together with all the saints to grasp how high, how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now, once you recall that he's praying for Christians, you begin to see that this raises questions. He's saying, I'm praying that Christ might dwell in your hearts by faith. And yet everywhere in the New Testament it says that if you're a Christian, Christ is already dwelling in your heart. He says, I want you to be filled with the fullness of God. Yet Colossians chapter 2, verse 9 and 10 says, every Christian is filled with the fullness of God. He says, I want you to know the love of God. And the height and the width and the breadth and depth. Of the love of God. Which is in Christ. But every Christian knows. That God loves them through Christ. Or you wouldn't be a Christian. So what in the world. Is Paul. Asking for. I think it's the same. It's the same thing. That Moses. Is asking for. It's one thing. To have a bank account. It's another thing. To draw on it. It's one thing. To actually. To have. Jesus. Objectively. Living in your heart. It's another thing. To have him. Subjectively. Living. See, he's talking about grasping. He's talking about experiencing. He's talking about sensing. So let me just read through what I think is. Let me. Look at this last paragraph. What is Paul asking for? Do you see about a third of the way through the paragraph? The same thing Moses is asking for. Just it's one thing to have a bank account. Another to draw on it. So it's one thing to have God as father. And Jesus as lover. Another thing to draw on that. And actually experience it. To actually be shaped in the depth of your soul. emotional life and in the breadth of your actual life practice in the world. Paul wants us not just to believe that the full glory and greatness of God is within us, but to actually sense the glory, be overwhelmed and filled with it, be shaped by it, be melted by it. He's praying that we would grasp the truth of who in Christ, what Christ is, until it becomes more than a rational proposition, until we come under its power and affects us. So, for example, now listen, this is the big issue we haven't. People believe that Jesus became poor on the cross and saved us with his generosity. And yet they don't give their money away. People believe that Jesus has done all this for them. And when they move out into the world and you get a little bit of criticism, you're devastated. Moses is saying, and Paul is saying, it's one thing to believe the thing, in your heart of the reality of it. And they're praying for spiritual reality. They're praying for it to be more God's verdict and love of you more real than the criticism that you get. And when that happens, then your life is really shaped by the gospel and not till then. Let me give you one more example of this. Turn over on page four. Look at the, this is a quote from Romans chapter 8, 15 and 16. This is the beginning of the first paragraph, I mean the first full paragraph. Romans 8, 15 and 16, Paul says, For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Father. Now listen to this sentence. The Spirit himself testifies with our spirit that we are children of God. about? Well, first of all, it's saying that our spirit testifies that you're a child of God. Now, this to say is if you're a Christian, you say, I know I'm a Christian. Well, what is this spirit coming alongside of your spirit and doing? Well, David Martin Lloyd-Jones in a very, very lengthy and in the end convincing exposition of this passage says, you've got the language of a courtroom because that word testify. Imagine that there's a trial going on and somebody is getting up and saying, I'm sure this person is innocent. I'm sure this person is innocent. And nobody's sure. The evidence isn't complete. The jury's not sure. It's all in doubt. And then suddenly, a prize witness comes in. Somebody brings in a surprise witness. And this witness was there. and this witness proves that he or she was there. And this witness says, this is what actually happened. And suddenly, the verdict is beyond doubt. They're innocent. That's the picture. Martin Louis Jones says, there's inferential and intuitive assurance of God's love for you. Inferential assurance is, well, I infer it. I accept that Jesus did this for me. I've accepted Christ as Savior. my works but by my faith. I sit around and look at this. I see what the Bible says. So I infer that he loves me. Intuitive assurance is the spirit coming on top of that and saying, yes. And Lloyd-Jones talks about, there's an illustration. He says, imagine a father and a son walking along next to each other. They're talking to each other, little boy and a father. And they're talking to each other and they're saying this and that. Does the son know that but that's his father. Does the father know that's his son? Sure. They know it. Then if all of a sudden you see the father picked a little boy up. Kiss him on the neck. And say. I love you. And he puts his arms around his father's head and neck. And says. I love you too daddy. What just happened there? New information. Is there any new information? Does the son somehow get some new information. Oh. This is my father. No. He knows it's your father. What's the difference. He's experiencing his sonship. He's experiencing the love that he knew was there. He's experiencing it. And that's what Romans 8 is talking about. And that's what Ephesians 3 is talking about. And that, when that spirit is poured out on a whole congregation, that's revival. Now, I know I'm walking very, very close to a cliff. Let me read you a couple other examples of this, and then I'll tell you why it's close to a cliff. Dwight Moody talks about the witness of the spirit that he had in 1871 in New York City. That's why I love this quote. He was in New York City trying to raise money. He was a minister from Chicago. And after the Chicago fire, there was so much devastation. He came to New York to raise money to rebuild things in Chicago. And he says, but after the Chicago fire, he was in great despondence. And he was in absolute weakness. And he went into depression after he saw what happened in the fire. and he said he came back to New York and he was just crying out for God's spirit and he says, I was crying all the time that God would fill me with his spirit. Well, one day in the city of New York, oh, what a day. I cannot describe it. I seldom refer to it. It is almost too sacred an experience to name. Paul had an experience of which he never spoke for 14 years. I can only say that God revealed himself to me and I had such an experience of his love that I had to ask him to stay his hand. I went to preaching again. The sermons were no different. I did not present any new truths, and yet hundreds were converted. I would not now be placed back where I was before that blessed experience if you should give me all the world. It would be as a small dust in the balance. Jonathan Edwards gives an example. He says, once as I rode out into the woods for my health in 1737, having alighted from my horse in a retired place, as my manner commonly had been to and prayer, I had a view that for me was extraordinary, of the glory of the Son of God as mediator between God and man and his wonderful, great, full, pure, and sweet grace and love and meek and gentle condescension. This grace that appeared was so calm and sweet, it appeared also great above the heavens. The person of Christ appeared ineffably excellent with an excellency great enough to swallow up all my thought and conception. And I continued in this judge an hour, which kept me the greater part of the time in a flood of tears and weeping aloud. I felt an ardency of soul to be what I know not otherwise how to express, emptied and annihilated, to lie in the dust, to be full of Christ alone, to love him with a holy and pure love, to trust in him, to live upon him, to serve and follow him, and be perfectly made pure with divine and heavenly purity. I have several other times had views very much of the same nature and which have had the same effects. Now, let me tell you, because I have to get to two and three, why I'm walking close to a cliff. As I'm going to try to show you in a second, Moses asked God, show me your glory. Not that Moses didn't know God was glory. I want a sense of your glory. Why? Moses wanted a sense of God's glory for God's sake. And for his people's sake. Because he wanted his people to be changed. We live in a culture where when I read stuff like that to you, I know what's going on. We just want the feeling. We don't want it for God's sake. We don't want it for the community's sake. We don't want it for New York's sake. We want that feeling. We live in the most experiential oriented society there's ever been. People want that feeling. That's what I want. I want to be that happy. I want to feel that loved. And if you do it because you want to be happy. And because you want to feel that love. You will never get it. Aim at heaven. You get earth thrown in. Aimed at earth. And you get neither. Aim at God. No matter what. The results. Remember that's Judges 10. And you'll get God. And you will get joy. Aim at joy. And you'll get neither. joy is a byproduct of seeking God for his own sake I want your glory I want to have that sense of you on my heart so that I'm living the way I should be living and I want my people around me to have the same sense so that we will be the people of God that's not why we want it and the great irony is if you seek it for yourself you'll never get it but you need to seek it because it's part of what the Bible says is necessary, and unfortunately it's one of the reasons why in the average church, even gospel-believing churches, people's lives are no different. Now the second thing, and I've already begun to explain it, the second thing you're supposed to pray for is God's presence among his people. That's Moses' whole point. Then Moses said to him, If your presence does not go with us, do not send us up from here. How will anyone know that you are pleased with me and with your people unless you go with us? what else will distinguish me and your people from all the other people on the face of the earth? You see what he's saying? I want to see your glory. And I want my people to see your glory so that we're so different. That we're not like any other people. There's a love. There's a holiness. There's an integrity. There's a peace. There's a justice. About the way in which we live together. That's what he wants. He doesn't just want to have peace, love, and groovy vibes. He just doesn't want to have inspirational goodies for himself. knows that unless he has the Spirit of God, an experience of the Spirit of God and the glory of God in his own heart, we're not going to get to that kind of changed community. But on the other hand, he's not doing it just for himself. Going quickly here, the New Testament says that we are a temple. We are a temple. That God indwells us with the Spirit jointly. We are living stones in a temple. And that's the reason why that when we fight with each other, when we are angry with each when we become proud, we're tearing the temple down. We're tearing it down. Go to the top of page six. This is from Gordon Fee, his great book on the Holy Spirit. Gordon Fee says, if you go to the first Corinthians, you'll see God is, Paul's constantly saying, you're a temple of the Holy Spirit. But he's not talking about you individually. He's talking about us together. So he says, why are you fighting with each other? Why all the party spirit? He says, The Corinthians were in the process of dismantling God's temple, according to Paul, because their strife and fascination with wisdom meant banishing the unifying spirit from their midst, hence this strongest of warnings. His temple, the place of his presence, is holy, and you, the church in Corinth, are that temple, he says. The gathered church is the place of God's own personal presence by the spirit. This is what marks off God's new people from all the other peoples on the face of the earth. God's spirit indwells us jointly. And the main reason that Moses wanted a personal experience of God's spirit is so that the Christian community would become beautified and everyone in the world would look and say, now we know that God's there. The way in which we use our money, the way in which we treat each other, the way in which we forgive each other, the way in which we overcome racial barriers, the way in which we live our lives with simplicity and integrity, we have to be a human society so beautiful that everyone else around looks and says, that's the way human beings ought to live. And even Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones, who doesn't have as good a grasp of this aspect, says this in this great quote here in the middle of page six. He says, what is needed in revival is something so striking and so signal that it be explained in human terms. In other words, the beauty of the community has to be so beautiful that nobody can explain it. We can preach the truth. We can defend it. We can indulge in our apologetics. We can try to present a great front to the world. But you know, it does not impress the world. It leaves the world where it was. The need is for something so overwhelming, so divine, so unusual, it arrests the attention of the world and proves that we are indeed the people of God. What is wrong in our own day is the disappearance of the uniqueness of the church. how difficult it is to see any difference between the church and the good organizations, political societies, and cultural societies. Watch their meetings and ask. This is the church meeting. Can you tell any difference among them? Look at all the societies and look at the church. They're nice people. They're respectable people. Ask God. Shake us. Not shake the building. Shake us. Ask Him to make us something that is so amazing that the world shall be compelled to look on and say, What is this? as they said on the day of Pentecost, as they said when the Spirit was poured out on Whitefield and the Westleys. Now, lastly, we pray for God's glory in the city. Genesis 18, Abraham prays that God would save Sodom and Gomorrah. And in Jeremiah chapter 29, God commands the children of Israel in their pagan city of Babylon to pray for its peace. And this does mean looking at groups of people in the city, looking at neighborhoods in the city, looking at issues in the city, and just praying God into them. I put down here a little list of the kinds of things that you could be praying for very specifically in New York. Pray for the homeless. Pray for single-parent families. Pray for prisoners. Pray for the pornography, prostitution, sex industry. Pray for people with AIDS. Pray for the wealthy Upper East Side. The old bluebloods. for the gay and lesbian community. Pray for the Jewish community. Pray for the colleges and university communities. Pray for the business and financial community. Pray for the theater and entertainment community. The news media. Every day, pray for one of these. Pray for the artist and music community. And so on. Pray for the Dominican neighborhoods of the upper Manhattan. Pray for the Indian-Pakistani constituencies of Queens. Pray for the growing Chinese and Korean communities in Queens. Pray for the Middle Eastern Arabic community of Brooklyn. And now, by the way, Steinway Street. Know what's happening in those neighborhoods and pray God into them. Now, here's how I want you to apply it tonight. We're praying for spiritual reality and corporate reality of our vision. So I made a list of these are the vision. These are the parts of the vision that we have been covering in the vision groups. groups. The first week was the gospel. The second week was the city. The third week was community,

witness, justice, cultural renewal. It's the wrong order, sorry, but it doesn't matter. And stewardship. Now, I have a list of questions here, but when you go into your groups to pray, it would be wrong of you to be reading this paper. I mean, you could take this home and read it yourself. But what you really want to say is, oh, Lord, make the vision a reality spiritually in hearts communally in our corporate life together. Make this a reality. And I would suggest, you know, you've got 25 minutes now or so, is I would suggest taking four minutes, three or four minutes, and praying on each one of these things. We understand the gospel, but are we living the gospel? We supposedly love the city. Do we really love the city? Are we a community? Are we a witness? So pray the vision real. So break into your groups of three or four. Isn't we've been doing every time? Find three or four people. You should not have to get up very far. The thing is not to get up and move around, but just to turn around and find three or four people nearby. Don't make this very big. If you have five or six, not enough of you will pray. Just turn, find three or four people, and begin praying the vision real for the next 25 minutes. Thanks.