I'm going to read to you from 2 Peter. Scott has been taking you through the book of 2 Peter during the month of July, and I'd like to continue and finish a look at this short but significant book in the month of August. 2 Peter chapter 1, verses 3 through 12.

2 Peter 1, 3 to 12. His divine power has given us everything we need for life and godliness through our knowledge of him who called us by his glory, his own glory and goodness. Through these he has given us his very great and previous, his precious promises so that through them you may participate in the divine nature and escape the corruption in the world caused by evil desires. For this very reason, make every effort to add to your faith goodness and to goodness knowledge, and to knowledge self-control, and to self-control perseverance, and to perseverance godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness love. For if you possess these qualities in increasing measure, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in your knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But if anyone does not have them, he is nearsighted and blind and has forgotten that he has been cleansed from his past sins. Therefore, my brothers, be all the more eager to make your election sure. For if you do these things, you will never fall and you will receive a rich welcome into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So I will always remind you of these things, even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have. This is God's word. The odd thing about the book of 2 Peter, if you read it through a couple times, and it's short enough to do that, is that as it proceeds, it gets darker and darker and darker. I mean, if you wanted to be humorous about it, and who would want to? It sort of, it reminds me, the whole book reminds me of the robot in Lost in Space that used to I'm in saying, danger, danger, Will Robinson. Because the book is just full of dire, that was funny, by the way. It was, it's just full of dire warnings of judgment and doom. And I think the reason why it is, is because Peter, at this point in his life, is very old. And he's about to die, and he's going to leave his people soon. soon. I began, when I became a minister, I began to see, as I visited and tried to pastor people, that my older parishioners worried an awful lot more than my younger ones. They worried a lot more about their children, they worried a lot more about their friends, they worried a lot more about the conditions of society. And after a few years of considering this phenomenon, I came to the conclusion that the reason that the older people worried a lot

because they were smarter. Oh, I don't mean they had higher IQs, and I don't even mean that they're wiser in every way, but what happens to people as you grow older is your naivete wears off, and you begin to know that no matter how secure and how safe and how pleasant things are, there are dangers and perils everywhere. The older you get, the more you lose your naivete, and you realize how perilous life in the world is. Let me just give you one example. When I had my first church, I was in a town where most of the weddings that I did and performed were on 18 to 21-year-olds. And in this town, most of the weddings that I do are with people of 30s and 40s or more. I found a big difference in the way that the 18 to 21-year-olds approach marriage 40-year-olds approach marriage. When you're in your 30s and 40s, you're far more scared of marriage. You approach it with much more wariness, much more fear, a lot more nerves. Why? Well, there's bad reasons. Perfectionism, a kind of idolatry of romance, thinking that romance will, if I finally find the right one, my whole life will be perfect. And of course, as you actually approach any real marriage, you begin to realize it's not what's going to happen. And so there's all sorts of bad reasons why people in their 30s and 40s are so much more nervous as they approach marriage. But the main reason is because you're smarter than the 18 to 21-year-olds. I don't know how many times I would say to the 18 to 21-year-olds as they were in my office for premarital counseling before I'd married them, I might say, now we're going to have six sessions on conflict resolution and problem solving and forgiveness and reconciliation. And they would look at me sometimes and they would grab each other's hands. And they'd say, with a big smile, they'd say, you know, we really don't need all that because we love each other.

and the nice pastor just wants to shake them because the pastor wants to say you have no idea how dangerous the human heart is you have no idea look at a mouse next to a lion look at a ditch next to a mountain which of those two couples are the most wonderful and glorious all right which of the two are the most dangerous always the same one marriage you can get to such heights in marriage but it's such a minefield because life is hard and the human heart is full of dangers and perils and the most loving thing i can possibly do is to emphasize the negative right now for you but they didn't want to hear that. Now, let me step back. You read a book like the Bible. You read a book like 2 Peter. In chapter 1, what is he trying to do? In chapter 1, say up in verse 4, he says, I want you so much to be able to escape the corruption that's in the world through evil desires of the heart. In chapter 2, he talks about the swift destruction that will happen to people who fall into error. In chapter 3, he talks about the final judgment when God will come and judge everyone in all the world for its violence and corruption. And when you read that, and when you hear that kind of language, do you say, oh gosh, there's the negativism of Christianity. I've always hated that. There's the gloom and the doom. The world's not that hopeless. People will find a way through. Do you know what you're like? But pastor, we love each other. You're just applying to the world what those sweet lovebirds applied as they looked to marriage. You're just as naive as they are. The most loving thing Peter can do for his people, the wiser and wiser he got, was to warn them about the perils of life in the world, the perils of the human heart, and even the perils of God himself. That's what 2 Peter's about. Even God himself is perilous. Why? Because the more wonderful something is, is, the more dangerous it is. As one writer said, God is not a tame lion. He's good, but he's not safe. If you think that talking about judgment, if you think talking about know the wickedness of your own heart, if you think that's negativism, negative energy or something,

you're just like those 18-year-olds. And what am I going to say to you? Just what Joan Rivers says, grow up. That's what 2 Peter's about. Grow up. Know the perils of the human heart. Know the perils of life. Know the perils of even relating to a God as great as the God of the Bible. Now, today, in this first chapter, we're just going to look at what Peter says about the dangers and the perils of having a human heart. And I'd just like to ask two questions. What does this text tell us about the dangers of the human heart? And then secondly, what does it tell us about how to escape those dangers, how to avoid those dangers, how to be on the lookout? The answer to the first question, of course, is that there are many, many dangers because of our hearts. There's many, many dangers and perils. However, Peter, I think here, focuses in on one that may be the main one. What does he say? What is the main danger that you have to realize about your own heart? What is the main structural flaw that you have got to be cognizant of if you're going to lead a prudent and wise life? Well, first of all, if you want to understand what he's saying, you have to realize he is speaking to people he thinks are mature believers. believers look at the last verse in the section that we read I will always remind you of these things that these truths this teaching even though you know them and are firmly established in the truth you now have now here's the apostle Peter and this is a major compliment he's saying to a church that he's writing to you know he says the truths that I've taught you are firmly established in them. These are not new Christians. These are not weak Christians. What a tremendous compliment. In fact, it's very hard to find Paul or Peter, anybody writing a letter to a church in the New Testament that says such a strong affirmation, affirmative, I got back from vacation, affirmative things. My tongue is still on vacation. You don't usually see that kind of affirmation. But he then goes on and says, yet I will always remind you of these things. He doesn't say, well, you're one of the weaker churches and, you know, most of the churches that I've trained, I don't have to remind them of these things, but you, I do. That's not what he says. He says, I will always remind you. Go back up in the text a little bit to see what he's he starts to talk about how they have to add to their faith and he says, I want you to grow in faith. He says, I want you to grow in self-control. I want you to grow in, uh, in, uh, patience. I want you to grow in knowledge. I want you to grow in love. And then he says, for if you possess these things in increasing measure, if you grow in these things, they will keep you from being ineffective and unproductive in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now here's what he says, He says, unless you see yourself growing visibly, progressively, concretely, you will be at that moment ineffective, unproductive, nearsighted, and blind, and will have forgotten what Christ has done for you. Let me put it this way. Peter is saying here that no matter how long you've been a Christian no matter how wise you are in the faith no matter how strong your moral character there is a corruption about your heart

your heart is resistant to truth and you will forget it no matter how much you focused on something beautiful you will lose that focus Umtukus, no matter how much you think you've been impacted with a particular conviction, it will fade. No matter who you are, no matter how established, no matter how well trained, no matter how moral you are, he says, I will always have to remind you of these things. You will lose hold of them. It's an astonishing thing, he's saying. He says, unless you are constantly and relentlessly intervening on your heart from the outside, your heart will forget all the beautiful things, all the loving things, all the truth things that you've experienced through God. It'll all be gone, every single one of it, unless you're actively fighting against the tendency to forget. Unless you're beating it back, unless you're making a concerted effort, it will take you out. That's what it's saying. It says there is a corruption, there is a structural flaw in your heart. It will remember the bad and it will forget the good, inevitably. Now, somebody, listen, this is a very, very, very strong thing and I'm going to dwell on it for at least a couple more minutes. If in June 1990, I say, and many of you have done this in the past, I say, I will never do this again. Never. I have learned my lesson. This is the most foolish thing in the world to do. I will never, ever, ever do it. Three years later, will that truth have the same immediacy to me? Will that truth have the same centrality in my consciousness? Will it still have the same influence? Very seldom.

You see, when the Bible talks about sin, sin, it says that our entire person has been tainted with sin, including our memory.

The lack of integrity that sin brings affects the memory. What is integrity? Remember, we've often talked about this. When the Bible talks about integrity, it means wholeness instead of being fragmented. It means that you're the same with this crowd as with this crowd. That's a man of integrity. That's a woman of integrity. It means you're the same in public as private, and private is public, but it also means a person of integrity would be the same in one time as another time. If you say, I'll never forget you. I'll never forget the things that you've told me. I'll never forget this lesson. But a year later, a month later, a week later, you can see it. People that journal, people that journal or that keep diaries are always struck by this. the wonderful things that have happened, the times in which your spirit soars, the times in which you feel the most loved, the most confident, you better write those things down because I can tell you what's so fascinating about the human heart is that you'll come back to those things a year later and if you haven't written them down, you will utterly forget that you ever enjoyed life as much as that. You can always remember the anxiety, you can always remember the anger, you can always remember the disappointment, you can always remember the ugly and the disgusting, podcasting, but you have a lot of trouble remembering compliments that were told to you, you have a lot of trouble remembering mercies that were shown to you, you have a lot of trouble remembering joy, the Bible tells us that the human heart has been so hurt by sin that it will resist the good and the true, it will always find fault with it, it will always say it wasn't enough, They will always say it was imperfect, or deny it ever happened, but it will latch onto and hold the ugly. See, there is a lot of people who say, well, now, wait a minute. You say that the human heart has a tendency to forget, but there's a lot of things in my life I wish I could have forgotten. There are things that my father said to me that I just can't get out of my head. There are things that my spouse said to me that I can't get out of my head. There are things that I did that I can't forget. Well, you see, that just proves what the Bible is saying. Sin makes things operate perversely, which means opposite. It makes them work in reverse. So that you will find, again and again, that the good and the loving and the true fades. AIDS. Your heart is Teflon'd in relationship to the good and the true. Parents see it continually with their own children. It is astonishing how they do not take on, they do not model themselves after all of the complimentary things and all the affirming things you say. But if one time you lose your temper and you say a very harmful thing, within a week, they'll be doing it to each other. There's something about the human heart. There's

the good, remembers the bad, and this is serious, because a heart that dwells on affirmation is a confident heart, and a heart that dwells on mercies is a grateful heart, and a heart that dwells on helpful advice is an open and humble heart, but a heart that dwells on its abuses and dwells on the injustices that it's experienced is a cynical and hypocritical tells us that even if you have had a pretty good upbringing in which you've really had a lot more affirmation than injustice, your heart's going to hold on to that injustice, and it's going to nurse self-pity, and it's going to fade. You're going to find the truth and the good are going to fade. I will always remind you of these things, because it doesn't matter who you are, it doesn't matter what your background is, you're going to forget them. Um, that's pretty serious. That's the danger of the heart. Most of the things that you should be remembering, you have forgotten. There's been a lot more good things that have happened to you than you can remember. There's a lot more that you should be grateful for than your heart believes right now. Your heart is out of touch with reality, the Bible says. Your heart is actually, to some degree insane because it filters out those things. When somebody says something good to you, well, you can't really believe it. When something good has happened to you, when you've seen the good and the true and the loving, it fades. When you see the ugly and the disgusting, it sinks in and stays there. Now, that's the danger. You forget. Forgetting is not innocent. It's part of our being covenant breakers. and not hold on to truth.

Now, secondly, how can we avoid? How can we escape that danger? How can we live in such a way that we're aware of that structural flaw so that we're able to overcome it, to overwhelm it? How? Here's the answer. Three, the only way to escape the dangers of the heart are through remembering, adding, and testing. And they're all here in this chapter, and we'll just briefly look at all of them. Number one, if you want to avoid the kind of twisted life that you will have, unless you're willing to admit the wickedness of your heart in this area, the foolishness of your heart, the weakness of your heart,

if you want to avoid the twisted kind of pathological life that comes from that, you must realize that there is a discipline to remembering. Now, in the Bible, the word remember means something much stronger than it means in our English language. the people, and he says, I remember your sins no more, listen carefully, we all know that God doesn't forget things, and when God says, I remember your sins no more, I mean, you know, you have to remember your sins to even say, I remember your sins no more, what sins, oh, those sins, when he says, I remember your sins no more, he doesn't mean the information is gone, that he's erased the tapes, you know, that he threw the little disc out the window, Umando, what he means is, I will no longer look at you through your sins. I will no longer view you through your sins. I will no longer act toward you as if you sinned. You know what that means? It's one thing to see a truth. It's another thing to see through the truth, everything else. There's a place, I think, in the Institutes where Calvin and says, you know, the sun, I don't just see the sun. In fact, in a sense, I can hardly see the sun. But it's through the sun that I see everything else. Sun in the sky.

What does it mean to really remember truth? It means not just simply to be aware of it. It means to possess it. And it means to let the truth possess you. Have you ever taken a test and you went into the test and you thought you knew it? some of your cases very recently right you thought you knew the material but when you got in there the test was structured in such a way that you had to apply the material and you realized that though you had an awareness of it you didn't possess it enough to use it you didn't possess it enough to see the world through it if only it had been a true false test if only it had even been a kind of

All the educational psychologists among you will tell us that recognition is one thing. Agreement is one thing. But to actually be able to articulate and use and apply a truth is another thing. When the Bible says, I have to remind you, I have to get you to remember these things, it means you have to take the truth and in a disciplined way, you must intervene from the outside. Your heart is cold. cold, ice is going to form over your heart all the time toward the truth. You have got to be breaking it. You have to be melting it from the outside through intervention, systematic and daily and relentless.

Now, just keep this in mind though. When Peter tells us that we tend to forget the truth, He is not just saying we tend to forget nice, good truths in general When Peter tells us I have to remind you of these things what is he talking about? He is not talking about positive thinking in general There will be many books you pick up off the you know, off the newsstands There will be many books you pick up off in the bookstore that up to this point in the sermon these books are tracking with the sermon you might say These books are saying yes, there's a our minds have to be controlled by the good, and therefore you need to focus on the wonderful things about yourself or on the wonderful things about your life. Get rid of negative thoughts, the books will say. That's not what the Bible is saying at all. Nothing can be further from the Bible than to say, pass positive thoughts through your brain, and that's the way you'll begin to have a happy life. No, you know, that only works when your life is in one of those rare periods in which everything is going well. There's nothing more unrealistic than that, and there's nothing further from the Bible than that. What Peter tells us is this. It's in verse 9. If anyone does not have these things in increasing measure, he is nearsighted and blind and has forgotten that he's been cleansed from sins. Now, here's the key.

In this paragraph, Peter says, look, you need to be growing. increasing measure in self-control. What's self-control? Are you seeing this in your own life? A growing ability to be on top of yourself, a kind of mastery of your own heart, of your own emotions, of your own habits. Is that happening? And then he says, secondly, you should be growing in perseverance. You know what that is? The ability to never flag, the ability to never give up, the ability to face anything without going under the ability to face anything and not flag and fail. Do you have that kind of power? Instead of being manic the way many of us are a person of perseverance is like a rock on the coast and the great breakers come and they dash it and when the breakers go away the rock is stinging their head and moved an inch. Is that what you're like? No matter what life serves up to you don't budge an inch. And then Peter also says you should be growing in love and kindness, brotherly kindness. This means the kind of people that everybody else hates, everybody else finds irritable, everybody else finds burdensome, everybody else finds troublesome, if you're growing in Christian love, you can love them. People that everybody else has given up on, you can love them. You can be patient with them. You can actually have affection for them. Nobody else can, but you can. Are you growing in self-control? Are you growing in perseverance? Are you growing in kindness and love? No? I mean, you know, every realistic person says, boy, I'm so far from that. So what does Peter say to you? Does he say, ah, reach down deep? You can do it if you try hard enough? No. He says, if you are not growing in self-control, if you're not growing in perseverance, if you are not growing in love and brotherly kindness, you have forgotten what Jesus Christ did for you.

Christianity never starts with do it says, first you have to receive something before you can do a lot of people think that Christianity starts with doing clean up your life, get self-controlled, be perseverant, becoming loving No! Peter doesn't say, first you do he says, first you have to receive something if you're not growing in these ways, he says you have forgotten the gospel what does it mean that you are cleansed from your old sins? Here's the gospel. Jesus Christ is your substitute. He came to earth,

and he not only took all the punishment, but fulfilled all the obligations that anybody could conceivably see they owe their creator. And because he did that, if you trust and make him the focus of your allegiance,

the Father welcomes you completely and accepts you totally, and his record is transferred to you and you receive for his sake. That's the gospel. Now, what Peter is saying is if you are not growing in self-control but you're finding yourself in the bondage of addiction, if you're not growing in perseverance but you find yourself manic and flagging, if you find yourself not becoming more loving but actually becoming more irritable, he doesn't say, what, dig down deep, try harder, pass positive thoughts through your mind? No. What does he say? He says, you have either not gotten or you have forgotten the gospel.

Now, everybody in this room falls into one of those categories. Do you know that? Either you're someone who has never gotten the gospel, you've never understood it, you thought Christianity was really doing rather than receiving, never got it. Or else you got it and you're in the process of forgetting it and everybody in this room is in one or the other category. Let me speak to both of you as we close.

First of all, how do you know if you've ever gotten the gospel?

Here's a test. Read this paragraph. Add all these things. Self-control.

Perseverance.

Patience. patience, godliness, righteousness, when you look at them, how do you feel? Most people either feel that's confining or you feel it's impossible. In other words, you either despise this high kind of moral plateau or you despair. But if you've ever understood the gospel that we just talked about, that Jesus is your substitute, that he's your sin bearer, that he's the one that's come and paid so that you can be totally accepted for his sake. Anyone who's really taken that into their center, anyone who really remembers that, doesn't just believe it in a general way. Lots of people believe it in a general way, but they don't possess it, you see. They see it, but they don't see everything by it.

If you understand the gospel, two things happen at once. First of all, you have this desire to live a high life like that, a life on a high plane. you want to be godly, you want to be patient, you want to be loving, because you say, I see what he's done for me, and at what cost, and how he's loved me freely, and I just desperately want to please him and be like him. But at the same time, the gospel not only makes you attracted to that high standard, but it frees you to aim for it, because you're not afraid of failing. You're not afraid of failing. Why? Because Jesus has already paid for the failure, it. So one of the ways I can tell the difference between somebody who's gotten the gospel and hasn't gotten the gospel is the people who have not gotten the gospel. When they see the high standards, it makes them feel like what a hard demanding God he must be. You either despise or despair before that standard. But somebody who's gotten the gospel says more than anything else, I want that. And you're free to go after it. Some of you have not gotten the gospel. Now, a lot of the rest of you have gotten it, but you're forgetting it. Please notice today that probably your main problems come from this. Every day you've got to realize that the gospel has ceased to be the functional spectacles through which you're looking at life. What does it mean when he says, if you're not growing in self-control and perseverance, you've forgotten that you've been cleansed from your past sins. You say, I'm a Christian, I've been a Christian for years, I never forget that I've been cleansed from my past sins. Yes, you do. You say, I haven't forgotten that, but I'm scared to death that something that's coming up this week, oh, really? In other words, your perseverance is flagging. You know why you're scared? you have forgotten you have forgotten that God in his free eternal raucous joyous unmerited undeserved unchangeable sovereign love

though you deserved a thousand hells at an infinite measureless cost of his own son put his arms around you and received you into his heart you've forgotten that yes you have and if he would to do that for you, you this week? Well, you say, I hadn't thought of it like that. No, you're not looking at your problem through the gospel. If you are flagging in any of these areas, you've forgotten that you were cleansed. You've forgotten that you were cleansed. It's one thing to see the gospel. It's another thing to see everything by the gospel. You see, that's what God means when he says, remember, when he says, I don't remember your sins, it means I don't see you through your sins. and when it says here I've got you I have to you have to remember that you've been cleansed it means you have to see everything through that everything are you struggling with bitterness against somebody right now you're not seeing that person through the gospel

and we got to close even though some of you who have wonderful memories in spite of your sin Remember that I said there were three ways that we escape the dangers of the heart. We remember, and I'll just mention the other two. Remembering, by the way, remembering the gospel is the key. Then adding. Now you see, remember how Peter says, give all diligence, make every effort to add to your faith, self-control and godliness and so on. I just said that Christianity doesn't start with doing. start with doing, it starts with receiving, receiving Christ, receiving pardon, receiving the gospel, receiving new life, but once you get things first and second things second, I want you to know that there's lots of diligence, there's lots of work at working the gospel into your life through the disciplines, the spiritual disciplines that Christians have practiced for centuries. See, you know what it takes to really remember, member, to make the gospel the functional center, there's the discipline of Bible study, there's the discipline of prayer, there's the discipline of accountability to other Christians, there's the discipline of simplicity over materialism, the discipline of honesty

over dishonesty, the discipline of purity over sexual license, there's the discipline of service over ambition and manipulation and power. All of these disciplines have to be worked at every day, and if you look at all the great Christians of history, if you look at Augustine or Martin Luther, if you look at Saint Teresa or Mother Teresa today, you will find that these people lived lives of order. They realized that every day, everything but the gut, everything was battling to get in to become the spectacles through which you see the world. The newspaper wants to do it, the TV wants to do it, other people want to do it, and there is a battle going on for your very soul, and these people lived lives of order, so to read their lives, they godliness. They discipline themselves in the gospel. And lastly, remembering, adding, and testing. What's great about the Bible is it's such no-nonsense. Somebody may be out there right now saying, I don't care what you say. You're too negative. I do not. I'm a Christian. I believe I was cleansed from my past sins, and I have not forgotten it. Okay. But it's not good enough for you to just, you might be true, it might be true, but don't just examine your consciousness state. Let's be concrete. Peter says if you are growing in increasing measure in these things, go ask your friends, go ask the people that know you best, are you more self-controlled than you were last year? Are you more loving and tender and approachable than you were last year? Are you more peaceful? Are you less anxious than you were last year? Are you?

if you are and if everybody says so yeah you're right you haven't forgotten

but unless they say what are you talking about you're a nice person but you probably have

some of you are the 18 year olds saying I've got so much love in my heart you're being too negative yes you do maybe have a lot of love in your heart but there's a lot else in there

many of you know that this is true but give every effort to work and remember and make the gospel the functional center of your life the problem you have that you're looking at right now put the gospel on

come grow in the knowledge of Jesus Christ and grow in his grace let's pray now Father we thank you that you have given us the ability to see ourselves through your word. We thank you that this very, very difficult, in some ways, very critical passage. It helps us criticize ourselves. It helps us do a critique on our own lifestyle and our own way of thinking. We pray that through this very critical passage we might find the life and the health and the peace that we need. We ask, Father, that you really would help us to grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
