Tonight's scripture reading can be found on page 9 of your bulletin, and it's from Deuteronomy chapter 6 verses 4 through 23. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your strength. These commandments that I give you today are to be upon your hearts. Impress them on your children. When the Lord your God brings you into the land he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you a land with large flourishing cities you did not build, houses filled with all kinds of good things you did not provide, you did not dig, and vineyards and olive groves you did not plant. Then when you eat and are satisfied, be careful that you do not forget the Lord who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. Fear the Lord your God, serve him only, and take your oaths in his name. Do not follow other gods, the gods of the peoples around you, for the Lord your God who is among you is a jealous God and his anger will burn against you, and he will destroy you from the face of the land. Do not test the Lord your God as you did at Massa. Be sure to keep the commands of the Lord your God and the stipulations and decrees he has given you. Do what is right and good in the Lord's sight, so that it may go well with you, and you may go in and take over the good land that the Lord promised on oath to your forefathers, thrusting out all your enemies before you as the Lord said. In the future, when your son asks you, what is the meaning of the stipulations, decrees, and laws the Lord our God has commanded you? Tell him, we were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt, but the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. Before our eyes, the Lord sent miraculous signs and wonders, great and terrible upon Egypt and Pharaoh and his whole household. But he brought us out from there to bring us in and give us the land that he promised on oath to our forefathers. This is God's word. We're looking at the book of Deuteronomy, and we've said that the book is a series of sermons by Moses just before he died. And today we come to a passage which is called the Shema, which is Hebrew for hear, O Israel. And it's the core confessional text of Judaism for good reason. In this passage, you've got a compact description of what it means not just to know about God, not just to believe in God in general, but to know God. Not just to know about God to know God. And there's four things we're going to learn that you've got to do. You might say there are four requirements or four aspects to knowing God. You have to believe in God truly, love God transformatively, trust God unconditionally, and tell God's story first. Got to believe in God truly. First verse, hear, O Israel, the Lord your God, the Lord is one. The Lord is one. What's that mean? The dominant belief of the time was that there are many gods depending on the region or the country. Every country had its own god, every region had its own god, you had the mountain god, the sea god. God. But the dominant belief of today is there also are many gods depending on the individual. Because today the dominant belief is that everybody has the right to believe in God for you. Everyone has the right to believe in God as it is meaningful to you. And therefore, there are many gods, but God is saying here, no. There's only one real God, and it's me. You don't construct me, God is saying here. I construct you. And therefore, there's not many of me, depending on you. There's one of me, and you depend on me. I'm real, is what God is saying. There's only one of me. I'm real, and I'm as real as gravity. I'm as real as death. I'm real whether you believe in me or not. There's a kind of there-ness about me. There's a reality to me, and if you want to know me, you've got to know me as I really am. You can't just make up who you want me to be. And therefore, you have to know me as I reveal myself to be in the Scripture. Now, does that sound narrow to you? You say, oh, my goodness, you believe there's only one true God isn't that narrow? No more narrow than you. Don't you think there's one you? Listen, if somebody comes up to you and says today, I'm writing a book about you. Oh, really, you say? What's in it? Well, I like to think of you as an astronaut, brilliant at math, but very abrasive and terrible at relationships. So you say, well, I'm scared of heights. I flunked math,

person, and the person says, well, it doesn't matter. I like to think of you like this. And you'd be furious. Why? Because there is a reality here that person needs to honor. And if God exists, then he would be, if anything, more real than you. What's wrong with him saying, you've got to get to know me as I really am. You can't make me up. You can't make up your mind as to who you want me to be. you don't know me unless you know me as I really am you don't know me if you create me you only know me if you discover me and if anybody here feels like this is still just too narrow minded for me let me help you with an ironic truth ironically the God your heart most desperately needs is a God your heart didn't create your heart most desperately needs a God you didn't create tell you something, at some point in your life, you're going to feel worthless. And how can a God that you know you invented come and tell you, no, you're wrong, you're valuable? At some point, you're going to feel guilty. And how can a God who you know you made up, how can that God come and say, you're pardoned? The deepest need of your heart is for a God that you didn't invent, but you discovered. A God that you know is real, whether you like to believe in him or not, but he's got a reality. So first to know God, you have to believe in him truly. Secondly, to know God, you must love him transformatively. Now, the second thing the Shema says is you must love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and strength, every fiber of your being. Now, the first thing that we think, I guess, us modern people using the word love the way we think of the word love. That's a little weird. How do you command someone to love? Isn't love a feeling? But that's the point, isn't it? If love was primarily a feeling, it would only be something you... If love is basically a feeling, then when you love someone, you're only loving with part of you, right? But the command here is to love him with your whole life. And if you want to know what that means, here's what it means. There are two tests to tell whether you are loving God in a transformative. You're not loving God with your whole being unless it's life transformative. How? First, look at the passage here. It's talking about how your individual life has changed. Look at what it says. It says, now take the decrees and put them on your heart, all the laws and put them on your heart. And then it goes on and says, talk about them when you sit at home and when you walk on the road, when you lie down and when you get up. Tie them as symbols on your hands and bind them on your foreheads. Write them on the door frames of your houses and on your gates. Do you see what that says? In the home and on the road means your private life and your public life, out doing your job. On the head and on the hand means what you're thinking inside and actually how you act outside. No bifurcation. When you go to that's your entire waking life. That's every part of your life. And to write the laws on the doorposts of your home means you apply it to your family, but to write it on the gates of the city means you apply it to the economic, political, and civic life of your whole society. And this is what it's saying. If you love God with your whole heart, it means you will love God in your whole life. You won't just love God on the weekends. Friends, you won't just love God in your private life, but not in your public life. You won't love God with this person, but not that person, because you don't want them to think you're a fanatic. In other words, you're supposed to go into every single corner of your life, your entire waking life, public, private, inner, outer, and you should be constantly asking this question. How does who God is and what God says, how does who God is and what God says affect this? How I think here, how I act here, how I live here, everything. You want absolutely every single nook and cranny of your life to be affected by the love of God. That's what it means. So first of all, to love him with all your heart, soul, and strength of mind means to transform every aspect of your individual life, but that's not all. It's also the corporate life. Notice it says, hear and love me, O Israel. And here's what we got there. God is not just calling you as an individual to love God. God is calling individuals who love him to form a community that loves him in the way the community is structured. Now, if you want to know what that means, you can flip over to, don't, just listen to me. A parallel passage is Deuteronomy 10. And in Deuteronomy 10, we read this. Hear, O Israel, what does the Lord your God ask of you but to love and serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul? For the Lord shows no partiality and accepts no bribes. He defends the cause of the fatherless and the widow. He loves the immigrant and the alien, alien giving him food and clothing. And you are to love those who are immigrants and aliens for you yourselves are once aliens in Egypt. That is amazing. You know what it's saying? It's not enough just to bring the love of God into your personal life. It's got to affect your social conscience. It's got to affect your understanding of where you are in society. society. And God actually goes so far as to say this, partiality and caring for the immigrant and the alien, you know what that means? God says, I want not the slightest whiff of racism

to be in the community of those who love me. And if there is, if you do show partiality, which is prejudice, if you do discriminate, if you do discriminate on the basis of nation or culture, or race. You forgot who you are. You are aliens in Egypt. You are slaves. You are marginalized. You are despised, and I brought you out. Now, what is God saying? He's not just saying, you know, don't be racist. I mean, he is saying that, but what he's actually saying is if you're a racist, you have not experienced my grace. You don't know that you're a sinner saved by a sure grace. You either haven't experienced it or you don't understand what you've experienced or you haven't thought it out in every area of your life. and especially when you take a look at what it says there, it says, if you love God with all your heart, soul, and strength in mind, you will love the alien, and you'll give him food and clothing, and you'll show no partiality, and you'll care for the widow and the orphan. What that is saying is, once you've experienced the grace of God, you will never look at or wield power the same way. In normal society, power is wielded unilaterally, but in God's community, it's wielded relationally, that is it's shared. Look at you. You got some skills. Maybe you went to grad school. Now you've got an expertise. Maybe you're in law. Maybe you're in finance. Maybe you're in arts. That's power, you know. And there's two ways you could use that power. You could spend absolutely every second for the rest of your life making money for yourself, yourself, accruing even more power for yourself. Or you could start doing pro bono work. You could start spending an enormous amount of time with people who have less power than you, serving them, giving money to them if you have the kind of power that brings actual money. But a lot of people in a place like Manhattan have a power that doesn't necessarily make them rich, but they've got power. They know how to open doors. They've got expertise. And if you spend your life giving huge amounts of your time to those who don't have the same power, don't have the same economic power and social power and cultural power, if you spend your time doing that instead of using your power just simply to accrue more money for yourself, a lot of people in the world are going to think you're nuts. But what you're actually doing is you're using your power relationally. You're sharing it. You're spreading it around. And according to this text, if you don't you're being unjust because if you wherever you are today whatever you've gotten you say I've worked very hard I got this job I got I went through grad school it's a gift of God you know it's a gift of God in the end you could have been born blind on a mountain in Tibet in the 13th century and then how much would all of your hard work gotten you but you weren't

and so what look you must love God transformatively. You must take the love of God and let it transform every aspect of your life, individually and communally. Every nook and cranny of your life has to be shaped by the grace of God. And if you're not doing that, and if you're not working that out, if you're only sort of going to God when you're in trouble, or when you need some kind of inspiration, you're not loving God with all your heart, soul, strength. You're not loving God in a life-transformative way. And one more thing before moving on. Look carefully, and it says, you know how you work the love of God into every part of your life? It says, impress those laws on your heart. And then it says, talk about them when you're in the home and on the road. Talk about them when you get that. Talk about them. You know what that means? Look, community. Let me tell you how you're really going to change. There are lots of people who say, come to Redeemer or listen to the Redeemer sermons and say, oh, look how much I'm learning. It doesn't say, listen, that's how you change. It says, talk. There are plenty of people who take notes and say, I've got all this doctrine, I've learned all these great things at Redeemer, but their lives don't change because you don't make yourself available to be in communities of people, other people who love God and who are incessantly trying to work out what does it mean now. If God like this, if God said this, what does this mean for the way in which I use my sexuality? What does this mean for the way in which I use my money? What does this mean in the way in which I relate to my family? What does this mean in every nook and cranny of your life? That's not going to happen if you simply come and listen. It only comes through talking, through talking with other people who you are willing to let look into your life. Other people who believe in the same God. So you can talk about sex, money, power, family, your thought life. So if you just simply come and take notes and listen and say, I'm growing, you're not. You've got to get into community. You've got to get into relationships. It's the people you talk with as you move through the day, as you move through your life. It's who you hang out with, not who you listen to, that changes you and makes you who you are. Believe in God truly. Love God transformatively. thirdly you must trust God unconditionally whoa verse 16 do not test the Lord your God and the word test is a Hebrew word nasa or masa by the way and there's a reference in verse 16 to exodus 17 when the children of Israel out in the desert and they thought they were going to they were going to die of thirst and they said that Moses we're going to kill you and go back to Egypt. And what they were basically saying is, we'll follow God if he proves to us that he's worthy of our following by doing something and giving us water. Now to test, here's the definition of the word test. To test is to consider a party guilty until he or she proves him or herself innocent. Guilty until proven innocent. And to test the Lord is to basically say, I'll follow you as long as my life's going the way it ought to go. I'll follow you as long as I'm getting explanations and answers to all my questions. I'll follow you as long as you prove yourself worthy. But the problem is that when we get into the wilderness times of our lives and we have health problems and we have huge disappointments in our career and we have huge disappointments in relationships and things aren't going well. In fact, things are going terribly in our lives start to talk like this. Isn't God all powerful? Then he's incompetent. What is God doing? Everything's going wrong. I'm going to follow him only if he starts to make things right. That's testing God. And let me tell you why that doesn't work. And that's, look, on the one hand, everybody starts that way in a relationship with God, everybody. In the beginning, you have to almost. You have to say, well, I'll pray and I'll start to read and I'll start to give, you know, you come to him and you see whether there's something to it. But at a certain point, if you say, I'll follow God if things are going well in my life, I'll follow God if he proves that he's worthy. Let me tell you why it's such a big problem. What is God doing, we say, until I understand I'm not going to believe or I'm not going to follow. follow. Elizabeth Elliot used to go visit a couple of friends of hers in northern Wales that had a farm and had sheep on their farm. And I know right where that farm is, one of the most beautiful places in the world. And one of the things she notices, she was there one time at the season of the year in which the shepherd has to do something kind of awful to the sheep. At one point of the year, the shepherd has to take his sheep and take them to a huge vat of antiseptic and completely submerge the sheep in the vat of antiseptic. And if they don't go through that, they will literally die, be eaten of parasites and insects. So what they have to do is actually take the sheep and not only throw them in the vat before they swim, but actually submerge them and hold them under. And she says, one by one, John sees the animals. They would struggle to the sheepdog would snarl and snap at their faces to force them back under. When they tried to climb up the ramp in a panicky way at the far end, John the farmer would catch them, spin them around, force them under again, holding them ears, eyes, and nose submerged for a few seconds. And as their lord and master was pushing their head under, drowning them at least as far as they could tell. Their panicky little eyes would look up over the edge of the vat, and it was easy to see what they were thinking. What is God doing? You know, every time we wash our cat, you know, unlike you and me, we have a triune God, but our cat has a bayou God. It's called, named Tim and Kathy. Every time I wash our cat, as we're putting her under the water, she looks up with that same panicky look. What is God doing to me? and here's what Elizabeth Elliot says who by the way had two husbands die on her she got married a third time but when she wrote this two of her husbands had died and she was only like 48 at the time she says I've had some experiences in my life which have made me feel very sympathetic to those poor sheep there were times I couldn't figure out any reason for the treatment I was getting from my great shepherd whom I trusted. And like these sheep, I didn't have a hint of an explanation. But think. Think. Number one, the shepherd has to do that to the sheep, right? Has to. Or they'll die. On the other hand, there's absolutely no way in the world the shepherd could possibly give the sheep any explanation, any comfort, any assurance. So, there are only two possibilities. There are only two. They can die, or they can trust the shepherd without explanation. That's it. And the reason why that's all, that's the only two things, is because of the gap in intelligence between the shepherd and the

sheep. Because the gap is so great, because there's no way to explain, and yet you have to do it, it means the sheep either trust the shepherd, they die, or they trust the shepherd without the same two choices we've got. Because we have a bigger gap between us and our great shepherd in heaven than we actually have between us and the sheep. I mean, the sheep and us, we're still finite, limited creatures, but God is infinite. And don't you see, if you say, I'll trust God conditionally, I'll obey God as long as I have some answers, find out whatever, what about those people who never heard about Jesus? As long as God starts to turn my life around so things start to go well again, then I'll believe. What makes you think that you're smart enough to know the proof of his love, to recognize it? Do you really know the end from the beginning? How could you possibly know whether or not he's doing the best thing for you right now? You can't. And therefore, there's, listen, if there's no God, no issue. But if there is a God. You have to trust him unconditionally. You have to trust him without explanation. You have to trust him without your questions being answered. It's the same thing. Either there's no God and therefore we're all, you know, in darkness, or there is a God and you have to trust him without condition. But one thing you can't do is what we are doing, which is we'll follow God as long as he comes through for us. How will you know if he's coming through or not for you? We're sheep. you have to trust God unconditionally. And oh, listen, if you're able to turn that corner so that you can, if you can get to the place where you really start to say, I don't understand what's going on here, but I know my great shepherd. He cares for me. Whatever is going on here, this is not punishment. He cares for me. There's a great calm that comes. it's remarkable you're going under but you know he's there how do you get that trust how do you get that calm point four you must tell God's story in verse 20 a son asked the father a question what is the meaning of these laws and comment I'm not going to go into the details of the translation, but basically here's what the son is saying. Dad, I see you obeying God. I see you obeying God in every area of your life. I see you trusting God unconditionally. I see you loving God transformatively, but why should I? That's what he's asking. Why should I? And what's interesting is the answer does not go right to verse 24. Now we didn't print 24 in there, sorry, but verse 24 says, because God commanded it. Now, I want you to know over the years, I'd say in general, when children do ask their parents, I see you living for God. Why should I live for God? I see you going to church, going to synagogue, obeying the Ten Commandments. Why should I? Most parents scroll right to verse 24 and they say, because God said so. In other words, why should I obey the commands and the answer is another command why should I obey these principles and the answer is another principle why should I obey God because he's God because you just have to and I want you to know that in the short run I mean that's true and you'll get compliance but in the long run that will not satisfy a child's heart and in the long run it also won't even satisfy your heart If you simply say to yourself, I got to do this, otherwise God will get me. He's God. I have to. I'm a sheep. He's a shepherd. You know, point three. I guess I got to. No, no, no, no. Here's what's so wonderful. The answer, why should I obey the commands, is not another command, but a story. That's what's so great about verses 20 to 23. This is what the Father is supposed to say. Not you just have to do it because he's God. No. He tells the child the story of the gospel. The meaning of the law is the gospel. What's the gospel? It's a story of God coming into history to save us by grace. Now the version of the story that this father tells is, of course, the only one that they had at the time. The most advanced version of the gospel, which was the Exodus. Exodus. And in the Exodus, we're told the Israelites were in slavery and God broke into history with the ten plagues, mighty acts. But now the ten plagues were terrible judgments of God down on human sin. The ten plagues were actually, Judgment Day scrolled forward temporarily, and God brought down His judgment against human evil on Egypt. But how did the Israelites get out? because they're humans, and they're as sinful as anybody else, and they were in Egypt when down came the angel of death. How did they get out? And the answer is the blood of the lamb. Before the law went on the doorposts of Israel, the blood went on the doorposts, because on the night of Passover, when everybody else was dying because of the judgment of God, the Israelites took shelter under the blood of the Lamb. They slew a lamb, they ate a lamb, and they put the blood on the doorposts so that the judgment of God passed over. They hid themselves under the blood. And that's the answer, at least as far as they knew at the time. Why should I obey the law? The answer is not, we obey the law, otherwise God will get us. We obey the law so God will take us to heaven. We obey the law so God will bless us. No. God blessed us and therefore we obey the law. God saved us and therefore we obey the law out of gratitude. We don't obey the law out of fear and coercion, but out of love and gratitude. Before the law went on our doorposts, the blood was on our doorposts. And that's the reason we can put the law on our doorposts because we know that God's for us and he's chosen us by grace. And so the meaning of the law is God's intervention in his grace and therefore my son. That's wonderful. And yet they can only go so far because what if the son asked, and I'm sure this has happened over the years, but dad, how did the blood of the lamb do anything for our sins? In that point, you know, the father would have to say, yeah, I've always wondered that myself. But John the Baptist, when he saw Jesus Christ walking along, suddenly got it. And he said, behold, the lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. John the Baptist says, I get it. The lambs actually didn't take away our sins. They were just a symbol. Here's the one. God himself come. To take the judgment. To absorb the death. And that's how you know you can trust him unconditionally. It's not enough just to say to your heart, well, you have to trust him because he's God and you're just a stupid sheep. That will work for a while. But in the end, you have to say, the shepherd became a sheep. The shepherd became a lamb. The shepherd became a little lamb who was destroyed. He became vulnerable, the invulnerable, infallible God, and he did that for me. That's why I can trust him. Now, here's the point. You've got to tell the gospel story to your heart or you will not love God transformatively or trust him unconditionally. That's how you have to tell other people, by the way, why they need to do the right thing. That's the reason why you don't, you know, Womp on people. You just need to be a good person without telling them the gospel. Why should they be good people if they don't understand the gospel? And if they don't understand the gospel, then don't come, don't wail on people because they're not living the right way. Talk to them about Jesus. Tell the story. And you have to tell to your own heart. And you've got to find ways to nail the gospel in the doorposts of your life. Everybody has a different way to do it. Let me tell you how my wife does it. I've told, you know, 30 service today, that's where she is. And I'm only dealing in places where she's not because this is too embarrassing. To be a good example is too embarrassing. But here's how she does it. Years ago, when she was writing Sunday school curriculum, she was writing a curriculum about Noah and the ark. And she was studying the story. And you know, the whole point of the story of Noah and the ark is at the end of the flood, God says, I will not judge the world tit for tat for its

I'm not going to do that because you'd be all wiped out. If I made everybody pay for your sins, there'd be no world. I'd just incinerate it. I will not do that. And the sign of God saying, I will not judge you tit for tat for your sins, was a bow, a rainbow in the sky, right? But when Kathy started studying that, first of all, she found out there isn't, it wasn't, the Hebrew word was not a word for rainbow. It was just a word for bow. as in bow and arrow, a war bow. The bow was the main weapon of warfare at the time. And why was the rainbow a sign of God saying, I will not judge you? It wasn't because of the pretty colors. It was because of the direction of the rainbow. The bow is not pointing toward us. The arrow is not pointing toward us. That's why it was a promise. But Kathy realized, and as the commentators realized, the bow is pointing where? it's not just pointing away from us, it's pointing to heaven. The bow of God's wrath, the bow of God's judgment and what God is saying every time the rainbow comes out is, I'm not going to judge you for your sins because I'm going to take that judgment myself. I'm not going to wipe you out because of your sins, I'm going to receive it in myself. And when she realized that, it moved her deeply and you know what she does? She struggled a lot over the years with, as you know, with various sorts of diseases feels like, what is God doing? And she feels like he's putting her head under the, you know, into the antiseptic. She has prisms and crystals on the window of our bedroom so that when the sun comes in between three o'clock and five o'clock, if the sun hits it just right, it fills our bedroom with dancing little rainbows, sometimes dozens of them all over the walls. And when she needs to, She comes in and she looks at the rainbow and she hears God saying, this is not punishment that you're going through. I took the punishment for you. I love you. And then she weeps herself peaceful. You've got to find ways of nailing the gospel on the doorway of your life. You've got to find ways of telling the story to your heart so that you can love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might, and trust him unconditionally. Let's pray. thank you Father for giving us the Lord's Supper which is another sign really a lot better than the rainbow that you have given yourself for us and we ask that now it would be a sign to us and it would move us and it would give us grace so that we can live our lives the way we should in gratitude to what you've done in Jesus name we pray Amen