The passage we've been looking at for two weeks, I want to do it one more time. And I don't have a real clear understanding of what I'm going to say to you yet tonight. Let's see if we can't come into focus very quickly. Ephesians 5. Verses 18 to 21 on the important subject we've looked at a couple of times in general. And now tonight I'd like to look at it in the most practical possible way. It's Ephesians 5, verses 18 to 21 on what it means to be filled with the Spirit. All right? Verse 18. Which leads to debauchery. Instead, be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Sing and make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. Let's stop right there. My notes are blowing around, but that's great that it's cooled off. There's a bit of a breeze. The last couple of weeks we've looked at this subject and we've talked about, in more general ways, what the fullness of the Spirit is. What it looks like or what it feels like. And if I can remind you of two of them, two things. We said one is, well, since it's the opposite of drunkenness, since being filled with the Spirit is likened to drunkenness because people go to substances for courage and for warmth. They go to substances for joy. The Scripture says you get from the Spirit that which people go to substances for. But the fullness of the Spirit is opposed to alcohol in that one. It gives you more self-control, not less. And we said the life of this fullness of the Spirit has got to be a life of tremendous control. In drunkenness, you lose control. You don't know where you are. You make promises that you can't keep. You're not aware of your limitations. But in the fullness of the Spirit, a person who's filled with the Spirit is experiencing a life of exquisite balance and refinement. Control of the tongue, control of the emotions, control of the passions, control of the mind. We talked about that. And secondly, we said being filled with the Spirit is the opposite of drunkenness in that drunkenness is a depressant. You can see that in any pharmacology book. But the fruit of the Spirit, or pardon me, the fullness of the Spirit is a stimulant. Alcohol depresses your ability to take in truth. That's why you get happy. Because you're able to block out parts of the truth that are making you unhappy. Reality becomes less real. The fullness of the Spirit, however, enhances your understanding of reality. It makes the truth shine. And we said the state of being filled with the Spirit is the state of having the truth of God, the truth of who you are shining. We talked about that last week as well. An example. In fact, those of you who were here at an earlier service, it was 20 degrees warmer at the earlier services. Maybe some of you wisely avoided the early services and came to this one. I mentioned there's a musician about my age who's in a church in our same denomination in Chattanooga named James Ward. In fact, he wrote the version of Rock of Ages that we sing here. Not the old version, but the new version of Rock of Ages. Old words, new tune. He wrote that tune. He also wrote a piece of music some years ago based on Isaiah 53, where it says that Jesus Christ will die as a guilt offering, but he will come to life and he will see the results of his suffering and he will be satisfied. And I mentioned this in some of the services this morning when it came to worship. But it was a few years ago that I was actually home alone. And I was washing dishes, trying to be a really good father and husband. And I put that music on. I've heard that music a hundred times. I know that verse inside out. But there's a place where the music said, the results of his suffering he shall see and he shall be satisfied. And it suddenly occurred to me that I was the results. I was one of the results of his suffering. That he was looking at me and he was saying, I suffered. And he's looking at the results. He's looking at us. He sees what he's done. He sees how we've been changed. He sees how we've been pardoned. The results of his suffering he shall see and he will be satisfied. I suddenly realized he was looking at me and he was satisfied. He was looking at me and saying, I suffered, but it was all worth it for you. Now, I'm a pastor. I preach on things like this. I'm supposed to know this. But on that particular morning, the truth began to shine. It began to be overwhelming. It began to get big. It was magnified in my eyes. I began to weep. I said, you know, what problems have I got if this is true? To imagine that the cosmic king would be satisfied with me, to have that kind of favor, what else do I want? Now, you see, that's an experience of the fullness of the Spirit. Because unlike alcohol, which knocks out your ability to see the truth and makes you happy because you see less of it, the Holy Spirit enhances and stimulates your mind so you really see the truth for what it is. It heightens your understanding of reality. It makes the truth to shine. You're melted with spiritual understandings of who you are in him and who he is to you. That's the fullness of the Spirit. And that's the reason why we said in Ephesians 5, Paul can say, be filled with the Spirit and speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, give thanks to the Father in everything through Christ and submit to each other. And over in Colossians 3.16, he can say, let the word dwell in you richly and speak to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs and make melody in your heart and give thanks in all ways and submit to each other. As we said two weeks in a row, to have the word of God become rich to you, to have the truth shine, to have the light turn on. I think some months ago I said it's a difference between the truth being on audio and video. You know, it's like you know the truth and all of a sudden one day it goes on video. It goes on full color, technicolor, panavision. It fills your mind and your heart. And you say, what is wrong with me? In light of this, why am I worried? Why am I weeping? Why am I anxious? Why am I mad? That's how the fullness of the Spirit works. Now, so we see the fullness of the Spirit, unlike alcohol, drunkenness, the fullness of the Spirit is a life of tremendous self-control because the life of the Spirit, fullness of the Spirit, is to have the truth richly dwelling in you. Changing your mind, heightening your understanding of reality. Bringing you the joy and the warmth and the vulnerability and the courage that you get from chemicals. That you try to get from chemicals but you get in reality from him. Now that brings us to the final question. And the final question is, this sounds wonderful. This is great. How does it happen? How do I do it? And that leads us to, again, look carefully at the text and we see that there is a balance again. It says, do not be drunk with wine, but then it says, instead be filled with the Spirit. Now we suddenly realize that, as usual, the Scripture is moving us down a central line and avoiding the left or the right. You have a lot of people that look at the fullness of the Spirit as something that just hits you, just comes upon you. You can do nothing about it. You can maybe ask God for it. You can have tarrying meetings. You can hope for it. But frankly, you're passive. You just gotta wait till it hits. It's like being struck with lightning or a tornado. I mean, you can't do much except just to hope that you happen to be in the path. And that means you're very passive. There's other people that write and teach as if being filled with the Spirit is something that you can do automatically. Here's my book. There's five things you have to do. If you do them, it'll happen. And if it doesn't feel very good, if you don't feel like it's happened, just assume that it happened. And I really think that both of those are clearly wrong because you have here the grammar. On the one hand, if we were that passive in being filled with the Spirit, I don't think you'd be commanded. It wouldn't say, be filled with the Spirit. It wouldn't say, you must be filled with the Spirit. If it was something all you had to do, all you could do is sort of sit around and just hope that it happened. On the other hand, if it was really something completely in your control, it wouldn't have been put in the passive. It doesn't say, fill yourself with the Spirit, does it? It says, be filled. Put yourself in the position where you can be filled. There's this balance between, on the one hand, realizing it's not something you have complete control over. Yet, on the other hand, there's a lot you can do. There's a lot you can do about it. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a command. Now, another area that we have to look at. Therefore, we see it's something that you can do and yet something you can prepare for and yet something you can't pull off. And yet, something that you can put yourself in the road for. Now, here's another way to understand this. There is a difference in my mind between a kind of filledness with the Spirit that comes through simple obedience, or I should say, obedient uses of the means of grace. Now, I'll explain that. There's a kind of fullness of the Spirit that comes just simply obeying God and using the means of grace. Bible study and prayer and fellowship, obeying His will and so forth. And there's a kind of filledness of the Spirit that is a special empowering, a special kind of high assurance and empowering and anointing that the Spirit sends to you. That really is something that people write stories about. You read about it. You hear about it. You see it. And you say, I desperately want that. They're not quite the same thing. I feel like what Paul is talking about here is the filledness of the Spirit that comes through obediently using the means of grace. In fact, if you want to understand this best, I think, months ago I mentioned this, but lots of you weren't here then. Please consider that in the New Testament when the word filledness with the Spirit or fullness of the Spirit is used, it can be used in one of three different ways. There's a kind of filledness that comes when you're saved. When Paul, when Ananias came to Paul who was sitting, having been blinded by the vision, having been on the Damascus road, he was sitting blind. Ananias came and told Paul to believe on Jesus Christ and to be filled with the Spirit. And at that moment, the blindness was gone. The scales fell off of his eyes and he was filled with the Spirit. But before he was filled with the Spirit in that way, he was lost. And it does tell us in Colossians 2.9 that if you are filled with the Spirit, when you become a Christian, you get the fullness of God. It says in Colossians 2.9 that all the fullness of God dwells in Christ and Christ dwells in us and we have all the fullness of Christ. And the Trinity goes together. The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are together. And so there's a sense when you become a Christian that you have experienced the fullness of the Spirit. You have the Spirit in you. You have God in you. So that's one way in which the word is used. Then there's a second way, and you can find out what these fillednesses mean when you look at the opposite. The opposite of Paul's filledness was being lost. The opposite of this filledness or fullness, if you look carefully, it says if you're filled with the Spirit in the way that Paul talks about here, it says you're speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. That's worship. You're singing and making music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father. There's corporate worship and there's personal worship. And then it says you're submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. So you're giving yourself to one another in service. The opposite of this kind of filledness of the Spirit would be walking in disobedience. There's a kind of fullness of the Spirit that comes simply when you are using the means of God. The means of grace. The means of grace is a theological term that's been used throughout history. It's been used throughout history and it refers to Bible study, taking the sacraments, coming to worship, fellowship with other believers, prayer. When you're using the means of Christian growth, the tools by which the Spirit within you is growing more and more in control of your life, then that is a filledness. There's a kind of filledness of the Spirit. There's a sort of empowering and a sort of joy and a sort of life and a sort of truth shining that happens at that level. Then there are other times of extraordinary fullness. For example, in Acts chapter 4, verse 31, when the people of the church meet together because they've been threatened with their lives if they preach the gospel. They get together and they pray in Acts chapter 4. It says the place they were meeting was shaken and they all were filled with the Spirit and they spoke the word with boldness. Now look carefully there. Paul is saying if you're not filled with the Spirit in this sense, you're simply not using the means of grace. But in Acts 4, before they were filled with the Spirit in this latter sense, this last sense, were they being disobedient? Were they not praying and worshiping God? And reading the word? No, no. What happened to them in that last sense? There is a kind of fullness of the Spirit in which the truth doesn't just shine, it blazes. There is a kind of experience of the fullness of the Spirit where there isn't just joy. There's some kind of remarkable high power. It's what Paul talks about in Romans 8, verse 16 when he talks about the witness of the Spirit. Do you know what the picture is? It's an amazing picture. Here's the idea. Here you are in a courtroom, imagine. And one person is accusing you of having been there on the night of the crime. Yes, you were in on the robbery. And you're up there saying absolutely not. I was somewhere else at the time. And the problem is it's your word against this other person's word. That's all. And neither of you has a corroborating witness to back up your side or the other side. So the case is in doubt. Romans 8, 16 says there are times in which the Spirit bears witness with your spirit that you're a child of God. That means you sit down and you say, look, I know I'm a child of God. I've given my life to Christ. I am using the means of grace. I see some changes in my life. So what you're doing is you're bearing witness that you're a child of God. There are times in which the Spirit comes alongside. It's like imagine you're in this courtroom and suddenly a surprise witness shows up. Someone that everybody in the court knows. And he gets up and he gets on the stand and he says, I saw the defendant on the beach walking along just as the defendant said. The defendant was nowhere near the scene of the crime. I saw the person there. And so suddenly the case is broken open. You're cleared. You're guiltless. Everybody knows that you've told the truth. This witness comes alongside and lifts you up and everyone is exonerated and everyone's joyful. And Paul is saying there are times in which the Spirit of God comes alongside of you and says, this is my beloved child in whom I'm well pleased. You know, you know that you're his son. You're his daughter. And there are times in which the Spirit comes alongside and gives you a tremendous intuitive and immediate sense of his love for you. An immediate certainty. And what that does, at times like that, you cannot remember what it was like to be scared of anything. Now, if you read the New Testament, you'll see those things come on. It happens in Acts chapter 4. It says, and suddenly the place they were was shook and they were filled with the Spirit. They weren't a minute before, but after they prayed they were filled in this latter sense. And there's a place in Acts 13 where it says, suddenly Paul was filled with the Spirit and he spoke the word with boldness. And you must realize that this is a kind of filledness of the Spirit that does not, you cannot maintain. You can't stay up there. It comes and it goes. However, this particular kind of filledness of the Spirit, Paul talks about in Ephesians 5, 18 to 21, is a continuous present. It says, be filled with the Spirit. It's an ongoing continuous present tense. And it's a continuous present. What am I saying? I'm saying do not, do not get confused. A lot of you are going to hear all sorts of different kinds of teaching that say there's a way of being filled with the Spirit. When you get filled with the Spirit, there's this tremendous emotional rush. And all your problems are over and you have victory over all your sins and everything is fine. And you can stay there. And that's mistaking two forms of the fullness of the Spirit. There's a filledness of the Spirit that's present tense, continuous present tense. It's a matter of praising God. It's a matter of studying his word. It's a matter of staying obedient. It's a matter of centering in on him and focusing. There's a certain level that happens. And when you're filled with the Spirit in this sense, there are times when God needs to give you tremendous assurance so that you can witness or you can do some great deed of ministry or you can serve. I've known people, for example, I've known Christian people who have lost a child. And their grief doesn't go away, but they've experienced the fullness of the Spirit in the form of tremendous peace. It doesn't mean they stop weeping. They're not repressed. It's just what happens is there is a sense of the presence of God that overwhelms their grief. Their grief is real. It doesn't go away. And yet the presence of God balances it out. You see, many, many people talk about it, as I often like to point out, in the great journals of the great saints. Whenever the saints are ready, whenever the great leaders of the past are ready to do something rather major, when they put their lives on the line, very often they experience this witness of the Spirit, this anointing and empowering. It never lasted, but it came for certain times. So you read about it. For example, let me just give you a couple. Here's a guy, John Flavel, wrote a book called Treatise on the Soul of Man. He wrote it in the 1680s. He says, one day I set off that day to examine the state of my soul. A good idea. You ought to try it. See, he experiences this tremendous effusion of assurance and love of God as he's out just using the means of grace. He didn't go out saying, I'm going to go out today and I'm going to get me a tremendous spiritual high. That's not what he said. He said, I'm going out to examine my soul. I'm going to go out and I'm going to do my duty. I'm going to go out and be filled with the Spirit in the sense that I'm going to be obedient. I'm going to look my life over. I'm going to give myself to him. I'm going to obey. I'm going to pray. I'm going to repent of my sins. In the path of this duty, this is what happened. I went off that day to examine the state of my soul. He put aside a day of prayer. And this is one of the reasons why we don't know God the way these folks did. Because we don't do that. He says, to examine the state of my soul and to think of the life to come. He decided to spend a couple of hours meditating on heaven and the kingdom to come. After a while, I found my thoughts to fix and become so much closer to these great and astonishing truths than I have ever usually experienced. I found my heart rising to these truths with a liveliness and a vigor. My thoughts began to swell and rise until they were an overwhelming flood. Such were the ravishing tastes of heavenly joys. And my assurance of partaking of them. That I utterly lost sight of the world for several hours. And I didn't know anymore where I was than if I had been asleep on my bed. And then he goes on to say he went to an inn and he continued to commune with God. No matter who he was talking with, he just couldn't stop communing with God. It didn't mean he talked to him. It didn't mean people thought he was crazy. He just experienced God's presence wherever he went. He said, I couldn't help but meditate on his glory. I couldn't help praying. I couldn't help sensing his love overflowing me all night. I wasn't able to get to sleep. The next day I got back on my horse. And within a few hours I was aware of the ebbing of the tide. And by nightfall, though there was a sweet serenity and peace upon my spirit, yet the transports of joy were gone ever after. He says it went away. You know, the reality couldn't stay. I couldn't live in that state. I never forgot it. And there was an abiding peace and an abiding joy that I had thereafter. Here's another guy, George Whitefield. He was a great preacher, as you know, in the 1740s. Saturday, November 22nd. I preached to several thousand people gathered. And I took ill. And I began to vomit much just before. But God's presence so filled my soul that I could scarcely stand under it. I prayed and preached and prayed again. Everyone listening seemed to be under great and deep impressions. Everyone in the crowd sighed and wept. I was overpowered. Then there was another night. He says, My Savior was pleased to give me so much of his presence. My views of heaven were so clear I longed to be dissolved and to be with him. My soul was so full of love I wrapped myself up in God. Oh, the misery of those who have to begin to seek for Christ on their deathbed. You know, it kind of goes on. I'll give you one more. Richard Sibbes, a guy that wrote in the 1600s. He says, Sometimes our spirits cannot stand under a temptation. Guilt often prevails over the testimony of the blood and of the water. Now, he's doing an exposition of 1 John 5, where it says that there are these three testimonies to whether you're a Christian. The blood and the water and the Spirit. And he says, You see, the blood is a testimony. When I give myself to Christ, I know that I believe in the blood, and that's one of the ways in which I know that I'm a Christian. The second one, he says, is the water. That means I get baptized. And that baptism and my solidarity with other Christians in the church is another thing that assures me that I'm a Christian. But he says, Sometimes we sin. Sometimes we see our faults. And our guilt often prevails over the testimony of the blood and of the water. Therefore, sometimes there needs to be an immediate testimony of the Spirit. It's necessary that the Spirit witnesses to the Father's love. And so we sense the Spirit coming in saying, I am thy salvation. Thy sins are pardoned. And our hearts are stirred up and comforted with joy inexpressible. This joy hath degrees, he says. Sometimes it's so clear and strong that the soul questioneth not its state in grace ever again. In other cases, if we yield to any lust, there may be a doubt, even following a firm witness of the Spirit. And then one more. William Guthrie says, I speak with the experience of many saints, and I hope, according to the scriptures, if I say, there is a communication of the Spirit, which is a glorious manifestation of God to the soul, shedding abroad God's love in the heart. It is a thing better felt than spoken of. It is not an audible voice. We're not talking loony fringe here. It is not an audible voice, but it's a ray of glory, filling the soul with God as life, light, love, and liberty. It's like the word to Daniel that said, Oh man, greatly beloved. Or like the word that the Savior gave to Mary in the garden when he said only her name, Mary, and so filled her soul that she no longer doubted she was his. How glorious is this manifestation of the Spirit. Faith here rises to so full an assurance, that it swallows you up into the presence of God. Now, if you are modern Americans, and many of you are, not all of you, then you will be so experience hungry, you're sitting there saying, how do I get that? How do I get that? I'm a lonely person, I need that. I'm a cowardly person, I need that. I'm an anxious person, I need that. This is what I want. Now friends, that attitude is very, very wrong. Because that's the way people get caught up into authoritarian cults. People who say, I want the high, I want the rush. That's how people become drug addicts, that's how people become alcoholics, I want that rush. I want it to take my mind off of my troubles. That is the way you get debauched. It says don't be drunk on wine, which is asosia. That's the Greek word. It means to be exhausted. There is a kind of spiritual experience that exhausts you. We talked about that before. And this continually feeling like I need to charge myself up and get this wonderful emotional high, I've seen people who do that. They go to churches, they go berserk in the churches, they say I'm experiencing this great fullness of the Spirit, and they burn out. The mark of the fullness of the Spirit is that it's different than drunkenness. Drunkenness feels great while you're drunk, but after it's over, you feel worse. And if that's the way your experience of God has been, then I don't think you ever experienced Him. Now my dear friends, you can't want the gift more than the giver. How do you get these great gifts? By not seeking those gifts. May I say it again? It doesn't say blessed are those who hunger and thirst after blessedness. It says blessed are those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst after God, not blessedness. You see, joy is always a byproduct of wanting something more than joy. And here's why. Because the flesh, the flesh, the Bible says, it's not your body. When the Bible talks about the flesh, it's talking about that part of the heart that's still sinful, even after you become a Christian. It's the bent of the whole person to want to be God instead of be under God. It's self with a capital S. It's self-consciousness, self-righteousness, self-will. It's self-centeredness. And there, of course, your flesh, more than anything else, wants to be happy. But the Spirit of God in you wants you to be right. The Spirit of God in you wants truth. The Spirit of God in you wants you to go to God and give Him His due. If you want to understand the difference between the flesh and the Spirit, it's simple. The flesh says, happiness first. What do I have to do to get there? And the Spirit says, righteousness first. What do I have to do to get there? And the funny thing about real Christian joy and the real experience of the Spirit is it's always a byproduct of wanting something more than it. The real joy in the Spirit always comes when you want something more than the joy in the Spirit. You want the Spirit. You want God Himself. You want to know Him. You want to honor Him. You want Him to be honored by you. That is it. When it says, be filled with the Spirit, that's what it's talking about. How did John Flavel find this tremendous experience? He wasn't looking for the tremendous experience. He said, I went out in order to examine the state of my soul to spend an entire day meditating on the truth. Why? Because the truth is true. See, Christianity is wonderful. You should be a Christian not because it's exciting, though it is, not because it brings joy, though it does, not because it solves your problems, not because it's a good thing, not because it's wrong, though it will, but because it's true. Because you owe it to God to do. You must mind your work more than your wages. One of these old guys, Thomas Goodwin, he was describing this tremendous life in the Spirit that he had. I read it and I said, oh, I would do anything to have that. And then he says, now the biggest danger you have is wanting this directly. You know, the biggest danger you have is to want it. And he says, mind your work more than your wages. So I'm trying to say there's three kinds of filledness of the Spirit. There's the kind that comes when you're saved. That's not what we're talking about here. That's just receiving the Spirit. Then there's a kind of filledness of the Spirit that comes when you simply do your duty. When you simply say, I want you, I want to obey you and honor you. I want to give myself to you. There's a fullness of the Spirit that'll be there. It'll be a clear conscience that brings boldness. There'll be a joy that, when you read the Scripture and the Trinity, the truth shines at you in the morning and it comforts you and on you go. And in the path of that, you will find very often these communications of God that will lift you up and turn you into someone great. The best way to be great is not to want to be great. Humble people never know they are. Great people never think they are. Great people don't try to be great. Great people are caught up in a cause. And any great person who's trying to be great eventually becomes a cult leader. One way or the other. And most people see them for being despicable, people who just want to be celebrities. In the same way that can happen to you. Beware of it. Now the last thing I'd like to point out is if you look carefully, up to now I've been saying, just do your duty. There's a fullness of the Spirit that simply comes when you use the means of grace. And some of you are saying, well that doesn't give me much of a handle. I mean, what do I do tomorrow? What can I do tomorrow? And here's what I'd like you to consider. The secret of the fullness of the Spirit can actually be boiled down to two things. You do it when you're reading your Bible, you do it when you're praying, you do it when you're worshipping, when you're here in the sacraments. If you look carefully you'll see that there's always two parts, always two parts, to what it means to use the means of grace and to grow as a Christian. And any place that describes this, the growing Christian life, there's always these two parts. You can see it kind of in here, implicitly, when it says, following the fruit of the Spirit, it says be filled with the Spirit. Then it talks about how one of the marks of being filled with the Spirit is joy. You're speaking to one another in songs and hymns and spiritual songs. You're full of gratitude all the time. But on the other hand, on the other hand, you see this humble reverence. It says, and also, humbly submit to one another out of reverence for Christ. There's always this balance between high joy and humble submission. The reason for that is because there's basically two things that you do to be filled with the Spirit tomorrow and to grow as a Christian. You, in Romans 8, it says, set your mind on the things of the Spirit and mortify the flesh through the Spirit. In Colossians, it says the same thing. In Colossians 3, it says, put your mind on things which are above and put to death that which is earthly within you. The word mortify, I'd like to use it for this, to make this last point. The word mortify, you don't find in modern translations. You only find it in the King James, the old authorized version, 1611, where it says, in Romans 8, 13, it says, if by the Spirit you do mortify the deeds of the flesh, you will live. At the same time, in Romans 8, it says, if you put your mind on the things of the Spirit, you will live. The two sides to what it means to be filled with the Spirit is rather simple. There's a process called mortification. It's called putting to death the earthly which is within you. And the other side of it is not mortification, but aspiration. Thinking about and filling your mind with the great things that He has done for you. Every single day, I seek to put about, you know, at least an equal amount of time on both sides. Mortification means you think about the thing that you think about your sins. You think about those things that are wrong with you. But you take them to the cross. Now, you've heard me say that before, but I'll say it right now. The great, one of the great books on this was written by John Owen years ago. It's called The Mortification of Flesh. And John Owen says, look, there's a way to try to deal with your sins using your own strength and there's a way to deal with your sins using the Spirit. And he says the difference is fairly simple. The way in which you deal with your sins with the flesh is you just warn yourself how dangerous they are. You say to yourself, I better stop this or else God's gonna get me. I better stop this or else there'll be punishment. There'll be consequences. This is tremendously dangerous. And John Owen in that book that I read many years ago, but it helped me so much, kind of changed my life really. John Owen said, you know, if that's how you deal with your sin, no matter what it is, no matter what it is, it'll keep coming back. Because you're not really repenting of the sin. You're really repenting of the results of the sin. When you say, oh yes, I've got to stop this because, because my wife will leave me if I don't stop it. I've got to stop this or my children will hate me. I've got to stop this or I'll, you know, I'll be out of money. I've got to stop this or it'll get out and my reputation will be besmirched. I've got to stop it or eventually, even this, God will get me. John Owen says, that's not mortification by the Spirit at all. That's not mortification by the Spirit. All that does is it loads a tremendous amount of nervousness on you and all it does is it says, the consequences of this sin are very dire. You better try to stop it. Instead of getting at the root of it, what you're just doing is you're just lopping off the branches instead of getting at the root. Because the root of the sin is that which makes it attractive to you. Mortification is a process of loosening sin at the motivational level. Finding the things that drive you and bringing it onto the cross and withering the roots of those sins until they lose their attractive power over you. Now, you know, without being indiscreet, I just got to get as close as I can here to a practical example. John Owen says, if you instead just think about the danger of the sin, that will do nothing. That won't help you walk in the Spirit. It won't really change you. But instead, if you think of what Jesus has done, if you take it to the cross, think along these lines. This is what he says. He says, for example, imagine what Jesus has done for you. And this is a little quote out of the book here. He says, the language of a repentant heart, a person who's legalistically trying to deal with the sin, really not repenting of the sin but only of the consequences of the sin, that kind of person cries out and says, I have exasperated the power of God. I have provoked one who is the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth. Who can tear me up out of the foundation of the world. But he says, a person who's mortifying sin through the Spirit speaks this way. I have incensed the goodness that is like the dropping of the dew. I have offended a God that has the deportment of a friend. My heart must be iron. It must be made of marble to stop sinning. And here's what John Owen says. Well listen, talk to your heart like this. Are you trying to deal with the sin in your life? Talk to your heart like this. What have I done? What love, what mercy, what blood, what grace have I despised and trampled on? Is this the return I make to the Father for his love and to the Son for his blood, to the Holy Ghost for his grace? Is this how I repay the Lord? Have I defiled the heart that Christ died to wash, that the blessed Spirit has chosen to dwell in? What can I say to the dear Lord Jesus? Do I account communion with him of so little value that for this vile lust's sake I have scarce left him any room in my heart? Was my soul washed that room might be made for new defilements? Shall I endeavor to disappoint the very purpose of the death of Christ? Now if you say to yourself, or if you say to me, you say, if I talk to myself like that, if I thought of my sin that way, I would be, I'd want to kill myself. Then you don't understand yet what it means to mortify your sin by the Spirit. Because when you go to the Holy Spirit, when you go to Christ, what you're saying is, Christ has saved me. He has wiped my sins away. He accepts me no matter what I've done. Is this then how I treat him? A legalistically repenting person will do nothing but make you hate yourself and still love the sin. But if you take your sins to the cross, you will hate your sin and you will come to see that he loves you. Think about Jesus on the cross. You know, there's a place where Jesus says, don't fear them that can kill the body, but fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. Now Jesus was talking to his disciples and he knew they were going to be sawed in half. He knew some of them were going to have their limbs ripped out of their bodies. He knew they were going to be tortured. He knew some of them were going to have pitch poured on them and then lit as living torches. He knew that they were going to go through all kinds of stuff and yet he had the audacity to say, that's nothing compared to hell. That's a picnic compared to hell. Then you have to remember that Jesus Christ had all of our hells put on us at once on the cross. And they were all compressed into just a couple of hours on the cross. And why did he do that? He did that to make you holy. Why? Because he knows it's the only way you're going to be happy. He wants you to be a person of integrity. He wants you to be a person of purity. He wants you to be a person of courage. He wants you to be a person of compassion. He did all of that. And then he looks at you and he says, if this is the way you live, if you live pure and with integrity and compassion, the results of my suffering I see and I'm satisfied. Now you think about that and if that, to the degree you think of that, you will receive power not to sin. You will be able to change. Instead of hating yourself, you'll hate the sin. It'll lose its power over you. That's mortification of sin. That's killing the sin in you. That's not the same as saying, oh, I sinned last night. Oh, Lord, forgive me. Of course you'll do that, but that's not mortification. To walk in the Spirit, to be filled with the Spirit, means killing the sin in you and then at the same time looking at the great thing that you are to Christ. The way in which putting your mind on the things of the Spirit, reminding yourself that he is satisfied with you. When somebody accuses you or somebody wrongs you, or somebody snubs you, what do you say? Do you get bitter? Do you get angry? No, you walk in the Spirit. What do you say? You mind the things of the Spirit. The Spirit's job is to glorify Christ. So you say, why am I upset with what they have said about me? Someday, I will be, a billion years from now, I'm going to be ruling and reigning amongst people and nobody will even have heard what the President, people won't even remember what a President of the United States is. I'm going to have honor far above anything like that. You think about that and it lifts you up and it picks you up and it pulls you up. Mortification, aspiration, repentance, minding the things of the Spirit. That's what you do when you go out to pray. That's what you do when you read the Word. That's what you do and to the degree you do that, you'll experience what Paul says here, the fullness of the Spirit. And there will be times in which God will actually come on down and really turn you into a person of greatness. When do those times happen? Mind your work. Not your wages. But they do happen when people are attempting great things for God. It happened to Jesus. When? When he was about to do something great, when he was about to start his ministry. That's when the dove came on down from heaven. That's how we ended our sermon last Sunday night. The dove came down from heaven and God gave him the witness of the Spirit. He said, this is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. The power of the Spirit came down on him when he was ready to attempt something great. This week, this week, mind the means of grace. Get obedient. Be disciplined in the things of God. And then begin to attempt great things for God. Talk to people that you've always been afraid to talk to. Get ready to, to really, commit yourself to do some ministry in the church, in an area that you're scared. Do something great for Him. That's when the effusions of power come. Do not be drunk with wine, which is exhaustion. And a lot of us are exhausted. Be filled with the Spirit. Let's pray. Now, Father, we move away from this topic, but we pray that we wouldn't move away from it in our lives. Instead, we pray that we would be a church full of people who walk in the Spirit, who keep in step with the Spirit, who experience the fullness of the Spirit through daily repentance and love of you. We pray, Father, that you would visit us with your presence. We know, Lord, that the faith that you've given us is really not basically an intellectual thing. It's not basically a matter of ethics and beliefs. It's a whole experience of the whole heart. We pray we might be people that exhibit that. Transformed lives. Hearts engaged. Oh, Father. Oh, Holy Spirit. Spirit descend. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.
