I'm going to read to you from 1 Corinthians 15. Now, we've been looking all in the season after Easter at this chapter. Right before Easter, we spent time on Genesis 3, which talked about God's creation and how He created Adam and Eve, and how Adam and Eve fell into sin and death entered the world. world. The reason we've been looking at 1 Corinthians 15 is because it really answers. It's the answer to Genesis 3. Just as death entered, this is the way we come to newness of life. And the part I'm going to read to you today, which is 1 Corinthians 15, it's printed in the bulletin, verses 20 to 26 and 45 to 49, highlights this amazing teaching that we're going to look at today. It's a heavy teaching. It's a theologically profound teaching. It's after the service, down in the lounge, the East Lounge, we have a 30-minute question and answer time, and I know that I'm not going to be able to completely answer all the questions that you want in this service, so that will rise in your mind in this service, and therefore I would expect and hope that you jot notes down and ask them afterwards. But this theological theme, name, Jesus is the second Adam. Jesus is the last Adam. That's what Paul talks about, and that's what we're going to explore today. Look, 1 Corinthians 15, but Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ all will be made alive, but each in his own turn. Christ the firstfruits, then when he comes, those who belong to him. Then the end will come, when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father, after he has destroyed all dominion, authority, and power. For he must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. So it is written, the first man, Adam, became a living being. the last Adam a life-giving spirit. The spiritual did not come first but the natural and after that the spiritual. The first man was of the dust of the earth. The second man was from heaven. As with the earthly man so are those who are of the earth and as is the man from heaven so are those who are of heaven and just as we have borne the likeness of the earthly man so shall we bear the likeness of the man from heaven. That's God's Word. What's our purpose here? I want to show you that Jesus is the second Adam. What's that mean? I'll give you a little summary right here in the beginning, and then I'll open it up, and then I'll try to summarize again at the end, but I'm saying the same thing all the way through, and that's this. I'm here to challenge you about your low expectations as you look at Christianity. challenge you, that you have settled for too little. If you're a Christian, if you're not a Christian, or if you don't know where you are, your expectations are too low. What Jesus promises to give us is something so far-reaching and comprehensive, and it's seen in this term, a second Adam. Whenever somebody who said their life has been changed by Christ is interviewed by someone from the media. No offense, I know some of you are people in the media, but I must just tell you, generally when a person is interviewed who says their life has been changed with Christ, the media person tries very hard to say, that's great. Now you've got inner peace, right? You're more well adjusted. You're more able to cope with life. Great, that's just what religion is supposed to do. See, they see it as being a confirmation,

Christianity, especially in this passage, shows us that what Christ brings is something far more far-reaching than that. Jesus is the second Adam. That means what? First of all, it means he is here to redo creation. He's the second Adam. That means it's a new creation. The Christian salvation is not just a vague kind of spiritual lift to help you over your humps in life. it's not just a general sense of forgiveness. It's something much more than that. Jesus being the second Adam means that Jesus is here to start a whole new race, to redo creation, to start the world afresh, to purge the universe of all of its blemishes, to renew everything. Totally. Do you understand that? This word in verse 20 gives us an idea. it says Christ is the first fruits. Do you see that? The first fruits. Now, because we live in a safe environment and because we don't live in an agrarian culture, it's hard for us to understand the magnitude of this phrase. The first fruits were very important because, you know, in a typical town back then, all of the town's hopes and all the town's wealth was invested in the harvest. Everybody was a farmer. And all of your wealth basically was plowed literally into the ground. And if the harvest didn't come in, you were dead. Or at least financially ruined. And so everybody was, all their hopes were based on the harvest. The first fruits would be the first fruit or the first sheaves. The first blades. The first corn. The first wheat. Whatever. And when it appeared. Do you know what the joy was in the town? It meant the harvest was coming. And, you know, if that first tomato or that first piece of fruit was great, they had an actual taste of the future. Now, when it tells us that Jesus Christ, when he was raised from the dead, is the first fruits, it's telling us something no less than this. And here's what I mean when I say that Christianity promises something far more far-reaching than just a little forgiveness and inspiration, a little help with your problems. and say, oh, Jesus is the first fruit. That means the perfect future glory has broken into our time now. The perfect future has been brought back into our time so that we can experience it. What is the gospel? God's future and your present. What is the gospel? A Christian is somebody who can actually live in the old world with the energy from the new one. Christ is the first fruits. But, now look, this new life is breaking in. Jesus is the first breaker of a tidal wave, of life and immortality. Jesus is the first fruit of a massive harvest, of a deathless kind of life, a new order of life, a new dimension of life. Now, notice it says, it all happens in order. order. It says in verse 26, now if you're reading out of the bulletin, it doesn't have the verse numbers, but it says, each in his own turn. This new life from the future comes in stages. First, it says, Christ the firstfruits. That means when Christ was resurrected, the power of the future perfect glory, the power of the future perfect glory broke into our world, all right? That's the See, as one guy once put it, Jesus Christ, our great captain, has opened a cleft in the pitiless walls of the world. He's opened a cleft, and in comes the future. The perfect glory from the future has come in when Christ was raised. That's the first step. And then it says, now, the Bible, even though it's not in this sentence, The second step is that when you believe in Christ, you are spiritually raised. Just as Christ was raised, when you believe, you're spiritually raised. That's the reason why Paul says in Romans 6, he puts it this way. He says, now, if just as Christ died to sin, we died to sin, and just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, new life. When you believe in Christ, there's a spiritual resurrection that happened. Now, look, let me stop using God words here for a minute. Do you know what this is promising? See, if you don't know what you believe about Christianity, if you think it's a nice thing for some people, you still don't understand the claims. These claims are so great. These claims These claims are so audacious. These claims are so stupendous that it's either complete hokum, it's a scam, it's a horrible hoax, or else it's absolutely true. What we're told here is the minute you believe in Jesus, the same power that raised Jesus from the dead physically and literally comes into your life and begins to renew you spiritually. Do you believe that? at? See, if you say Christianity is nice for some people, but not nice for everybody, it's good for you, but it's not good for me. That's impossible. That can't be. Look at the claim. It's not saying that Christianity just helps you a little bit. Christ is the second Adam. He brings in a whole new world. He brings in a whole new universe. He's here to remake you from the ground up. It's creation all over again. And then, that's not all. It's not just that we're spiritually raised that means in a minute, but then it says, after that, what happens? After that, it says, then Christ will come and all those belong who belong with him. And that means there'll be a physical resurrection. Are you a Christian? Then there's a little plug of life that's been plugged into you. One of my good friends in Hopewell, Virginia was a gardener and he used to plant little plugs of zoya grass in the lawn. And he would just say, now we plug it in there and eventually zoya grass stopped. There's an inevitability about Zoya grass. You put it in, and eventually it squeezes out the crabgrass. It squeezes out the weeds, and it spreads over everything. Well, what we're being told here is the same thing. When you become a Christian, there is a life put into you. It's the very lifeblood of God. It says in 2 Peter, we're made partakers of the divine nature. So you see what I'm saying? Christianity is either a hoax, or it's the most wonderful thing in the It's claiming things that no other religion dares to claim. The divine nature is plugged into you. Oh, somebody says, doesn't the New Age religion say that we all plug into God? Yeah, but their concept of God's different. In New Age religion and Eastern religion, God is everything. It's a life force in everything. We're talking here about the God of the Bible, a transcendent God, not just part of nature, not a life force that binds all nature, but a holy God, a transcendent God, a God infinitely greater than creation. this nature comes into you and once it gets into you it can't be stopped it will never stop until eventually it will not only purge your soul and your spirit of all imperfection it will eventually burst out into flame and even your body is going to be changed the Bible says you will run and not be weary you will walk and not faint See the order? First, Christ is raised The first fruits Then secondly, when you believe You receive the spiritual resurrection in your heart But then thirdly, eventually The ones that belong to him On the last day Will have their bodies renewed They'll be raised up as well But then lastly, that's not all Believe it or not You have Christ's resurrection You have the spiritual resurrection, then you have the physical resurrection of all the believers, but then finally it says, that's not all, it says, then the end will come when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father after he has destroyed all dominion, authority, and power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet and the last enemy to be destroyed is death. The whole universe will be resurrected. Now, I'm not going to talk any more about this because that's next week, believe it or not. But don't you see what's amazing? The second Adam is here to create and recreate the universe. There will, you know, one of the wonderful things about the final hymn we're going to sing at the end, I'm not looking, I mean, when you sing that final hymn and you take a look at that, you'll see your future. A new heavens, a new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. Jesus is not out just to resurrect you spiritually, but physically. Not out just to give you a new humanity, but a new world. I tell you, the magnificence of this new creation. Now, before I move on, see, that's the first way Christ is the second Adam. He's here to start everything over. He's here to do the whole universe over. You, from the ground up, everything. He's the second Adam. He's the starting over of everything. Just for a minute, let me ask you something. I'm talking to my Christian friends. To people who don't know what they believe, they're not sure where they stand, I've already said to you, look at this right in the face and realize the stupendous nature of this claim means that Christianity is not just nice for some people. It's either a terrible hoax, it's getting people's hopes up, it's promising them things that can never be delivered, or else it is the truth, the truth, and it's your only hope too. Because of the extravagance of it. Because of the astonishing nature of the claims. But Christians, here's one of the things I want to ask you right now. Okay? Look at me. Do you really, do you regularly get melted by the magnificence of what is in you and is guaranteed to you. Now, here's what I mean. Let me give you an illustration. Imagine somebody gives you free, a gift, a house on the ocean. And not just any ocean, a house on a craggy coast. Magnificent scenery. Mountains and cliffs everywhere. The ocean breaking on the rocks just below you. You can watch the sunset every night. Now, here's the problem with a house. It doesn't matter where it is. Even if it's a wonderful house in a beautiful location, if any of you have been homeowners, homes are a big pain. No matter how beautiful it is and how magnificent it is, you're going to spend time in the basement working on the plumbing. plumbing. You're going to have to every so often scrape the garage and put on a mask and repaint it. Constantly, you're going to have to try to figure out how to make the toilet work. But what makes it all worth it? Sitting on that porch and watching the sun go down, drinking in the magnificence of it all. That's what makes it worth it. If you spend all of your time in the basement, all of your time working on the plumbing, all your time trying to get the toilet to flush and you never got on the porch, you'll be in despair. You'll say, what is it all about? Now, what I'm telling you is this. Christianity is hard. There's a lot of self-denial involved. Christianity is mundane. There's a lot of mundaneness to it. If you're a Christian, it means you ought to get up at least 30 minutes early every morning, earlier than anybody else. Why? So you can read the Bible and pray. How are you doing on that? You got to find it somewhere. That's mundane. That's hard. That's fixing the toilet, you know. That's just the mundane maintenance. But you see, in a home on the coast, the mundane is outweighed by the magnificence. In fact, the magnificence makes it possible to deal with the mundane. That's the reason why you don't mind all the work, because of the magnificence of it all. I'm just saying, Do you regularly stand back and look at the panorama of what you are and the panorama of what you've been promised? Does the glory of it just kind of overshadow you sometimes? Do you stand out on the porch and you say, adoption into the family of God. My head on the bosom of the king. His kiss on my cheeks. Me reigning with him forever at his side. do that sometimes. Most of you, all you're saying is, I just haven't been praying like I should. I haven't been reading the Bible like I should. I've been real grumpy and bitter and angry at my dad. I don't know. I know I should be. I wish I were a better Christian. You know what that game is? I wish I were a better Christian. You're down in the basement. You're working on the plumbing. You're never going to be able to deal with a mundane unless you stand back some time and look at the magnificence of it. He says, I will give you more than you dare ask

he says, the reality of what I am giving you will beggar your imagination. You know, it's hard for me to believe that because I can imagine so much happiness. You can too. I can imagine an awful lot. And God says, it's nothing. You'll spit on your imagination on the day that you finally get everything that I have got coming to you. Oh my. don't forget the magnificence. Don't get just bogged down in the mundane. Christianity's got mundane. There's a lot of toilets to work on, but get out on the porch. Okay. Now, having said that, Jesus is the first Adam because he is out to do a comprehensive reworking of everything. Secondly, Jesus is the second Adam specifically here because he is renewing the image of God in you or renewing you in the image of God. at it. You see, the first Adam was made in the image of God. Theologically, the great term, the Imago Dei, the image of God. But Adam and Eve blew it. Adam and Eve sinned. They fell. The image of God has been broken in us. But now we're told that in Christ, he's the second Adam, and he is renewing you in the image of God. That's why we read what we saw there. at the very end of the passage. It says, just as we have borne the likeness of the earthly man, that's Adam, so shall we bear the likeness of the man from heaven. What does it mean? See, now we're talking about what it actually means to grow as a Christian. Growing as a Christian does not just simply mean mastering a bunch of information. Growing as a Christian means the spiritual resurrection we've always already talked about. It's the renewal in the image of God. God. In Ephesians 4.24, I think, Paul says, put on the new self, which is being renewed in the image of God. That's what it means to grow as a Christian, to bear the likeness of the man from heaven. Now, what does it mean to grow as a Christian? What does it mean to have the image of God renewed in you? Just listen to me for a second about this. The front piece of your bulletin is a quote from C.S. Lewis that puts this perfectly, and I must tell you something. If there were six passages in all of literature that have had the biggest impact on me personally, this is one of them. This passage has completely changed me. If you've been around me much, you've heard me quote it or at least echo it in the things that I say. It is something that has sunk into me and affects the way I think about you. It affects the way I think about me. affects the way in which I look at the world. It drives me. If you let me sit down and spend about five minutes thinking about it, I'll be in tears every time. Why? Because it's a perfect, concise summary of what Paul is saying in this passage. It's perfect. Just wonderful. Listen. Lewis says, the command, be ye perfect, is not idealistic gas. Nor is it a command to do the impossible. He is going to make us into creatures that can obey that command. If we let Him, for we can prevent Him if we choose. He will make the feeblest and filthiest of us into a dazzling, radiant, immortal creature. creature pulsating all through with such energy and joy and wisdom and love as we cannot now imagine. A bright stainless mirror which reflects back to God perfectly, though of course on a smaller scale, his own boundless power and delight and goodness. The process will be long and in parts very painful, but that is what we are in for, nothing less. He meant what he said. Now look. This passage just so beautifully puts the gospel together, and this can drive you too. This can be the lenses through which you look at your life and your history and everything. When things go wrong in my life, I say, immediately what pops into my head is the process is long and in parts painful, but that's what we're in for, nothing less. He's going to turn us into a bright stainless mirror, and right there we have the perfect definition of what the Bible means by the image of God, the imago Dei. See, Paul himself puts it in 2 Corinthians 3. This is the translation. Listen. We all, with unveiled face, reflecting as a mirror, the glory of God are being transformed into the same image. And that's what it is. Look, a mirror has a particular nature so that what it turns toward, it fills with. Okay? See my Bible? It does not have a reflective nature. Okay? If I turn it toward Tim, it's still black. That's all. It's a black Bible. I turn it toward Ann. Oh, surprised. They don't usually do that. And it's still black. It's the same. Doesn't matter. No matter where I put it. A mirror, however, has got a quality so that whatever you turn it toward, it fills with. If you take a mirror and you turn it toward a monster and the mirror is full of ugliness and you turn the mirror toward a beauty and the mirror is full of beauty. a mirror has a nature that what it turns toward it fills with. And the Bible says unlike the plants and unlike the animals. We have a nature so that if we turn toward God. We fill with Him. We're different than the plants and animals. We have a rational nature. We have a personal nature. We have a creative nature. We have a religious nature. We need a worship. think. We need all these things. But the point is, whatever we're turned toward, we're filled with. If we're turned toward a career, we're filled with our career. If we're turned toward sex, we're filled with sex. If we're turned toward money, we're filled with money. But we're going to be turned toward something. See, a mirror is different than a radio. A radio picks up the waves no matter where it is. But a mirror has to be turned toward something. thing. What it means, then, to be developing into the image of God, what does it mean to grow in the image of God? Three things. First of all, it means a Christian is somebody whose mirror, your heart, your soul, has been turned toward God and you're filled with God because that's who you're living for. What are you filled with? Archbishop William Temple put it this way, you can tell what your God looking at what you do with your solitude. When you have a day off, when you have an hour off, when you have a week off, when you have a month off, what do you do? When you don't have to think of anything else, what do you think about? What most worries you? What most captures your imagination? What is it that most dominates your thinking? That's your God. That's what you're turned toward. That's your purpose in life. That's your meaning in life. That's what's filling your heart. And so what it means to become a Christian, first of all, to be renewed in the image of God, is that you've turned toward God so that the thing that you really are most living for is Him. And the more you keep your mirror toward God, the more you're being renewed in His image, as we're going to see in a minute. You have to turn toward Him. You have to say, this is what I'm living for. You see, there's a lot of... a Christian goes to work, but you don't live for work. You're not filled with work. You're not turned toward work. A Christian falls in love, but you don't live to fall in love. You're not turned toward it. You're turned toward God. You work for Him. You fall in love for Him. You see that. Anybody ever read the book Hope for the Flowers? It's sort of Dr. Seuss for grownups. Have you ever seen that book? So you're not into Dr. Seuss. In Hope for the Flowers, it's a story about a caterpillar named Stripe. And Stripe is walking along one day and he sees a pillar, a tower of caterpillars, millions of caterpillars trying to get to the top, crawling all over each other. It's covered. I know, it's a creepy illustration, but it's a good one. Wait. And Stripe figures, whatever is at the top, I don't know what it is, but it must be worth it because everybody's trying to get there. And so he decides, to get there too. So he gets on there and he spends days and weeks and months seeking to get to the top. And he's pretty good. He jumps on people and he crawls over people and he's reckless and he's so on. And he starts to get near the top. And just as he nears the top, he hears a voice from the very cherrytop. And that voice says, oh no, there's nothing here. And another voice says, quiet, you fool, they'll hear you. And the first voice says, but there's nothing here. And the second voice says, yes, there is. What's here is being in a place where everybody else wants to get. That's what's here. The satisfaction of knowing that everybody else wants to be where you are. That's what's here. And the first voice says, that's nothing. That's silly. And then he's, the first voice looks and says, look it. I see from up here all these other pillars all over the world. With millions of caterpillars climbing up thousands of pillars. And there's nothing at the top of any of them. And the second voice says, no, of course, all you get in life is the satisfaction of knowing that the other people are more fool than you. Now, what's the point of the parable? I think it's a profound point. A Christian does go to work, but the work is not your pillar. A Christian does fall in love, but the falling in love is not your pillar. It shouldn't be the thing that you say, if I get to the top of this, then I'll be happy. Then I'll meaning in life. If you are not a sold-out Christian, you're on some pillar right now. If you're not a sold-out Christian, you're turned towards something else besides Jesus. But I'll tell you this. When you get to the top of your pillar, it won't have anything there. Nothing will be there. Go talk to anybody else who's at the top. Talk to anybody at the top of your career. Talk to anybody at the top of your social set. Talk to anybody at the top who's got all the things that you most want. Look at them. Talk to them. They know there's nothing there. See, the first thing that changes you, the first part about what it means to be spiritually resurrected, is you're renewed in the image of God when you realize that I've got to turn toward Jesus. And instead of being filled with your career, being filled with love, and being filled with romance, you're being filled with the Lord. A mirror is something that is filled with what it's turned toward. There's a sense there for in which the renewal in the image of God is a healing of your purpose in life. Secondly, that's not all. Another thing that we learn about the mirror illustration, not only do we know that a mirror has to be turned toward something, but a mirror has a quality that grabs the light. It's alive to the light. You see, my Bible is not alive. It doesn't have a reflective quality. When the light hits it, it just sinks in. But if this was a mirror, it would be alive to the light and would send it back. It would grab it. It would be alive to it. It would know it's there. Now, I know I'm speaking metaphorically, but it's very, very important to a sea. How do you know a plant is alive as opposed to a rock? The plant is alive because it senses its surroundings. It's alive to realities in the environment. If you take a rock and you hit it, you take a rock and you sting it, you take a rock and you burn it, nothing. But if you do it to a plant, a plant is sensitive. It's alive to its realities. But then animal life is a higher order Why? Because animal life is more alive to reality than the plants. Animals have sight. Animals have hearing. And they can see things that the plants can't. They're alive to realities that the plant is not. Human life is higher than animal life. Why? Because human life can see realities that the animals can't. Like justice and injustice. Beauty and ugliness. Right and wrong. Reality? Sure. But you see, the animals don't know them. Every higher order of life

is more alive to more of reality. What does it mean when you begin to get renewed in the image of God? What does it mean to be spiritually raised? What does it mean to be born again? What does it mean to have eternal life? What happens is you get another higher order of life altogether. It's higher than just the plant. It's higher than the animal. But it's even higher than the regular human. Spiritual life means you become alive to realities about God. This is totally practical here. This is not esoteric. Before you have the spiritual resurrection, before you have the new life, when you hear a truth about God, you're not alive to it. It's not real to you. It doesn't really hit you. Look, let's just say a person is suffering. You're suffering. and somebody says to you, God loves you and God is in charge. Or you open your Bible up and you read a place where it says, all things work together for good to them that love God and are called according to his purpose. Now, if you don't have spiritual life, that's just a theoretical abstraction. It's either nonsense or it's only a concept. Either way, you're not alive to it. It's not a reality. It's not solid. Do you know what I'm saying? You can't sense it because you don't have that spiritual life. Just like a plant doesn't have the sensation, it's not alive because it doesn't have sight and hearing. It's not alive to many things in its environment. So you are not alive to the realities of God until this new life is planted in your life, in your heart, and you begin to have the image of God renewed in you. But what happens when you become a Christian? The amazing thing is you may have been religious all your life. You may have gone to church all your life. When you become a Christian, the truths of God become solid. They ring in your ears. Now, I know I'm speaking metaphorically. They ring in your ears. They fill your sight. You find that the idea of God's love gets real to you now. It disturbs you. Or it thrills you. Or you thrill under it. Or maybe it even nags you. You know, some of you find that once you become a Christian, the problem with the truth of God is it never lets you go. It just keeps bugging you and bugging you. Or maybe it thrills you. Or maybe it lifts you up. But the fact is it's real now. It's not a concept anymore. It's not just a theory. Do you see that? A mirror is filled with what it's turned to. And it's alive to what it's turned to. A rock isn't. A rock can't respond to the light, but the mirror grabs the light and gives it back. It's alive to it. Has that happened to you? Is there ever been a time in your life where you've begun to see that the truth about God now gets radioactive? It's something that has begun to really hit you. It begins to strike you. It begins to be solid to you. Has that happened to you? that's a sign that you're being renewed in the image of God thirdly, lastly a mirror is filled with what it turns to, a mirror is alive to what it's turned to, but lastly a mirror resembles what it's turned to that means that whatever the mirror is facing it becomes just like it that's why C.S. Lewis puts it the way he does he says He says, he will make the feeblest and filthiest of us into dazzling, radiant, immortal creatures, pulsating all through with such energy and love and wisdom and joy that we cannot now imagine. A bright, stainless mirror reflecting back to God perfectly, though on a smaller scale, his own boundless power and delight and goodness. See, you start to look like God, right? The mirror, if it's turned toward Tim, it looks like Tim. If it's turned toward John Doe, it looks like John Doe. and if you are renewed in the image of God, if the mirror of your soul has really been turned toward God so you're living for Him and it's alive to God so that it's really taking in the truth, it will begin to resemble God. What does that mean? It means you are really changing. And please don't let anybody, I don't want anybody in this room to squirm out from underneath this. this, the more convicted and uncomfortable I am, and misery loves company. And that's why I'm here. The resurrection is all about power. Paul says, I want to know him and the power of his resurrection. Ephesians 1, Paul says, he says, I want you to know the exceeding great power toward us who believe which God showed when he raised Jesus from the dead. The same power that raised Jesus from the dead is at work in your life. How dare we acquiesce in bad habits? God is honest, and yet we find ourselves fudging the truth. God is patient, yet we're irritable. God is filled with joy and yet we're manic depressive I'm not using that in a technical sense God is love and yet we're full of anger and bitterness

to be renewed in the image of God means that the resurrection power of God has come into your life and it can break those habits we're putting up with things that we shouldn't have to we've given up on ourselves There's things that we're looking at and we say, maybe that's just the way I am. That's just the way it's going to be. I'm always going to be that way. How dare you talk that way? To be renewed in the image of God means as you face God, you resemble him. You start to look like him. He can make us into radiant, immortal-type creatures, you see, pulsating with his love and his goodness and his nobility and his greatness. And therefore, friends, look at yourself. honest? Are you more able to take criticism? Are you more patient? Are you more peaceful? Are you more generous with your money? Are you more forgiving? Are you more tolerant of people who differ with you? Are you less anxious? Are you more courageous than you were last year? If someone doesn't believe that the changes in your life are remarkable,

what excuse have you got if the resurrection power of God is in you

to be renewed in the image of God means your purpose is healed because you're filled with God to be renewed in the image of God means your perception is healed because now you're alive to the truth but thirdly your power is healed the things that before you were a Christian you couldn't overcome you should be able to overcome now and you haven't even begun to dip into the well of the resurrection power that has been planted in you. When you became a Christian, in a sense, God drilled a well in you and filled it, connected it through some kind of cosmic underground subterranean cavern into his own nature and his own power. What are you doing with it? don't you see Jesus is the second Adam because he renews you in the image of God now lastly last thing we said see this the panorama it's amazing Jesus is the second Adam because he's starting creation over he's going to make a whole new world we'll actually talk more about that next week secondly Jesus is the second Adam because you will bear his likeness he's here to renew the image of God in you and you in the image of God turn you into a mirror. He's here to turn you toward God and make you alive to God and make you look like God. Nothing less. And then lastly, Jesus is the second Adam because he was our substitute. Now this is how we have to end because this answers the question. Somebody might say, if all of this is available, why? And why doesn't everybody get it? And here's It's right there in the passage that we read. He's the new Adam in that he's a substitute. We read, For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes through a man. For as in Adam we die, in Christ we're made alive. Let me tell you an illustration. It's a famous illustration. I didn't make it up. It's been used for a hundred years. It goes like this. Imagine on the dangerous high mountain slope a string of mountain climbers, and they're making their way up the mountainside, and they're all attached to each other. They're all strung together. One of them falls. He plunges into the abyss. It's a horrible sight and it's a horrible sound to hear him screaming and his scream trailing off. And what's really horrible is that he's connected to all the rest. And everyone knows what's about to happen. And one at a time, as the first one falls off, the rope tightens and the next one is pulled off and goes down into the abyss crying out. and then next thing you know, the next one is jerked off and with sickening rapidity, repeatedly, again and again and again, one after the other of the climbers, plunges into what looks like a certain death, until only one man is left, one climber is left, and he's attached to all the rest. He knows what's coming. and so with a mighty stroke with his axe he digs in and he waits and of course what happens finally the rope that's attached to him is attached to all the other climbers all of their weight all of their velocity is in that rope and finally that rope snaps tight around his body with a lethal sickening force. And he holds on. And because he holds on, the rope simply crushes him. His ribs start popping one at a time. You can almost hear them. The rope cuts into him so that his skin is in shreds. But he doesn't give up. And instead, with bearing all that weight, the weight of the fallenness of all of the other climbers bears on him, but he begins to climb. And because he climbs, the fall of all the other climbers is arrested. And they're able to get their footing again. And they're saved. And the illustration goes this way. just as Adam fell and pulled us all down one by one by one, we needed one man to be part of the human web, connected to us, but not fallen, who then could bear the weight of all of our fallenness, of all of our inability, of all of our evil and all of our sin. For him to bear the weight of it means he will be crushed But Jesus Christ was that one. He was the man on the mountain. He stood his ground. He was crushed. But here's what's so beautiful. He was a substitute. He was a representative. Because by staying put. All through that rope. All of the fallenness. And all the weight. Of all the inability. And the fallenness of the climbers. Fell on Him. But. also through that rope, his stability was transferred to them. They stopped falling. They got their footing. And the Bible says God made him sin who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Do you see what we're saying? Here's why we can receive the new creation. Here's why. Because Jesus Christ is the second Adam. Just as the first Adam was our representative, so is the second Adam. We are all connected in sin, but when we connect to Christ by faith, our fall is arrested, and we get our footing, and we're saved. And you know, the analogy breaks down. All these illustrations are wonderful, but there's always a problem. Here's what the problem is. In the illustration, the very same thing connects all the climbers, the rope. but in reality, you know, we are connected to each other naturally, but we're only connected to Christ spiritually. You're born with a flawed nature. You're born with a character that is flawed and weak. You're born with it. We pass it to each other and we pull each other down. We aggravate each other. We sin against each other and then we aggravate the sin in ourselves and others aggravate the sin in us. We're all pulling ourselves down. but the only way we're actually connected to Christ is not naturally, but spiritually. You have to believe. And when you believe in him, then you come to belong to him. And the minute you believe in him, that spiritual rope is connected so that your sins and your fallenness bears on him and all of his stability and goodness and record is transferred to you. A distressed man once called Martin Luther up, not on the phone, of course, and said, how do you get ready for the troubles of life every day? And Luther said, every day I get up and I say, and you try this, Lord Jesus, you became what you were not so that I could become what I was not. You became a sinner so I could be accepted and righteous in God's sight. you put on yourself what was mine and set on me what was yours

so that now I live because you died talk like that to yourself talk like that to Jesus in the morning you're my second Adam you did what Adam couldn't do you stood on the mountain you stayed there and you bore for me