Let's take a look at John chapter 17. Ah, there we go. Resonance. John chapter 17, and we're going to read verses 20 through 26. Tonight we're talking about the third of the five vitamins we've been discussing for a healthy church. The vitamins are worship, teaching, community, evangelism, social concern. We're going to take a look now at John chapter Community, the third one. Fellowship. Christian relationships. And this has got to raise some questions tonight, so please, we will have a time for dialogue and prepare yourself. John 17, verse 20. Let's start at verse 20. This is Jesus praying to the Father. My prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message, All of them may be one, Father, just as you are in me and I am in you. May they also be in us so that the world may believe that you have sent me. I have given them the glory that you gave me, that they may be one as we are one, I in them and you in me. May they be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them even as you have loved me. Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am my glory, the glory you have given me because you love me before the creation of the world. Righteous Father, though the world does not know you, I know you, and they know that you have sent me. I have made you known to them and will continue to make you known in order that the love you have for me may be in them and that I myself may be in them. This is God's word.

By the way, this passage tells us so many things that I almost hate to be so selective. I've got to stick with the subject. This passage teaches us a lot about the relationship of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit to one another. It teaches us a lot about the Trinity, a tremendous amount about God, and I'd love to get into that, but I can't. So we're going to see that Jesus Christ is asking God for a community and a unity

between believers, a fellowship that is based on the unity of the Trinity. And though we can't talk so much about the Trinity, we have to look at the unity that Jesus Christ is praying for. Some other time we have to return, or you yourself can take a look at these six verses and look it up in a good commentary and just see how many amazing things are stated in these six verses. at this. You know, across the country, people do a tremendous number of surveys about why some churches seem to have vitality, seem to attract people, seem to progress, and why some churches do not. And across the country, the number one answer when asked, why do you come? Why did you come back? Why did you come back after having visited? The number one answer is probably not what you think. It doesn't say music. That's the number three answer. And the answer is not teaching or preaching. That's the number two answer. Sorry. Here we go. The number one answer is people come back and they feel loved on the first visit. it? Love. Friendship. Now listen, there's a lot of strange ideas about what that means. How do you develop a loving church? What kind of fellowship is necessary? There's a couple of bad ideas about, that go around about what Christian unity is, and I mentioned them briefly, so I'll have to say something about them. One is, when we talk about Christian unity, we're not talking about uniformity. It's true that to a certain degree, there's some limit into how much diversity can be packed into one church. For example, it's probably impossible to deal with a hundred different language groups in one church. It would be kind of like the United Nations and everybody would have their headsets on and so forth. It would be pretty comical. So when you choose a language to minister in, you've, to some degree, realized you're going to minister to some people more than others. Nevertheless, it's very dangerous for us to think that uniformity, that sameness is necessary in order for us to have unity. Not so at all. In fact, we'll get to this later, the fact that the Bible teaches, the Bible teaches the fact that we're different because of our different gifts. you know, even if we're all the same height, even if we're all the same weight, all the same color, all the same IQ, even if we all like bowling and we all hate sushi, you know, even if we're all the same in every way,

you think that you've got just exactly what the marketers would say, a segment. We have a segment here, a homogeneous segment. It's impossible to be uniform because of our gifts, because we have different gifts. Quick example. First week that I came into a church as a young minister, came to a church in Virginia, became the pastor. I was 24 years old at the time. And I can never forget my first three days. People immediately started showing up, telling me what was wrong with the church, and especially what was wrong with certain people and why we had to watch out for certain people. It's a fairly typical first three or four days of any minister's career. What happened, though, there were three particular people that walked in. one a day for three days that really amazed me. What they did, the first one came in and said, you wanna know what the problem with this church is? Do you wanna know what the problem is? You know, I'm 24 years old, I don't know anything. I said, yeah, tell me, what's the problem with the church? And he said, the problem is, he said, look out there, do you see that trailer court? And we were surrounded by an old rickety trailer court full of people. He said, look at that trailer court out there. church is we don't care about the lost. We don't care about people who need Christ. We're surrounded by people who have no church background, no church affiliation. They're lost. They're hurting. And we're not going out there and helping out. And the problem is we're not an evangelistic church. And I said, that's very interesting. And I appreciated him sharing that. The next day, somebody came in and said, let me tell you what the problem with this church is. Can I tell you what the problem is. I said, yes, tell me. Please let me know. And he said, well, look out the window. Do you see those trailers out there? I said, yes, I see the trailers. I'm all ready. And this person, this is a lady, this lady said, you know what the real problem with our church is? You know who the people are out there who are in those trailers? They're not people like us. A lot of them are elderly. A lot of them are of different racial ethnic backgrounds. A lot of them are poor. And the problem with this church is it has no heart for justice and compassion and mercy for people who are outcasts, who are downtrodden, who are needy, and who are different than us. The problem is this church doesn't have a heart of compassion for the needy. That's the problem. Interesting. You know, I looked out there, same window, same trailers, same issue, different problem. And I said, gee, thank you very much. And I wrote the thing down. I made some notes of it. The next day, a third person came on in, sat down and said, would you like to know what the problem with this church is? And I almost, being 24 years old and therefore being pretty stupid about my career, like most people are at the age of 24 about their career, I almost got up and said, no, you don't have to tell me. I already know what the problem with this church is. I said, no, what is the problem with this church? A fit of wisdom took me. And the person said, look out the window. those trailers? And I said, continuously, I said, no, I didn't. I said, yes, I see the trailer. So, you know what? Many times we have tried to go out there and just visit those folks and deal with those people and invite the people and find out what their needs are and try to minister to them. But every time somebody tries to get something off the ground, we fail to do it because we are an organizational disaster. We can't communicate with each other. We can't organized, nobody knows how to lead a decent task force, we can't set goals, we can't get there, we're an administrative disaster. The problem with this church is it's not organized. You know, three people looking out the same window at the same trailer court and coming up with three different positions, I began to realize that every one of these people had a different gift. One person had an outreach gift, they were very, very good at talking to people who did not know Christ about Christ. One person had a gift of compassion for people who were needy and people who were different. Another person had an administrative gift. And as a result, they were all looking at the same trailer court and they were seeing different problems. And by the way, they fought quite a bit in the church about where the priorities should be, where the budget money should be, where it should be. And I began to realize why. Your giftedness means that you are more able to discern certain kinds of needs. You vibrate to them. You know, if I, I don't know if I could do this, but if I went over to the top of the piano you know, and I, if I knew, if I knew what the pitch was, if I sang a B into it, if I went B into it, the B string would vibrate. Right. Now the A string and the C string are sitting there like this. They're not doing a thing. They're not doing, the B string is vibrating like this and the A string says, hey, C, what's with B? And C says, I don't know. Do you hear anything? No, I don't hear anything. I hear nothing. I don't get it. What's B vibrating? What's B so excited about? Well, you see, B, has the gift of B-ness. And so B is vibrating to something that's really there in the air that C and A can't figure out. No. It's got a gift, different gift. And A and C says, come on, I don't hear a thing. Three people looking out the window, there will never be uniformity in the church. And there will always be, even amongst very solid people who are solid Christians, tremendous fighting unless they understand the basic teaching about the unity in diversity within the body. The church is a body. The church is not an aggregation. The church is not just an organization, though it has an organizational side to it. The church is a body. It's a union. It can't be developed through merger. Just saying, let's get this church and this church together, it doesn't work like that because there was a guy who tried that once and tried to say, hey, let's have a bigger and better body just by sewing parts together. His name was Dr. Frankenstein. And I'm not sure the results were all that sanguine. Do you? And in the same way, body parts have to grow out of other body parts. One part has to grow out of another part. We started as a single cell. Every part grew out of every other part. You cannot sew it together. You cannot merge it together. There's got to be a lively, vital, organic relationship between people that make us a body. The body is organic. It's something that God creates. We do not create. For example, it says in Ephesians 4.13. No, it's in Ephesians 4 verse 3. I knew it didn't sound right. In Ephesians 4 verse 3 it says, maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. It doesn't say, attain the unity of the Spirit. Maintain is something you receive and then you keep it from falling apart. The unity of the Spirit is not something that you can create. It comes to you. There's an interesting illustration in the Old Testament about the temple. When the temple was being built, God commanded that the people who were building the temple not do any shaping of the stones at the site of the temple. They had to go to the quarry, they had at the quarry to pull out the stones and then to shape them there so that all the stones in perfect shape were brought to the site and therefore the temple was not to be a place where you heard any stone, any hammer on a stone, any chisel on a stone. The temple had to be built in utter silence. There could be no sound of a hammer, or no sound of a chisel, no sound of anything like that, all of the stones had to be shaped, so that when they came together at the temple, they fit. I heard one minister say, what a perfect illustration that is, of the church, that the reason that there is not supposed, there's supposed to be a unity rather than a cacophony, there's supposed to be a unity rather than tension and party strife and so on. Because when two people come together who have been shaped by the Spirit of God, they've been regenerated, they've had an experience of God at the quarry, when they come together they find that they fit. They fit. They've had the same experience. They've had an experience of sin. They repent of their sin. They have an experience of grace. They see that God accepts them. That makes them utterly unique in the human world. I just found a great book of poems in a bookstore by George Herbert, and you'll hear more about George Herbert, I guess, in the future, because unfortunately, whatever I'm reading, you hear about. It's a tyranny of the teaching office. But what happens is George Herbert was a 17th century Christian, a wonderful poet, the greatest poets in history, and everybody knows that. And when I brought the book home, my wife was telling me interesting stories how when she was a new Christian and an English major at her college 20 years ago, not long after she became a Christian, she sat in a class in which the professor, much more brilliant than she, much more learned than she or me or anybody probably here, was struggling like crazy to understand George Herbert and understand other 17th century some of them like Milton and Dunn and so on. And he took some of these poems in which George Herbert was repenting. Herbert talks about sweet grief. Herbert talks about the sweet grief of repentance. And so the man, the professor would be up there struggling and trying to say, isn't this interesting? Because here it sounds like he really hates God for judging him. But over here he seems to really be just enjoying God. And Kathy would just raise her hand and she'd say, well, that's repentance. See, and any Christian understands repentance. The professor eventually had to defer to Kathy because he could not make sense of the poem. Here's Kathy, a new believer, reads a poem by a great, great intellect, written 400 years, 300 or 400 years earlier, and instantly she can tell that they fit. She has fellowship with George Herbert. She has fellowship with a great 17th century poet, a person who lived in an utterly different time, place, a different place, and yet she immediately realizes it. And even the professor can tell, you understand what he's talking about. I don't. Don't you see, my friends, the unity of the Spirit, the unity that we've got, starts as something that we just receive, not something that we can attain. Nobody can manufacture it. Nobody can create it. No little sensitivity groups can foster it or forge it. No amount of organizational merger can work it out. It must be maintained, not attained. It must be brought in. Now, the reason for that is because, as Jesus says, and the key thing he says is, Father, I pray that they may be one as we are one. The unity of the Trinity, this is the amazing thing, the unity of the Trinity is the basis, not only the basis of our nature, but it's the model of our unity of the Church. I better say that again. is not just the basis for our fellowship. It's also the model of it. Because the Trinity, and don't ask me to explain the Trinity tonight, okay? Well, if you want to try, go ahead. But, I mean, I'm afraid somebody's going to say, I don't get the Trinity. And that's not quite the subject for tonight. If you want to ask about that, go ahead. I'll give it a shot. But the Trinity simply is this, that there are three persons in one Godhead. And those three persons have three things that we see about their unity see in this passage. One is they all have the same goal. They all have the same purpose. They are absolutely one in that. You can see when it talks, actually, you see it in the very beginning of the chapter in verse 1, where Jesus says, Father, the time has come, glorify your Son. The whole purpose of the Trinity, the Father, Son, and the Spirit are all unified in trying to glorify each other, trying to lift one another up so that the world might be healed and restored everyone in the world acknowledges the glory of God. So there's oneness of purpose. Then secondly, there's oneness in that there's complementary and diverse roles. The Father sends, the Son goes and accomplishes, and the Spirit applies. The Father plans and sends, the Son goes and accomplishes, and the Spirit comes and takes what the Son accomplished and applies it to the heart. Everybody knows, every person in the Trinity knows what the other one is doing. They have unity of purpose, but they have different roles, complementary roles. And then thirdly, they know and love one another. They pour love out into one another. They speak truth to one another. And therefore, our unity has those same three pillars, you might say. Think of the fellowship of any church. Think of the fellowship of any church as a three-legged stool. Not a four-legged stool. You know, A four-legged stool can stand when one of the legs is missing, but a three-legged stool cannot. And that's the way it is with the fellowship. These three things, common purpose and goal, complementary role and function, good, loving, truthful communication. Now, we've already talked about the first leg. You didn't know it. Just as what makes the Trinity one is a common goal, so we already said that the foundation, of Christian community and unity is a common experience of Christ.

Because we have all been dealt with at the quarry, when we find ourselves coming together, we fit. We have a common experience of Christ. We have a unique way of looking at ourselves, a sweet grief of repentance, the humble boldness of somebody who knows that you're more sinful than you ever dared believe and you're more accepted in love than you ever dared hope. See, that creates a unique psychology, absolutely unique psychology, and that's the reason why Christians have a common goal, a commonality. There's a spirit of unity that is just given to us, but we have to maintain it so it doesn't decay. And that's the first of the legs, the first of the pillars. The second of the legs is complementary goals. And here I need to talk to you about gifts. If you want to develop unity in any body, the body of Christ, everybody has got to know what your part is. Now, that's pretty clear. Here's my body. My finger does certain things. You know, you all know, right? Until you break your finger, your little finger, and you have to put it in a cast and you're not really able to use it in ordinary operations, you have no idea, do you, how important that little finger is. You know, somebody, you know, somebody came up to you, if it's never happened to you, somebody

one finger, which one would it be? You'd say, you know, if you're right-handed, you'd say, well, okay, the little finger on my left hand. Until you begin to realize how much it does. Every body's, every bodily part does something and has a function. In the same way, the Bible tells us we cannot function as a body until we have some idea about what everybody's gift is. Now, what are gifts? This is what I meant when I said I've got to cover a lot of territory. I'm only, at this point, going to give you the most brief overview of a subject to. The Scripture tells us, especially in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14, and in Ephesians 4, and in Romans 12, and 1 Peter 4, those are the four places. 1 Corinthians 12 and 14, Ephesians 4, Romans 12, 1 Peter 4. In those four places, the Bible tells us this about a spiritual gift. First of all, a spiritual gift is an ability to do something. something. Spiritual gifts have to do with your activity. Spiritual fruit has to do with your being. Gifts have to do with your doing, and fruit have to do with your being. Fruit is love, joy, and peace. That's what you are. That's your character. Gifts are things like teaching, and mercy, and service, and exhortation, and evangelism, and pastoring, all the things that you do. So, gifts are ability to do things. Secondly, they come from the Holy Spirit.

That means that the Spirit gives off Christ's ministry abilities. See, when Jesus Christ was on earth, he made a very, very strange statement. He looked at his disciples and said, I tell you, you will do greater works than me. Now, that's a kind of cock your head, huh? do greater works than you. Like who? And I think here's probably the answer. When Jesus Christ was on earth, all of his ministry power resided in one spot and one time. And as great as that was, he could only be one place when he was on earth at a time. We're told in Ephesians 4 that when he ascended into heaven, he sat down at the right hand of the Father, and he gave gifts to men. And that is such a critical passage. First of all, it tells us that when he triumphed, and He gave out His own ministry abilities to us. So some of us can do some things that Jesus did, and some of us can do other things. That means His ministry abilities are scattered out throughout the entire world, penetrating. They can penetrate every land. They can penetrate every layer of society. They can penetrate every culture and subculture and sub-sub-subculture. You see what He means? The picture is of a mosaic. Here's a beautiful mosaic of Jesus Christ. You ever seen one? I have. millions and millions of gorgeous little pieces of glass when fit together show us Christ. But any one of them all together is just a very pretty little piece of glass. And that's the way you and I are. The Bible teaches us that together, all together, everybody pulling and doing what they can do best, we actually can show the city Jesus Christ. Individually, doing our own thing, we're only, in many cases, of colored glass. Are you following this? There's an amazing statement in Ephesians 2, verse 17, I think, where Paul says to the Ephesians, Christ came and preached peace to you and led you to himself. Now, that is an amazing statement. The Ephesians, you know where Ephesus is, do you not? It's in Turkey.

What is Paul saying when he means Christ came and preached peace to you? When did Christ go to Ephesus? When did Jesus Christ do a preaching mission? He went a lot of places in Palestine, but he never left that one little spot. When did he go to Ephesus? Paul must mean this. Somebody went to Ephesus. Somebody used their gifts. Somebody communicated the Word of God using gifts from the Holy Spirit, and it's just as if Jesus went. Because Jesus Christ is now at large in the world through us. But when all the gifts are working, then can you see the mosaic. When only a couple of the gifts are working, you can't see it. In fact, listen. Listen. Get this. Have you ever seen a paint-by-the-numbers? No, no, no. Have you ever seen a connect-the-dots thing? Any of you ever seen these little kids' puzzle books? They've got lots of crossword puzzles, but very often in these kids' puzzle books, connect the dot thing. You have these numbers, one, two, three, four, and you look at it, you have no idea what it is, but when you actually connect every single dot, every dot, if you connect a couple of the dots, you can get sort of a picture. You say, I think it's an elephant. And then you connect a few more dots and you say, no, I think it's a bear. And finally you connect a whole bunch of dots and you find that it's an ostrich or something like that. In the same way, how will we ever know what this congregation or what any congregation in town should be doing. How do you know what ministries that this congregation should do? How do you know what programs any church ought to do? Now listen. You know, human government, you can plot along a single continuum. At this end is total democracy, where everybody is in charge. You know, total democracy would be like the town meetings England, where you don't have a city council, but everybody goes to every council meeting, you know, one person, one vote, no representative government. That's absolute democracy. And then over here on this end, you have totalitarianism. One person, completely in charge, you know, absolute monarchy or absolute dictatorship. And in the middle, you've got things like a constitutional monarchy and a representative government and so on. All right? So where do you put the church? Is it down here where every single person is in charge, or is it up here where only one person is in charge, or is it right in the middle so here's where the leaders are in charge, one leader's in charge, the leaders are in charge, the leaders and the people are kind of a balance of power, the people are more in charge than the leaders, there's no leaders. Where along that line is the church? Where in there is the church? Where would you plot it? It's not on the line. It's up here. It's above the line. You know why? How do you decide who should be officers in a church? How do you decide whether we need to have a homeless ministry? How do you decide anything in the church? Well, you say, ask the pastor. That's putting the church down here. Or I say, take a vote. That's putting the church down here. Actually, listen. listen, when we all know what our gifts are, when we all know what our ministries are, when we all know what God has called us to do, we then have connected every dot and we have a perfect picture, a perfect blueprint of what this church ought to do and until then we don't know.

Now you see, one of the reasons why it's difficult in a situation where people circulate and never come on down and say, here is the congregation where I'm going to seek out and find my gifts and use them. No church can connect the dots. No church can do anything into sort of a democracy, a representative democracy, or a benevolent dictatorship, whereas unless we have got people starting to say, I know I'm called to minister. I know I'm called to do something. I know I'm called to do certain things and have a ministry in the church and in the community. I'm going to find out what that is and I'm going to commit myself and do it until then. There's no way of knowing really what a church ought to do because only through spiritual gifts does Jesus Christ rule His church. Jesus is in charge. I am not in charge, contrary to popular opinion, contrary to my behavior.

When we get the spiritual gift stuff down, we begin to swing. Because then we know what Jesus Christ wants us to do. And then and only then is he head of the church.

Now, how do you find your gifts? You know, I've got to move on. We'll talk about it later. It's fairly simple, though. three people, how did I help, in a way, those three people decide, remember those three people that came in at the very, very beginning of our talk here tonight, one person came in and said, you know the problem with this church, you know the problem with this church, you know the problem with this church, generally speaking, unfortunately, when you know what the problem of this church is, that may be because you are supposed to be doing something about the problem, you want to know why nobody else, you want to know why nobody else seems to think it's as important as you because they're not as good at what you do, what you see, is wrong as that you are. Isn't that a great sentence? They're not as good at doing it and they're not as good, therefore, at discerning it either. Spiritual gifts. That's how Jesus rules His church. That's how Jesus penetrates the world. And friends, every single person in this room, if you are a believer, is a prophet, a priest, and a king. You have got gifts to do ministry. You've got several gifts. And don't think that you've got one little gift and there's only one thing you can do. There's a variety of ways to find this out. You try a lot of things out. You look at your own heart. What do you have a burden to do? You do a lot of things, all kinds of things, to see what you're effective at. And you do it like you make any decision. You slowly, bit by bit, come to see what God is blessing in your life, what is good, what you're effective at, and so on. And listen. There's this incredible spot where Jesus Christ is talking about John the Baptist. It's in Matthew 11, and he says, when you went out to see John the Baptist, what did you go out to see? He said, a prophet. Yes, I say, and more than a prophet. He says, there is not a single human being born of a woman up to now who is greater than John the Baptist. And as far as I know, almost everybody is born of a woman. So that's quite a comprehensive statement. There is nobody born of woman up to now who is greater than John the Baptist. And yet, Jesus said, I say unto you, the least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.

If you understand that, that's jaw-dropping time. What he's saying is, John the Baptist did not have the Word like you do. John the Baptist did not have the spiritual gifts and the Church like you do. You can do more damage against the status quo and the forces of darkness than John the Baptist can do if you'll just see who you are. Now, the third aspect. We're not a body. We have no fellowship criminality of experience of Christ. Secondly, we are not a body until we really begin to get serious about every person ministering and finding out what God's calling them to do. And thirdly, we are not a body until we're starting to speak the truth and love to each other. Now, I'm going to be kind of fast about this one, but I'm sure just because I would rather you ask me questions for 25 minutes than that I would, you know, go on for 15 and then only give you 10. I of it if you draw it out of me, then I just sort of lay it out here. But listen, Jesus Christ says here that unless the world sees our love, they won't know that God sent Jesus Christ. Unless the world sees love in the church, that means that the love in our relationships has got to be visible. It's got to be remarkable. It's got to mean that people who do come or know anything about a congregation, they say it's inexplicable. It's incredible. I don't understand how these people love one another, but it's true. Until people are talking regularly and routinely about a congregation like that, nobody as far as I know is talking about us like that for sure. Until somebody's talking about a congregation like that, actually nobody's talking about any church that I've heard about like that, at least not around here. Until then, the world has the a right to write us off. That's what Jesus says.

Hey, you remember the place where Abraham and Lazarus die and go to, no, where Lazarus and the rich man die and go to hell. The rich man goes to hell and Lazarus goes to heaven. The rich man is down in hell and he says, oh, Father Abraham, send Lazarus back. Remember this? And speak to my brothers and warn them to repent so that they won't come to hell like me. And Abraham says they have Moses and the prophets. They've got the Scriptures. And if they won't believe the Scriptures, they're not going to believe if somebody comes back from the dead. That's an amazing statement. What he's saying is, if you have the Word of God and the truth of God and you blind yourself to that, then if somebody comes back from the dead, they don't have to believe you. They're not going to believe that. They're going to say, ah, hallucination. Ah, you know, I really, my wife's right, I've really got to knock off the sauce finally. I mean, they're not going to believe that. That's how blind people are. Christ says, there is something that will pierce through that kind of hardness and blindness, and that is inexplicable love and relationships in the church. Now, I'll just point this out. Speaking the truth in love is a way of summarizing all of God's laws for relationships. On the speaking the truth side, on the speaking the truth side, you see these things that are commanded. Think about it, will you? Exhort one another daily so you're not hardened by sin. That means that you are required to have relationships with somebody. Now, by the way, there's a misprint in here. Did anybody catch it yet? Yeah, you'll see it in a minute. You have to have somebody that you are close enough to that you are able to, if not daily, at least that's trying to say regularly, have people who are enough in your life, into your life, that they can say you're getting hard. and then you have to have relationships like that. Do you? Do you let anybody in that far? Okay. We're not supposed to, in other words, exhort one another daily means we're not supposed to go into relationships saying, what can I get out of this? But how can I help what God is doing in this person's life to progress? Admonish one another. And that's a scary thing. That means when you see somebody, listen, don't you, This is something that really, really, really bothers me. Everybody in this room probably can think of somebody who everybody knows is a jerk.

Now, if that person's a Christian, you're in trouble. Now, when I use the word jerk, I'm using a very general term, but it means you're talking about somebody who everybody can see is insanely envious of certain kinds of people or a certain person. Anybody can see is, you know, unbelievably obtuse about a certain subject and closed-minded. Anybody can see that they are such a braggart and a boaster that they put everybody off. Everybody can see why all the relationships are being ruined fairly constantly. That's what I'm talking about. The Scripture says in Galatians 6.1, if you see a brother or sister caught in a trespass, that means something wrong in their life that's caught them, trapped them, like in a bear trap, and they can't get out.

You must gently and humbly go to them and admonish them. It's a command. Think about it, won't you? Confess your sins to one another. Now, there's where the misprint is. It says you must have Christian friends, not no Christian friends, all right? See where that is? Cross out the no. You've got to have somebody in your life to whom you're confessing your sins. It doesn't mean you have to spill your guts with virtual strangers who happen to profess to be Christians, but it means you have to have people accountable to, and all this has to do with truth. But now on the other side, speaking the truth in love. Look, bear one another's burdens. That includes problems. That includes deeds, not words. That means that includes not just emotional problems, but when somebody has a physical problem or an economic problem or some other problem, bearing burdens. Accept one another, which means refusing to associate with people on the basis of things or class. Look, Look, this turns the typical approach totally on its head. If you, you know, what is worldliness? What is worldliness?

Worldliness to, you know, I've talked to people who say worldliness from my back, you know, back home was we don't smoke and we don't chew and we don't go with girls that do. Have you heard that one? You know, you might be a clean living person. Worldliness goes like this. walk into a room, you see ten people, and you immediately see by what they look like, how they dress, how they act, that there's four or five that you're not going to go over and talk to. Why? They're not your kind. They're not the people that right now you would like to become friends with. You're awfully lonely right now. You definitely want to make friends. And you want to have people who look like they're interesting. Who look like, in other words, who look like they can enrich you.

The Scripture says that is profoundly worldly, to walk in without a servant mindset. In other words, if you can walk into a room and say, do I want to be here? You instinctively and quickly, automatically and subconsciously walk in and say, am I going to enjoy being here? Instead of walking in and saying, how can I make sure that the people in this room enjoy being here? There's two ways to go. go. Absolutely two ways to go. And it gets particularly bad when people are sizing one another up. And in New York, it's very, very, very, very easy to do that. If you want to resist and not let the world squeeze you into your mold, into its mold, here's where you've got to start. And that's constructing Christian relationships. One more thing. I'm going to read you something kind of quickly, and then we do have plenty of time and you can come back on me. Reconstructing Matthew 18 says, when somebody sins against you, go to them and try to straighten it out. Matthew 5 says, when you believe someone has something against you, go to them and straighten it out. Now, this is all tempered by the play. There's two proverbs. One says, answer a fool according to his folly, and another one says, don't answer a fool according to his folly. Those are not contradictions. What they are is a way of saying there's a place at which trying to reconcile with somebody nothing but use the efforts of your reconciliation to sin, there's a place at which you stop it. There's a place at which you say, I'm not going to make it easy for you to hurt yourself. There's no self-protection necessarily in deciding I'm going to cut this off. This person is just using this. Now, considering what the Proverbs say about answering a fool according to his folly, Matthew 18 and Matthew 5 say that when you can tell there's something between you and another person, it doesn't matter who started it. It doesn't matter who started it. It's your move. It's always your move.

Now, the way in which you reconcile is relatively simple.

Relationships would be fine if we could just get a very nice concrete understanding of two things down. Repentance and forgiveness. Repentance goes like this. There's three parts to repentance. Number one, you have to first admit to God the evil of the sin itself. What you've done wrong. You have to work it out with God. Secondly, you have to go confess to the wrong person without accusations and without verbal defense. Thirdly, you've got to propose a plan for real change of behavior. You don't just say, I'm sorry, but you say, here's how I'm going to make an effort to make sure it doesn't happen again. Forgiveness, on the other hand, goes like this. Forgiveness is granted before it's felt. A lot of people say, how can I forgive him? I'm still so angry. Well, that's why you can forgive him. You don't feel forgiveness unless you grant it. If you grant it long enough, eventually the feelings will follow. The way in which you forgive someone is, the Scripture tells you that you have to grant it regardless of the repentance. It says in Mark 11 verse 25, if you are praying and you have anything against anybody, forgive them. It doesn't say wait until they come to you. It does not say so. And forgiveness is fairly simple. The word forgive means not to hold somebody liable, literally hold something against someone. And it's saying at this point, forgiveness is a commitment to do three things. Not to bring the subject up again to the person, not to bring it up to other people, but most of all, not to bring it up to yourself. If you can hold on to those three things, you will find that slowly the anger goes away. Repentance and forgiveness. Now, there's two different tracks. If you're a Matthew 5 track, a Matthew 5 track means that you believe somebody has done something wrong against you. Well, what you do is you go to them and you say, I understand that there's something that I have done that possibly has displeased or distressed you, and I really want to know what that would be. I honestly do. You don't go and make any, you're not defensive, you let him or her finish, you don't try to attack. And after you've listened 80 or 90% wrong and 10% right, you immediately home in on the 10% that person is right and you confess it without excuses and without blame shifting at all. Then, and only then, if you can begin to feel the atmosphere begin to, you know, clear up, then you can turn around and say, here's some things that I'm not sure you're right about. But if the person will not take it, then back off. Back off. That person, see, the whole idea about the 80-90%, if a person is wrong in most of the way but right in a certain way, you go after the right way. Why? Because of the Balaam's ass principle. It doesn't matter what the source is, God is probably speaking to you through that source. The Balaam's ass principle is fairly simple. Balaam had an ass, a donkey, who prophesied. God used the donkey to prophesy. It was God's word, even though the person who was prophesying was not an admirable individual. You must listen to somebody else's criticism as if God's speaking to you. And the Scripture says, take the beam out of your own eye before you take the moat out of somebody else's. What that means is not that what is in your eye is necessarily bigger objectively than what is in the other person's eye, but anything in your eye ought to look like a mote, you see, a beam. Pardon me. It should look like a beam. It should look big. Anything in your eye should look big. It should always look bigger than what's in the other person's eye. And even though objectively you might know that what the person is saying is only 10% right, as far as you're concerned, that's the thing God's saying, and you confess it. This is repentance. This is forgiveness. Speaking the truth in love, making sure that we never let our relationships die, it's always your move is the third pillar, the third leg in the stool. And one more thing, and then we're done. And actually, it really is just a concluding remark. The best way, the best way by far ever to build community is through small groups. It's through home groups. It's through people that you're committed to do the things that the Scripture teaches you to do together. Years ago, when John Wesley and George Whitfield had this great revival and millions of people were coming to Christ, they divided these people into what they called classes and bands of ten people or so, and they said, get together each week and just tell what's in your heart and help one another and pray for one another. And a lot of the people, they were in the Episcopal Church at the time, a lot of the people objected very much to these little classes, and they said, religion is a private matter. I want to come. I want to go and hear the word preached. I want to come and worship in the sanctuary, but I do not have to sit around and talk and spell out my feelings and all that sort of thing. Religion is a private matter. And John Wesley simply said this in response. He calmly said, the Bible says, confess your sins to one another, James 5.16. To exhort one another daily so we're not hardened by sin, Hebrews 3.13. To teach and admonish one another in wisdom, Colossians 3.6. To stir each other up to love and good works, Hebrews 10.25. To bear one another's burdens, Galatians 6. To weep and weep. Weep with those who weep and rejoice with those who rejoice, Romans 12. Now, if you do not meet to do these things, when will they get done?

We're not meeting to do those things that much tonight. That's not our main purpose for this meeting. praise God during and afterwards and before it, but that's not the main reason we meet. And what John Wesley is saying is, if you do not meet to do these things, how can we obey?