I'll read 1 Peter 1, 10-12, and 1 Peter 1, 25. Concerning the salvation, the prophets who spoke of the grace that was to come to you searched intently and with the greatest care, trying to find out the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when he predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow. It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you when they spoke of the things that have now been told to you by those who preach the gospel to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven into which things even angels long to look. Now that you have purified yourselves, verse 22, by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for your brothers, love one another deeply from the heart, for you have been... born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God. For all men are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field. The grass withers and the flowers fall, but the word of the Lord stands forever.

And this is the word that was preached to you. This is God's word. Now, we're in the middle of a six-week series, on what the Bible teaches about being born again, what it means to be born again. And we're saying each week, despite the common attitude that's very pervasive in our society, that the experience of being born again is for a certain type of person. Or born-again Christianity is a certain kind of Christianity. We're seeing, contrary to that view, every week, that every writer, whether it's Paul, or whether it's John, or now, whether it's Peter, or Jesus himself, every writer, every speaker, every source we have in the New Testament, says you have to be born again. Even this. Look, 1 Peter. Look at the assumption. What is it saying in verse 23? For you have been born again. Who's you? He's writing to all the Christians in Asia Minor. And he doesn't say some of you may have had this experience. He just assumes, who's you? Christians. You're not a Christian. I mean, being... Being born again is not for a certain type of person. It's not a kind of Christianity. It's the call to all people. Now, the reason I say this each week is this.

Educated, influential, at least in their own mind, cultured people have a lot of trouble mustering the humility it takes to receive this call. This call that you have to be utterly changed, completely revolutionized, converted. This call is very difficult for educated, cultured people to accept. It always has been. And all I'm suggesting at the beginning of each of these talks that if you're sitting here and you're thinking... You're resisting this. You're thinking, I can't believe that in the middle of New York City in this day and age that people with more than a third grade education are really saying we've got to be born again. I can't believe that you would think I would need to be born again. Maybe people in prison. Maybe people whose lives... Their lives have failed but me. If that's the language of your heart, consider that maybe classism and paternalism is keeping you from listening to the pervasive claim of the New Testament, which is you must be born again. Now, listen. I'm just asking to listen. Now, each week I've noticed that there's really three sort of strains of teaching in the New Testament about the new birth. There's the why strain, the what strain, and the how strain. We're learning each week something about why we need the new birth. Why is it necessary? Secondly, we are each week learning something about the what. What is it? What does it consist of? What happens in it? What's the nature of it? But then thirdly, each week we're learning a little bit something about the how. How does it happen? How is it caused? How does it come into us? Now, those of you who are practical minded, it seems... We're all different. Some of us are more why people. Some of us are what people. Some of us are how people. That's another sermon. But those of you who are more the how people, the practical people, who are saying, just what has to happen? How does this actually work? You know, all this highfalutin stuff about what it is great, but how? You'll like this sermon. Because when we get to this text, we've gotten to this place where Peter starts talking about the new birth. We're told the how. And we're told a lot about the how. The basic answer to how is the new birth caused. How does it come to us? And the basic answer of Peter is the word. You have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and enduring word of God. So what we're going to learn here is four things. They'll all be very practical. We're going to learn about the power of the word, the story in the word, the hero of the story, and the wonder. The power of the word, the story in the word, the hero of the story, and the wonder of the word. Now, first of all, the power. Look, what is the cause of the new birth? You're born again of imperishable seed, the word of God. What's interesting is that this is very, very close to what James says in his book. We're not actually going to take a look at that passage in this series because it's so close. But here's to what Peter says. But here's what James says. He says, He chose to give us, this is James 1, verse 18, He chose to give us new birth through the word of truth. So humbly accept the word planted in you, which can save you. Now, interesting, see the same idea. It's planted in us. So this metaphor, this metaphor of the word of God being a seed, an imperishable, living and abiding and eternal seed, what does that teach us? What does it teach us? Well, it teaches us about the power, as I'm saying. It teaches us that the word of God is a life-giving power, a penetrating power, and a subtle power. First of all, what I mean, life-changing, life-giving. The seed has a power of life in it. If you go out and plant a piece of glass, a little stone, go out into your backyard, oh, wait a minute, you're New Yorkers. Well, go into Central Park and plant a piece of glass. Well, and plant a little stone. Plant a little piece of glass. Plant a little piece of metal. And I want you to know, no matter how much you fertilize it, no matter how much you water it, no matter what you do to it, it's not going to grow.

And what we're being told here is that there are many books, there are many bodies of human words, there's many bodies of knowledge, there's many things that are put into human words, but the word of God, though it's embodied in human words, grammar, vocabulary, paragraphs, is seed. Which means every other body of information is like glass, it's like a piece of metal, it's like a piece of stone. It can revise your heart, it can form your heart, it can reform you, it can coerce you. But the word of God has a power, a divine living power, imperishable seed, living and abiding. And that alone has the power of getting the divine life back. And transforming you from the inside out. So the first thing we see, it's a life-giving power. Secondly, the metaphor of the seed means it's a penetrating power. Now this is scary. In the metaphor, it's a metaphor, a seed usually, now I know there's certain seeds that don't, but obviously as far as Peter and James are concerned, the reason they're using the term seed is because in general, the seed has to get underneath the surface. It has to get in. It has to get down deep. It can't just lay on a shelf. It can't just lay out on the surface usually. You know, we're talking about a seed that has to go in. And one of the more scary things is our places in the Bible like this. Peter, pardon me, Jesus in Matthew 22 is speaking to some religious leaders. And he says this, You are in error because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. It's a famous place where Jesus says, You know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. Who is he talking to? He's talking to religious leaders. These would have been, these would have been people who would have been schooled in the scriptures, would have been instructed in the scriptures, would have had familiarity in the scriptures from the time they could barely talk. And yet Jesus looks at them who would have been in a sense knee deep in the scriptures, knowing all about the scriptures, memorizing large sections of the scriptures. And he says, You don't know them. But notice he adds something. You know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. In other words, it's never come in. You've never really gotten it. It's never really come on inside. So the second thing we learn about the word of God is it's not just familiarity with the datum of the word of God, but it's the actual penetration that's necessary for the new birth. And then thirdly, we also learn by this metaphor the subtlety of the power. Now, here's what I mean. How do you get a seed down in there? Now, if the ground is hard, you know, there is one way to get a seed into the ground, and that is through violence. You know, you can just, you can get out a pickaxe and go, wham! And, and, you know, breaks up the ground. But that's not what most gardeners do. In fact, that's not the best way to do it. That's not the way it's usually done. You sprinkle, and you sprinkle, and you water, and you sprinkle, and you soften. And then you just poke it in. And what's interesting about seed planting as an event is after the seed is in there, to the naked eye, nothing's happened. I mean, even though the seed's in there now, which means the power of, the life-giving power of the seed has actually been tapped. It's in there. It's been released. Released. And that plot of ground, that barren plot of ground is going to eventually be a garden, or a forest, or something like that. But to the naked eye, once it's happened, you can't even see it. Now, what are the practical lessons? I said this was going to be a practical sermon about the new birth, and quite a bit, it is. We learned three very practical things about how the new birth works. Number one, if you want to experience the new birth, you have to be exposed to the word of God, to the truth of God. That's what this is. That's what this is saying. There is no way out of it. You have to be exposed to it. Notice there's two places. At the bottom, it says this is the word that was preached to you. This didn't happen in the abstract. There was real hearing and listening. It was preached to you. And if you take a look up in verse 10 to 12, it talks about, in verse 12, it talks about being preached to. But look at verse 10. Concerning the salvation, the prophets, who spoke of the grace that was to come. Now, when Peter uses the term prophets, and he talks about how this was, what the prophets said was preached to, he's talking about the scripture. He's talking about the Bible. Of course, there's many things that perhaps prophets that we don't even know about, there's certainly revelation from God that prophets that we don't even know about had in the past. There are things that Isaiah said, that Jeremiah said, that Peter and Paul and John said, that I'm sure were revelation from God, but was never written down. Here's all I'm saying. There's only one place you can be sure you don't have glass and metal and stone, but you have a seed. You have divine power seed. The one place you know you have the word of God. It's in human words, but it's not human opinion. It's God's revealed truth. It's in the Bible. It's the place where you have the words of the prophets, where you have the words of the apostles. Peter is referring, here, to the Hebrew scriptures, we call the Older Testament, often, which, of course, Jesus cited and lived upon and said, this is the word of God. We also have the Greek scriptures, the Newer Testament, which was written by either people who Jesus trained directly or people who worked with the people who Jesus trained directly, so we are certain that what we have is Jesus' own teaching. The whole point is, you cannot be born again unless you're exposed, not just to glass and to metal and to stone, but to the truth, and the truth that we know, the place we know we've got the word of God, the life-bearing truth, is in the Bible. That's the first thing. I mean, how practical can you be? You have to be exposed to the truth in the Bible. By the way, am I saying you've got to believe the Bible is the infallible word of God? Let me ask you a question.

What if there's this great, great potent medicine that'll heal you? Do you have to be absolutely certain this medicine will heal you? Do you have to know all about what's in the medicine in order for it to heal you? No. You just have to take it. In other words, your system has to be exposed to it. Do you have to believe the Bible's the infallible word of God? Do you have to have all your doubts about the Bible gone in order for it to work? Of course not. You have to be exposed to it. There's life in it. There's power in it. You may not even believe it's there, but if you're exposed to it, it can come. You cannot be born again unless you're exposed to the truth. This is not an abstract, mystical thing. It's not a brick from heaven. You don't walk along saying, how can this happen to me? You need to read. You need to think. You need to listen. It's got to be preached to you, meaning it doesn't necessarily mean you have to be in a big crowd. It means you have to get it. You have to have it expounded to you. You have to think about it. You have to read it. That's number one. Number two, if you want to understand how the new birth works, it's not just you have to be exposed to the Bible. The other thing we learn in this seed metaphor is though the new birth, this is so important to keep this balanced, though the new birth is a definite event, it's not necessarily a conscious moment. Though it's a definite event, it's not necessarily a conscious moment. This seed metaphor is so helpful. You see, we already talked about the fact that there are, I mean, there are people like John Wesley. Did we talk about John Wesley two weeks ago? And John Wesley can tell you the day that it hit him, the day that he realized, the day he crossed from death to life, the day. Because there are people, it seems to me, there are people who God uses a pickaxe on to plant the divine life. Wham! But how do most of us, how do most people actually experience the new birth?

You know, it's interesting, if you look carefully, Peter actually mixes metaphors and I hope this isn't too graphic for people, but he says, he says, you've been born again through imperishable seed. Does a woman who has just become pregnant, does a woman who's just had a seed fertilize an egg in her body, does she know the moment that happens? No. It won't be long before she feels the science of life and after she's been told by the doctor, told by a test or something like that, you are pregnant, you can look back and you can say, it must have happened in here. But you see, for most people, the experience of the new birth is like C. Everett Koop, former surgeon general of the United States, who tells us how he came to faith in Christ. He said his wife dragged him to the evening service at 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia because he was a, you know, the top surgeon at Children's Hospital in Philadelphia. And he can remember when he was first dragged there, he thought, this is ridiculous. I can't believe people believe this message. And about a year or so later, partly because of certain events in his life, partly because he kept coming, he kept coming, he kept coming, he kept coming. And about a little over a year later, he realized he believed.

But he didn't remember where the seed went in. Now here's why you have to keep this balance. On the one hand, it's a definite event. You either are a Christian or you're not. Why? Because Christianity is not a function, whether you're a Christian, it's not a function of your moral attainment. You must not think of Christianity as sort of always being in process, always trying more and more to be like Jesus. If you, if Christianity, if the essence of Christianity is being, is moral attainment, then there is no definite event. You're just always trying and always trying and always trying. But we're told here what makes you a Christian is do you have the divine life in you? Has the seed come in? You either have it or you don't. You're either a Christian or you're not. It's a definite event. But, many times, it's not a conscious moment. You can look back and realize it must have come in somewhere in there. But you don't know where. And it's very important because if you, if you feel the need for, to somehow stick your birth, new birth experience into the same mold as John Wesley or somebody else who's had a kind of pickaxe experience, you're going to be in a lot of trouble. And cheer up. If you're saying, I wish I could believe, I really want to believe, I really want this. I don't know how to do it. I don't know how to do it. You're already being watered. Maybe, you've already been planted. You know? Go to him. But you recognize the fact that this is a definite event. But it doesn't necessarily have to be a conscious moment. Alright? Now, but thirdly, we learn, we learn you have to be exposed to the word of God. And it can come in a great variety and subtlety of ways. But the third thing we've learned, right? Is it's not enough just to know the Bible or know the facts or the datum of the word of God. You have to have it penetrate. Now, how does that happen? And that leads us to our next two points. And they go together. See, one of the great questions is how does it penetrate? How is it planted? Clearly, Jesus is talking to religious leaders who just were, in a sense, living and breathing the scripture. They were swimming in the scripture. They quoted it all the time. They studied it all the time. And yet, it hadn't gone in. It hadn't actually created the new life. Well, now, how do you make sure that happened? Or how does that happen? And the answer is you have to see the story in the word and you have to meet the hero of the story. This is the key. In other words, you have to meet, you have to, you have to see the story in the word and you must meet the hero of the story. What do we mean? Well, first, look up here in verse 12. There's a synonym to preaching the word. Remember down in verse 25 it says they were born again because the word was preached to them. But up in verse 12 it talks about the gospel being preached to them. Let me put these together. Gospel. See, Peter is not saying you've got to be familiar with everything in the Bible in order to be able to be born again. That's ridiculous. And it's not only that. As we're seeing, that's not the point. The Pharisees, the Sadducees were very familiar with the Bible but they had missed the point. He says, what you've got to discern in the Bible is the gospel. Now, the word gospel, which is the summary that the New Testament writers, is a summary word the New Testament writers used to get across, to talk about the basic message of the Bible is very different than the Hellenistic religions. The Hellenistic religions tended to think and talk about the essence of their faith as knowledge, gnosis. And Jewish writers tended to talk about the essence of their faith with the word Sophia, wisdom or Hukma, instruction. And almost all religions, I have to say right here, almost all religions can talk about their faith in terms of instruction but the New Testament writers talked about what the Bible was about using the word gospel because the word gospel means the joyful tidings of something that's happened. A joyful report of something that's happened. Good news of something that's happened. Let me put it now in a nutshell. All other religions are basically instructions sprinkled with stories to illustrate. But the Bible, Christianity, is basically a story sprinkled with instruction. Other religions are basically instructions sprinkled with stories. Christianity is a story, a true story sprinkled with instruction. And when you see the difference, the word has begun to penetrate. When you see the cruciality of the difference, the word has, you've begun to get it. It's starting to go down. Let me give you an example. Do you remember that place? There's a, remember in Jesus Christ Superstar? There's a song where Judas is singing. He's singing at the very end. It's the theme song, Jesus Christ Superstar. There's one place where he says, did Mohammed move a mountain or was that just PR? Remember that? Because there's a story that Mohammed, the prophet Mohammed, moved a mountain. Now here's the question. Do you have to believe, in Islam, do you have to believe that Mohammed moved a mountain in order to be saved? Well now, you know, I don't want to, any Muslims are present. Of course, a lot of you would say, of course you have to believe everything the Quran says. But let me ask you the question. Did Mohammed's moving of the mountain save you? What is it that saves you? And the answer is, basically what saves you is you keep the five pillars. See, all religions are like that. Basically, all religions are instruction. That means, what saves you is what you do. The stories are important because they illustrate the instruction. The stories are important because they authenticate it. Because they give you good examples. But basically, all religions are basically instruction. And you look at the scriptures of all other religions as basically a compendium of wise sayings and exemplars and insights and rules and instruction sprinkled with stories. But the Bible is not that. Virtually everybody, when they first open the Bible and they get into the Bible, that's what it looks like. And I can understand that. The Bible seems like the same thing. Lots of rules. Lots of wisdom. Wise sayings. A compendium of stories and exemplars. And you say, this is how I have to live. If that's how you look at it, it hasn't penetrated. You're missing the forest for the trees. You're not seeing the gospel. Because the gospel, first of all, is a true story. The gospel is, see, religion is instruction because it's about what you do. And the stories illustrate that. But Christianity is about what he has done. It's about what he has done. It's about what the Lord has done to accomplish your salvation. In history. And therefore, it's a story to start with. It's a story, essentially. Do you see the difference? Only when that begins to hit you. Only when that begins to fall into place. And by the way, there's a title to the story. It's called The Return of the King. There is a storyline in the Bible. It runs all the way through the Bible. Unlike other religions, which are instruction with stories just to illustrate and support it, sprinkle through. The Bible is basically a story with instruction there to illustrate. See, the Bible has great instruction. How to handle worry. Turn the other cheek. Wonderful stuff. But it all is meaningless unless the story is true. And what is the story? That this world is broken because it's lost its king. But the king is coming back. The Lord is breaking into history in such a way as to destroy evil without destroying us. He's going to rescue us. He has rescued us. He's coming to renew everything. There's a story. And if you don't believe the story, all the instruction is stupid because the story is that God is coming to live the life you should have lived, die the death you should have died, and save you. Got it? So the first thing you have to get, has this happened to you yet? Do you still see the Bible as a kind of compendium of things that you have to sort of do? Then you don't see the difference between the Bible and the Christian faith and all other faiths. You have to see the story in the word first. Makes all the difference in the world. If you see Christianity as instruction illustrated by stories, then you're into religion. Because religion says, I give God a good record on the basis of all the instruction in the Bible and then he owes me. But Christianity says, God gives me a perfect record on the basis of what he's done as I read it in the Bible. And then I live for him. You got that? Two completely different ways of understanding the Bible. The Bible is not something you're starting to get. It's not starting to penetrate you. You don't know the scriptures nor the power of God. I don't care how many classes you've had in it. I don't know whether you can memorize it and tell it to me back in Greek and Hebrew until you see the story. So first of all, you have to see the story in the word. But secondly, you've got to see the hero of the story.

Peter says something amazing here, but it's only because he heard Jesus say it over and over again. Look at verse 10.

That's a long sentence, but you see what he's saying in a nutshell? He says, the whole Old Testament is about Jesus. He says, all the prophets we're actually talking about is now preached to you in the gospel about Jesus. And the reason Peter's saying this, Peter's saying, all the stories, all the law, all the prophets, everything you read in the whole Bible is really about Jesus. It's only because he's telling us what Jesus said over and over again. He was always saying to the people around him, Moses wrote of me. Abraham rejoiced to see my day. And after the resurrection, in Luke 24, this is an amazing statement. He meets people on the road to Emmaus after his resurrection, and he says to them, O foolish and slow of heart to believe all the prophets have spoken, did not the Christ have to suffer these things and then enter into glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. Everything must be fulfilled, he said, that is written about me in the law, the prophets, and the psalms. Now, look, you might say, well, I can understand that some places in the prophets talked about Jesus. How could the law be about Jesus? How could every part of the Bible be about Jesus? I want you to know, until you see that, the Bible is a crushing weight and not a transforming, joy-inflicting power. This is all the difference in the world. You have to see that though the Bible's full of stories, you see somebody's out there saying, how could you talk about there being one story in the Bible? There's tons of stories. Stories of David, stories of Adam and Eve, stories of Abel, stories of Isaac, stories of Joseph, Jonah, Esther, Ruth, all these stories. What are you talking about one story? Unless you see every story as really telling one story, unless you see every single story as pointing to Jesus, the Bible will be a crushing weight that might coerce you and might reform you, but it will not be a transforming, joy-inflicting, power. In other words, it won't go in until you see this. That there's a story in the Word and there's a hero of the story that you're there to meet. What do I mean? Well, Jesus. Look, you know the story of Adam? But Jesus is the true and better Adam who also faced a test in the garden, but he didn't fail it and drag us down, but he succeeded and brought us up. He's the true and better Adam. Jesus is the true and better Abel, the innocent, slain one whose blood cries out, but not for condemnation as it did against Cain, but for grace and acquittal. Jesus is the true and better Isaac whose father didn't just raise the dagger over him, but brought it down so it didn't have to come down on us. Jesus is the true and better Joseph who stands at the right hand of the throne and forgives and saves the ones who betrayed him. Got it? Jesus is the true and better David. Remember David who goes out to the big giant and he risks his life and his victory over the giant is imputed to all of his people who didn't even raise a stone or risk themselves at all. But Jesus is the greater David whose victory is imputed to us even though we haven't done a thing. Jesus is the real rock of Moses who's struck with the rod of justice and brings us water in the desert. Jesus is the real sacrifice to whom all sacrifices point. He's the real temple to which the temple points. He's the real clean laws to which all the clean laws point because he's our cleanliness. You remember Esther?

Esther risked losing the palace and said, if I perish, I perish to save her people. But Jesus Christ lost the ultimate pass. He didn't say, if I perish, I perish. He says, when I perish, I perish in order to save his people. Every prophet, every priest, every king, Jesus is the true and better Jonah who went into the belly of the earth to save us. Don't you see? Jesus is the true and better Job, the innocent sufferer who at the end intercedes for his people, for his friends who were so stupid all during that time. Everything points to Jesus. Now you say, well that's an interesting interpretive trick. No, it's not. It's not an interpretive trick. And here's what I mean. Let's look at the story of David. Who is that about? David and Goliath. If you see it only about David and Goliath, is it good news? You remember the word gospel means joy-inflicting news. Is the story of David and Goliath all by itself, just as it is, good news? No. You know why? If you don't see it pointing, as Peter says, to the sufferings and glory of Christ, it's not good news, it's bad news. You know what? What it's saying is, you need to be courageous like David. You need to go out there and you need to face the giants of your life. You need to summons up the faith, summons up the courage. There's the giant of failure. There's the giant of criticism. There's the giant of suffering. You can do it. Is that good news? Do you read that story and weep with joy? Is it a gospel? No. It's bad news. If you just say, now boys and girls, we've studied David and Goliath today in Sunday school, go home and be like David. The little kids aren't smart enough to realize that they should sue their teacher for malpractice.

And they're not smart enough to realize

that it would be better if they didn't know that story at all.

Because what they're going to do is they're going to say, now I can do that, but they can't. And halfway through life or three quarters of the way through life or somewhere out there, they're going to find, no, they can't. Because it wasn't good news. It didn't penetrate. It didn't melt their heart. Here's the point. Unless I see David as, first of all, pointing to my real David, the true David, the true champion, the one who went up against the ultimate giant of sin and the law and the death, and he didn't go at the risk of his life, he went at the cost of his life, but because of the victory that he procured there, his victory is imputed to me. Now what's important about that? I will never deal with, with the giant of failure in my life unless I know that God is absolutely for me no matter what. I will never deal with criticism and disapproval, the giant of criticism and disapproval, unless I know I've got the approval of the one, the only one who counts. How do I know that? I'll never be like little David unless I am melted with the good news, melted with the joy of seeing what the ultimate true and better David did for me. Do you see that?

Not until, I see what Peter says. Not until I sense the joy that comes from what Peter says, that this is really about the sufferings and glory of the Messiah, has the word gone in. Now boys and girls, be like David. It's the seed on the outside. It's on the surface, on the ground. It doesn't come in, but now boys and girls, see, now brothers and sisters, now ladies and gentlemen, do you see, who he's really talking about? When Jesus says, every part of the scripture is about me, until you see, the Bible is not a compendium of instruction, but it is a true story, then when you read the Bible, it'll be basically about you. You. What you must do. But if you see the Bible is basically about him, what he has done, then you'll be able to do.

Then you'll be able to be like Esther, and you'll be able to be like David. And haven't you ever noticed, here we're expounding the scripture. Have you ever noticed that the first part of the sermon, you say, that's very interesting, you take notes, yeah, I should do that, I should do that. And there's a spot at which, if we're really understanding this passage, correctly, we say, but, there's a real David, to whom this David points. There's a real Esther, to whom this Esther points. There's a real Jonah, who went into the ultimate pit, and fought against the ultimate thing. And when that happens, you all get confused. You're quiet, don't you not? You know why? You're worshiping. You're sensing joy. You're sensing amazement. You're hearing the story. Instead of the Bible becoming a compendium of instruction, which will crush you into the ground, it's turning into a joy-inflicting story, and you're being changed by it. And you will be able to be, handle the giant of criticism, and you will be able to handle the giant of suffering, if you first of all see the ultimate giants, the only giants that could really bring you down, have been handled by him. You got it? So, we see the power of the word. You have to be exposed to the Bible. You have to be exposed to the truth. But secondly, we see it only goes in when you see the story in the word, and when you meet the hero of the story. And until you see that, I'm not talking about getting your, you know, having the proper way of interpreting the Bible. I am talking about, do you see the point of the Bible? When I went through that list a minute ago, he's the true and better Adam. He's the true and better Abel. He's the true and... Some of you got lost because you don't know those stories.

But you don't need to know all the stories in order to have the seed come in. But once the seed comes in, you need to go back to all the stories. And here's what the last point I want to make. We've learned the power of the word. We've learned the story in the word. We've learned to hear the stories. But last of all, the wonder of the word. Look at verse 12. Preach the gospel to you into which even angels long to look. Now that is a really, really weird verse. Angels. What is the gospel? Do you know what this word means? Even angels long to look. The word long to look is the word epithemia, which means an obsession. The angels are obsessed with looking at the gospel. How could... Now angels are very intelligent people. Surely the gospel is a body of information that we subscribe to in order to get into heaven. And once you get it, you know, you're in, right? And the angels... Why would they want to go back and back and back? Because the angels aren't idiots. The angels realize that the gospel is not just a minimum doctrinal requirement for getting into heaven. The gospel is a story like a kaleidoscope. The reason you have to go back to every other story, you have to go back to Adam and Abel and Esther and Ruth. The reason you go back is everyone shows you the story of Jesus in a little different way and it makes you great in a new way. I will never be able to really handle criticism in my life unless I continually go back to the story. The more you look at the story, the greater you get. And therefore, the gospel is not something you only take in the first time. It's the way not just to get into the kingdom, it's the way to grow into everything else. Even the angels know that. Do you know it?

An obsession with the gospel is the one obsession that will stop all other obsessions, all other addictions, all other over-desires. When Paul confronted Peter about his racism in Galatians 2.14, he didn't say, Peter, you've broken the no-racism rule. Even though he had. Even though the Bible does say don't be a racist. He didn't say that even though he could have. What does he say? What does he say to Peter? He says, Peter, you're not walking in line with the gospel. In other words, Peter, look again like the angels are. Look until you become perfect. Look until there's so much joy in your life that you can handle anything. Look. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that we see how the new birth happens. And we not only see that, but we begin to see how we're not just born into the kingdom, but how we grow into the likeness of Christ. It's basically the same way. Through the word, which has a story in it, and has a hero of the story. And we pray that you would show us how to understand these things in such a way that we really can be transformed. There's some people in this room that need to understand for the first time the difference between religion and Christianity. And they might, even this morning, pray to you, give themselves to you, and find that they have been planted.

And there's all the rest of us here who realize that we just don't look into the gospel enough. And all of our problems come because we don't look. Help us to long to look. Help us to be part of the angels. Help us to learn how to gaze into the gospel till we become like your son, in whose name we pray. Amen.