1 Corinthians 3. Instead of reading the whole thing through, I'm going to read a piece and expound it. There's three parts to the chapter. Each one has got something to tell us. The first four verses I'm going to call going beyond the natural. The middle verses 5 to 17 I'm going to call Growing into the Gospel. And the last four verses, which would be verses 18 to 23, pardon me, the last five verses,

I'll call Seeing Beyond the Temporal. Going Beyond the Natural, Growing into the Gospel, Seeing Beyond the Temporal. Let's read the first section. This is Going Beyond the Natural. Brothers, I could not address you as spiritual but as worldly. Christ. I gave you milk, not solid food, for you were not yet ready for it. Indeed, you are still not ready. You are still worldly, for since there is jealousy and quarreling among you, are you not worldly? Are you not acting like mere men? For when one says, I follow Paul, and another, I follow Apollos, are you not mere men? Going beyond the natural. The first thing Paul says here is a little hard to translate. Now, verse 1, it says, you're mere infants. That clearly shows they're not growing. He says that human beings start out as infants and grow into adults physically. In the same way, Christians, when you're born again, start out as infants and then grow into mature adults spiritually. spiritually, and he's saying, you people haven't been growing. You're still infants. But he has another term when he says twice in verse 3 and 4, a term that's translated in the NIV, are you not acting like mere men? And then he says, when one says, I follow Paul, another, I follow Apollos, are you not mere men? Now, whenever you have a repetition like this, you're studying a passage and you see something happen twice, when you see repetition you know it's important and nt right in his commentary on first corinthians says it's hard to translate but probably the best way to translate it would be and his is his rendition very determinedly only human deliberately intensely only human so if you don't understand that, you don't quite understand what Paul is meaning, and here's what he's saying. He says, they have failed to go beyond the natural into the supernatural. You and I, because we're in the image of God, have got a whole bunch of natural temperaments, natural gifts, natural talents. Because we're in the image of God, we've got a lot of what the theologians call common grace. So some of us, whether we're Christians or not, our understanding. Some of us, whether Christians or not, are good leaders. Some of us, whether Christians or not, are talented musicians. Some of us, whether we're Christians or not, are just fairly smart, intelligent, and can write things or distill information. In other words, without going beyond the supernatural, you can come into Christianity, hardly grow at all. You know, you're born again, but you haven't hardly grown at all, and yet you look at the things in your life that are natural, that would be there whether you had the Holy Spirit or not, and you tend to rest on those things. So, for example, when you look at the gift list, I mean the fruit list, love is patient, love is kind, you know, that's 1 Corinthians 13. Or when you look at the Galatians 5 fruit list, where it talks about love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, a gentleness self-control. By natural temperament, some of us are gentle. That's either because of our brain chemistry, because of our early conditioning, or maybe because we just learned that gentleness and diplomacy was a way that we got things as we grew up. So out of natural self-interest or natural temperament, some people are naturally gentle. But almost always people who are temperamentally and naturally gentle are not also incredibly courageous. If you're naturally gentle, you're not also bold. You tend to be a coward. You tend to not confront. You tend not to speak up. Or what if you are a bold leader? You're a person of faithfulness. You're a person of courage. But then what happens, of course, is you're always stepping on people's toes. You tend to be too outspoken. You tend to shoot from the hip. Do you know what that means? The fruit of the Spirit grow together. It's true that in Galatians it says the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. But when you go to 1 Corinthians 13, it says love is patient and kind and good. What does that mean? They interpenetrate each other. They come together. They're not separate pieces. They grow together. When you're growing supernaturally, the fruit of the Spirit are growing together. And here's what goes on. Without hardly any spiritual growth at all, you can coast into Christian ministry on your natural talents without ever going beyond the natural, without almost any Christian growth at all. You take your talent, you take your smarts, you take the stuff you'd have if you weren't a Christian at all, and you use that in ministry. And because of our self-justifying little hearts that are always trying to, you know, feel good about ourselves and promote ourselves, we look at those things and we say, I'm doing pretty well. It's possible to be mere human, women, mere men. It doesn't mean you're not a Christian. You're a babe in Christ, but you don't grow at all. You don't really grow. The way you know you're growing into the supernatural realm is that all of the fruit of the Spirit grow together. And here you have a bunch of Corinthians, by the way, as you know if you read the whole book, and this will keep coming out. The Corinthians were very talented people. It was a very gifted church. People had all sorts of talents. And Paul's trying to say, you're resting on your talents and you're not going beyond the merely human. You've got to grow beyond the human. You've got to grow beyond the natural. And an awful lot of us are not at all. You have to look back and say, I mean, you have to look at your life and say, in the areas that are really weak, You just can't stay weak year after year after year. If you say, I'm weak year after this, but I'm strong over here. Well, the strengths probably aren't spiritual growth either. They're just natural. So that's my first question. Have you failed to go beyond the natural into the supernatural in your life? Are you determinedly only human? And that's one of the great challenges that the book of 1 Corinthians gives to us. Infants, talented infants. New York is a place where you probably, and this is an oversimplification, but there's probably just the average musician in New York is a better musician than most other cities. The average businessman or woman is a better business center woman. The average person living in the center city is very, very talented. We're resting, I think, to a great degree on our smarts, our intelligence, our natural gifts. Are you growing? you growing in grace? Are you growing beyond the natural into the supernatural? That's the first. Now, let's take a look at the second. That's the first challenge that comes up. Now, let's take a look at the second, where we actually deal with the basic point of the passage in the first four chapters of 1 Corinthians, which is this whole issue of jealousy and quarreling and party strife. Let me read you verses 5 to 17. What, after all, is Apollos, and what is Paul? Only servants, though, through whom you came to believe, as the Lord has assigned to each his I planted the seed, Apollos watered it, but God made it grow. So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who makes things grow. The man who plants and the man who waters have one purpose, and each will be rewarded according to his own labor. For we are God's fellow workers, and you are God's field, God's building. By the grace God has given me, I laid a foundation as an expert builder in someone else's building on it. But each one should be careful how he builds. For no one can lay any foundation other than the one already laid, which is Jesus Christ. If any man builds on this foundation using gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or straw, his work will be shown for what it is because the day will bring it to light. It will be revealed with fire, and the fire will test the quality of each man's work. If what he has built survives, he will receive his reward. If it is burned up, he will suffer loss. He himself will be saved, but only as one escaping through the flames.

Now, what's the second thing? I called the second growing into the gospel. Now, the issue that we actually heard Tuck talk about in 1 Corinthians 1 and 2, and it's the same thing here, is party spirit, this fight. light. The party spirit came because of this. Paul and Apollos and Cephas are not staff members on a church. They're not all ministers in the church, as you know. What would happen in those days was these were traveling apostles and evangelists, missionaries as it were, and they would come to a town and they would preach the gospel and they would convert people and they would disciple some and baptize some and then they move on. And then another minister would come to town and that minister would do the same thing, would preach the gospel and convert some more and baptized them and incorporated them into the church that already existed. And then another minister would come to town, and what you had then were layers. Now, by the way, this isn't that hard for me to understand. The church I came into in 1975 was exactly 30 years old. I was the fifth minister, and I knew exactly who had been brought into the church by which minister. They all were very different. You had one group that was absolutely down on drinking, and that any Christian who drank clearly was not truly committed. But the other ministers were never that legalistic, and so the other converts came in, and some of them drank, or at least none of them got out of a bent out of shape about people who did drink, but the people who thought that drinking was absolutely wrong, no Christian could ever be used by God if you drank, really looked down their nose at the people who thought it wasn't so bad or who did drink, and of course they looked down their nose at those folks as legalists. Same thing. Very same thing.

and the Corinthian church was filled with this. You have layers of people who'd come to faith in Christ, but each of these people, Paul, Apollos, Cephas, have different emphases. In fact, if you read the Bible, you can tell John, James, Peter, all these different writers, when you read them, at least the first time through, they sound very different, do they not? In fact, when you read Romans and James, you may actually feel like they contradict, don't they? You know, it takes some time to figure out how these all work together because they have different ways of speaking, they have different terminology, they have different emphases. However, because we don't understand the gospel, what we tend to do with our particular favorite theologian, our particular favorite minister is we identify with that minister, and instead of looking at how they complement one another, we identify with that person's instinctives and say, I'm one of Paul's people, and Paul talks about grace. You're one of Apollos' people, and Apollos is always talking about works, and the Apollos people say, hey, you know, you Paul people, you know, the way you talk about grace, you make people feel like anybody can live any way they want. Our teacher puts the proper balance on grace and works, Why are they doing this? Why are they doing this? Craig Blomberg, interestingly enough, in his commentary on 1 Corinthians says that what's actually happening here is the culture of Corinth is coming into the church. If you understand Corinth itself, Corinth was a commercial center because it was right on the peninsula between the Greek peninsula and the Peloponnese. Everybody had to go through. Anybody who was coming by water would come by water, walk it across 20 miles of land and put it in water rather than go all the way around the bottom. And it was also the only way north to south. It was a perfect commercial center. It was destroyed by the Romans when they invaded Greece in 46 BC. But it was such a valuable place for commerce that Julius Caesar had it completely rebuilt from scratch. By the time of Paul, there was 500,000 people there. It was a very big city. But get this. It was a city that had grown up from scratch in about 100 years. There was no entrenched hierarchy. There was no old families. There was no classes, basically. There wasn't even an original racial group. It was like New York City, which is, it doesn't matter where you're from. It doesn't matter who your people are. It doesn't matter who your family is. Can you produce? And everybody in Corinth were self-promoters. They were achievers. Craig Blomberg says what's really wrong here is that the culture of Corinth church. So the people are actually taking hold of the theological differences. And instead of saying, well, you have an emphasis and you have an emphasis, you have an emphasis, instead, people are taking hold of the particular distinctive and moralizing it. See, it's the way, you know, when white people and black people both come together for a wedding. wedding, let's just say you have an interracial couple, you know, a black and a white, and when the black people all come 20 minutes late for the wedding, and the white people are sitting here like this. Now, there's two ways to go at this. One is the white people can sit there and say, hey, cultural difference. Where's it say in the Bible what punctuality is? But that's not what the white people are doing. They're sitting there saying, this is irresponsible. What are they doing? Unless the gospel of grace has completely retooled your heart, you take hold of every little difference, whether it's a cultural difference, whether it's a philosophical difference, whether it's a theological difference, and you moralize it. You say, I believe that, and that makes me better. I mean, your heart, apart from the gospel, to the degree the gospel hasn't changed it, the gospel hasn't changed anybody's heart completely, we're always looking for a leg up. We're always looking to feel more noble than the other person. Deep down inside, we're looking for ways of saying, yeah, that group. We're rolling our eyes inside. You know, we're snorting on the inside. This is why Craig Blomberg says this about, he says this is the essence of this middle section, that these people have actually not understood the gospel of grace. Instead, they're self-promoters. He says, our culture grows ever more performance-centered with each passing year. affects our play, school, sports, and work. Adults face longer hours on the job with less security and more performance-based evaluation than was ever anticipated a generation ago, ever. Not surprisingly, but nevertheless tragically, the spirit of competition, comparison with each other, and rewards based on merit have overwhelmed many aspects of Christian living as well, both corporately and personally. Too many Christians continue to think that God relates to them like the taskmasters they have in their families and in their jobs, and they expect daily or punishments according to their level of faithfulness and obedience from God. How liberating it can be when the church decides instead to model a countercultural lifestyle, loving people unconditionally as Christ did. We need to recover, too, the foundational Reformation emphasis on joyful gratitude as the reason we do everything. The doctrine of grace is arguably the watershed that separates Christianity from all other world religions and every other world system of thought. It is not surprising, then, that the church has a difficult time warding off the intrusion of works righteousness into our church life. In other words, we really aren't in many ways riven by great theological differences inside Redeemer. But we, but, I mean, see, what happens in every church, though, to some degree, is, for example, if you like liturgy and you like getting down and dirty, if you like contemporary music worship and you like classical music worship. Nobody ever just sees these as differences and supplementary. Oh, no. We feel like you're an elitist. Well, you're a consumer. You're just like them. You're just like them. We have to find a way to get a leg up. We create moral significance where there's just a difference. That's what these people were doing. Craig Blomberg rightly says, the competitive culture of Corinth had come into the church and had squeezed out the grace of God. And as a result, instead of saying, Apollos has got something for us all, Paul's got something for us all, we need all of these emphases. Instead, we said, no, I'm Paul's guy, therefore I'm better.

Now, to a great degree, does this happen in Redeemer? Probably not exactly like this, but of course it does. Do we let the culture of New York come on inside? Yeah, in various ways. You know, one thing, and I mentioned this I think two years ago, but I still see it happening, is out in New York, you only date and marry people who have money, have status, have looks, are thin. As far as I can see, people inside Redeemer are choosing their spouses almost exactly the way people outside are. inside Redeemer do we have differences of opinion about the way the church ought to go and we tend instead to say I think this is really better I think this is wiser we say no I really think that you know I've got a superior theological point of view yeah that to some degree it's just so it's not really strong here but it's there if I you know

you know one thing I've been sharing with a number of you for example Kathy has shown me is that partly because of, if you understood my own background, you would know this, I do not like it when people say, let's honor this person. When I grew up, my mother used to always be saying, Timmy, show all my friends how well you play the trumpet now. Timmy, will you please bring out the blue ribbon you got at the science fair? She was terrible at that. Fortunately, I'm not being taped tonight, right? She's 80 years old in a wheelchair. I wouldn't hate to ever hear this. Well, my wife knew because she saw it in the early days. My wife said to me, you know, you utterly hate it when people give you a certificate or show you some kind of recognition. You utterly hate it. You utterly hate it. That's right. I do hate it. But you know what? I feel noble because I hate it. And I feel nobler than the people who want that. that. When I see people who want dinners and benefits and gold watches and kudos and applause and things like that, deep down in my heart I say, yeah, that's the kind of person who wants that. All right, they're like that. Of course, I'll give it to them. We don't believe the gospel. We don't believe the gospel. We don't believe the gospel. The culture of Christianity, the culture of the world comes in and shapes us. And by the way, I have to get to the end here, but what is all this stuff about the judgment? What's intriguing about what Paul says here is Paul says if you understand the gospel of grace, you'll realize there's an incredible balance. On the one hand, in verse 7, he says the most fruitful Christian in history, Paul, is nothing. See that in verse 7? On the other hand, he says in verse 15, the most lazy Christian in history will still be saved. Isn't that interesting? He says there is a balance. The fact is that as a Christian, God has given you some gifts, and you should regret it if it turns out that you're really not using your gifts to benefit to fit his kingdom. And you should be joyful if it turns out that your gifts are being used. You see, there's this balance. He says the foundation, which he says in verses 12 to... in verse 11, he says the foundation of our standing with God is laid by Jesus Christ. You're going to heaven. You're going to be saved. You don't lay that foundation. Jesus Christ laid it. And of course, if you are able to build in your life by doing many other good works, that's to be rejoiced in.

a very irresponsible steward of your gifts in the end that will be something that regrets but you'll still be saved and this is Paul's way of saying the most fruitful Christian in history which is Paul is essentially nothing because God rewards us for the things He gives us the idea of and then the will for and finally the power to do isn't that amazing God gives us the idea to do things then He gives us the will to do those things then He gives us the power to do those things then He gives us the opportunity and if we do those things, he then rewards us. That's grace. But sometimes, at the end of the day, we still don't get a whole lot done. The most fruitful Christian in the world, Paul, verse 7, is nothing because God does it all through him. And yet the most lazy Christian in the world, verse 15, a person who basically, you know, builds with a straw is still going to go to heaven. That's a balance that we just don't have. We either think it doesn't matter how we live because we're all saved by grace, or we think, on the other hand, you know, you better live well, otherwise you're not going to get to heaven, and this is some kind of balance. Now, Craig Blomberg says, and this is the final thing to look at, Craig Blomberg says, the climax of the chapter is really remarkable because there he shows that the only reason people would be jostling for position is because they are still people of this present age. Let me just read you the last part, verse 18. Do not deceive yourselves. If any one of you thinks he according to the standards of this present age. He should become a fool so that he may become wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness in God's sight. As it is written, he catches the wise in their craftiness. And again, the Lord knows that the thoughts of the wise are futile. So then, no more boasting about men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future, all are yours, and you are Christ, and Christ is God's. Now, two things. First of all, this present age. The religious leaders of the Jews believed that we lived in this present age, and someday the Messiah would come, and then would come the future age in which everything was put right. And we know that the Jews of the time, there's been a lot of studies about this the last 30 years, the Jews of the time believed they were chosen, that is, they were chosen by grace, but they had to live a good life if they were to attain to the resurrection in the future age. They had to live a very, very good life. They had to really keep up good works. They had to be absolutely obey the law if they were ever to attain to the future age. In other words, they thought they were in this present age and they could attain to the future age by good works. And if you have that view, you are going to be so insecure. You're going to need to take your cultural differences and make them into virtues. You're going to need to take your theological differences and make them into virtues. You're going to need to always find parties. You're going to need to criticize other people so you look better. And that's why Paul is trying to say, you're living as if you have the wisdom of this present age, as if you don't know the gospel. What's the gospel? The gospel is that when Jesus Christ came, Judgment Day happened. See, the Jews believe present age, Messiah comes, Judgment Day, future age. And if we live a good enough life, when Judgment Day comes, the future age. But when Jesus Christ came to the cross, he says, now is this world judged. On the cross, Jesus Christ was judged for us. And therefore, Paul has the audacity to say, your judgment day is in the past. You live in the overlap of the ages. Yes, the present age is not over yet. There's still death and disease, but the future age has begun. And if that's the case, then all things will be yours. All things could be yours. No, That's what the people of religions of the world thought. No, he said, all things are yours now. And if you know that, you'll stop living like the people of the present age. That's your problem. All the fighting, all the bickering, all the lack of growth because you don't understand the gospel of grace deep down. You're living like people in this present age. But, you know, this very last, very last statement, let me read it to you and meditate. I used to preach on these verses at every funeral I could. I used to preach on at least, I used to do a funeral a month in Hopewell, Virginia. And I preached on this passage every time I could. So then no more boasting about men. All things are yours. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas. Now let's stop there. Notice he's changed the slogan around. I'm Paul's. No, no. I'm Apollos'. He's turned it around. No. and Paul and Cephas are yours, not you or theirs. In the gospel, you get enough security to learn from everybody. Don't say, I'm a Protestant. I don't need Aquinas. Don't say, I'm a Calvinist. I don't need John Wesley. You know, people who say, I'm a Calvinist and I only read Reformed stuff. Here's a person who doesn't understand the gospel. Why are they so angry about everybody else? Why are they so condemning of everybody else? They're convincing themselves they're okay. This is the wisdom of this present age.

If you understand that all things are yours, then you can learn from all these different people. You can learn from them all. They're all yours. They supplement, you see. Don't, by your ego needs, unnecessarily pit themselves together and lose out on the treasure each one has. The gospel of grace gives you the security of heart so you can realize and learn from all you look at is sort of polluted and messed up. But then he goes on. All things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, and here we go, or the world or life or death or the present or the future. The world, life, death, the present or the future are yours. Gordon Fee, in his commentary on 1 Corinthians, says, It says, world, life, present, death, future, these things, pardon me, these five items are the ultimate tyrannies of human existence to which people are ordinarily in lifelong bondage as slaves. But not for a Christian. The world, what's the world? The Bible calls the cares of the world, worried about food, clothing, health, money. I worry about health a lot now. I worry about my wife's health. I worry about my health. But you know what? I'm guaranteed eventually, no matter what happens right now, eventually I'm going to have all the health in the world. I'm going to have the world. I'm not just going to heaven. The world with its airs and seas and mountains and canyons and infinities and immensities is all going to be made new, and it's going to be mine, and it's going to be yours. Are you worried about money? Okay, you might have money problems now, but eventually you're going to have the world. You're going to have the money. You're going to have the health. You're going to have it. It's all yours. It's guaranteed. it. Not immediately, but it's guaranteed. It's yours. And then Paul has the audacity to say, life and death is yours. What do you mean death is yours? Death is mine? Yeah. Even death, if you're in Christ, can only make you better. For everybody else, it's death is the end of life. Not for a Christian, death is the beginning of life. For everybody else, death is the end of joy, the end of love for a Christian in Christ. Death is yours. Death used to be an executioner, but the gospel has made him just a gardener. You know, George Herbert says, the Christian looks at death and says, spare not, do your worst. You will just make me better than I was before. And you, death, will be so much worse that you will be no more. And then the present and the future are yours. What does that mean? First sermon, 18 years old, wrote a sermon called Christian Happiness. And he said there's three reasons why Christians should be happy all the time. Number three, here they are. Number one, bad things will turn out for your good. Number two, your good things that you have in Christ can never be taken away from you. Number three, the best things are yet to come. You've got the future. The future is yours. No matter what happens in the immediate future, the future is yours. world, life, death. You see, it's all yours. But look, because you are Christ's and Christ is God's. Alexander McLaren puts it like this. You are lords of the world of time, of death, of eternity, but you are not lords of yourselves. You belong to Jesus. And to the degree you belong to him, all things belong to you. To the degree you are completely a servant of him, all things will be a servant of you. They will not tyrannize it. You will not be afraid of you. The more of a servant I am to Jesus Christ, the less any of these things scare me anymore, the less any of these things tyrannize me anymore.

You belong to Jesus, and to the degree you belong to him, all things belong to you. Now, if you know that, you're not people of this present age, and you won't be saying, I'm a Paul, I'm a Cephas, I'm a Apollos. Let's pray.

We know in the end this passage is about how the gospel brings us together, pulls us together, keeps us from being parties, makes us brothers and sisters. And we ask that you would help us see as we take the bread and the cup how the gospel can bind our hearts together. And we pray that you will continue to work in us as we study your word together at these meetings. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.