Ephesians chapter 6, and we're going to read verses just 10 to 13. Here in the morning services of the summer, and the summer, of course, is almost over, we've been looking at the book of Ephesians in series. We've had a preaching team every week, a different member of the preaching team, taking a different passage. And today I'm going to be covering this one. Ephesians 6, 10 to 13, brief but very pregnant. it. It's got quadruplets in here. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can take your stand against the devil's schemes. For our struggle is not against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realm. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, you may be able to stand your ground and after you have done everything, to stand. This is God's word. And what does it mean? When we read the passage we just read, But right away, I think a typical person in New York would immediately have a couple of concerns, maybe even objections. First thing you say is, I am uncomfortable with this sort of superstitious talk of a literal devil. Surely we're beyond that now. This is modern times. And secondly, a second concern or objection would go this way. I'm uncomfortable with this kind of militaristic talk. I mean, this idea of talking about you're on God's side and over there are the forces of Satan, and that's the sort of thing that leads to violence. That's the sort of thing that leads to terrorism. When we demonize the other side and say God's on our side, and I'm very concerned about that, too. Now, what I just want you to do is, if I said that's how a typical New Yorker would read a passage like this, let me ask you to be a typical New Yorker, because typical New Yorkers tend to give hearings even to the most outlandish ideas, at least for a while. They're willing to listen to almost anything. And I'd like you to be patient, because both of those very understandable concerns, I think, will get addressed as we go through the passage. But the reason we have to go to it is why. It's about evil. Now, there is nothing more relevant, especially in the last ten years. I've read recently some interesting cultural analysis that said

knows, been the kind of interest in gore, in horror, in terror, in graphic depictions of unbelievable horror and evil in movies, in books. There's always been stories about, there's always been stories about darkness and about the mysterious, but there's never been the same kind of fascination as there is now. A lot of people are asking, why? Why in the world? when basically the cultural consensus is there is no such thing as a devil? Why are we so fascinated with evil? And why would you have on the cover of Time Magazine, on the cover of Newsweek, the question is, why is there evil? What about evil? How do we deal with the fact of the terrible evil that there's in the world today? I mean, we have to look at this. This little passage gives us some answers, not all of them by any means, but some. I'd like to ask, what does this passage say it tells us at least three things that we can cover this morning. It tells us about the transcendence of evil, the complexity of evil, and the defeat. How to defeat evil. It doesn't give you everything but at least it gives you a pretty good survey. First of all. The first thing this tells us is. You're never going to understand evil. Deal with evil. This is really a preliminary. Everything else. Evil has a transcendent nature. Look. This. Paul. Says. For struggle is not against flesh and blood. We wrestle not against flesh and blood. Now Paul doesn't mean

exactly what it says. I mean, for example, Paul was whipped. Paul was stoned. Paul was persecuted. Paul was imprisoned by flesh and blood people. I mean, Paul certainly wrestled with flesh and blood. And we wrestle with flesh and blood. But what Paul is actually saying here We wrestle not only with flesh and blood. Paul is saying when you look out in the world. When you look at war. When you look at poverty. When you look at injustice. When you look at all the terrible things that are happening out there. He says. There's something there. That goes beyond the natural. There's something there. That goes beyond the human. There's something there. That goes beyond. The imminent. The scientifically. Analyzable. There's something there. That's cosmic. There's something there. That's supernatural. There's something there. That's transcendent. Now I've got to give a little history to this. This is quite a bombshell today. Here's a little bit of history. Roughly 200 years ago or so, up until about 200 years ago, in Western society, everybody believed in, pretty much everybody believed, first of all, in devils, that is, personal supernatural beings, supernatural personal evil beings, and they also believed in original sin, spiritual evil in our heart. So they believed in original sin. They believed in devils. They believed in demons. And about 200 years ago, that started to turn around until we got to the middle of the 20th century, when basically the mainstream thought in the 20th century was this. That evil, in quotes, is really always the result of something natural. It's either the result of unjust social systems, or it's either the result of bad parenting, or it's either the result of some biological root, it's got some psychological root, it's got some sociological root, or may have some kind of combination of those roots, but those roots are controllable, those things are natural. In other words, the consensus of Western civilization is we only wrestle with flesh and blood. There is nothing out there going on, however horrendous, that isn't something we could control if we could fix the family systems, fix the social systems, fix the chemical systems, fix the neurological systems. If we can fix. And really up until at least even 30 years ago, the great consensus was we can deal with evil. We can eradicate it. We can get rid of racism. We can get rid of poverty. We can get rid of war. We can get rid of these things through scientific approaches in all these different realms. But something has been dawning on us lately. time, this fascination with horror. Can you imagine a kid in the 1850s passing a book around talking about dismemberment saying, wow, isn't this something? Can you imagine a magazine in the 1850s saying, why do these serial killers do these things? Because everybody knew. But what's happened is we have thrown away our intellectual resources for dealing with evil because we have said we only wrestle with flesh and blood and we've been working on that consensus for 200 years and things are not getting better. There are holocausts. There's ethnic cleansing. There's as much hatred. There's as much bloodshed. The rivers are still running with blood. Families are still breaking down. And maybe, maybe just possibly, more parents are killing their children and more children are killing other children but one thing is for sure, it's not less than it used to be. Maybe it's not more. It's very hard to know it's certainly not less. Andrew Delbanco, a self-described secular liberal at Columbia University, wrote a wonderful book three years ago called The Death of Satan. It got a lot, a lot of interest. It got a lot of attention because he started out with the first sentence. His first sentence was, he says, a gulf has opened. I hope I remember it. Here it is. He says, a gulf has opened in our culture between the visibility of evil and our intellectual resources for coping with it. He says the evil that was always there is still there. But we got rid of the idea of sin. We don't talk about sinners. We got rid of the idea of original sin. We got rid of the idea of the devil. We got rid of the idea of all the transcendent aspects. And now we're absolutely astounded by the fact there clearly is something beyond what we can manage and control here. have no way of dealing with it now. And he actually says, he thinks the best place in modern literature where this comes to a head is the place in the novel, which also became a movie, The Silence of the Lambs. And you know Hannibal Lecter is this most incredibly evil man, and Officer Starling, the young female detective, at one point listens to the incredible things he's saying and says something along the lines of, because I don't have that written down, but I remember she says something along the lines of, what could have made you like this? What happened to you that you're like this? Now, that is an incredibly modern question that immediately assumes we're only wrestling with flesh and blood. What biological thing? What sociological thing? What psychological thing? And he looks at her, and he says, now Delbanco quotes this, he says,

nothing has happened to me, Officer Starling. I happened. Nothing has happened to me. You can't reduce me to a set of influences. You've given up good and evil for behaviorism, Officer Starling. You've got everybody in moral dignity pants. Nothing is ever anybody's fault. Look at me, Officer Starling. Can you stand to say I'm evil? And Delbanco goes on. This is what he comments. He says, these words are the epitome of modern horror and the modern dilemma. of knowing that we cannot answer the monster's question. Now, this is my first point. I want to move on, but here's what I want to say. There's got to be plenty of you out there, if you're thoughtful people and understand this, saying, I cannot believe that there's a man up there with more than a third grade education saying he believes in a personal devil, an original sin, an innate evil, and all that. And look, I can't prove this to you right here, but here's what I want you to know. If you want to disagree, fine, but do not sneer. Because what do you say to the monster? You know, it's one thing to say, oh, these are primitive. This is retrograde. You don't talk about original sin and the fall and evil in the heart and spiritual evil and the devil. We can't believe these sorts of things anymore. Friends, a sneer, disdain, that's not an argument. What I want to know is what do you say to the monster? The Bible has a paradigm that can what's out there. It can account for rivers of blood. It can account for Hannibal Lecter. Because evil is both natural and supernatural. It's inside and outside. The Bible can do that. This paradigm, the devil, the original sin, it can do that. Now, you may not agree with it, but you better not just say, ha. What do you say? And let me get it off the intellectual for one second before we go on to the next point. Let me apply this. Some of you have been shocked recently. Some of you have been shocked and shattered recently or at one time in your life and you're not over it yet. Either there's people in your life that have done things to you didn't think people were capable of. You married somebody. Couldn't believe what came out of that person. You got into a job. You had a child. You thought you raised the child right. I mean, And either there's people in your life that have done things to you that you cannot believe, or you yourself have done things that you are absolutely astounded. Five years ago, you would never have imagined you could have done that. Ten years ago, never, ever imagined. And you're shattered. You know why? Because you think we're just wrestling with flesh and blood. You have an inadequate paradigm for the reality that's out there. Our sanguine theories of the manageability and the controllability of evil the 20th century people, absolutely defenseless. We can't figure it out. We're continually shocked. Do you think people 150 years ago were always going around saying, why is the world this way? Why are people like this? How could there be all this evil and suffering in the world? They didn't much. They did. There was Frankenstein. There was Dracula. There was something. There is Job, evil, suffering. I'm not saying that they didn't. but it wasn't unbelievably inexplicable and completely frustrating and absolutely shattering thing it is to us because a gulf has opened in our culture between the visibility of evil and our intellectual resources for doing it because we've kicked the Bible's paradigm out. Transcendence. We wrestle not only with flesh and blood. Secondly, the second thing that we learn here, and you know, this is actually going to be my hardest point and you'll see why. evil. Now this is a very complex point. I have wrestled over and over with making sure I get this whole thing out. But one of the things that is very wrong is for people to think, if I believe in a devil and I believe in the devil's forces, that means everything is going to be painted in black and white. Good hats, bad hats. There is nothing about this passage that teaches us that at all. This passage teaches us that almost everybody, except people who are immersed in the biblical worldview have an oversimplistic view of evil. Let me show you. You know, from the very beginning, the Bible says, in the very beginning of this, in Genesis 3, the serpent, Adam, Eve, the apple. We're not going to get into that, but here's what the Bible says. The serpent was the subtlest beast in the garden. From the beginning, the Bible says, says. Evil never comes pure. Evil never comes openly. Evil never comes at you obviously. Evil is never simple. It's always intertwined with good. It's always hidden. It's always multi-layered. It's always complicated. First of all, this passage suggests that evil is complicated and subtle in its approach to us. I'll be brief on this, but look. There is actually a mixed metaphor in here. Well, it's not exactly a mixed metaphor, but the NIV translation kind of muddies it. It says, for we struggle not with flesh and blood. Put on the armor of God. Now, the old translations say, we wrestle not. That's why you keep hearing me say that. because literally it says we wrestle not with flesh and blood. Now here's a question. What kind of actual fight is Paul metaphorically painting for us? When you put on the armor, you expect what? Fencing or shooting, you know, with a bow and arrow. Paul says no. When you finally figure out that evil is upon you, you'll be wrestling. It'll be that close. When you finally wake up to evil, the hands are always around your throat. As a general rule, you never see evil coming. You put on the armor, but you end up wrestling. You never have a shootout with evil. You wrestle with evil because you're not smart enough to have a shootout with evil. Not real evil. I'll put it this way. By the way, I was reading C.S. Lewis's preface to Paradise Lost. He says in there, he says, He says, people have complained for years that Milton makes Satan in Paradise Lost, the character of Paradise Lost, make him too noble. Make him too sympathetic. Make him too great. And Lewis says, you know, that just shows these people, these critics, have no idea about the real nature of evil. He said, don't you understand? There's no such thing as pure evil. If you took everything good away from Satan. If you took away his creativity. If you took his irrationality away. If you took his existence itself. Every good thing. There'd be nothing left. what he's trying to say is evil never comes pure it never comes obvious, never

and your soul is always evil is always the most devastating to your soul when it looks like something else I gotta keep moving but let me just screw it all the way down right now my dear friends the sin that's most destroying your soul is one that you don't know about it. Your spouses try to talk to you about it. Your parents have tried to talk to you about it. And you've always been defensive. You've always said you don't understand. You've always blamed other people. You've always said they're making too big a deal about it. You can't see it. It's around your throat. The evil that most will destroy your soul, you will never wake up to or you'll wake up to at the last minute. You wrestle with this. And that means that evil is very complex. It's always, There's always another side. There's always another story. There's always another explanation. You need to take a look at your heart and be ruthless and don't get out from under it by blaming this or blaming that. Well, of course, if you had a mother like I would, you'd be like that too. That's no good enough. That's a very bad sign. There's a complexity of approach. But more than that, secondly, there's a complexity of composition. Now, I've already actually referred to this. Evil, is attached to good and powerful and strong things. This verse 12, I've actually wrestled with for a long time because the commentators and the scholars don't know what to make of it. Look at it. We wrestle not with flesh and blood, but with what? Well, now, there's a lot of different translations, but here's my favorite one. With powers, with principalities, authorities, with the world rulers of this present darkness, and with spiritual wickedness in high places. that means. On the one hand, you've got people who say, and this is fair. There's scholars who exegete that and say, this is talking about real worldly powers that are acting in a demonic way. This is talking about economic systems. This is talking about social systems. This is talking about real people. Presidents and kings. And, you know, it's talking about real people who are acting in a demonic way. And, of course, other people. A lot of conservative Christians always just look at this, and this is just demonic. These are just demons, period. In other words, are these worldly powers working in a demonic way, or are these demonic powers at loose in the world? Which are they? And over the years, I've just, I've read the commentaries, and I've looked at all this stuff, and I've suddenly began to realize, and there's a couple of other people, I'm not the first one, I finally realized, a couple scholars said, you know what, the ambiguity is the brilliance. It's the genius of it. What this is saying, the devil never comes to you and says, let's do some really bad things. What the devil does, it is attracted to the good things, to recognition, to status, to influence. And the more you get the things you want, when you get your promotion and you move up, when you get your family that you want, the money that you want, the higher you go, the higher you go, evil forces are attracted like magnets, like moths to the flame of good things, influence and power. And the higher you go, the more that there will be those evil forces behind it in subtle ways trying to control you through those things. In other words, look, if you make it from analyst at your Wall Street firm to associate to partner, you know what? The devil will never come to you and say, let's gouge the Let's bilk the government. Let's make investments. And let's look the other way. Let's not look and see really what the impact of the companies that we are investing in are really having on their neighborhoods. Let's not do that. This devil's never going to say that. But the devil, through your desire for the status of being a partner, will keep you from asking that question, and then will use you. The devil will never say to some of you, in order to make it in your career, I want you to work so hard that you're going to alienate your spouse and your children. Eventually, they're going to leave you. The devil will never say that. The devil will simply say, you need recognition because you are a great artist. You see, the devil never comes and says, let's do some murder and some rape and some robbery. The devil comes and it stands behind your good things and it controls you through the good things. The more you get the things your heart desires, the more likely the devil is working to control you through the good things by turning your career into a ruler over you. By turning your desire for romance into a ruler over you. Good things. That's the complexity of composition. Here's one more aspect of the complexity. I said it's a complexity of response. It's always hidden. It's a complexity of composition. Because the devil basically, from what I can tell from verse 12, is actually using the things of the world, things that should be doing good in the world. And it's just attractive. The more successful you are, the more you get the things you want, the more likely you are to be under the power of Satan. But here's one other thing. There's even, I love this, there's even in here a very real balance to tell us that there's even a complexity of approach when we approach evil, a complexity of defense. You know, C.S. Lewis, Lewis, C.S. Lewis has a very famous quote that I put in the front of the bulletin where he says that there's two equal opposites, opposite mistakes that people make about the devil. He says they either disbelieve in his existence or they have an unhealthy interest in him. Devils themselves love both errors equally and hail a materialist or a magician with equal delight. You know, a great Lewis, you know, you know, just a great Lewis quote. But you know what he's saying here? What he's saying is there's a liberal and a conservative approach to the problems of this world. The liberal approach is too simplistic. It says, well, you know, we can just, you know, if people would just love each other, if we could just get, if we could help change the family. People are victims. The conservative approach, in other words, the liberal approach is superstitious about cosmic evil. Substitious. The conservative approach tends to be superstitious. See, See, superstitious means under-belief, and superstition means over-belief. Conservative Christians will have a tendency to do something like this. They'll say, I'm so bitter against my mother. Maybe, maybe it's the devil. I have a spirit of bitterness. Somebody needs to cast it out of me. That's very, in many conservative Christian circles, that's actually fairly typical. But you never see anything like that here, because Paul says here, he says you need armor, that means you can't do it on your own, a fighting. See, you need armor as opposed to the liberal mistake, which is too simplistic. But you have to do the fighting, which is the conservative mistake. You can't just say, oh, the devil has made me do it. You remember Officer Krupke? The trouble is he's lazy. The trouble is he drinks. The trouble is he's crazy. The trouble is he sinks. The trouble is he's growing. The trouble is he's grown. Now, whereas the liberal and conservative both take a tendency to look and say, look, these people are victims of unjust social systems. And the conservatives say, ah, they're just bad. The Bible, the gospel, is the only approach that truly is not simplistic. That looks at a messed up families. Looks at messed up hearts. Looks at messed up neighborhoods. And says, there's biological problems. There's sociological problems. There's psychological problems. There's moral problems. There's spiritual problems. There's demonological problems. We're going to look at all those things. We're going to deal with all of them. All of them. One thing New Yorkers hate to be is simplistic. They like to think, hey, we're sophisticated, we're nuanced, we see all the different aspects, you see? But until you embrace the Christian understanding of evil, you are reductionistic, you are simplistic, see? You'll either make the liberal mistake of underestimating cosmic evil or the conservative mistake, frankly, sometimes of just saying we can't do a thing. We can't do anything. It's just too much. The devil has made me do it. the world is evil and bad out there? We just save a few souls before the last day? No, no. Both of those are reductionistic and too simple because evil is complex. Now, lastly, what does the Bible say that we're supposed to do to defeat evil? What are you going to do about it? Now that got you so worried. Well, the time's up. And actually, in some ways, now look, I know it's Labor Day and actually I won't be here either next week. However, you see the rest of the passage, which Drew Field is going to deal with next week, is really the practical application of what to do. However, the basic principles are here. And there's really two principles. They're up in the beginning in verse 10 and 11. I'll give them to you as summary. I'm going to say them in one sentence or two sentences, and let me just pull them out a little bit before we go to the Lord's table. first of all you have be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his mighty power and then secondly he says put on the full armor of God having done all to stand in the evil day now that means first of all there's two principles first of all you have got to live humbly because of what he has done for you. And live confidently. Because of what you are. In him. Maybe I could put that a little better. Live. Humbly. Because. What. Yeah. Let's see. Live humbly. Because of what he has. Of what has been done. For you. By. Him. And then. Secondly. Live. Confidently. Because. Of. What. You. Are. In. Him. Because. Of. What. He's. Done. Let's. over it. Let me explain it. First of all, when it says in verse 10, be strong in the power of his might, for the last 10 years I thought that Paul was saying, don't try to do this in your own strength. Isn't that how you read it? Don't try to do this in your own strength, do it in God's strength. But whenever Paul uses the word the Lord, he's not talking about the triune God in general. He's talking about Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ in particular. And the contrast is not in here between human power and divine power. The contrast throughout this text is between satanic power and the power of Christ. And what Paul is actually saying is he is saying, do not fight fire with fire. Don't you dare try to be strong as Satan is strong, but be strong in Christ's strength. Because Christ's strength is utterly different than Satan's strength. Satan's strength is direct. In other words Satan says I want power I'm going to control but Jesus' strength is weak strength. He won by losing. He triumphed by serving. He's the only God who was weak. Every other God in every other religion says I am strong. You be strong like me. Here's some moral codes. Every other religion does that. I'm strong. You be strong. Here's some moral codes. The gospel gives you something utterly different. The gospel says, first of all, you're too weak. The God of the gospel says, you're too weak. If I send you moral codes, you'll just choke on them. You'll never be able to do it. So the first thing the gospel says is you're too weak. And then the second thing the gospel says is, and my response as the Lord Jesus Christ is to become weak as well. See, the power of Christ is utterly different than the power of Satan. Satan, because Jesus Christ was powerful. He triumphed. Therefore, God hath highly exalted him and given him the name which is above every name. But why? Because he emptied himself, because he became a servant. If you don't understand what it means to say, be strong in his might, then you know what's going to happen? Oh, Christian friends, you may do it. You may say, we're for God. They're the forces of the devil. And you may take people who don't believe in you, and you may try to hound them out of office. You may try to shout slogans on the street. You may try to politically pressure them. You may bomb their clinics. If you completely misunderstand his text. And if you actually are. When you do that. And there are people who do that. In the name of. You know. Christianity. What they have done. Is they missed. Completely. The point. You're supposed to be strong in his might. What does it mean. To be strong in his might. You have to think. About his might. You have to think. About how his might. Worked. You have to think. About him. Dying. For you. You have to think. About his triumph. Came. Through. Suffering. His triumph. Came. Through. Service. through surrender. Satan's understanding of power is your life for me, and Jesus' understanding of power is my life for you. And Jesus, though it looked like he was becoming a slave, became a king. And Satan, though he thought, he says, to reign in hell is better than to serve in heaven, but he's a slave down there. See? Now, what does that mean practically? Here's what it means. For me, if I get into a conversation with somebody about Christianity who disagrees with me, let me just be real honest about this. How can I be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might? Well, on the one hand, sometimes because I'm a very good debater, I smell blood. This person doesn't understand the arguments. And I will get you. I will humiliate you. I will show you that you're wrong. will show you that Christianity is right. And I like it. I like the fight. I like the argument. And what is that? That's Satan's way. That's not being strong in the Lord. You know what it means? At that moment, I am forgetting how his might worked. I'm forgetting him dying for me. I'm forgetting him on the cross. I'm forgetting his weakness. I'm forgetting his weak strength. If I like a fight. If I want a win. But on the other hand, if I'm afraid to speak up. If I'm afraid to even talk. If I'm afraid to let the people know. If I'm afraid to take the flack. See, if I like the fight or if I avoid the fight. If I avoid the fight, I've still forgotten how his might works. I've forgotten what he's done for me. Either way, I've forgotten. I'm not melted by gratitude, I'm not melted into humble gratitude by what he's done if I'm either enjoying the fight or avoiding the fight. Because if I'm avoiding the fight, then I'm afraid of what people think of me. I'm forgetting what he's done for me. This is the reason why Paul, there's a, you know, the great place in Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, where Paul says, when I am weak, then I'm strong. Remember that? He says, God's power is made perfect in weakness. But one of the things that amazed me is that actually one chapter later, it's not nearly as famous a place. One chapter later, Paul writes this, and it's extremely interesting. In 2 Corinthians 13, 4, he says, for Jesus was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. Therefore, we are weak in him, but in dealing with you, we shall be living by the power of God. You know what Paul's saying? Here's how you know that you don't understand Christ's power and you're not being melted by his weakness for you. If strength and weakness don't live together in your heart, that means you've forgotten what he's done for you. Paul says, without the gospel, you can be strong or weak, but you can never be both. But when you begin to see that in Jesus Christ, his strength was his weakness, through weakness he was strong. It takes incredible strength to be weak else. And as a result of having him taking our punishment for us, now he has changed us and he's ruling. Now Paul says, when you begin to see how strength and weakness are united in Christ, that will unite strength and weakness in you. You will not be afraid to speak up, but you will never enjoy arguing. You will not be afraid to tell the truth, but you always do it with love and humility. There'll be a weak strength, a strong weakness in you. Always. That's what it must mean. Because he doesn't just say, be strong in God's strength, not your own. He's saying be strong in the Lord Jesus Christ's strength as opposed to Satan who loves the high places. Who yearns to go up. Who yearns for the heavenly realms. Who wants power. Don't you dare live like that. And don't you dare look at your world like that. And don't you dare look at the people around you like that. That's the first thing. Live humbly by looking at what he's done for you. But then secondly, confidently by looking at what you are in him. Now, this is where I am actually getting in on Drew Fields' subject for next week. But if you think for a second, what is armor of God? If you look carefully, it literally says at the beginning of verse 13, take up the armor of God. It does not, I know it says put on, but literally it says take up. Now, what's important about that is it does not say take. Because if it said take, that means that Paul is saying, you don't have it. But when it says take up, and we're talking about things that are on the outside, Paul is not talking about a righteousness. Later on he says, put on the righteousness of Christ and put on the peace and put on the salvation. Paul is not saying get righteous, get peaceful, get good. Because that screws the metaphor of armor. Actually, he also says, put on the thing that you already have. Here's what Paul is saying. Paul is saying, you have to humble yourself if you're going to deal with evil. But on the other hand, you've got to recognize, because of what Jesus Christ has done for you, how he sees you. God loves you. You are righteous in him. You are accepted in him. You are welcome in him now. Let me get this as practical as possible. Why are you so upset when someone criticizes you? It's usually because a good thing, and that is you want to please people, has become an evil master in your life. Satan is standing behind it, and you've forgotten that you're righteous in Christ. And if you're tossing and turning in bed at night because you're upset because somebody criticized, what do you do? You can't say, I'm a Christian. I shouldn't be upset like this. Frankly, that's being strong in your own might. but instead what you do is you put on the armor. What does that mean? You remember who you are in Him. You're saying, I am forgetting. I am looking to this approval to give me my honor and self-worth when I'm forgetting who Jesus is to me and what I am in Him. And that's what it means. What it means to do spiritual battle is to look at the things that are so upsetting you. They're evil masters in your life and they're good things, but they become evil masters because of the influence of Satan. And you look at those things and say, you're not my life. You're not my peace. You're not my righteousness. You're not my honor. not my dignity. Be thou my dignity and my delight, high King of heaven. That. You already sang that, by the way, today. Now look, how do we do this practically? The Lord's Supper, by the way, I don't have a wireless mic, so I'm going to say this before I get behind here. The Lord's Supper is all about this. What? Well, what does it mean to take up your salvation? What does it mean to take up what Christ has done for you? What that means is you've got to make it real to you. With the power of the Holy Spirit, things that you know are true of you are not functionally true. They're not controlling your life. They're not controlling your heart. They're not actually making you stand confidently. No matter what anybody says. No matter what anybody does. You're not afraid of anything anymore because what Jesus Christ has done for you is real to you. It's real to you that he loves you. It's real to you that he's crowned you. It's real to you that he's robed you in his righteousness. It's real to you. That's what it means to take it up. The Lord's Supper is a concrete way of remembering what he's done. That's why there's objects. That's why there's a cup. That's why there's liquid. That's why there's material things. And he has especially said, I will make myself real to you. I'll meet you at the table. Now, here's what I want you to do. Do spiritual battle now. Think of something that's got you under. Think of something that's discouraged you. Think of something that's bothered you. Think of something that's cast you down. Think of it. Think of a problem. Think of a struggle. Think of a wrestling. And here's what you have to do. You have to say it's because of something that I actually know is true of me. It's not real to me. I have it but I haven't put it on. I've taken it but I haven't taken it up. And I'm going to take it up now. I'm going to remember. I'm going to remember what Jesus has done for me so I'm melted into sweet weakness. I'm going to remember who I am in Christ. So I'm brought a stand I'm going to do that. Are you ready? There's always two things we do when we go to the Lord's table. First, we confess our sins. You know why? We're remembering that we're weak. Then we pick up the bread and the cup. Why? Because remembering that he was weak. And if we do those two things together, you'll put the armor on. You've got to have the armor on before the evil day. You've got to have the armor on before his hands are around your throat. You've got to do it now. Some of you say, things are going pretty well. Yeah, it's Sunday. What can go wrong on Sunday? Well, lots of things go wrong on Sunday. But listen, there's an evil day coming. Let's get ready for it now. Let's confess our sins together.