In your bulletins, we have written out the passage on which the teaching is based. It's John chapter 17, verses 1 to 5, and we're going to also add verse 24 from the chapter. John 17, 1 to 5, and 24.

After Jesus said this, he looked toward heaven and prayed, prayed, Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son, that your Son may glorify you. For you granted him authority over all people, that he might give eternal life to all those you have given him. Now this is eternal life, to know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do, And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glory I had with you before the world began. Father, I want those you have given me to be with me where I am and to see my glory, the glory you have given me because you loved me before the creation of the world. This is God's word.

Now, this summer we're looking at what Jesus teaches us in the New Testament about prayer and spirituality, It's very relevant. You know, I was reading that back in 1916, there was a very influential study done by Professor James Luba at Bryn Mawr College. And he very carefully in 1916 studied scientists and professors.

And then he studied college graduates and he studied high school graduates and he studied people without educations. and he discovered that the more educated you were in 1916, the less likely you were to be religious. And the less educated you were, the more likely you were to be religious.

And he concluded, very simply, that as society got more technologically advanced, religion would die out. Faith would die out. Spirituality would die out. The need for prayer would die out. the more scientifically advanced the society got, the less people would be interested in prayer and spirituality. And, you know, an awful lot of, I'd say that the average textbook, the Western academic world believed that. Now, you know, the Dalai Lama is in town today, and I guess what I'm about to say will depend a little bit on the weather, but when he was in town 15 or 20 years ago, 20 years ago I think they said, there's a grand total of about a thousand people came to hear him at all of the places he spoke. This year, this time here in New York, he's most likely to get 50 to 100 times that many people. Now, why? And the answer is because Luba was wrong, the Western academic and intellectual elite was wrong. The fact is that as our society has gotten more technologically advanced, more scientific. Religion and faith spirituality is more critical than ever. People are more spiritually hungry than ever. Every 10 or 20 years or the last 50 years, you can see an increase. People desperately want to know about connecting with the divine and prayer and spirituality. So we're looking at what Jesus teaches. And the first part of the summer, we actually looked at the Now, I'm going to still call it the Lord's Prayer, and you can call it the Lord's Prayer, but it's a little bit of a misnomer because the Lord's Prayer that Jesus gave is not a prayer that we ever see Jesus actually praying himself. You know, you might want to call it the disciples' prayer. It's a prayer he gave us to pray. But what we're going to do today and for the next three weeks, or four weeks at the end of the summer, is we're going to look at John 17 because John 17 is an actual example of a Lord's Prayer. It's an actual example of the Lord praying. It's example we have in the Bible. It's 26 verses, chapter 17, verse 1 to 26. It's the largest, longest, most vivid, best, I guess you could say, example of what Jesus actually did in his own prayer life, and we're going to learn this from it as we start today. We're going to learn, first of all, number one, we're going to learn why we pray, number two, what we should primarily pray for, and then number three, how to pray for it. Why to pray, what to pray for, and how to pray for it. Those three things. Now, let's start off by seeing what do we learn from this prayer about why we should pray. Verse one, Father, the time has come. Glorify your Son that your Son may glorify you. Now, you know what he's doing? This little term here, Father, the time has come, it's a little hard to note, to understand, because the NIV translates this word time. In other parts of the Gospel of John, the same word is translated hour. In the Gospel of John, Jesus' hour, the hour, hour is always the hour of his death. When Jesus says, my hour hasn't come, my hour has come, he's talking about his death. And so what he's really saying here is pretty simple. But now think about this for a sec. He's saying, Father, send me to my death. He's saying, now is the time, the time for me to glorify you by dying. Okay, so what is he saying? He says, Father, send me to my death that I might glorify you. Now, I'd like to submit, I'll start off, that this reveals something about why Jesus prays in contrast to why you and I pray. Why do you and I pray? It's interesting. We have a tendency to pray when things are in doubt. If I were to say to you, well, X is going to happen tomorrow, absolutely definitely going to happen. God has willed it. X is going to happen. So pray about it. And you say, why pray? There's no reason to pray. If I know it's going to happen, why pray? But Jesus comes to an event that he has known for a long time is going to happen. He knows it's going to happen, and he starts praying. You see, the thing that makes us decrease our desire to pray increases his desire to pray. What's going on? Let me put it like this. this. Every year, I have three sons and they're in school. They go away. I have an empty nest. They go to school. And so every year what I do is I fill out financial application forms. And I send them in. Now, I want you to know that I'm emotionally engaged when I do this. I need the money. I'm hoping to get money from the offices and the financial directors. And So in every one of them, I send it to somebody called Director, Office of Financial Aid. And I write it. It takes a lot of time. It's very personal. They ask for many very personal things. How much did you spend on your vacation last year? And so you fill the whole thing out. Now, what would happen if, in response to one of the applications, I get a call from the Director of Finance? What if she calls me and she says, says, I want to come to New York and I want to meet you. I say, fine. And then she comes and we sit down. She says, I want to get to know you and I want you to get to know me and tell me about yourself. And I'll say, okay, fine, but what's this got to do with the financial aid? And she says, nothing. I just want to be friends. And you say, well, that's not exactly why I sent this in. I mean, this is very nice, but that's really not what I was after. Now, what we have here is the contrast Jesus' reason for praying and mine, and probably yours, you know.

The way we pray, the model of prayer is we mail in the application. That's what prayer is. We pray when we want things. We pray when something's in doubt. We pray when we're not sure we're going to get something, we really want to get it. We pray to conform God to our agenda. agenda. We pray to make sure he knows what's on our heart. Jesus is the other way around. Jesus prays not to conform God to his agenda, but to conform his own heart to God's agenda. Jesus, let me put it to you in a couple of, you know, kind of paradoxical ways to be vivid. We go to God, we pray to get God to give us things. Jesus prays to find God in things. things. Anything that happens, Jesus says, I want to glorify you in that. I want to know you in that. I want in this, I want to know you and walk with you and serve you and come closer to you. That's the reason he's praying. Our understanding of prayer is male in the application. Let me tell you what Jesus' model of praying is. In Revelation chapter 3, verse 20, which is also written by the gospel writer John. In a sense, I think John knows this in a way. You know, John wrote the book of Revelation, and he saw a vision of Jesus. And in Revelation 3.20, he writes down these words, and it's a very famous verse. Jesus says, look, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him and he with me. me. Look, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in and eat with him and him with me. Now, traditionally over the years, when someone has said, how do I become a Christian? People have given them that verse. It's, I suppose, the possibility that if you look back in your own journey toward God, there might have been a time in which somebody gave you that verse. And you looked at that verse and you saw that as a model for what means to become a Christian. You ask Jesus Christ to enter your life. Now, I'm okay with the image. I'm okay with the metaphor. That's all right. That's a good way to think about faith. But that's not what that verse is about. Because Revelation 320 is a statement by Jesus Christ to a church. It's a statement by Jesus Christ to Christians. Christians. Now, wait a minute. Let's think about this. If Jesus says to Christians, look, I'm standing at the door, I'm knocking, open the door so I can come in and eat with you and you with me. Now, what's he talking about? If he's talking to Christians, he can't be saying, I want to come into your life objectively. You know, I want to regenerate your heart. I want to, and of course, he's a Christian, you're a Christian. Well, then what in the world is Jesus concerned about? Knocking, standing, you know, to knock and to stand, Jesus is saying, there's something I really want. And he describes it when he says, I want to eat with you. Well, one of the, even today, even today, but especially back in that time, to eat with someone was to let them into your life, to become friends, to talk, to open up. And here's what Jesus is saying. Jesus says, I stand at the door. I want fellowship with you. I want you to sense my presence. I want you to feel my love. In other words, Jesus Christ is not saying I want to come into your life objectively. Well, you're a Christian. He's already in your life objectively. He says, I want to come into your life subjectively. And this is a concern. He's knocking. And he says, what I want you to do so we can have this subjective, deep, passionate experience, I want you to open the door. Well, what is opening the door? It's prayer.

That's Jesus' metaphor for prayer. And that's the reason why when Jesus Christ sees something as awful and as immutable as his own death, he starts to pray. Because for him, the purpose of prayer is opening your heart to God, opening your soul to him, experiencing interaction, intimacy. That's the purpose, to get God into my life. to know him, see? Your and my purpose is to get the application in and to get the stuff. That's the reason why I use the illustration. If the financial director came and says, look, I don't have any money for you. I just want to get to know you. I say, wait a minute. What's the good of that? But that's exactly how we pray. And Jesus is saying, the purpose of prayer is to open to God. Whereas for all the rest of us, the purpose of prayer is mail it in. Let me put it to you this way. In the Bible, let me apply this before we move on. One of the things that came to me this summer as I was reading through the Psalms is over and over and over again, it talks about spiritual experiences going into God's holy mountain. And one of the things that kind of surprised me, if you read, if you go through the Gospels and look at every place where Jesus prays, it doesn't happen here, but ordinarily Jesus goes to mountains to pray. I don't want to go through and show you how many he did. He goes to mountains. Very often, I go up into a mountain and pray all night. Does that at the end of the feeding of the 5,000, and that's where the transfiguration happens. We're told in Luke 6, he went up into a mountain and prayed all night before he chose the disciples and so on. Why? What's the big deal? What's the imagery of the mountain? Well, I realized that during the summer vacation when I was up there in some mountains, and I realized three things. First of all, a mountain is a place of security. If you had, in those days, your fortress or your home in a mountain, nobody could touch you. You could withstand any attack, almost. Almost any attack, no matter how much bigger the force was. You see? A mountain is a place of security. Secondly, a mountain is a place of clarity. Oh, you look out and you can see where we really are. You get to the top and you say, look, we were over there. And this is where we're going to go. And there's the road. And you suddenly see everything. You get clarity. But then thirdly, a mountain is a place of clarity, a mountain is a place of security, and a mountain is a place of majesty. You're thrilled with what you see. You can't get over it. You're amazed. You just drink it in. Now, the reason that Jesus Christ, in fact, the reason that the Bible talks about prayer as going into a mountain is because that's exactly what happens spiritually. The purpose of prayer is to get clarity, to get security, and to see the majesty. The purpose of prayer is opening to God. The purpose of prayer is thrilling under, is having your senses filled up with the beauty and the glory of who he is. That gets us to our next point. Now, my question is, is that what you pray for? Is that why you pray? Is that when you pray. This is the reason why Jesus Christ is not like us. We pray when we're in trouble. We pray when things are going wrong. We pray when we're doubtful of what's going to happen. Then we'll pray like crazy. And then when things are going pretty well, then we stop praying or we pray very little. But Jesus Christ, who is always in control and who always knew what was coming next and who is never sinful, you see, and never incompetent, Jesus Christ is constantly praying all night. Why? Because for him, the purpose of prayer is opening to God. In a nutshell, we see prayer as medicine. Jesus sees it as food. We see prayer as a vitamin supplement to our strength. Jesus sees it as a whole new diet, a whole new way of living. We see it as a medicine. He sees it as food. There must be riches in prayer that we don't know anything about. We only pray when we feel like we've blown it. Jesus never blows it. But Jesus is praying all the time.

So first we see the purpose of prayer. It's opening to God. Now, how do we have prayer that opens to God rather than mail-it-in prayer? How do we make that change? Well, the second thing we learn here, we learn, first of all, why to pray. And the second thing we learn is what to pray for, primarily. Now, this is something that is only really recognizable. This point is more recognizable if you read the whole chapter. We don't have the whole chapter printed here. 1 to 5 printed. But if you read the entire chapter, you'll see that at verse 6, and we'll start looking at this next week, Jesus has quite a list of things to ask God for. He's praying for his disciples. He's praying for his 12 apostles. He's praying for the people who will believe afterwards. So he's got lots of things to ask for. He asked for unity. He asked for truth. He asked for lots of things. He asked for protection and so forth. He asked for their holiness. There's lots of things, but that's not what he prays for first. What does first. He prays for glory. Now, on the one hand, we have to be a little careful because there's a certain sense in which we cannot do what Jesus did.

In one sense, what he's praying for here, you mustn't pray for. You know what he's actually praying for? He's saying, Father, I'm ready. Make me the Savior of the world. now don't pray that prayer or if you do don't pray it out loud

and you know in a way of course when he says I'm ready to glorify you through my hour what he's really saying is I'm ready to die and I'm seeking this and of course obviously that's you know listen don't apply for this job don't apply to be anybody's savior let alone the Savior of the world. I mean, there's lots of people who do try to do this, but I'm saying don't. No. So there's, I mean, in the most primary sense, we cannot pray what Jesus prayed. But in the general sense, absolutely, Jesus Christ, His prayer is completely on the same model as all the other great prayers because all the other prayers do not start with asking God for changes in circumstances. They do not start with asking God for ability or power, or strength. You will see over and over again the great prayers ask God for a realization, a sight of his glory. For example, two great prayers in Ephesians, New Testament, St. Paul's letter to the Ephesians, chapter 1, chapter 3. Chapter 1 starts around verse 15, chapter 3, it starts around verse 14. Two wonderful prayers. If you read them, friends, Ephesian Christians. When you read them, one of the things you're struck by after a while is he's not praying for any of the things you pray for. He's not praying for protection. He's not praying for change in circumstances. He's not praying for power, for growth. You know, he's not...what is he praying for? Well, in chapter 1, I don't want to go into it here, but in chapter 1, he says, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to know the riches of the glory that is yours.

Or in chapter 3, he says that you may be filled with all the fullness of God.

Or if you go back into the Old Testament, one of the most famous prayers in the Old Testament is the time where Moses comes to God on Mount Sinai. Now, this should be an archetypical prayer, and it is. And he comes up to God, and he's got all kinds of needs. I mean, he's the leader of a whole nation that's homeless. I mean, he needs bread. He needs water. He needs guidance. He needs wisdom. He needs all sorts of help. He needs unity so there's peace and not strife amongst his people. He needs all kinds of things. What does he pray for? He prays, chapter 33 of Exodus, verse 18, show me your glory.

Now, Jesus is the same. They're all the same. All the great prayers spend primary time or most of the time and sometimes all of the time praying for realization, a gazing, a sight of God's glory. That's the main thing you pray for because you see, that's how you open to God as opposed to mailing in. and Jesus does the same. All right, so now right away you say, okay, what in the world is that? And actually that's my biggest challenge today is to try to bring this down to earth. So let me do it. Let me do my best. I mean, let me try. I didn't mean let me do it. I mean, let me try to do it. In 2 Corinthians chapter 3, there is a verse that if you get out four translations, everyone will give you a slightly different take because it's a word that's a little bit weird My favorite translation is this. 2 Corinthians 3.18, St. Paul says, and we who gaze on the Lord's glory being transformed into his likeness with ever increasing glory. We who gaze on the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness with ever increasing glory.

Now, first of all, the reason that you're going to get different translations is this word gaze. gaze. Sometimes, well, it says, we who gaze in the Lord's glory. In the old translations, it'll say, we who behold. A lot of the other translations will say, we who reflect on or contemplate. But now, the reason the word is hard to translate, it's a very unusual word, and it literally means to look deeply into a mirror. Now, the way you look into a mirror is it's pretty interesting. And I won't go into detail, but if you were, if you were right now to start looking at the person to your right, the way you look at yourself in a mirror, it wouldn't be long if that person would slug you. Because how do you, I mean, try it. No, no, no, don't try it.

You know, you look for dandruff.

You look, it depends. It depends on if you're a man or a woman. Bends on if you're old or you're young. There's things that I look for now that I didn't used to look for and so on. But the point is you're looking in detail. You're pouring, P-O-R-E, to pour. You're pouring over. You're looking very carefully at every pore. That's where the word comes from. You're looking at details. And Paul says that to look at Jesus Christ, in particular, to look at his glory like that, to gaze into, to see his glory, is the essence of how you grow. It's the essence of how you become a Christian. I mean, how you become changed. He doesn't say, well, now, look, if you want to grow in humility, you better try very hard. You better watch out for proud thoughts. Well, you can. If you want to grow in courage, you better watch out for cowardly thoughts. Okay, you can. If you want to grow in self-control, yes, you have to watch out. You have to try. I'm not saying you don't, but that's not the essence. That's just religion. You want Christianity. Jesus says, this is it. I mean, Paul says, this is it. He says, I want you to gaze into to his glory. Now, what does that mean? What it means is to go beyond just believing that God is loving, believing God is wise, believing God is holy, and gazing on the glory of it. What is that? Okay. It means, you know, it means to be fascinated by, it means to be gripped by, it means to pour over his beauties and his excellencies. But better yet, the word glory in its original entomology, theology its original, original meaning in the Hebrew. The word glory means a weight.

And here's, let me bring it as far down as I can. If you say, I believe in a wise God, and I believe in a loving God. Now, if you don't believe, we got work to do. I mean, if you don't believe that, that's another sermon, okay? It's not this sermon. I can't do that one. If you don't believe, that's one thing. But I'm talking right now, see, because prayer is Not people who need to have Jesus come in objectively, but people who need to have Jesus come in subjectively. People who are already Christians. People who already have eternal life. Okay? If you believe that God is wise and if you believe that God is loving, but you are worried. You're really worried right now about something. And the wisdom of God and the love of God is not really having an impact on you. That's a glory thing. If you're worried, though you believe in his wisdom and his love, your real problem is what? His wisdom and love hasn't hit you. You don't feel the weight of it. You're not under the power of it. You don't see the glory of it. That's what it means to see the glory. It means you're affected by it. It means it strikes you. It means it clobbers you. Now, you say, well, that's all very mysterious. Well, not exactly, because you're always under to the glory of something. Let me give you an example, a pretty interesting example. I'm actually kind of an old movie fan. I like to watch old black and white movies. I'm a little bit of a fan. And yet, to my surprise, I read an interview with a woman who's now 89 who was actually a huge star for a couple years and then suddenly was sort of removed from the pantheon of the great and that's the reason I hadn't even heard of her and probably you haven't either. Her name is Louise Renier. In 1936 and in 1937, back to back, when she would have been about, you know, early 20s, she won back to back Academy Awards. Best actress, two years in a row, hardly ever happens. And she was on her way to the top and she was signed by MGM and back in those days, the studio owned you. You didn't, you know, you didn't go around you wanted. You took the parts. You were under contract with the studio. No other studio would hire you if you were under contract with that studio. You lived on the grounds, for example, Louise Renier lived in a mansion inside the MGM studio compound, and she shared that mansion with Joan Crawford, Greta Garbo, Norma Shearer. That's who she was with. But the studio came to her and said, look, we decided these are the kind of parts you want. We want you to have. And she says, no, no, no. I want to be able to do this and I want to do this. I want to have artistic integrity. I want to grow as an actress and all that sort of thing. And they said, no, no, no. And finally, they came to a parting of ways. Because back then, you didn't question your studio. And the reason you have heard of Greta Garbo and the reason you have heard of Norma Shearer and Joan Crawford is they didn't do what Louise Renier did. She stood up to them. And the last time she ever saw Louis B. Mayer, Louis B. Mayer looked at her and said, listen, we made you and we can kill you. And Louise Renier, the last thing she ever said to him was, Mr. Mayer, you didn't make me, God made me. And she turned and walked out. And she says, if you want to get rid of my film career, fine. It doesn't ruin me. I've got a self. Now, I have no idea whether she's a Christian, even though that was a Christian, you know, a theistic profession. I don't know. But that is the drill. This is the reason why Paul says that you will be transformed into the glory, into the likeness of whatever is most weighty to you. If, for example, people. You're having trouble with discouragement because somebody you wanted to love you doesn't. That somebody is basically saying, I can make you. And you're saying, you're right. That person has more glory to you than the love of God, the love of Jesus. If you're worried about money, you know, one of the reasons why the average Christian, I think it's fair to say, The average Christian believes in the wisdom of God, believes in the grace of God, believes in the power and holiness of God, but in your job, you're as nervous,

you're as nervous, you're as driven, you're as ruthless maybe, you're as borderline dishonest maybe as everybody else. You believe it, but you don't sense the glory of God. And therefore, whether you make money, how you do in your career has more glory to you.

wait. All of our failures, all of our problems come because something besides God is standing there saying, I made you. And you're saying back, you're right. But if you can say back, oh, no, you don't. You can't make me. I don't have your love, but I got Jesus' love. I don't have your power, but I have Jesus' power. See, when you can't handle, because you're so worried. When you can't handle something, because you're so resentful, you can't handle it. It's always because, always, because the mercy of God, you don't see the glory of it. The wisdom of God, you don't see the glory of it. You may believe in it, but you don't see it. The Holy Spirit hasn't pounded your heart with it. It has not overwhelmed you. And that's what we're talking about. Jesus says that's the purpose of prayer. Paul says that's the purpose of prayer. The first purpose of prayer is not to mail in your requests. That's not the main thing you need. the main thing you need is to be able to know who made you, who your Savior is. In other words, before you pray about circumstances, pray your intimidation, pray your fears, pray your resentments, pray your despondency, pray them into the glory of God.

When these problems come at you, do you need a friend? Yes. Do you need a drink? Maybe. Do you need a break? Yes. Do you need a vacation? Yes. Take all those things. That's not the main never the main thing you need. That's why it should never be the main thing you should pray for. The main thing you need is to gaze on the glory of the Lord so that you are transformed into His likeness. This is the reason why Paul says the way you know you haven't just had some kind of ephemeral experience, you've really seen the glory of God, is it has to change you. It has to make you like Him. It has to give you freedom from what happens around you. You're afraid of

you're a person of wisdom, you're a person of love, you're a person of holiness, you're a person of deep humility and burning love and passionate courage and laser beam focus, because he was. You'll become just like him. That's what it means to gaze on his glory. I don't know. You can say, how does that happen? That's the last point. Now, before I get to the last point, let me just ask you a question or two.

When you go to him, do you try to go to the mountain? Or do you just mail things in? Do you say, Lord, I realize that, look, Lord, I'm about to ask you to help me get through this. help you to change this person's heart, open this door over here, change the circumstance. I'm going to ask for those things. That's all right. But do you start off by saying, Lord, the first and primary thing I need is I need not just to believe this is true about you and that's true about you, but to sense your glory on my heart. I need to find your glory real. And I'm going to spend some time adoring you and reflecting on you and seeking that. And by your spirit, me that? Is that how you start? Is that the first thing? Is that the primary thing? If not, you see, you don't really actually, you're not using prayer the way Jesus does. And that's what I'm here to tell you about. Now, lastly, how? You know, how can we do this? Now, in a way, the rest of the prayer does tell us about that. And so, in a way, I'll answer that question by, you know, the sermons like you to consider one thing, perhaps the biggest key of all. If you try to gaze on the glory of God in the abstract, it won't work. What do I mean by that? Well, if you start to try to think about God's love, think of how pure his love is. If you try to think of his holiness, if you try to say, oh Lord, give me a sense. Honest, it really doesn't work. It'll be very, very discouraging. You can go out and buy books on meditation techniques and prayer techniques. Many of them are very good. Many of them are very Christian. Some of them are not terribly Christian. They're all usually somewhat helpful, teach you how to focus your attention. But if you try to go directly or abstractly to sense the glory of God, it'll be a lot like trying to pour the Atlantic Ocean into a thimble. You just get overwhelmed and you end very, very quickly. You end your prayer in a kind of despondency. But if you look carefully, you'll see right here that the best way to understand the glory of God so that it really moves you, doesn't just overwhelm you, but moves you and changes you and melts you, is not to look at the glory of God in the abstract, but the glory of God in the plan of salvation and in the story of Jesus. Not the glory of God in the abstract, but in a story of Jesus and the plan of salvation. And that's right here in these verses 1 to 5. Let me show you what I mean by the story, and then I'll show you why. This is, according to the gospel, the way to actually see the glory of God. Not the way Moses tried. pride. And you know, God wouldn't let Moses see his glory. He said, I'll put you in the cleft of the rock. I'll show you my outskirts. I'll show you the back parts. He wouldn't let Moses see the glory. Why not? He says, because it would overwhelm you. It would actually kill you if I showed you my glory this way. But when you get into the New Testament, Paul actually has the audacity to say in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 6, he says, God has shined a light into our hearts to of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The very thing that would have overwhelmed Moses comes to us through Jesus. Why? Well, let me be practical. Look at the story. Verses 1 to 5 is a story. Let me tell you how the story goes. It's the whole story. It's the whole history of salvation. It goes from eternity to eternity. It's amazing. First of all, We're told here What the father and the son were doing Before the world began Do you see it? They were glorifying each other If you want a great example If you want a great metaphor For what it means to be in love There it is When you have a really healthy love relationship Or a healthy marriage Even a healthy friendship What is that? You glorify each other You delight to honor each other to show the other person what's great about them. You build the other person up. You make the other person feel incredible. But they're doing the same thing to you. You dote on them. You adore them. You bring out the best in them. You magnify the best. You show them what's good. You affirm them. You glorify them. But, you know, the Father and the Son were doing this from all eternity. They were pouring love and glory and joy into each other's hearts from all eternity. But something happened. Verse 1. Verse 2. granted him authority over all people that he might give eternal life to those who have given him, you have given him. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. Now give me the glory back I had when we were loving each other before the foundation of the world. Jesus Christ had to come to earth. The Father has sent him. It was a part of a plan. Why did he have to come to earth? Because on earth, down here, we decided to live for our own glory. We decided to be our own saviors. And as a result, what we're told is that our relationship with God was broken and the only way for that relationship to be restored was for Jesus Christ to lose his relationship with Father. When he says, I've lost my glory, glory, he's actually saying, I've lost my relationship. I've lost my place with you. And on the cross, you see, I mean, at first he did it in the incarnation. He became mortal. He became vulnerable. He could get sick. He could be killed, and he was killed. But on the cross, he wasn't just physically killed. On the cross, he said, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? The only time Jesus ever prayed and didn't call God Father.

because he wasn't, in a sense, his father. Because the place where Jesus really lost the glory, all the way down, the place he was completely stripped on the cross, he was cut off from his father. He was taking the penalty for us. In other words, Jesus Christ, who had this glory, lost his glory so that we could have honor, so that we could be brought in. Jesus, you see, lost his glory so that we could be brought into the glory Father I want those you have given me To be with me where I am And to see my glory He's not just saying Someday I want my believers I want my followers Just to see how bright and wonderful I am I want them to be with me where I am I want them to be as loved as I am With you I want them to have the honor I want them to be in the same place Now Only when you see Jesus Christ Stripped of that experience of God stripped of that love.

The way you're going to open to God is if you see the Father closing Jesus off for you. Jesus losing his glory so that we could receive glory. Jesus losing his access so we could get access. There's nothing more glorious than to see the Father and the Son willing to do that, willing to go through that for you. That's a glory that moves you. In other words, seek the glory of God just in the abstract. If you look into the face of Jesus, Paul says, if you look into the story of Jesus, if you look and see what he did and how he saved you by free grace, by losing all that he did, that begins to move you. That begins to change you. That's where you'll see the glory. And that'll be the glory that'll change you. That'll be the glory that'll really make you, as Paul says, transform from one degree of splendor into the next. Now, that's where you start. And that's where you go. Now, let me just conclude kind of quickly. If you are a person and you say, I'm not sure I'm even a Christian by the way you talk. Fine. Look. This is what Christianity is. Christianity is not saying, well, I was living like this and now I'm going to turn over a new leaf and I'm going to live like this. Christianity is not just reforming yourself by trying harder. Christianity is transformation by gazing at the glory of the one who died for you and saved you by free grace.

Christianity is not just simply getting help, inspiration so you can go off in this way Christianity is living for a whole new purpose and therefore the first step in getting all that is being offered to you here is you have to believe now as I told you this sermon is not actually for people who are saying how do I believe all this just not you can't do everything in a sermon I'm sorry and that's the first step ways to do it is to keep coming because we'll get around everything. But for those of us who do believe, we've asked him in objectively. Are you asking him in subjectively? Do you take the time? Do you go after him? You know, in Luke chapter 3, verse 21, at Jesus' baptism, you know the famous his story. It says the heavens were open and he heard a voice saying, you are my beloved who I'm well pleased. And he saw the Holy Spirit descending on him. And I always thought that was a response to his baptism, but it's not. Luke chapter three, verse 21 says, when he was still praying,

heaven was opened and the Holy Spirit descended on him in bodily form. And a voice said, you are my son whom I love with you. I'm well pleased. That was a response to praying. He was praying, he was saying, open to me, and it opened. That's the primordial prayer. That's the guts of what prayer is. Don't just mail it in. Say, Father, give me your glory. Show me your glory that I can glorify you. Let's pray. Our Father, prayer opens heaven.

prayer hears the voice of the finished work of Jesus he has completed the work you gave him to do on the cross he says it is complete it is finished and the more we gaze on not Jesus as an example oh Lord oh my but on Jesus as Savior the more we gaze not on you in the abstract but you sending your son, losing your Son so that you can gain us as your children, the more we see that, the more we begin to see glory. That's when your love really radiates. That's when your mercy shines. And that's when, and only then, that we find that we're able to spit in the world's eye and we're not able... And nothing any more controls us. We want to be transformed into your likeness and seeing the glory of God. These are very esoteric, very high and lofty statements. I ask, Father, that by your Holy Spirit, for everybody in this room, everybody hearing this sermon,

that you'd open their eyes to what it means for them personally and what they have to do. Help us to begin to begin. When you get to the mountaintop, there's clarity and security and majesty, but getting to the top of any mountain is so hard. many small steps, lots of sweat. We pray that you would teach us to pray. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.
