The text on which the teaching is taken tonight is printed in your bulletin. It's actually the beginning and the end of a pretty long passage, because here in the evening services tonight, in the evenings, we are going to be all summer going through the life of David, studying the life of David. The history of it is in the Old Testament, especially in the book of 1 and then 2 Samuel. Samuel. Now, several weeks ago, actually, now, we looked at here, Jeff spoke on it, on the very famous story of David and Goliath. David kills Goliath in mortal combat, and it's one of the most famous hero stories in all of literature. And right after that, we see that there's a complete difference in the way Jonathan and in the way Saul respond to this act of heroism. and a couple weeks ago we looked a little bit at what Jonathan did. Jonathan was the crown prince. Jonathan was Saul's son. Jonathan was the son of the king and he was the legal heir to be the king. But he saw on David the Spirit of God resting and he saw in David a tremendous courage and a tremendous faith, something beyond anything he was capable of, and he realized that God had anointed David and not him to be the next king after his father, King Saul. Jonathan recognized that, and Saul began to recognize that, and they responded to David in two completely different ways. Now, last time we were here, not last week because we did Drew's ordination last week, the week before that, we began to look at how wonderful Jonathan was and what a tremendous life he had and how great his response was. But now we have a more painful to trace. We also have to take a look for our instruction at how Saul responded to David's heroism, how Saul responded to a growing awareness that God had chosen David to be the leader of Israel and not his own son, his own family, his dynasty, or even Saul himself. In other words, Saul began to respond, and it's a completely different response. And tonight I'm going to show you something about that. I'm going to have to say that the entire passage from Genesis 18 all the way to the end of chapter 19 is all about how Saul spirals down, and I'm calling it spiritual self-destruction, because we see Saul destructing himself spiritually in stages. From the very beginning to the very end. I'm just going to show you something about the stages and what we can learn from it. Now all I'm going to read you here in this passage is the very beginning of the long passage and the end of it. How it begins and then it grows and how it ends. And the end in particular is one of the weirdest, most terrible, most terrifying, I think, passages in all of scripture. Even though it's very often not looked at or read or taught on. Let me read it to you from the beginning to the end. Now, you remember they're coming back after David has slain Goliath. King Saul and David are coming back. And the crowd comes out to meet and says, as they danced, they sang. Saul has slain his thousands. And David his tons of thousands. Saul was very angry. The refrain galled him. They have credited David with tens of thousands, he thought. But me with only thousands. What more can he get but the kingdom. And from that time on, Saul kept a jealous eye on David. The next day, an evil spirit from God came forcefully upon Saul. He was prophesying in his house, and while David was playing the harp, as he usually did, Saul had a spear in his hand, and he hurled it, saying to himself, I'll pin David to the wall. But David eluded him twice. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with David, but had left Saul. So he sent David away from him and gave him command over a led the troops in their campaigns. But in everything he did, he had great success because the Lord was with him. And when Saul saw how successful he was, he was afraid of him. But all Israel and Judah loved David because he had led them in their campaign. Now, when David had fled and made his escape. Now, you see there's four dots there. And this is the end. Saul has been chasing David. And here we go. When David had fled and made his escape, he went to Samuel

He said,

cistern at Saku. And he asked, where are Samuel and David? Over in Naoth at Ramah, they said. So Saul went to Naoth at Ramah, but the Spirit of God came even upon him. And he walked along prophesying until he came to Naoth. He stripped off his robes and also prophesied in Samuel's presence. He lay that way all night, all day and night. This is why people say, is Saul also among the prophets, and this is God's Word. Well, as I said, I really, it's a long passage, and I struggled with how to best present it. I couldn't print it all in front of you. So what I'm going to have to do is give you a kind of aerial view and some basic lessons from it. What you have here are three stages, in a sense, in Paul's spiraling down into self-destruction. God has said to him, it is not my will that you or your family be the leaders of Israel, but it's my will that this young boy become the king of Israel and his line sit on the throne. So God's word, in a sense, had come to Saul. God's will had come to Saul. And Saul, Jonathan saw it and he accepted it. He loved David and he made a covenant with David and he took off his royal robe and his royal sword and gave it to David. And Saul is doing the exact opposite. And Saul makes the decision in the beginning to hate God's will. And once he decides that, he spirals down. And there's three stages. And the first stage is jealousy. And the second stage is slavery. And the third stage is blasphemy. And he does it to himself. C.S. Lewis is probably right. always very, it's a fiction book, but in The Great Divorce, you know, he depicts hell as a place where the people from heaven come down to the people from hell and do everything they possibly can to get them to leave. And they won't, you see, because there's one thing that they think would be totally unreasonable to give up, and it's the very thing that's keeping them in hell, and they won't do it. They won't have any of this nonsense. I don't need that place up there. You say it's so great, it's probably a lot of humbug. It's self-destruction. Hell is self-destruction. Sin is self-destruction. Now, let's take a look at it. First stage, jealousy. Second stage, slavery. Third stage, blasphemy. And I'm going to have to refer to some of the sections of the Scripture passage. I don't usually do this, but I'd urge you to perhaps read the whole passage through sometime this week after the sermon's over. The sermon will make more sense on Tuesday if you read the whole thing through. But anyway, look at the first stage. It starts off with jealousy. Saul was very angry, and the refrain galled him. They have credited David with tens of thousands, he thought, but me with only thousands. What more can he get but the kingdom? And from that time on, Saul kept a jealous eye. Literally, it says, from that time on, Saul looked at David through jealousy. It's like he put jealousy on and looked at him through it all the time. Now, what's so bad about jealousy? It's amazing in the Bible how often, not always, but how often envy or jealousy is the beginning of the end. So often these spirals down into self-destruction start that way. I actually started to make a long list of all the passages in the Bible that say, avoid envy, avoid it. And I'll just give you two, though. In James chapter 3, and we looked at this last year in this evening service, it says, do not envy, but rather look for the wisdom that comes down from above. It contrasts envy with heavenly wisdom. It says, seek the wisdom, but if you envy, the truth is not in you. In other words, envy destroys your ability to think straight. Envy destroys your perspective. Envy makes you things as they really are. Envy distorts. Envy is the opposite of wisdom. Envy kills wisdom. Envy leads to self-deception. And then the other passage that's very, very strong is 1 Corinthians 13, 4. We looked at that in the morning services this year. And in 1 Corinthians 13, verse 4, it says, love doesn't envy. It's interesting. It doesn't just say loving people don't envy because I know lots of loving people. Loving people in this world are sinners and sometimes they envy. But here's is what Paul's saying. Love by its nature cannot envy, does not envy. Envy, just as it is the opposite of wisdom, it's cancer to wisdom. Envy destroys wisdom, so envy destroys love. Envy destroys the ability to love. Envy makes you unbelievably self-absorbed. Now, what is it? What's envy? Well, you actually have a pretty good definition of it if you look. Look carefully. He, but me. There it is. Okay? You see? They have credited David, him, he. Look at the beginning of verse 8. He, but me. Now, let me tell you what envy is. It says in Romans 12, 15, rejoice with those who rejoice, weep with those who weep. You know that? that? Love empathizes. Romans 12, 15 says, if you're a loving person, you rejoice with those who rejoice and you weep with those who weep. But envy weeps when they rejoice and rejoices when they weep. It's exactly the opposite. Envy is that thing in you which says, says, look at that person's success. It makes me hate them. Why? Because I deserve that. Now, there's a couple of ways. You've got to be careful. There's a number of different ways in which envy happens. For example, A might envy B because B has something A doesn't have. A may envy B because B has something A doesn't have. Or A might envy B or be resentful at B because B has exactly what A has, but you don't feel that A deserves it. You worked for yours. You see, when it comes right down to it, envy is something in your heart that when you see other people with success, other people having joy, other people getting things, it just is a dagger in your heart. Envy is that which makes you think that everybody else's situation is really about your situation. In envy, whatever's happening to other people is about you. Okay. You want to be married. You can't see her or him happy at the altar. Why? Because you want to be married. So you can't rejoice with those who rejoice. You want to be partner in your firm. Some friend, somebody else, some colleague has been promoted. They've made partner. You haven't made partner. You can't rejoice with them who rejoice. Why? You feel like that's what I want. I deserve it as much as that person does. Why am I down here and that person is up. You see, envy. Love rejoices with those who rejoice and weeps with those who weep. And envy rejoices when they weep and weeps when they rejoice. Envy is that which makes you continually say, I deserve better than I've got. And let me tell you what envy is. Envy has got a core. Envy is like a core. And at the core is self-pity. And if you look at your life and are saying, I deserve better than what I get. I've worked very hard. I've tried very hard. God is unfair. My parents are unfair. New York is unfair. This particular ethnic group is unfair. They're keeping me down. Huh? What do you think? You know, racism. Racism. Boy, at the heart of things. There's a lot of self. These people are keeping me down. These people are the problem. My family's the problem. I should be higher. I deserve to be higher. Now, when. At the middle of self pity. Is this. Is this idea. That I deserve things. To be higher. I deserve to be better. makes it impossible for you to enjoy anybody else's joy. And what's so terrible about envy is you look at everybody else as actually everybody else's condition, everybody else's event. Everything that happens to everybody else is really about you. You can't enjoy what they're enjoying. You can't be happy that they're happy. You immediately say, he but me. me. You can't just say he. Look. He. She. They. You say he but me. She but me. They but me. Right away but me. It's a terrible life. You realize what a terrible life it is. It means not only you're unhappy when you don't get to be a partner but you're terribly unhappy when anybody else does. You're not only unhappy that your love life is not going well but you're unhappy when anyone else's goes well. And envy is the opposite of wisdom. And envy is the very opposite of love. Because you find yourself actually happy when other people who you don't feel like deserve it get their comeuppance. And you feel actually sad when people you don't think deserve it. Because you feel like you deserve it better. They get their promotion. And this is what Saul's saying. He but me. He couldn't be happy with the honor that David was getting, because whatever happens to David is really about Saul. Whatever happens to anybody is really about Saul. Now, what are you going to do about it? You realize, never underestimate the power of envy. Envy starts as self-pity, and it spreads out so that you can't enjoy other people's joy, destroys your ability to love, and undermines your understanding of yourself. because you feel like you deserve a whole lot better. What's going to happen? By the way, listen, don't underestimate envy. Somebody, rightly so, how do you think Satan got to be Satan? How do you think we got to be where we are? Why did Satan come and try to destroy God's good creation? He envied us. Why did Satan become the demon that he is? He envied God. Why did Jesus Christ have to come? He came to do all the things that he had to do with the products of envy. Don't underestimate. Since envy has already ruined the universe, don't underestimate what it can do in your heart. What are you going to do about it? Well, we've got to move on here. Saul didn't stop it. He just let it grow, and we'll have to take a look at what he did. But, you know, in Jonathan Edwards' series of sermons, Charity and Its Fruits, that I read and used in the morning sermons when I was going through 1 Corinthians 13, he's got a whole sermon on that verse, love does not envy, charity envieth not. And he says something there that has just lived with, I've been living with it for several weeks. And he puts it like this. First of all, he says, you shouldn't just look at yourself and say, don't be envious. He says, you need to take the spirit of the gospel into your heart and let it eat away at envy. He says, first of all, realize in creation, God's act of creation was so unenvious. God does not begrudge us anything. And he actually pointed out, when God made Adam, and Adam had a perfect relationship with God but was still lonely and needed Eve, Edwards points out something pretty interesting. He says, isn't it incredible that God would have made us needing some other persons besides God is not a jealous God in this sense. God is not a possessive God. God made us needing other persons. But then here's the most incredible thing. Jesus Christ comes to earth. He lives a perfect life, and he dies this terrible death. And what does he say? We hear him what he says in John 17. He says, Lord Father, Holy Father, I want them to have all the things they don't deserve. I want them to have what I deserve. In other words, Jesus Christ did not begrudge us sharing his throne with him. He did all these things. And it's the opposite of envy. The total opposite of envy. He says, I have achieved all this. And now I want them to have what I deserve. Envy is, I don't want them to have what they don't deserve. I deserve this. it. Jesus does the opposite. Jesus says, I deserve it, but I want them to have it. I want them to have it. I want them to have your love. They don't deserve it. I want them to be adopted into the family. I don't want to be the only son of God in the universe. I want to share. I want to rejoice in their joy. And I know they don't deserve it. And therefore it's grace. And I always rejoice in grace. Jesus Christ loves to see people get things they don't deserve. deserve. If you understand that, if you understand the only reason you stand as a Christian, if that's what you are, is because Jesus Christ rejoiced to see you get that which you don't deserve. If you understand the grace of God at all, that when you see other people getting things they don't deserve, you'll say what? You'll say, ah, that must be giving you a little bit of joy to see that person get these good things. See, a Christian is somebody who says, look, master, the first kiss at the first second of heaven is going to undo, is going to make up for 50,000 hard lives. All the injustices will be over. And down here on earth, why? I don't deserve what I got now. I don't deserve to be a Christian. I don't deserve to be a child of the king. If I got what I deserved, I'd be wiped out. Totally. And yet, look what I've got. So I'm not going to begrudge these people. These people who are getting these things that maybe they don't but you see what? If God's giving them these good things, great. If they're not Christians and they don't respond in gratitude, they'll be judged for it. I shouldn't be upset that they got it. It might bring judgment down on them. If they are non-Christians and they get these good things, it might turn them to God. If they're Christians and they get these good things, why should I be upset? Well, you say, well, the gospel gets rid of this idea that I deserve. No. The gospel says, I'm a recipient of grace. But the gospel looks at Jesus Christ, who lives to give people good things that they don't deserve and rejoices when he sees the minute. So what I'm trying to say to you is, watch out for the power of jealousy and use the gospel on your heart. Recognize it. Look at it. Aren't there people in your life? Do you not have siblings? Don't you have friends? Don't you have colleagues, people you went to school with? Don't you have people you resent the good things that are happening to them? It could be that some of you tonight are so unhappy largely because of that. Grace takes that away. The gospel pulls it away. Now, the second thing that Saul does, excuse me, not Paul. This Saul never became Paul. King Saul. The second thing after jealousy is slavery. And here's what I mean by slavery. This is what you have to read. I have to tell you how the spiral goes. wants to hold on to the kingship more than anything else. And you see when you go through the passage that at first he tries to get David brought down secretly. Why? David is incredibly popular. You see what it said? It says, all Israel and all Judah loved David because he led them in their campaign. Well, Saul was trying to get at David. Saul was trying to bring him down, but Saul knew that if he directly, openly tried to harm David or kill David, that he would lose the very kingship he wanted. See, Saul had made his kingship and his family's being in charge the number one thing in his life. He would even oppose God if God was opposing it. So that's the most thing, the main thing he wanted. But he knew, of course, that if he went after David, the most popular young man in the kingdom, that he would lose the very thing he most wanted. So in the beginning, all through chapter 18, you will see that Saul tries subtly to destroy David. He, first of all, and we see part of it right here, he puts him in charge of the military and he sends him out on all sorts of military missions. But David keeps winning. He comes back unscathed. Later on, he tries to get David to marry one of his daughters. And the reason he tries to get David to marry one of his daughters. And finally, he gets David and Michael, his daughter, Michael, to fall in love with David. And the real problem was David was a poor man. a poor family. And in order to marry a rich girl, you had to pay the father a bride price that he couldn't afford it. So Saul says, well, fine, look, I'm glad you're in love, and here's what I want you to do. Go out and get me 100 Philistine foreskins. Now, that's at the end of chapter 1 Samuel 18. Some of you are saying, what are the foreskin? Philistines were uncircumcised. And so basically what Saul was saying is, prove to me, prove your valor. All I want you to do is

Philistines and bringing back their foreskins. Some of you thought scalps was kind of creepy. Well, here we go. And David goes out and does it. Saul's trying like crazy to get David killed, and David goes out and does it. He brings back 200, by the way. Okay? You know, the Old Testament is not boring reading. Did any of you think it was boring? Some of you are going to read this week, aren't you? By Tuesday. But by chapter 19, Saul turns around and says to Jonathan, I want David dead. And by the middle of chapter 19, he actually goes to David's house and sends soldiers to kill him. But Michael, his wife, puts a dummy in the bed and David gets away. Now, what's going on? and Spilington. By the end, I'll show you this here before we end. By the end, David has actually gone to be with the school of the prophets. Samuel was a prophet, and he led a worship center and a kind of school for prophets. And David goes there, and Saul's even willing to send his men there. Now, here's the point. Saul's most important thing in the world is his kingship. The most important thing. It's more important than God because he will oppose God if God opposes his kingship. He was obeying God until God opposed his kingship, his absolute control, and then he decided to go after his kingship. And in the beginning, he was enough in control of himself to know that if I go after David directly, I will lose my kingship. I'll lose my authority because people will see. I will undermine my own clout. I will undermine my own influence. I will eat into to my, you know, they talk about social capital. If I go after David, I will undermine my very authority. I might lose the kingship. In the beginning, he has enough control to know it, but by the end, he's lost control. He starts raving. He throws spears at David. He goes after David. Now, by the way, the first time he throws spears at David, Saul had times in which he had these dark moods, and he would rant and rave. And the first time he throws a spear at David, but David figures, oh, it's not me. It's one of his moods. The second time he throws a spear at David, David has figured out it's me. And he runs away. And Saul, more and more openly, first he tells Jonathan, then he tells his attendants, then he tells everybody, then finally he even does this. He even goes after David at Ramah. Now, what am I trying to say? Slavery. Anything you make more important than God becomes cocaine, becomes heroin, becomes a drug. Anything, whether it's a spouse, whether it's your family, whether it's your work, whether it's a career, whether it's friends, whether it's approval, whether it's politics, whether it's morality, anything you make more important than God becomes an addictive substance to you. It becomes something that makes and yet so controls you that you've got to have more of it and more of it and more of it. And in the end, what is, you know, here's the classic addiction cycle. In the end, he's destroying the very thing he feels like he needs the most. He can't stop himself. By the end, he doesn't care anymore. That's an addict. He's going to be in charge and yet the very thing that he's going to... See, anything you make, number one in your life besides God, ends up destroying the very thing. In a sense, destroying itself. If you make your spouse more important than anything else, your emotional dependence will drive your spouse away. There it is. If you make your children the most important thing in your life, you'll abuse them or try to live your life through them. You'll drive them away. There it is. Let me give you another one. If you need approval from people, if you want friends so desperately, I'll tell you there'll be two things. it's more important than anything else that people like you and that you have some friends. If friends are the thing in your life, a. You will never tell them the truth. You'll try to be something to please them. You won't tell them the truth. You'll hide from them. You'll tell them what you think they want. And you'll never confront them. Never. And secondly. Any criticism from them will devastate you. And as a result. You won't have any friends. If you want to be a king more than anything else. If you want money more than anything else. If you want... In fact, that's the reason that the psalmist says thy steadfast love is better than life. You see, aim at heaven and you get earth thrown in. Aim at earth and you get neither. Blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after righteousness. In other words, if you thirst after blessedness you get neither blessedness nor righteousness. If you thirst after righteousness more than blessedness you get both. if you put God first and your kingship second, you'll be kingly. Look it. Jonathan gave up the kingship because God said so. He bowed before God. And because he gave up the kingship, he became more and more noble and kingly and heroic. And Saul refused to give up the kingship. And because he refused to give up the kingship, because he put his kingship before God, he became more and more a slave, more and more a coward. Less and less respect. At the end, he was a laughing stock. And the same thing will happen to you. Nothing but God can you build a life on. Anything else becomes an addictive substance. Okay, lastly, blasphemy. We've got to end here. Somebody says this is really weird. Tonight, this is the last of our time. We have classes after the service. For the rest of the summer, we don't have classes after the service. So I'll have a question and answer time. and I'm sure somebody's going to ask me questions because what I'm about to say now will probably be a little too brief to answer all the little questions that are rattling around in your mind. But here's the thing. Saul went to try to kill David, and he went to a place where the prophets were. Now, who were the prophets? The prophets were men and women. There were men and women who were prophets in the Old Testament. And the Word of God would come down on these men and women, and they would prophesy. And when the word of God, they heard the word of God. It was objective truth from heaven. Many, many people today believe that the prophets were just men and women that had ideas. And they understand truth as being subjective. But here you have, as forcefully as any place anywhere in the Bible, it shows you that when the word of God came upon a prophet, it wasn't. It was in the prophet's consciousness. It was received in the consciousness. It certainly had tremendous effects on the consciousness, but it wasn't a product of the consciousness. It was from God. The Word of God that the prophets spoke was not their opinion. The stuff that we have in the Bible, the Word of God from the prophets and the apostles is not their opinion. It's from God. And how do we know that? Because it comes down on Saul. all. Here is a man who in his heart is raging against the word of God. Here's a man who's trying to create his own reality. Here's a man who says, God says that my son's not going to sit on the throne. God says that my family will be taken off the throne. I am fighting against that. In other words, I'm creating my own reality. And God in the most forceful way shows heaven and earth may pass away, but my word will not pass away. My word is imperishable. It comes down on Saul, and while his heart is raging with anger toward the word of God, the Spirit of God comes down and forces him to see its truth and affirm it. That's the reason why he strips himself off. Think of him sweating. Think of him trembling. Look, the Spirit of God came even upon him, and he walked along prophesying until he came to Naoth. He stripped off his robes and also prophesied in Samuel's presence. He lay that way all night and day, all day and night. This is God's way of saying, there is no way to escape my will, there is no way to escape my word. You can either receive it now or it will break you. You know, this was the message last week. It's all the way through 1 Samuel. Samuel, you have to let the Word of God contradict you because it will not be broken. Now here, right at the end, and we've got to end here, this is also proof, is it not, of what we were talking about, I've talked about a couple of the times this year. It is possible for God to give you abilities to preach, teach, and help people even when your heart is very far from Him. And that's the reason why, if you want to know whether you're walking with God, don't look at whether you've saved people's souls. Don't look at whether or not you're a teacher. And a lot of people come to your classes. Don't look at your gifts. Look and see whether your heart is with Him. How's your prayer life? Are you patient? Are you envying? Or do you rejoice for those who rejoice and weep for those who weep? Do you feel close to God? Are you growing in love? Don't look at whether or not you were elected an officer. Don't look and see whether you're having a great ministry. First and primary, are you loving God's will? Are you letting God's word contradict you? Are you letting him tell you things you don't want to hear? You know why? The gospel fundamentally and in the beginning is a contradiction of your experience. The gospel says that in spite of the fact a sinner and you feel like a sinner, when you come to God through Christ, He accepts you and He loves you. 1 John chapter 3, this is how we put our hearts at rest in the presence of God, that when our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our hearts. What does that mean? The gospel is a willingness to let the Word of God contradict us when we feel condemned. And if you aren't willing to let the word of God contradict the desires of your heart when you want something. See, Saul wouldn't let God contradict the desires of his heart. If you don't let God contradict the desires of your heart when you want something, how in the world will you ever let God contradict the feelings of your heart when you're condemned? In the end, the word of God stands. And this is the same point, ironically, as we made last week. week. Saul tries as the great king to go against the Word of God, and he can't do it. And in the end, he's hardened by it. He's terribly hardened by it because he is forced to admit its truth, and yet his heart stays raging against it. It's one of the most terrible things I've ever read in the Bible. It's possible to so harden your heart that you know who God is, and you know what God wants, and you don't care. You're still going to rage against him. It's possible to get that way. That's where Satan is, and he's the most miserable person on the face of the universe. I don't want you to get there. That's why I'm preaching the sermon. Jealousy? Think about Jesus. He's the one who loves to give people what they don't deserve. Slavery? Think about Jesus. Jesus, his service is perfect freedom. Blasphemy, let the word of God, let the word of God cross your will. You see, accept the word of God. Otherwise, someday the word of God will judge you. That's what the word says. There's no getting out from under it. Let's pray. Our Father, it's a hard passage. We so much rather look at Jonathan. It makes us feel so much better to thing. It's awful to watch Saul doing the wrong thing. It's awful to see Saul doing these terrible things. Would you make it possible for us to be warned by Saul, not discouraged? There are some people here, Lord, who realize they're in jealousy, they're envying, and they're being trapped by it. I pray that through tonight and this talk and the words that you're saying to them through the Holy a spirit in their heart that they might be able to escape the trap. Father, there's some people here who see the slavery that's coming by putting something more important than you. I pray that they would escape the trap. And I pray there's no one here who will ever get to the place where it's all got. It's a picture of hell itself. It's a picture of Satan himself. Who knows exactly what you are and knows exactly what you want. And even admits that it's true. But in anger. in hatred, in wrath, completely contradicts it and completely opposes it. I pray, Father, instead, that everyone here will find that the natural enmity of their hearts toward you and your law and your holiness would be turned into love and joy and gratitude at the knowledge of the grace which is available to us through Jesus. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen.