Turn your bullet into the scripture reading. Actually, though, we're going to, if you give me a minute to explain something, we can save ourselves a little bit of time on the scripture reading. We're going in this series through a series of vocabulary words which we're getting out of the Apostles' Creed, like faith, God, sin. And each week we're taking a look in the book of John to understand what the base of vocabulary word means. And originally I was looking here at chapter 1 of John to get out of it, what does the word only son mean? You know that place in the Apostles Creed where it says Jesus Christ is only son, our Lord. And as I was going through it, I realized as I was looking at verse 14, that this is such a pregnant verse, such a packed verse, loaded with so much more than I thought. That I said, actually, maybe the best thing I should do this Sunday is just unpack that verse for you. Because if I did, it would be a great introduction to all the other words we're going to look at after this. All of the words that have to do with Jesus and who he is and what he did and his salvation. And let me read you this verse very, very slowly. Because I can afford the time now. And then see what was he saying to the world to which he wrote. He wrote to the Greco-Roman world. He wrote to Greek language people. Greek speaking people who didn't understand what Christianity was about. saying to them. Look at verse 14. And the Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. And we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. What did he mean when he said the Word? What did he mean when he said the Word became flesh? What did he mean? What was he saying when he said the Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us, and we beheld his glory. There's three things he's saying, and put all together, it's really a remarkable claim. It underlies everything else that we're going to see in the next few weeks. First of all, when he uses this word in verse 14, the word, he's saying we can't live without meaning. That's the first principle, the first point. First point is, he's saying here, you can't live without meaning. You say, well, where do you get that? Well, John here is using a very loaded term. He uses it all through the chapter, if you know the chapter. The word that he uses is the logos. The word for word in Greek when he wrote this was the logos. He says, in the beginning was the logos, and everything was created through the logos. And now it says, the logos. Now, this is a very, very, as I said, with a loaded term. because in the philosophy of the time, the word logos meant something very, very distinct. When you hear the word logos, you immediately think of logic. And that's right, because it is the Greek word from which we get our word logic or reason. But it's not talking about reason in general. The logos in the discussions of the time had to do with our reason for being. The philosophers knew, and we mentioned this last week, The philosophers knew that you couldn't use an entity without knowing its reason for being. If you didn't use the entity in accord with its reason for being, there was ineffectiveness, frustration, or even destruction and disintegration. Now, we mentioned this last week here. For example, if you took a, you know, if you take a calculator and you try to change the TV channels, you'll feel frustrated. It can't do it, because the calculator is not built to turn TV channels. Let's go one step further. If you use your calculator to hammer a nail, the calculator will experience disintegration because it's not built to hammer nails. Now, the philosopher said, oh wait, now, you know what that means? Listen, why do you and I experience frustration and emptiness? Why do you and I experience disintegration and destruction? Is it not because since you can't, there's no object that you can use properly without understanding its logos, what is our logos? What is our reason for life? What are human beings built for? What is our ultimate reason for life? Unless we know that, we can't live. And you see, at the time that John wrote, though, there had been this debate for a long time amongst the Greek philosophers for many, many decades and many, many years, centuries, really. And Plato and Aristotle had their opinions, and everybody had their opinions. But by the time that John wrote, there was a real despair in the philosophical world that there even was a logos. There had been various parties that had come along, and they put forth this one or that one. They said, Human beings are meant to live for this. Another party would come along and say, Human beings are meant to live for this. But nothing quite worked. Anyone who dedicated themselves, you know, there would be a school of thought that would rise up, and somehow it didn't work. It didn't pan out. It failed of its promise. And by the time John was writing, there really was, in some ways, a rise, the rising, really, the rising view was that there was no logos. And that everybody had to basically live for themselves, live for pleasure, because there's really nothing that anybody can say you have to live for. So live for yourself, live for pleasure. This was the philosophy of the Epicureans that Paul debated on Mars Hill, Acts 17. But when John says, in the beginning was the logos. logos. And when John says here in verse 14, there is a logos, what he's really saying is, hey, there is a reason for life. Your life is not pointless. There is something to live for. So that's the first point. He's saying, you can't live without meaning. You got to have it. It is, it's there. But now the second thing he says is this. He goes on, and he doesn't just say there is a logos. In other words, you have to live for meaning. But the second thing he says is The Word became flesh. Now, as I pondered this and meditated on this as getting ready for this sermon, I realized that what I do, and I'm sure what you do, is as soon as you hear John say The Word became flesh, you immediately, because of where we live, because of who we are, because of our place in history, we immediately run forth, we immediately run in and say, Oh, I know what that means. It means God became a human being. Now, I mean, in a certain sense, of course that's what it means. The Word became flesh. But that's not exactly what he's saying here. And surely the Greek reader, the Greek-speaking reader, the person reading this, would not have jumped to that conclusion. Rather, the Greek-language reader reading this would have thought in much more general terms. What do you think, if all a person heard, not a Christian, say a Greek, you know, intelligent person, what if they heard somebody say, there is a word, there is a logos, but it has become flesh. now the first thing the person is going to think and this is important to realize is that what John is saying you can find meaning in life but you're not going to find it in some abstract principle the ideal has to become real the ideal has to become particular the general has to become particular the ideal has to become real it's got to come down you're not going to ever find meaning really in sort of contemplation and following some sort of abstract where moral postulates or principles or propositions. Rather, what people really need is they need to be involved. They need to get involved in something concrete, in concrete stories. And see, the second thing John is saying here, and I agree, and let's talk about this for a second. The second thing John is saying here is not only do we need meaning in life, but he says we can't find meaning in life just through abstract things. We've got to find meaning in life through stories. what I just said to you sounds a little weird. It's probably because you're my age or maybe a few years younger or older, and you didn't go to college in the last 10 years. But one of the things that the academics, rightly so, have come up with and have begun to recognize is that nobody really finds meaning in their life by sitting down with a set of ethical principles and saying, I'm going to live according to that. People find meaning in life in much more concrete ways, much more fleshly ways. their logos, people find meaning in life by taking their little life and bringing it up into a bigger story, a bigger cause, something bigger than themselves. For example, now, it was a very important book, but in early 1980s, which is now, you know, almost 20 years ago, scary,

Alistair MacIntyre wrote a very important book. He's a philosopher, and he wrote a book called After virtue and he studied how the ancient people would teach their youngsters virtue and You know what? He always what he points out which is really something nobody really doubts this it's just the book was so very important and it pretty Much made its case and nobody really gainsays that he says he says people in ancient times people did not teach the next generation Virtue and how to live by giving him you know sets of rules. They told him stories about heroes They told them stories about great deeds. And they taught friendship. And they taught loyalty. And they taught commitment. And they taught self-discipline. They taught sacrifice. And they taught work ethic. And they taught any virtue you wanted. Through these great stories. Because stories make things concrete. In fact, have you ever noticed? I can't tell you a doggone thing. That really moves you until I illustrate it. You know? I can talk about, say, justification by faith. And you say. Some of you say. You know what that means. You say, yes, I know what that means. As soon as I start talking about standing before the judge and standing before the bar and your advocate comes out and speaks on your behalf, what am I doing? I'm making the word flesh. I'm taking something that's really very abstract and is never going to change you, is never going to move you, is never going to inspire you, never really going to change you, and I'm making it concrete. And Alasdair MacIntyre says, historically, here's how you do it. The way in which a person finds meaning in life always

story, some heroic story, some story of some big cause, and you say, I'm part of that. Recently, for example, Andrew Delbanco, who's up here at Columbia University, teaches history and humanities, American history, wrote a really fine book, small little book actually, called The Real American Dream, A Meditation on Hope. And in it, he has a great little line, listen to this, and it fits in exactly with what John is saying. He says, I will use the word culture to mean the stories by which we try to hold back the melancholy suspicion that we live in a world without meaning.

I use the word culture to mean the stories by which we try to hold back the melancholy suspicion that we live in a world without meaning. Now, what is he saying? Just exactly what John is saying. First of all, he says, we all have this deep suspicion. absolute. There's not a culture. There's not a person in the world that doesn't have this dread that where's really no logos. That we really have nothing to live for. That life is pointless. That life means nothing. That nothing means anything. We all have this dread. And he says, there's not a culture in the world. There's not a person in the world that doesn't have to deal with that and ward that off. And how do they do? They find a story. A big story that they can put their own story into. to. And he goes through and says, in the history of America, there's been a lot of stories. For example, in the ancient times, as Alasdair MacIntyre says, people basically found their meaning and figured out how they should live. Found their logos by finding stories that moved them. Especially heroic stories. Noble stories. And that inspires us. I want to be part of that. I want to be part of that movement. I want to be like that. Now, Delbanca is very, very cagey. And points out, for example, up until the last few years in America, there have always been a couple of different stories that in secular America, in America, have been put forth as the stories that can give your little life meaning. You know, you say, see, I'm not insignificant. I'm part of that. That's how you get your logos. And he gives two of them. One of them, I think, would be fair to call. These aren't his names, by the way. They're mainly my names. But one of them, I guess you could call the traditional values nationalistic. Maybe you could even say the conservative story. The nationalistic story goes like this. We are the greatest nation on earth. America. We have American values. We have our core values. We need to show our colors and we need to live like Americans. We should be proud of ourselves. That's the old patriotic,

nationalistic story. It's what makes... That's the reason why so many people... By the way, I'm not knocking this here. I've got to be careful. To a limited degree, this works. doing this. Why did people go off and do the things they did in World War II? I just saw Saving Private Ryan, and you know, my parents are that generation. Why did people go off and do the incredible things that they did? It was because of that story. We're part of the greatest nation on Earth. Democracy. Freedom. We know better than anybody else. We're the best people, the best nation on Earth, and we have to make the world a safe place for us to spread our values everywhere. That's why they did it. and Delbanca says there's another story though and the other story is what he calls he does use this term he calls it the progressive story the story of liberation now you see that the sort of the conservative patriotic nationalistic story has their heroes you know like maybe George Washington but the progressive the liberation this is an approach that says we are part of the movement that is liberating people from oppression and they have their own heroes like Martin Luther King for example by the way these are real heroes I'm all for this one too. And you see, in the progressive liberation, you might call it the liberal story, the idea is we are moving forward and we are getting rights for people who have been trampled on and we are breaking people free to be whoever they want to be and to determine their own destinies and to be able to loose their tongues so that they can find their own voices. One thing that's interesting, is what Don Bocco says, and I don't see how anybody can contradict him here. very interesting book. And he says, we find our meaning. You know, we can't live without meaning. We find our meaning through these big stories. And he begins to say near the end of the book, exactly what John says. That in American culture today, the big stories are dying.

If you take a good look at the protesters in Seattle who come from the liberal story, you know, we're part of the liberation. If you take a look at actually all the, if you take a look at virtually everybody who's waving either an American flag or a green flag, they're gray. They're balding in gray. And the reason that Delbanco says is simply this, that the big stories are dying out. That more and more, as young people come along, they don't want to hear about how they've got to sacrifice for this or that, that they've got to work for justice, they've got to work for their country. They don't hear that. He says, because for some reason, just like in the old days. All the heroic stories started to lose their power. And now as we come up, the only story is almost the anti-story. And that is, live for yourself. Be hip, be cool, be beautiful, be successful. Live the life you want to live. Don't let anybody tell you what's right and wrong. And of course, that's exactly what the Epicureans were basically saying. There is no logos, so live for pleasure. And so we're in the same situation exactly, and here's what it is. Number one, we can't live without meaning. But number two, you basically have to find meaning through some bigger story, bigger than yourself. But number three, over and over and over, the big stories, the big questions that are put forth as the way you can find meaning seem to always peter out. They seem to not work. And then up comes, you know, people saying, your own thing. Do what you want to do because nobody can tell you how to live. But there's an emptiness in that. Well, what's the solution? What is the solution to our dilemma? See, the word. You got to have meaning. But number two, the word became flesh. You've got to have your meaning, not in some abstraction, but your story has to be part of a bigger story. But why do all the, but the stories always fail somehow. It's very hard to pass them on from one Well, what should we do? And here's the third thing he says, and this is the answer. This is John's solution to the dilemma. The Word became flesh and dwelled among us, and we beheld his glory. The rest of this verse tells the story of Jesus, and this is what John is saying. He says there's only one story. There's only one hero that will not just inspire you but change you. The way you find your meaning in life The way you find it Is through the true story of Jesus The one myth that became a fact And that's the only one that's going to truly change you It's the only one that's not going to lead you to despair It's the only one that's not going to crush you

See, first point, can't live without meaning Second point, gotta find that meaning in the story But the third point, there's only one story It's the story beneath all of the great stories It's the one myth that became a fact. It's the true story of Jesus Christ. It's the only one that's really going to fulfill and the only one that's really, really going to change you and not just inspire you. Now, here's what I mean by this. Let's take a look for a second at what he's saying, why that is the answer to the dilemma and how that changes our lives. What he's saying, how that answers the dilemma and how does that practically work out. Number one. What is he saying? Well, here's what he's saying.

He is not saying only that we need a story. But he's saying the Logos is not just an abstraction, yes. He's saying the Logos is not just a story. The Logos is a person. The divine Word, the thing that created you, the thing you're created by and the thing you're created for has become a human being. A concrete person. And if it's true, if Jesus is who he said he is, If Jesus Christ really is the Word made a person, made a him, a his, see, a human being, that means, of course, he's got a story. He'll have a story. His death, his birth, his life, his death, his resurrection, he has a story. But it won't just be any story. If he's really who he says he is, then his story basically is a story underneath all stories. Do you see that? Inside all the narratives that move us, inside all the old myths, inside all the fairy tales even, Inside all, even the stories we would write today that move us. Inside all those stories and all those narrative structures, deep inside are seeds and are strains of him. Because, you see, he's the author of everything. And that's the reason why his story, you see, life out of death, strength out of weakness, one sacrificing for many, you see. That moves us. And, of course, if we take a look at all the other stories and you'll see that it's there. Jesus Christ is the story under all the stories. This is, by the way, how C.S. Lewis got converted. You know, I actually printed a little piece out of how that happened in your bulletin, which you can look at some other time. But here's how it happened. C.S. Lewis was a very brilliant man who taught at Oxford in the 1920s, but he'd been an atheist for years. But the one thing he knew was this. There were certain stories that moved him, and even though he was an atheist, the world and said, life is pointless. The strong eat the weak. Bertrand Russell is right. We're just an accident of molecules, and eventually everything's going to burn up, and nothing means anything. So Lewis said, with my mind, I realized that the facts were there was no point to life. But he remembers the very, very first time he read some old Norse story in which he heard somebody cry out. Actually, you can read about this in his book, Surprised by Joy. He was reading a Norse tale and suddenly a voice cried out, Balder the Beautiful is dead, is dead. And Lewis says, I think he was like nine years old. He suddenly got this sickening, intense feeling of desire for something. And he called it Joy, capital J, which is the same thing as meaning. And all of his life, even after he completely lost any faith, and he said, he looked out at the world, he said, intellectually, I know the world is absolutely pointless, but the reason he was able to keep on going, was because in the great art, in the great music, and particularly in the great stories, the stories moved him deeply and made him feel, at the level of his imagination, that there was meaning, that there was truth, that there was beauty, there was right and wrong, there was justice and injustice, there was salvation. See, he was living in two worlds at once.

And one day he took, one night, one day, I guess, one night, that's right, 1931, Midland College in Oxford. been there. There's a little place, it's still there of course, called Addison's Walk, named after Joseph Addison. And he took a long walk with a man named J.R.R. Tolkien. And Tolkien sat down and said, he shared the gospel with him. He shared the Christian faith with him that night. And Tolkien says, well, let me ask you a question. Why do myths really move you? He says, well, he says, I don't know, because myths basically are lies. They'll breathe through silver. Lewis says, you know, they're basically not true. And Tolkien said, oh, really? He says, Tolkien said, when you're moved by a story like Sleeping Beauty, it means at some level you know that there really is an evil sorcerer that has us under a spell. Satan. And when you read Peter Pan, you realize we're not meant to grow old or to even walk. We're meant to fly. We're meant to stay young. And when you read Beauty and the Beast, you know that there really is a way for someone to throw her life away, love that can save you from all of the stupidity and wrongs of your life and the bondage of your own sins. And when you read these stories, Tolkien said, they get an underlying reality somewhere. That there really is good and evil. That there really is light and high beauty forever beyond the reach of shadow. That there really is, there really are evil spells. And there really is a handsome prince who, if he kisses you, will break the spell. You know these things. You know, saying, yeah, yeah, I know these things somehow, but it's not true. He says, no, no, no, no. He says, all these old myths get at this underlying reality that you cannot deny. But when it comes to Jesus Christ, his birth, his life, his death, and his resurrection, you don't have a story, one more story, that points to this reality, but rather you have the reality to which all the myths have been pointing. Jesus Christ's story is not one more pointing to these general realities, but Jesus Christ is the reality to which all the stories have been pointing. And when the day he was born, the day the word became flesh and dwelt among us, the myth became a fact. The ideal broke through the wall and came into reality. And those things that your imagination knows are there, but your intellect doesn't see. If you understand that Jesus Christ is God incarnate, word became flesh, myth become fact, when you get a hold of him, you'll see that all the other stories have just been tickling you all the other stories have just been taking food and putting it on your tongue and just kind of arousing your taste buds this is food this is the meal this is the thing you were built for you have a story shaped hole in you and you never sense meaning in life till you fill it every other story is like it and therefore it kind of looks like to fill you up, but this is the one that does. And Lewis said, oh. Twelve days later, he wrote a friend, Arthur Greaves, and said, I've become a Christian, largely because of that long talk with Tolkien. Now, how does that really affect the dilemma? How does that change things? See, why would John say, this gets us out of the log jam? This is the reason why all the old heroes and all the old great stories, whether liberal or conservative or ancient or modern, that they all seem to fail. They all have a kind of lifespan of about 40 years, and then everybody loses them. Why? Let me tell you. Because you don't need someone who's a hero to you. A hero to you ultimately is very crushing. At first it seems to inspire you, but it can't change you. Let me give you my favorite example. Jimmy Cagney. At the end of the movie, Angels with Dirty Faces. Have you ever seen that movie?

Go get it. It's easy to get. Jimmy Cagney is a hood. He's a crook. He's a criminal. He grew up in Hell's Kitchen. This is a 1938 movie. And he's on death row. And one of his friends, Jimmy Cagney's friends, who he grew up with in Hell's Kitchen, is now a priest. Patrick O'Brien, of course, by the way. And Patrick O'Brien is a priest working in the inner city and he's trying to save the lives of these young boys who are going down a bad path. And they're on their way to becoming criminals themselves. And their lives are going to be a ruin. And they idolize Jimmy Cagney. They idolize, I don't mean the actor, but I mean they idolize this criminal. They idolize him because they say they want to be like him. And that's one of the reasons why they're going in a bad direction. So the night of his execution, Patrick O'Brien comes in to see Jimmy Cagney and he sits down and says, I want you to do something for me. He says, okay, what? I want you to dye yellow.

When you go to the chair, I want you to start to weep and to cry and to cry out for mercy and to fall down and to go spineless. I want you to go yellow. And Jimmy Cagney says, are you kidding me? That's all I've got left to die with dignity. I'm going to spit in their eye. And Patrick O'Brien says, if you die with honor, those kids will live a life of shame. If you die in shame, then they'll be disillusioned with you and they'll probably be able to live a life of honor. So if you really want to save them, you've got to die in weakness.

and of course Cagney looks at him and says forget it but of course they lead him up to the chair and at the very last minute you know you only see it on the wall you only see the shot is just shadows on the wall but all of a sudden boy does it get you get me now just as they get into the chair he starts to cry he starts to scream, he starts to beg for mercy and then they throw the switch and he saves those kids what? Taking their shame in a sense on himself. Now, listen to me. Does that inspire you? If you are a secular person, your mind, let's say you're an atheist, your mind says life is pointless. All sense of right and wrong is just chemically, you know, programmed. There's really no particular reason why this is right or this is wrong. Nobody has to live in this or that way. But if you if you watch that story, you're moved by it. And you say, I want a person like that in my life. And you say, I want to be a person like that. But think about it.

Is it good to have that kind of person in your life? Is it good to have that kind of hero? Not if you think about it because are you ever going to live like that? Could you ever possibly live that way? You realize that he had to know that nobody, these kids whose lives he saved, could not know what he did for them because if they did know then he wouldn't save them. He had to be completely self-negating. He had to be utterly unselfish. Could you live like that? Could you be that self-sacrificing? Could you be that self-negating? Could you be that courageous? In fact, it's just ridiculous to imagine. It's a movie. It's Hollywood. I don't know of anybody who'd have character like that. Certainly not somebody who spent all of his life robbing and killing and raping. Suddenly have character like that at the end of his life? Forget it. It's Hollywood. It's great Hollywood. But it's Hollywood. And if you get a hero like that in your head, and here we have it. This is what's wrong with heroes. It's going to crush you into the ground. You can never be like that. Because Jimmy Cagney has been a hero to you.

But what if underneath his story, there's a deeper story. What if there's a hero under the hero? What if there was somebody who really died a death of shame on the cross, by the way, which is the greatest disgrace of all? And what if you look at Jesus Christ through past Jimmy Cagney? You know what you're going to see? When you see Jesus Christ, you don't have just one more story pointing to this reality. This is different. Because Jimmy Cagney can be a hero to you, but Jesus Christ was a hero for you. Jesus Christ is not an example. He didn't die to say, now live a life like me. that's not the main reason he died. He died to say, I have died to pay. The life you should have lived, I died. The death you should have died. So that when you receive me, God accepts you completely. The gospel is not, I give God a great record and then he owes me. But the gospel is God, through Jesus Christ, gives me a perfect record and then I owe him. He loves me and accepts me. And get this. It is only knowing that Jesus Christ was a hero for me that makes me a hero. Heroes to me drive me into the ground. Heroes for me make me heroic. Why? You know, I used to be a trumpet player. You know why I'm not anymore? Because I was great in rehearsals, and I was mediocre in performances, and I was terrible in auditions, and I'll tell you why. Because the more perfect I knew I had to be, the more I knew somebody was listening to me, listening to every little note. The more The more perfect I had to be, the less perfect I could be. I just got anxious. I just got crushed. And the less perfect I had to be, the more perfect I was. And if you have heroes to you, these great heroes... Let's go back and read... You know, there's a big movement amongst the virtuocrats, they call them. People would say, let's get out the old stories and let's read them to our children. And listen, I'm all for it. Martin Luther King is a great hero if you wanted that story. And George Washington is a great hero if you want that story, but actually they work better as heroes in Jesus' story.

Because see, those heroes will crush you. And for me, make me less heroic.

But if you look, if you see the hero under the heroes and the story under every story, then every great story will breathe greatness into you. do. Whether it's Robin Hood, whether it's The Last Starfighter, whether it's The Battle of the Pelletier Fields, in The Lord of the Rings. My ultimate hero, by the way, is not Jimmy Cagney, it's Eowyn, who's a woman, in the middle of The Lord of the Rings. And there's a place, you know, where she's up there, and she's going up against, in a sense, Satan. She's going against this incredible, high, powerful, demonic force. And she's up there all by herself, standing there named Mary, and he looks up at her, and he's petrified. Then suddenly he says, she should not die alone. He doesn't just say, be a brave hobbit. Oh no. He says, I want my story to be part of her story. He says, she should not die so young, so fair. At least she should not die unaided. When you learn to see the hero beneath the hero, the story beneath the story, instead of saying, oh, I'll never be like that, because you won't be. What will actually happen is that story will greatness into you. And you'll look up at Jesus and say, I want to be part of that. I want to live a life of sacrifice and I want to live a life of courage. And I can live a life of courage because He accepts me. I don't have to be afraid of death. I don't have to be afraid of what people think. I don't have to be afraid of anything. Because He was a hero for me. Now I can be a hero. Another way to put it is, if He's just a hero to you, it won't help. If He's a hero for you, then eventually He'll be a hero through you. The Word became and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. Glories of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you would show us that it's not just stories in general, certainly not abstract principles, but it's the true story of Jesus Christ. And knowing what he did for us, how he was a hero for us, that will really make us changed into his likeness. Other heroes, examples, can't change us. They just inspire us temporarily. Other big heroes, other big stories fade. This is the true story, the myth that became a fact, the one that really will make us all that we can be. I pray that you would help us to understand that, apply it to our lives through your Holy Spirit. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.
