Look at that. He lives as my head. That means, in the same way a lawyer represents you, and so whatever the lawyer accomplishes accrues to you, so he is your representative. He lives to plead for you above, before the throne. He lives to prepare a place for you in heaven and to lead you there. because he lives we can pray and know that everything we lift to him now will come to the father through him with confidence then let's briefly but effectively pray let's pray

our father we thank you that you're a prayer hearing God and we thank you that prayer is not an arbitrary thing we don't put it up now

just hoping that maybe that our lives are exemplary enough this week that you'd listen to us. We don't put it up just hoping that you're in a good mood. Instead, we know this, that because we come to you in Jesus' name on the basis of what he has done for us, because he lives to plead for us above,

Therefore, you will give us what we ask or give us what we would have asked for if we knew everything you know. We thank you that you're a wise God and a loving God. Therefore, we make our needs known to you. Father, we pray for those among us who are sick. We pray for Jeff White who would be here, but he's home with a fever. And we know, Lord, that's a minor sickness, but a painful or an irritating one. We also have people in our midst who have very serious illnesses. We have people in our midst who have terminal illnesses unless you intervene. We ask that you would intervene. And we ask that you would support them with the knowledge of your care for them. We ask that you would touch them and make their bodies cohere where they are troubled. We ask that you would touch their bodies and heal them where there's disrepair. Father, we also ask for our city. We live in a city full of conflict, full of racial conflict, full of conflict between the economic classes. We live in a city that cannot develop consensus. census. We live in a city that's economically troubled. Again, Lord, your kingdom, your kingdom, let it come to the degree that people begin to be reconciled through you. And we ask, Father, for our city, and we pray that you would enable people in this city to move closer to you, that they would not repay evil for evil. We pray, Lord, that you would be the great healer, not just of bodies, but of relationships, and that eventually this city would become your city. Father, we also pray for people, and we know of people this morning who are not physically ill. They're not physically suffering, but they're in some other kind of affliction or trial or emotional or spiritual bondage. maybe they're no longer in control of themselves maybe they're addicted maybe they are so depressed or so angry that their lives are in tatters Father we have people like that on our hearts and we ourselves may come to you in that situation this morning so what we ask for is this that you would glorify yourself in their lives in our lives that you would come in the beginning, your spirit moved across the formless matter of the world and brought order out of chaos. We pray now that your healing spirit would move across the face of the people that we talk about now and remember to you now and bring order out of their chaos.

Father, most of all, our greatest desire is that we and our world would acknowledge you as our universal king. We pray that the kingdoms of the world will become the kingdom of our God. We pray the knowledge of you would cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. We pray for those folks from our midst who have gone out and who will be going out on short-term missions projects seeking to be agents of your reconciliation in the world. We ask for your protection. We ask that you would prosper their work. Father, now, finally, we pray for ourselves. And we make to you our lives as living sacrifices. And we ask that now in the remainder of our time that you'd speak to us. Father, I pray as the preacher that you'd speak to me so that I might actually taste the truth as I deliver it. So that it's coming from you and not from me. I pray, Father, that at this time that you would, by your spirit and your truth, would lead us to your altar, lead us to your throne. own. Show us your face because it's in your service that there's perfect freedom. And we pray it now in Jesus' name. Amen. Would you turn with me to John chapter 8? We're moving through the gospel of John, and we get to chapter 8 today, the very end. And we, it's not quite as hot as I thought it was going to be today. We're talking about hell and the devil today. And I thought maybe it was a little bit hotter. I could have said, well, this was really all part of my plan to give you, you know, put you in the proper setting and mood. food. Thank you for coming out on a day that promises to be awfully hot. I appreciate you being here and suffering along with me because I was going to have to do it no matter what. We're looking at some teaching by Jesus that a lot of modern people gag on, and we must look at it honestly. We must look at it practically. We must look at it fearlessly. I'm going to read to you the end of the chapter. I'll start with verse 42 and read to verse 59.

John chapter 8, verse 42 to 59.

Jesus said to them, If God were your Father, you would love me. For I came from God and now I'm here. I have not come on my own. But he sent me. Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say. You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desire. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Yet because I tell the truth, you do not believe me.

And they answered him, the Jews answered him, Aren't we right in saying that you are a Samaritan and demon-possessed? I am not possessed by a demon, said Jesus, but I honor my Father and you dishonor me.

At this the Jews exclaimed, Now we know that you are demon-possessed. Abraham died and so did the prophets, yet you say that if anyone keeps your word, he will never taste death? Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died and so did the prophets. Who do you think you are?

Jesus replied, If I glorify myself, my glory means nothing. My father whom you claim as your God is the one who glorifies me. Though you do not know him, I know him. If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and keep his word. Your father Abraham rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day. He saw it and was glad. You are not yet fifty years old, the Jews said to him, and you have seen Abraham? I tell you the truth, Jesus answered.

Here ends the reading of God's holy word. You know, I saw it not too long ago. I saw some television talk show in which there was a bunch of fundamentalist families on it. I won't mention what the issue was. One of the men said to everybody in the audience, you know, you're all sinners and you all need to be born again. What an uproar.

One person said, do you believe children are born evil? And he said, yes, I do. No wonder, the audience said, your family is such a mess. What do you mean calling us sinners? You're crazy. You're sick. You're the one with the guilt complex, they said. it. Now, it's kind of hard, in spite of what a silly setting that was, and what poor representatives of the historic Christian faith there were up there, it's hard not to hear an echo of this very conversation. Here's Jesus saying, back in the verse, the 30s, which we didn't read, back in the verses 33 and around there, he says, you're slaves of sin. And they say, how dare you? We're children of Abraham. He says, children of Abraham, you're children of the devil. I can't believe you said They go, now we know that you're a Samaritan, which is a racial slur. Now we know you're demon-possessed, which is to say you're crazy, you're sick.

The principle that Jesus is articulating is just as hated today as it was then. The response is just as much full of hissing and venom and hostility today as then. And here's the principle. And I just hope you'll stick around to the end when you hear it. The principle is that there's only two humanities. There's only two families, there's two humanities. One under the power of the personal God and one under the power of the personal forces of darkness and evil. And that all of us are in the latter family until by the new birth we're transferred into the former. That's what Jesus says. You know, one of the things I find interesting, a lot of people charge Christianity with being hopelessly middle class. And you know, I have to say one thing. This particular, this particular teaching of Jesus Christ is so hated, especially and particularly by middle class people, that I wonder. wonder. Middle class people hate this. Jesus says, no matter what your pedigree, no matter what your background, everybody belongs to one or the other of these two humanities. We're all born under the latter, and so by the new birth, we come into the former. Now, those of you who are here, if you hear this today, if you understand what he teaches, some of you will be very alienated. It's got to happen. But would you please, as you're this. Modern research has pretty much shown that if you are under the power of, if you're under the influence of another power, a big part of that power over you is your denial that you're under it. A big part of being out of control is denying that you're out of control. That's what leads you to be out of control. And the first step to being back into control is to admit that you're not under control. And if it's true, what Jesus is saying, that there are other powers under which we are, that we're born under the control of, then we ought to be listening to his teaching this way. We should be saying, you know, if it is true, of course I wouldn't like it. Of course I'd be in denial. And therefore I need to listen as openly as I possibly can and see if any of this rings true. Let me repeat what Jesus says. There's two and only two humanities in the world. There's only two kinds of people, ultimately, and each of those groups of people lies under a hierarchy of personal supernatural beings. That's what he teaches. Now, let's look at those two points. There's two and only two kinds of people, and that they live under the influence of supernatural personal beings. The first, I said, Jesus is pointing out here that you are in one of two families. There's only two basic kinds of people. In our culture, there's a movement moving along called multiculturalism. And multiculturalism, from what I can tell, basically says that all cultures are equally valid and inviolate. All cultures are equally valid and shouldn't be violated. Now this is, in my estimation, I think a great improvement over the old approach, which is to say the dominant group says to the minority, stay on your side of the tracks. Our culture is superior to your culture. Know your place. But Christianity ultimately does not really fit into either of those schemas because Christianity neither says all cultures are equally valid, nor does it say some cultures are superior, says that there's a fundamental standard deeper than all cultures, that ultimately cultural differences are superficial. There's a standard that actually judges all cultures.

This is what Jesus is saying. The ultimate difference between people is a theological one. The word theology means your God words, your God logic, your God system. In other words, What is your highest authority, highest value, highest priority? What in the final analysis determines how you view reality? What in the final analysis really determines how you make decisions? The Bible says that is the fundamental thing that differentiates amongst human beings. That all other differences are superficial by comparison. Insignificant by comparison.

What do you think of that? When I was a teacher in a seminary, the seminary was roughly 35% international students from 16 countries. And I found something just remarkable. I lived in Philadelphia. The people who I lived with on the street were essentially the same kind of culture and ethnic group as me. We liked the same music. We ate the same kinds of foods and so on. And I found there was a lot of people that I was teaching, that I were teaching, and they were from other countries. And some of them, they were Christians, but some of them were absolutely horrified at the kind of music I liked, or at least completely bewildered. They had radically different views of modesty. They had very different views of class authority inside a... See, for example, there's a lot of folks who wouldn't look a professor in the eye is a sort of high personage and that you only talk to in the most deferential and respectful terms. And some of these folks would come into their first Old Testament class and some American student at the end of the lecture would raise a hand and say to the professor, Ray, I really can't agree with you here. So here's, and a lot of these folks would just drop over backwards in their chair, dead almost, from shock that somebody on the first day would talk to the professor

name. And to contradict the professor. Who are these Americans? I mean, there's tremendous cultural differences. And yet when I would sit and pray and get close to these Christian friends, whether they were from Indonesia or from Thailand or from Korea, wherever they were from, were from Africa, I began to realize something. These people had the same fundamental understanding of reality and that the two of us agreed with what the world was really like. And by comparison, my next door neighbor, who was an American who liked pizza and liked the same kind of music as me and called the Old Testament professor by the first name, it was my American next door neighbor who would really consider the Indonesian Christian and the American Christian to actually be crazy, crazy in the way in which they looked at the world. Some of you know what I mean? When you get converted, what happens? When you start telling your friends that you no longer can spend all your money on yourself, but you need to tithe, people think that's crazy. Remember on the cover of the New York Times, I mean the front page of the New York Times some weeks ago, the writer was writing down about these famous baseball players who said they were going to tithe, and they said, do you realize how much money that is? They're going to give a 10% of their money away? That's crazy. Or what if you, after you're converted, you may talk to other people in your business and say, yes, it used to be that I could do that, but I can't do that anymore. I don't, I believe that lacks integrity. I think that's dishonest. And they look at you and they say, you're going to lose a lot of business, man. You're going to, you're really going to fall back. You're going to take a hit in your career if you refuse to do that. You're crazy. Another that when you get converted, your politics get impacted. See, for example, if you're a real economic conservative and you become converted, it doesn't mean you suddenly jump out of the Republican Party, but what happens is you start to get much more concerned about the poor. You may start helping them build houses, at least. And if you're a liberal and you become converted, you begin to realize that the problems of the world are not simply social, they're spiritual too, are sinners. And what happens is that when you become converted, you no longer can be quite as one-dimensional and simplistic in your political stance. And many of your friends who are not converted will start to think you've gone over to the other side. And they'll say, you're crazy, you've gone over. And you say, no, I haven't. I'm still voting the same way, but I can't go by this anymore. Or here's another one. When you become a Christian and you start telling your friends you're married. And some of you know what happens. They say, did you join a cult or something? Are you kidding? What kind of life are you going to have? My dear friends, my Indonesian friend and me see the same realities. We see a God. We see his wisdom. We see his glory. We see him as our creator. We understand the internal laws of how the world was created when we look at the Ten Commandments and we look at what God defines as justice and compassion and love. What God says the human nature is, we have a view of reality that my American neighbor would think was crazy. Ultimately, do you see the difference is a theological one. All other differences are I want you to realize this means that this means the Christian understanding that there's only two basic kinds of people in the world. To some people will look very, very radical and subversive. And to some people, it'll look tremendously bigoted. When I was in my small town in Virginia, people asked, would it come to me? And they'd say, now, you know, small towns in Virginia, there's all sorts of people you can't marry. You can't marry somebody of another race. You can't marry somebody of a different social class. You can't marry somebody of a different age. There's all sorts of taboos. So people would come to me and say, do you believe in interracial marriage? And I'd always say, oh, no. But, you know, there's only two races, according to the Bible, the people who belong to Christ and the people who don't.

And people would be aghast at that. And they would say, that's radical subversion. And that's a subversive, a radical, socially subversive comment. And I would say, yeah. Yeah. But you see, in an urbanized culture to say that Christians shouldn't marry non-Christians is not looked at as radically subversive like it was in a small town in Virginia. It's looked at as bigoted. And as we said last week, we said this last week, because Christianity does not get its truth from the culture, but from God and the Bible, it means that in permissive societies, we will look conservative and in oppressive societies, we will look subversive and radical. but the only way to really deal with racism is to say this we do not get our view from of reality confinely and ultimately from our ethnic group from our family from our social class

ultimately we don't we can never stop being what we are because god has made us a multi multicultural and diverse humanity but ultimately we judge our reality through the truth of god And that means ultimately all cultures are criticizable. All ethnic groups are relative. Racism is gone because there's truth.

There's two and only two kinds of people. That's what Jesus says. Implications are radical. Subversive. Yeah, they are. Okay. But secondly, Jesus says at the top of these two kinds of humanity, at the top of these two kinds of families, supernatural beings. Now, this is something that a lot of people gag on, but here it is. Let me just pull it right out. Jesus says the devil is real. Okay? You hear that? The devil is real. And I would like to ask you this. If you are inclined to believe what Jesus Christ says about heaven and the Holy Spirit, what possible reason would you have for disbelieving what he says about hell and the unholy spirit, except prejudice, plain and simple. Can I say that again? I don't know if I can. It was kind of a long sentence. If you are inclined to believe what Jesus Christ said about heaven and the Holy Spirit, what possible reason could you have for not believing what he says about hell and the unholy spirit, except for pure prejudice? I said it. How about that. There it is. What does the Bible say about the devil? The Bible calls the devil the god of this world, the prince of the power of the air, a roaring lion. All those names are designed to awe you and inspire awe in you. Second Peter tells us that the devil and all of his demonic followers, just like human beings, used to be servants of God but turned into rebels. The difference is that the devil and his demonic followers are a higher, older, I should say older race, a powerful race of beings from before the foundation of the earth. And therefore, what you've got in the devil is sort of like a giant, at large, loose on the earth, which no son of Adam or daughter of Eve could possibly cope with by him or herself. Now, if this is true, somebody out there is saying, so what? What if it's true? What difference does it make to me? suggest to you the answers are two. You say, what difference does it make? Here's two answers. Number one, it means that the way you live today and now, the choices you make today have eternal consequences, or as we put it, right now counts forever. Here's what I mean. There's actually, remember what we said about what Jesus said, that there's two basically and only two kinds of humanity. If you want to think about, really understand what the demonic is, you've got to forget what Hollywood told you. You've got to forget the heads turning all the way around, and vomit into the camera, please, all right? Forget that for a minute. William Gurnall, an old Puritan, wrote this years ago. If people hear a noise at night, they cry out, the devil, the devil, and they run. But they carry around the devil in their hearts all day, for when you have a proud spirit of resentment, You're under his power. He is setting you in a precarious place. Why not run from your pride, saying, The devil, the devil. Why not run from your resentment and your grudge, saying, The devil, the devil. When Paul says, don't elect a rookie to be an elder because he may get proud and fall into the snare of the devil. When Paul says, don't let your son go down on your anger. Don't let the sun go down on your anger. Don't ever hold a grudge or you'll give the devil a foothold. What is he saying? He's saying the same thing that Gurnall is saying. He's saying, if there's really only two families, that means there's only two kinds of spiritual DNA that can be living in your center and working itself out. The DNA has all the characteristics. If it's implanted in there, it works itself out eventually. There's two kinds of DNA possible. to be at the heart of a person's soul. Either, 2 Peter 1 says, the divine nature, the Holy Spirit, God's DNA, or else what Jesus talks about here, the DNA of the forces of darkness, dishonesty, pride, resentment. Look at the two representatives of the two families, the devil and Jesus. The Old Testament tells us the language of the devil. The language of the devil is this. Nobody can tell me what to do. I will ascend. I will be as the most high. That's the language of the devil. What is Jesus? I will descend. I will be the most lowly to serve my Father. See, the DNA of the darkness, of the forces of evil is, nobody can tell me what to do, and the DNA of Christ is, not my will but thine be done. done. Now you take a look at those two things and you may say, well, wait a minute, I'm probably more like Christ because I do a lot of good things. For a minute will you realize DNA takes time. You know, it's only recently that people finally say to me, you know what, you and your brother look just like your father. Well, it took a long time, but it finally happened. open. DNA takes time to work itself out. The devil can certainly move somebody to do good deeds in order to keep control, in order to make that person feel smug and self-righteous. No, no, no, no. Don't look at your good deeds. Look at the DNA at the heart of your soul. What's the language of your heart? Who do you live for? Who's calling the shots? Down deep is it the one that says, you're my Lord and master. I will do your will promptly, joyfully, willingly, or is it down deep in your heart? The one who says, God, if you want to be my God, fill out these forms in triplicate, please answer my top three prayers, explain three or four things that happened in my life. And maybe I'll serve you this year and I'll see how it goes. I might even give you a lease with an option for one more. Which kind of DNA is operating in your heart toward him? And you see, right now your heart may not be very hard, but DNA will out. You see, if you're nursing grudges, if you're nursing notions of your own self-importance, if you're nursing self-pity, right now your heart may not be in too bad a condition. But what will it be like two million years from now? Well, you say, what do you mean two million years from now? If anything is true about Christianity, this is true. and that is that two million years from now everybody in this room will still exist you will still be conscious and you will still be a person but after two million years which kind of DNA who you're really living for will have finally expressed itself you know the one Christian writer puts it this way listen it's a serious thing to remember that the dullest and most uninteresting person you talk to might someday be a creature which, if you saw it now, you would strongly be tempted to worship, or else a horror and a corruption such as you now meet, if at all, only in a nightmare. All day long we are, in some degree, helping each other to one or the other of these destinations. It's immortals whom we joke with, work with, marry, snub, and exploit, immortal mortal horrors, or everlasting splendors. It is in the light of these overwhelming possibilities, with the awe and circumspection proper to them, that we should conduct all our dealings. Did you hear that? Everybody in this room someday will be an everlasting splendor or a nightmare. Because we will all go on forever, and the DNA in the heart of every person comes from one humanity or the other. From one supernatural source or the other. And the DNA in the heart of the devil is don't tell me what to do and the DNA in the heart of Jesus Christ is not my will but thine be done. Which one is working it out in your life? And after two billion, after two trillion years, what will you be? It is in light of these overwhelming possibilities. It is with the awe and circumspection do them that we should conduct all of our dealings. Do you see, just by your choices every day, the kind of things that you open your soul to?

If this is true, there's two humanities, and one is under the power of the devil, and one is under the power of God, what difference does it make? It makes all the difference in the world. Tomorrow, today, immediately. Do you hear that? and secondly you say well what difference does it really make secondly it will be simplistic for us to look at our problems and think we can handle them without God if what Jesus Christ is saying is true then there's not just impersonal evil in the world there's also personal evil and that means that every problem you've got is multi-dimensional Listen, one of the big difficulties we've got is that people look at our problems. They look at a slum. They look at a mental hospital. They look at these evils and they say our problems are only human. So what we need is education. We need therapy. We need social planning. And by the way, that's all true. But you know what I should be... Here's the point. Let's use Shakespeare. What Hamlet said. said. There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. This is what the Christian has to say. The fact is that when you look at your problems, there are more things in heaven and earth that are dreamt of in your philosophy. There's always personal evil involved with the impersonal. There's always demonic involved along with the human. Always. They're always put together. There's more things in heaven and earth and are dreamt of in your philosophy. Look, you get depressed. Why are you depressed? You get messed up emotionally. Why are you messed up? One party says it's biological. One party says that it was a dysfunctional family. One party says it's your own fault. You're responsible. The Bible says it's multidimensional. It's just not that simple. There's evil inside me. I've done things wrong. I've violated my conscience. conscience. I have given into idols. I have believed distorted perceptions of reality. See, that's evil inside me that I've done. But then there's evil outside of me. People have sinned against me. They have wronged me. But then there's evil above me. And there are personal supernatural beings who are aggravating and arranging the evil within me and outside me. And therefore, or into yourself and you try to deal with your problems using only human means, not using the tools of God, not using the word and prayer and the spirit of God, if you think that you can ever deal with any evil with strictly human means, you're naive in what New Yorker wants to be thought naive.

You're looking at the evil simplistically instead of multidimensionally. There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamt of in your philosophy. As much chance of handling your problems without God As a little kid with a pop gun has of stopping an armored division

What difference does it make? If there's a devil What difference does it make? If the devil's DNA is working itself out in your life Or God's What difference does it make? You've got to see, my dear friends these two families only. And that one or the other kind of spiritual life is working itself out in your life to all eternity.

Some people are here saying, this is too narrow for me. I don't like this idea. I believe that all people are the same. I don't like making this big distinction. This is too narrow. Narrow? Only at first. Look at Jesus. Follow him into his grave, will but thine be done. Yeah, it's claustrophobic when you first go into the grave. You feel the walls closing in on you. It's smothering. And that's what the Christian life sometimes looks like to the outside. It looks tremendously narrow to have to acknowledge there's only two kinds of humanity. But as you watch Jesus Christ saying, not my will but thine be done, taking on the DNA of heaven into his life, see, expressing it. At first, of course, the gospel's narrow. At first, there's the manger. And there's the wilderness. And there's the trial. And there's the cross. And there's the grave. But then, there's the resurrection. There's the sitting on the right hand of the Father. There's... All of his glory that comes in you eventually makes you an everlasting splendor. Christian friend, I don't know where you are, what you're facing right now, but you look in the mirror, and no matter how disfigured you are, physically or how disfigured you are, spiritually, eventually the glory of God, if you have said not my will but thine be done, eventually the glory of God will break through and turn you into an everlasting splendor.

Narrowness at first. Sure, saying you and you only will I serve, but then eventually, as the psalmist says, I walk at large because I obey your precepts. As Jesus said, he who denies himself will find himself. He who loses his life for my sake, that's the narrowness, will find himself. Okay, finally, we've already seen, have we not, that there's two and only two humanities. One of them at the top has got, in other words, Ronald Reagan was wrong. There is an evil empire, but it's not the Soviet Union. And the way to deal with it is not with nuclear warfare, of God? What are those weapons? Let me just summarize them and we're done. Hopefully I've intimidated some of you. Hopefully I've made some of you say, you know what? There's more things in heaven and earth that are dreamt of in my philosophy. Maybe that's the reason why I haven't been able to deal with my problems over the years. Maybe I really need God in my life in this way. Maybe I really need those tools. Maybe I really need a DNA transplant. You know, Where is a geneticist when you need them? Maybe I need that. Here's how to get it. Number one, just keep this in mind. Satan is a father of lies. He's the father of lies, Jesus says. He mentions that over and over again. The main way he deals with people is through lies and false beliefs in the heart. The way he deals with people is not fang marks on the back, but falsehoods in the heart. and that means that you better check out your beliefs and you need to saturate your mind in the word of God. You know, see, for example, if your parents told you were ugly and you still feel like you're just kind of bound up by that, look, you're not with your parents anymore. What is it that's still oppressing you? It's the lie.

It's the lies down deep in your soul that really are oppressing you. If you believe all men are louses control. Or I'm a mess. Or unless I accomplish this, I'm just spit. Or if God really loved me, he wouldn't have let this happen to me. If you believe those things, they control your life. It's the lie that controls your life, not what people have done to you. It's what you believe. He's a father of lies. That's how he controls you. And if you look, any time you see how Jesus Christ deals with the devil, it's always through scripture. Always. He had scripture at his fingertips. In a sense, Jesus Christ had planted all sorts of minds in his heart. So when the devil tried to move, tried to get a foothold, he was always blowing himself up. He was constantly being refuted by the truth. What are you afraid of? You deal with a lie. Are you afraid of death? You say, hey, all death can do to me if I belong to him, if I've got his DNA in my soul, all death can do to me is make the glory in me erupt and make me an everlasting splendor. You tell yourself that and you're not afraid of death. Eventually, if you feel guilty and worthless, you say, if I was the only person on earth, Jesus Christ would have come to die for me. He loves me that much. He's covered me. That's how you deal with it. The tool is the word of God with a spirit. You have to saturate, Christian friends, you've got to saturate yourself in it. it. Secondly, you've got, like Abraham, you've got to rejoice to see his day. You see, Jesus here at the end says, Abraham rejoiced to see my day. What does that mean? In Genesis 12, God told Abraham that someday the Messiah would come out of his descendants and bless the nation. And what does Jesus say? What does Paul say? Paul says, because Abraham believed God, God imputed it to him as You know that word impute means? If somebody imputes a statement to me, even though I didn't say it, I get credit or blame for it. And what Paul is saying is that when Abraham rejoiced to see that Jesus Christ was going to come and die and pay for our sins, he was accepted on the spot. It doesn't say, does it? It doesn't say that Abraham made himself godly and God accepted him. It says Abraham believed in Jesus. He rejoiced to see Jesus stay, and he was accepted on the spot. And that's the reason that Martin Luther says the number one lie of the devil is this. Martin Luther says, all depression of mind and melancholy come from the devil, and especially this thought that God is not gracious, that God will have no mercy. Whosoever thou art, Luther says, possessed with such heavy thoughts, know for certain that they are the work of the devil. God sent his son into the world not to affright but to comfort. Therefore be of good courage and think that henceforth thou art not the child of a human creature but of God through faith in Christ in whose name thou art baptized. Therefore the spear of death cannot enter into thee. He has not got right unto thee much less can he hurt or prejudice thee for he is everlastingly swallowed up through Christ. Luther was great at the number one lie of the devil is for you to think that because you have failed, God will not love you or accept you. Like Abraham, you have to rejoice to see his day.

Friends, the only way to move from this humanity to that humanity is through a great transaction. That transaction comes when you rejoice to see his day, when you treat him as the great I am. The great I am. Before Abraham was I am. He's claiming to be the creator God. say, you are my absolute Lord. I rejoice to see your day. I see that you died for me. I take your truth now into my life and base my whole life on it and I see all the reality through it. That is what gets the DNA into your life and eventually will turn you into an everlasting splendor. Are you ready to do that? Some of you need to do that today. In many of our cases, all we need to do is renew our commitment to the truth, to believe

it. Let's do that together now. Let's pray. Father, for the next couple of minutes, as the offering's taken, as we listen to the music, would you enable every person here to decide what we have to do to more experience your freedom in our lives? Some of us, for the first time, have to admit and acknowledge that we have, that we've never turned over the lordship of our lives to you. We still have the spirit of the one who said, don't tell me what to do. Father, we purge ourselves of that spirit. Father, I'm going to sit down now and seek to purge myself with your help of that spirit. Make me like your son who said, not my will but thine be done, who took your truth in and became an everlasting splendor. Now, Father, we pray that you would give us this freedom, that you would give us your tools to deliver us from the multidimensional evil of this world. We know that we will triumph because your Son is our captain. It's in his name we pray. Amen.
