It's okay to be concerned. It's okay to want to perform well. It's okay to... It's okay... All these things are okay, but when they actually become ways for you to maintain the control of your life and to stay king of your life. If you try to meet your stressors without acknowledging that you can either meet stress... You can either meet stress as God or as if you were under God. You can either meet stress as if you're the king or as if he's the king. realize that is a choice in every situation. Today, whatever the stresses that you're under, you have to see that is a choice that you have to make. If you're having trouble forgiving. If you're having trouble sharing how bad you feel. If you're having trouble trusting God for the future. If you're having trouble relying on God for your salvation. If you're having trouble in any of these areas. You have to say, I have to crown you a King. or else I'm never going to handle it. My whole life is going to unravel and it's all going to come apart. Look, let me just exhort you in this way. What it means to treat Jesus as king. Some of you have probably heard me do this before, but I can just give you four little things you have to do. Four things. You have to obey him, you have to trust him, you have to rely, and you have to expect. Obey, trust, rely, expect. You might want to jot this down. explanation of what that means. What does it mean to treat Jesus as king? That's the only way you really ultimately will deal with stress, no matter how bad the stress is under. Remember what my Vietnam vet said? They saw their friends blown up. How did they deal with the stress? They began to treat Jesus as king. Number one, obey. That means that you say, there's no conditions on my obedience. disobedience. Jesus Christ is not an enrichment program. If you're not a Christian and you listen to these testimonies, the first danger you have when you first hear the gospel is you say, this is a way to become happy. The Bible doesn't say, blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after blessedness. It says, blessed is he who hungers and thirsts after righteousness. In other words, happiness is not something you can get by trying to be happy. That's been your problem all along. That's the reason your life is falling apart. Happiness is something that comes when you want something more than happiness, and that is you want God. Happiness is a byproduct. See, blessed are those who are hungry and thirst after righteousness. And the great danger always is to say, okay, I'll obey. I'll try God. You see, you can't try Him. Because you say, I'll obey if He begins to give me some help in these areas. I'll obey if my business is turned around. I'll obey if my children turn around. I'll obey if I start to obey and I start to get religious and this physical problem clears up. I'll obey if. But don't you see, obey if isn't obey at all. because what you're really doing, if you say, I'll obey, Lord, if you do this and this, if there's any ifs in your obedience, you're still on the throne of your life. You're still really saying, I'm the king, and I will listen to you, Lord, if it looks practical. I'll obey the Ten Commandments as long as it looks like it's practical. What that means is that you've hired God as a consultant. you haven't made him your king. You're saying, I have got certain goals in my life, and if it looks like God will enable me to reach those goals, then I'll be happy to sign up. You can't do that. To make Jesus king is, you have to say, I see that because you created me and because your son died for me, I owe you everything, and therefore I take all the ifs off of my obedience. Some years ago I was at a Bible conference where a woman was speaking, and she said she says you know if the distance between the earth and the sun which is 92 million miles was actually just the thickness of a sheet of paper do you realize that the Milky Way just the diameter of the Milky Way would be a stack of paper 310 miles high

and the Milky Way is just a little speck of dust in the universe

is, because we're told in the book of Hebrews that Jesus Christ holds the universe together with a word of his power, a word of his power. He created all of this. He scatters stars like the sand. And then she turned and she says, now, if he's that great, is this the kind of person that you ask into your life to be your assistant? Is this the kind of person that you say, look, look, I'll sign up as long as you're willing to listen to my agenda. Because I know what's best for me. And I know how my life has got to go. Now, you have to obey him without the ifs. Or you're not obeying him at all. You have to take the conditions off your obedience, or else you're not really giving yourself to him at all. So you have to obey. Secondly, you have to trust. You see, obey means no matter what he says in the Bible, I will do. but trust is no matter what he sends into my life, I'll accept and trust that he knows what's best. See the difference there? See, here's the Bible and it says, don't lie. And you are afraid that if I tell the truth, I'm going to pay an extra $60,000 on my income tax this year. So what do you do? If you've given your life to him, if you're crowning him as king, you tell the truth. On the other hand, that's one kind of, that's obedience. But then what to trust. That means when God brings things into your life, we talked about it last night, it means to make him king is to say, Lord, I don't know why you're doing this. I can't understand how you could do this, but I do know this. And that is that you know more than me. I'm the child, you're the father, and therefore I'm going to trust you in that. That's absolutely critical. It's got to be done. There's really no other way to do it. Some people say, but if I'm afraid, if I give myself to Jesus, the way you're talking about, he might ask me, he might send things into in my life I don't want. He might ask me to do things I don't want. Well, of course. Abraham didn't want to sacrifice Isaac. Moses didn't want to go to Pharaoh. Jesus didn't want to go to the cross. And they're all so glad they did. And we're all so glad that they did. You know the place in the Chronicles of Narnia where they're talking about Aslan, the Jesus figure. And I think it's one of the kids in the book says to the beaver, oh my, he doesn't sound safe. And the beaver turns and says, of course he's not safe. Who ever said anything about safe? But he's good. He's the king, I tell you. You see, if you come to Jesus and make him king, he's not safe. He's certainly going to take you to places that you don't want to be, but he's good. He's got a good purpose for it. And in order to treat him as king, Thirdly, you rely. One sentence. If you add anything to Jesus Christ as a requirement for being happy, you're going to have a miserable life. The reason that Jesus is constantly, we talked about this last night, the reason that Jesus Christ is constantly bringing things into your life, pulling you away from things that are too important to you, is simply because it's out of mercy. mercy. You ever hear the story about the two lumberjacks that came into the forest, and they were going to cut every tree down, and they saw a mother bird creating a nest in one of the trees. And they didn't want her to do that. So what they did was, when they saw her up there, what they did was they took the flat of their ax, and they pounded the tree, and they shook her, and they vibrated her until she was so miserable that she got up and she went to the next tree. She started building her nest there. Then they pounded that tree. And the poor mother bird was, you know, again, just looking for a place to lay her eggs. You know, what are these men doing? And so finally, after she couldn't take that, she goes to the next tree. Then they pounded that tree. They just harassed her and harassed her. Until finally they saw her fly to a cliff and build her nest in the rock. And they let her alone. She didn't understand what they were after. But see, it was all mercy. And that's maybe why God's harassing you. Every tree here is going down. Anything that you put all the eggs of your heart in besides God is going down. Anything you add as a requirement to Jesus Christ, as a requirement for being happy, you're going to find is going to disappoint you. Build your nest in the rock. Lastly, expect. Those of you who are cynical about what Jesus can do in your life are not treating him as a king. To treat him as a king, you obey whatever he says. You rely on him alone. And lastly, you expect great things of him, big things of him. In Matthew 11, John the Baptist sends a messenger and says to Jesus, how do we know that you're really the Messiah? And Jesus says, look, the blind see, the deaf hear, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the poor have good news preached to them. What Jesus is saying is the way you know the king is present is that people's lives change. People get better. People are healed. People grow. And you see, in spite of everything I've said about how you have to accept what God gives you and see it as his fatherly care, it's also true that you're not treating him as king unless you know that great things are going to happen, unless you expect him to do great things in your life. To put love where there wasn't love. To put softness where there was hardness. To put joy where there wasn't joy. You know, as we were saying before, when Jonathan Edwards died, just before he died, he said to his children, he says, says, now I hope finally you will turn to a father who does not die. You know, what he was saying at that point is he's saying, I want you to see that no matter what losses that you can have here in this life, God can give you back sevenfold anything you've lost. You've got to have tremendous expectations to treat God as king. The story of Alexander the Great I close with. Alexander the Great supposedly had a general, and that general came to him one day and said alexander i want money from you so that i can marry off my daughter she's uh getting married i want to have a wedding for her and so what happened is alexander the great said fine go ahead ask my treasure for what you want he goes to the treasure and he asks the treasure for a huge amount of money and the treasure says wait right here goes back to alexander and says this man is asking for far more than he needs i mean how many how many daughters how many people does he want to invite? Half the civilized world? This is ridiculous. Alexander said, well, how much did he ask for? And the treasurer told him, and Alexander thought about it, and he says, give it to him. The treasurer said, why? He says, this man treats me as a king, because by making such an incredible request, he believes that I am both rich and generous. What a compliment. This man treats me as a king. Now, do you treat Jesus as a king? That is, do you really expect by prayer to pray down into your life tremendous kingdom, power, and blessing? Do you expect to see the people around you that you're praying for and that you're touching? Do you expect to see their lives changed and transformed? If you don't, if you're cynical, you're still not treating him as a king. Dear friends, the way to deal with stress is to treat him as a king. King. Treat him as a king. If there's anybody here who has a lot of doubts about whether God's real, doubts about the gospel, doubts about the things that you've heard, and I know there's always, in any kind of crowd bigger than about ten, there's always somebody in it that really doesn't know where you stand. You have doubts. Here's what I suggest. Consider this. You can't doubt everything at once. The only way you can doubt something is by having faith in something else? You can only doubt something from a base of assumptions that you're standing on at the moment you doubt. The only way to doubt God is by refusing to doubt yourself. My suggestion is that you turn your doubts on yourself for a minute and say, am I really competent to run my life? What evidence have I got? So far you haven't done a great job, have you? What evidence have you got? You may be listening to some of these testimonies and say, oh, gosh. How do you expect me to believe that you're just being incredulous, you're just being incredible? How do you expect me to believe that? Well, turn your doubts on yourself and say, how much evidence is there for this thesis that you're competent to run your own life? There's really not a lot of evidence. It's a blind leap of faith. There's very little evidence. What instead you ought to consider is the possibility that the reason that your life is coming apart is because you're not reading the owner's manual, which is the Bible. You're not coming in under the authority of the king. If there's anybody here who wants to do that now, what I'm going to do in just a second when I pray is I'm going to pray a prayer, a way of saying, Lord, I want you to be my king. If you want to do that today, if you're ready to do that, then I would like you to pray it after me. But Christian friends, listen. listen, there's a lack of reality in your life. You're not dealing with your stress because maybe you're not treating God as a king. Are you afraid to tell people about how needy you are? Are you questioning him in worry? Are you listening to your heart instead of talking to your heart? All the things we've talked about boil down to this. Are you ready to treat him as a king? It says here that in him all things hold together. together, is your life a cosmos or is it a chaos? If it's a chaos, it may mean it's because you've got to say, here are all the areas where I need to begin to obey him, to trust in him, to rely on him, and to expect great things of him. I don't know, I wish I could sit down with every one of you and say, here's how I can apply this to you personally, but that's something the Holy Spirit's got to do, and he doesn't charge any consultant's fee, so let's go to him now. Our Father, we ask that you us now as we close. We pray for those of us here who belong to you, who believe in you. We know that the stresses that come down upon us right now, we're not dealing with properly because we are in some ways taking the kingship to ourself, holding on to the crown. I pray, Father, instead that you would enable everybody here to see the different ways in which they, through their worry, through their fear of failure, through their maybe lack of forgiveness, through their unwillingness to reach out to other people, through their unwillingness to trust in your wisdom that what they are really doing, what we are really doing is failing to give you a kingship. And Father, we repent of that now. We turn to you in our hearts and we say, I want to stop treating you as a servant and start treating you as a king. now if there's anybody here who is ready to turn over the kingship of your life to him i suggest that you pray like this lord i need you i see that i have been relying on my performance and not on what you have done on the cross as my for my salvation i see that i have thought it's depending all on me when everything depends on you i ask you into my life as my savior and my and I ask that you would now come in and take over the throne of my life, that I might know the order and the coherence that comes through submission to your royal will. If you want to pray something like that now, take a moment. I'm just going to give a few moments of silence, a few seconds of silence. Go to him and make your covenant with him, make your pact with him, repent and deal with him. Take a moment of silence to do that now. Father, we thank you that you're not just a father but a king. We thank you that you're not just a king but a father. We thank you that with all your power there's love and with all your love we can relax and we can trust in you and expect great things. We make all these requests to you in Jesus' name. Amen.