Let me read the passage on which the teaching is based. It's John chapter 12. I'll read verses 20 to 33. Now there were some Greeks among those who went up to worship at the feast. They came to Philip who was from Bethsaida in Galilee with a request. Sir, they said, we would like to see Jesus. Philip went to tell Andrew. Andrew and Philip in turn told Jesus. My servant also will be. My Father will honor the one who serves me. Now my heart is troubled, and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour? No. It was for this very reason I came to this hour. Father, glorify your name. Then a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it and will glorify it again. The crowd that was there and heard it said it had thundered. Others said an angel had spoken to him. This voice was for your benefit, not for mine. Now is the time for judgment on this world. Now the prince of this world will be driven out. But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself. He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. This is God's word. Now what we're doing in these weeks before Easter is we're doing what Christians have done for hundreds of years before Easter, we're doing some disciplined thinking about the death of Jesus and what it means. And it's very important to do that because it's natural to ask the question, what relevance does the death of someone 2,000 years ago have for me? How could that affect me? How can that affect my destiny or my condition or my situation? How? And what we're doing each week is we're looking at what Jesus says about his own death, especially in these very solemn statements we've called the Amen statements of Jesus. Because whenever Jesus says Amen at the beginning of a statement, he's signaling something. The English translations don't know how to translate it very well because there's no way in English to convey the solemnity of such a statement. When Jesus begins a statement with the word Amen, some translations render it, I tell you the truth, or truly I say to you. But it's a statement that means this is solemn, this is critical, this is crucial. You base your life on this. This cannot be questioned. And this passage is all about his death. Especially in verse 24, where he says, I tell you the truth, unless a kernel of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. So what we're going to look and see is what Jesus himself says about his death, which will, I think, help us at least begin to make some progress toward answering the question, what relevance is this to me? Jesus is telling us three things about his death, about the cross, the scandal of his death, the beauty of his death, and the challenge of his death. The scandal of the cross, the beauty of the cross, and the challenge of the cross. And actually the way these three points relate is scandal, how can you get past the scandal to see the beauty? challenge. First of all, scandal of the cross. Jesus says something here which almost seems like a contradiction to something else in the book of John. Whenever Jesus speaks about his hour, his time or his hour, when he says, my time has come, my hour has come, whenever you see that in the book of John, he's talking about his death, the hour of his death. When he says, my time has not yet come, he means it's not time for me to die. When he says, my hour has come, he's saying, it's my, the time has come for me to die. And look in verse 31, where he says, now is the time, the hour, for judgment on this world. Now the prince of this world will be driven out. Now, the first thing he says here is that my death is a condemnation of the world. It's a judgment of the world. Now, somebody says, now, wait a minute, doesn't it say, yes, in John 3, 16, a more famous verse, may I add, that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. And I mean, that verse actually says that the death of Jesus is a blessing to the world. This one says that the hour, the time, the death of Jesus is a judgment on the world. Is that a contradiction? No, because the word world can have two different meanings. kings. Sometimes the word world means the people of the world. And therefore, John 3, 16 is saying, God so loved the people of the world that Jesus died. But the word can also refer to the value systems of the world. And Jesus is saying, my death is judgment on the values of the world. And you say, how do you know? I mean, how do you know that's the point? Well, Well, look at the context. What triggers this, almost this outburst about Jesus' death? All this talk about his death, his hour, his being lifted up, his falling into the ground and dying. What triggers it? Greeks come to see him. And when the Greeks, the Gentiles come to see him, you want to see a really odd, what looks like a non-sequitur, a kind of does-not-follow thing. Look, it says, verse 22 says, said to Jesus, there's some Gentiles that want to see you. And what does Jesus say in verse 23? It's time for me to die. Huh? Here's the answer. If you're reading all the way, if you're just reading the book of John consecutively, which, you know, is, that's how he expected us to be reading it, not in little pieces every seven days, probably. Anyway, I doubt that he thought that would ever happen. But if you're reading the book consecutively, at the end of John 11, it says that the religious leaders decided when he raised Lazarus from the dead, it's time to kill him. Who are these people? They're Gentiles. They're the unwashed, they're the unclean, they're the immoral. They haven't been living according to the law of God. If they've come, it says, now interesting, they look like inquirers or seekers. So they've come to Jerusalem during the time of the feast, they're spiritual inquirers, but when they got to Jerusalem, here's what they would have found, a wall. Around the central sanctuary, there was a wall. And the Jews could go inside the wall, into the inner court and toward the sanctuary, but there was a wall. All over the wall was posted warning notices that said, Gentiles go beyond this point upon pain of death. Gentiles were out. Gentiles were the outsiders. They were the spiritual outsiders, the moral outsiders, the racial outsiders. And Jesus Christ, when he sees the insiders about to kill him and the outsiders seeking him, the moral and religious people rejecting him, and the spiritually unclean and inferior receiving him, he says, this is what my death is all about. The cross, in other words, is a judgment on the way the world thinks, on the values of the world, on the very epistemology of the world, the way the world knows and thinks. What do we mean? The world says, if you want to go up, you go up. If you want power, you go for it. The world says, every world culture, every world religion says, the spoils go to the strong. But the cross comes along Jesus Christ, look, here's a man without military power, excuse me, without political power, without financial power. The only followers he can scrape together are illiterate peasants. He's executed young at the age of 33. He's penniless when he's killed because he only has the robe that is his only possession, which they cast lots for. And at the very end, he's not only abandoned by his friends, but he's abandoned by the Father, the God he serves. And not just despite all that, but because of all that, because of that weakness, because of that vulnerability, because of that poverty, he becomes the most influential figure in the history of the world. And your parents told you to get into Harvard and make a lot of money and know the then maybe you'd make a dent. And the cross says that is the way to insignificance if that's the foundation for your life. The cross is like a rock shattering a window. It comes through and it contradicts everything the world tells you. It overturns all human evaluations. When Paul writes 1 Corinthians 1, when he says, where is the wise man? Where is the scholar? Where is the philosopher of this age? For the cross is foolishness, lunacy, to them. But has not God by the cross made foolish the wisdom of this world? For God's foolish thing, the cross, is wiser than man's wisdom, and God's weak thing, the cross, is stronger than man's strength. And what is Paul saying? Paul's saying the gospel, the gospel of the cross, the doctrine of the cross, that God became weak, and God became vulnerable, and God gave up all power. And God suffered and God died and God lost. And God was defeated. And that is the way of salvation. The world has a lot of different philosophies. A lot of different religions. A lot of different cultures. A lot of different parties. Liberal and conservative. You know, Muslim and Buddhist and Atheist and Second. It's got all these the cross, the gospel of the cross, Paul says, is not one more philosophy in a row. It's not one more religion in a row. It's the complete contradiction of all of them. It shatters all the basis of human evaluation like a rock shatters a window. It tells you everything you heard in the world is wrong. Everything. Because the cross says the way up is down. The way to get real power is to give your power away and serve. The way to get real riches is to give away your money radically and generously. The way to get tremendous self-esteem assurance of your beauty and your worth is to admit you're such a terribly lost sinner that somebody had to come and die for you from heaven. It contradicts the liberal approach to self-esteem, right? Because it says if you want to be sure that God loves you, you want to be sure of your self-esteem, you've got you're a terrible sinner and you need, somebody needed to come die for you. It contradicts the conservative approach because it says, it's the outsiders who understand this. It's the marginal who understand it. It's the unwashed. It's the people outside the wall. It's the excluded. It's the poor who understand this and who God works with. Of course, because every religion and every philosophy of the world says, see the world says, a strong God calls you to be strong and if you live good, you'll be blessed. but the gospel says a weak God has come to save. A vulnerable God calls you to be weak. What do you mean, be weak? Well, you see, if salvation's come through the cross, the only people who can get it are people who are admitting that they're so needy and sinful that somebody had to come die for them. You have to admit your weakness. You have to repent, and then you have to live along that model, which is the way to power is to give power away. The way to real riches is to give your money away. The way to real influence is not to seek influence. That's what happened to Jesus. And look at the influence. We were studying recently, for example, another case study of this. In the second and third century after Christ, there were enormous plagues. We don't even know what the diseases were exactly. We have some guesses. There are tremendous plagues that swept through the cities of the Mediterranean world. especially the cities, because that's where people were close together and there was a lot of contagion. And what did they do? What did the people of the cities do? They ran. They left in droves. And they left the sick behind to die. Even their own kin they left behind to die. We know this. This is from history. But one group stayed, the Christians. Why? Because the way of the cross had been burned into their heart. absolutely lunatic idea. Because of the dying love of Jesus for them, they decided they were going to stay in the city and take care of not only their own sick and dying, but the sick and the dying of their enemies. And so they did. And they dropped like flies. The Christians just dropped like flies taking care of people. But you know, by the way, even if you don't use medicine, if you actually just take care of somebody, if you feed them, if you clothe them, if you give them blankets at night. You know, a pretty good number of sick people will recover if you just take care of them, even in the most basic way. And the historians tell us that after the plagues subsided, a huge proportion of the people, of the populations of those cities that survived, owed their lives to the sacrificial love of Christians. And when the plagues subsided, there was an enormous influx into the church. And there was an enormous number of conversions. that within 100 years, Christianity was the most powerful, most influential, most populous religion in the empire. Now, think about something. If a group of people got together and their goal in life was, how can we be the best religion in the world, the ascendant, most influential religion in the world? How do we do it? They're not going to say, I know. Let's go out on the streets and die like flies, taking care of our enemies. But that's how they got up. because they, you see, they went down and they were up. They eschewed power, they eschewed influence, and they got more than they could ever know what to do with. But if they had decided to go for it, we would have never heard of them. The way up is down. The way to power is to serve. The way to true riches is to give your money away. The world says this is a lunacy,

says, that's because you, you are distorted because the world is an abnormal place, because the world is broken. The minds are broken. The hearts are broken by sin and evil. And the cross is my mind and heart shattering the window of the world's values, coming in and saying, this is how I want you to live. I have saved you through my weakness. Connect with me through weakness, repentance, admitting you're a sinner, and then live in weakness, in service, thinking about others, not yourself. And you will find what? The one who hates his life comparatively will find it. The one who loves his life will lose it. The way of the cross, lunacy, scandal, ridiculous, offends the liberal mind, offends the conservative mind offends the atheist mind offends the religious mind offends them all because it's not one more religion it's not one more philosophy it's the overturning of all of them do you see what Jesus says now is the time for judgment on the world the cross judges the world it condemns the world isn't this interesting the world thought on the cross it was condemning Jesus but actually on the cross God was condemning the world, showing the world for what it was, laughing at the world. You think you're destroying someone. You think you're burying someone. So first thing we learn is the scandal of the cross. It's outrageous. It's offensive. It offends you in every way, offends every kind of person. It doesn't make sense. It's lunacy, okay? It destroys everything you're ever told, and probably even what your parents told you growing up. But that's not all. The second thing Jesus tells us is this, and this is not going to make sense. We'll just go through this rather quickly. I have to get to the third point to see how they resolve. The second thing Jesus says is, not only do I want you to see that the cross is scandalous, it's outrageous, it's offensive, but the second thing I want you to see is that it's utterly attractive and beautiful. And here's what he says in verse 32, too. But I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all men to myself. But then look at verse 33. He said this to show the kind of death he was going to die. Kathy, my wife Kathy, this morning on the way home after the morning service says, you know what, if verse 33 was there, I would never in a million years believe that the word lifting up could be referring to his death. If verse 33 was there, what would you think he means when he says, I will attract, I will draw. People will not be driven to me, they'll be attracted to me. They'll be drawn to me. When I'm lifted up, I will draw all to myself. What could he be referring to? You'd think his resurrection or his ascension, but that's not what it says. It says the kind of death. And Jesus is being deeply ironic, deeply ironic, because when you're hoisted up on the cross,

you're hoisted up to be a public spectacle. They hoist you up. Executors, you know, the executioners are hoisting you up because they want to show how impotent you are and how powerful they are. They want to teach everyone a lesson, don't defy the powers that be. And yet Jesus says, when I'm hoisted up, I'll be lifted up. And here's what he's saying. He is saying, my death, though offensive to the mind of the world, is attractive to every human every human heart. Now, I'm going to talk more about this next week, so I hope you can come back. Because the sac... Yeah, well, we'll get back to that. But here's what Jesus is saying. Here's the main thing. He says, if you want to be a Christian, if you want the cross to be burned into your heart so that it changes you the way it changed those early Christians who lived in those urban centers in the 2nd and 3rd century, you've got to see the beauty. You can't be driven. You're not a Christian if you're driven to Jesus. You're only a Christian if you're drawn to Jesus. When my middle son was eight years old, or nine, I think, he saw the movie Ghost with Demi Moore and Patrick Swayze. And do you remember that movie? Almost everybody's seen it by now, I hope. And there's a place when the bad guys die. Remember what happens to them? This is back before they had decent special effects, I guess, because they're kind of stupid. You remember, there's these little sort of black spots or something. They come up and they go, remember that? They're just groaning and groaning. And they grab the bad people as they're dying, and they take them off to, I don't know, hell, I guess, or, you know, something like that. My middle son, Michael, was scared to death by that movie. And he came and he said, Dad, I don't want to go to hell. and he says, I want to pray to Jesus that he really be my savior and he'll really forgive my sins. Fine. And we did and it was great and I was glad he did it and I took it absolutely seriously but I knew one thing. I was not so stupid as to think that my son became a Christian that night because you can't become a Christian being driven. You can't be a Christian because your parents want you to be. You can't be a Christian because you're driven by your parents' expectations, or you're driven by your fear of hell, or you're driven by a desire to succeed. And if I'm a good person, then God will bless me and give me good health and give me a great family and give me success. Jesus says, you don't understand. You're not a Christian unless you look at what I have I've done the beauty of what I've done. The beauty of what I've done. And you just want me. You're drawn to me. Jonathan Edwards says, the difference between a religious person and a Christian. Don't I say this at least every other month? Jonathan Edwards says, a religious person serves God instrumentally,

driven to it, out of a desire to use God to get other things. But a Christian is someone who serves God aesthetically for the sheer beauty of what he is and what he's done. And you serve God not to get things, but just to get him. Because you want him. You want to serve him. And Jesus says, when and only when you are overwhelmed by the beauty of what I have done. And he really said, when he says, listen, there's a couple ways to read this, which you can get this, when he says, I will draw all to myself, all to myself. Almost for certain, that cannot mean that every single human being will give themselves to Jesus in faith. I mean, if that's the case, why was he crucified? I mean, obviously, there's a lot of people who didn't like him. But it must mean this. It means that every human heart, in spite of the fact that every human mind, because it's shaped by the world, finds the cross offensive, every human heart that really perceives what Jesus has done will be attracted by it. There's something fundamentally attractive. And until you experience that fundamental attraction, Jesus says, you really don't know what my death is about. And before I get to the last point, let me just suggest something. Jesus Christ is saying that if you start to get a handle of what the cross means, means you will be offended and or you'll be attracted. Now, I don't think you could possibly be attracted unless you at least see the outrageousness of it and feel something of the offense. I think you could feel the offense and not be attracted. That's what we're going to talk about in a second. But the one thing that you should not, one condition that would be really deadly is where an awful lot of people are, even in New York City, which is this. There's a lot of Jesus died for my sins. I've always believed it. And you're not offended, and you're not attracted either. You're just kind of indifferent. You just always believed it. It's part of the furniture. And Jesus says,

I don't know that you've been drawn. I mean, it's not a good position. I'm not sure you've really looked. I'm not sure you've really understood. Now, lastly, how can we, in spite of the lunacy, find this so attractive? And that is, the answer is, you have to not only, if you want to see the lunacy, you know, there's the foolishness of the cross. There's also, secondly, the attraction of the cross. How do you get past the foolishness to the attraction? You have to take the challenge of the cross. What's that? Verse 24 and 25 and 26. I tell you the truth. Unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds. The man who loves his life will lose it. The man who hates his life will keep it for eternal life. Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, my servant also will be. My Father will honor the one who serves me. Now, this is an amazing passage. First of all, verse 24. The first, there's two challenges of the cross. The cross challenges you to come to grips with what it meant for Jesus to fall under the ground and secondly the cross challenges you to come to grips with what it means for you to fall under the ground because verse 24, 25, and 26 is ambiguous. Is it talking about Jesus or is it talking about us? Is it saying I have fallen under the ground and therefore or is it saying you must fall under the ground and serve me and therefore and the answer is it is supposed to be ambiguous. ambiguous it is talking about both now look first of all there's a challenge of coming to grips with what it meant for him look at the image a seed if it doesn't fall into the ground and die it remains alone literally verse 24 literally says i don't know why the niv does it this way but it says unless the seed falls to the ground well the word is into unless the kernel of wheat disappears, goes into the ground, buried, dead, see? It remains alone. And Jesus is saying, that is me. If I had not died, I would have stayed alone. I'd be the only child of God in the world. I'd be the only one that knew the Father intimately. I'd be the only one who basked in his presence. Because I died, there's multitudes who can know him and do know him. But here's my question. What did Jesus fall into? Why is the Son of God troubled by death? You see that? Now is my heart troubled. What shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. Do you think that's rhetoric? Do you think that's just, he's just, it's not. He's having a Garden of Gethsemane experience, so he'll have a real Garden of Gethsemane experience soon. He gets near the idea about dying, and he says, Father, now is my soul troubled. What should I say? Save me from this hour? No. What's going on? There's lots of people that face death. You see Gladiator? I mean, Russell Crowe faced death. No problem. Here comes death. No problem. what? There are lots of people who really, truly, not just actors, who did face death like that. What's the matter with him? If Jesus is this great person, the most influential person, why would he be troubled by the oncoming of death? Why would he be that upset? Lots of people, lots of people just face death, you know, with just a, with a sneer. Lots of them have. What's going on? Let me tell you what he fell into. On the cross, he said, my God, my God, what hast thou forsaken me? The Bible talks about God's everlasting arms underneath. And the answer then, and this is really hard to, I just want you to come to grips. The challenge of the cross is just to try to come to grips with this. Jesus fell into spiritual nothing. Jesus, there was nothing there. The Father let him go. Once I let my son go. Did I ever tell you that? I did, didn't I? One time, David, when he was three years old, I had him. I was out on these rocks on Magnolia Beach in Massachusetts and there was these big boulders and I was walking on them and David was on my shoulders and I tripped a little bit and I dropped him. Worst moment of my life. He was okay, but boy. Worst moment of my life. I dropped him. But all he fell into were rocks. What does it mean when it says, My God, my God, why hast Thou forsaken me? On the cross, the Father dropped Him. He fell into nothing. He fell into whatever we deserved for our sins. That's what the Bible's saying, which means He fell into spiritual nothingness. He fell into spiritual oblivion. He fell into complete separation from God. He fell into utter spiritual disintegration. He fell into all the torment that must mean because we were all built for the presence of God and to get away from the presence of God

the first challenge is to see that Jesus fell into nothingness. But here's the second challenge. He fell into nothingness, so what? Now, he's calling us to die, is he not? He's calling us to hate our life. He's calling us to follow him, but what? To do what? And here's what's the amazing thing. Look at verse 26. If you base your life, if you build your life on what I have done, says, where I am, my servant also will be, and my Father will honor the one who serves me. Now, you know what? I'm sure that you can read that, and you don't sense the radioactivity of that. It doesn't strike you between the eyes, but that's only because the word honor doesn't mean much to us. It doesn't mean much in our culture. Honor means honor roll, straight A's, you know, getting up, little ritual, you know, at high school or something like that. The Father, honor? The Bible says this. What happened to Jesus on the cross? Why did he fall into nothingness? He was being treated as if he'd done everything we did. But then what does that mean if you build your life on him? What does that mean if you believe in what he did? What if you rest in what he did? means that he then will treat you, the Father will treat you, as if you had done everything he did. Second Corinthians 521 says, God made him sin who knew no sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. What does that mean? It doesn't mean that when, on the cross, it said God made him sin. Does that mean he became sinful? Does that mean he became grumpy and angry? Of course not. and selfish and proud? No. It meant he was treated as if we had done everything, as if he had done everything we had done. And what does that mean? When I believe in him, the Father honors me. What does Jesus deserve? What love does he deserve? What glory? What wreaths on his brow? What crowns? What songs? What choruses? What pageantry? What delight? Everybody in this room desperately wants

and it's driving your life. That's what sex is about. That's what parenting is about. That's what's so neat about little kids when they just, Daddy, and it goes right through you. You're being delighted in, but it wears off. It all wears off. You know why? You are a seed. Your soul is a seed and it needs to, your soul desperately needs to be delighted in, but the only soil in which you go that'll really release the potential of everything that's put into you, is the honor of God. Jesus says, I fell into nothingness so you could fall into him, so that you could fall into his delight, so you could fall into his honor. That is unbelievable. The challenge of the cross is to come to grips with what he did for you, and then come to grips with the magnitude of what the cross means, the promise of what that means for me and what that means for you. And only when you see the magnitude of what he did and the magnitude of what the cross promises, the magnitude of what the cross inflicted on him and the magnitude of what the cross promises to you, will you get past the foolishness and scandal of the cross and see the beauty of it. You got that? You know, when Jesus Christ says, now is the hour that I would be glorified. Now I'm being lifted up. I'm being glorified. Isn't that weird? Why doesn't he say, now's the hour of my shame, and after my crucifixion, I'll be glorified? No, this is the moment of glorification. You know why? When you go out and see the stars, and you go out and see the mountains, that tells me God's glory. Of course it does. Psalm 19 says, the heavens tell me about the glory of God. The cross shows you more of God's glory than all the stars and all the mountains. Nothing glorifies the name of God like the hour of Jesus' death. Why? Because only the cross, if you don't have a cross in your life, if you don't have a cross in your understanding, you say, I believe in God, a great glorious God, and a God who loves everybody, but I don't believe and Jesus dying on the cross. It's unnecessary for me. Only the cross shows you a God so holy that he had to die and so loving that he was glad to die. See, if you say, I believe in God, but I don't believe in the cross, what you mean is what? It's good enough if I try my best and that'll be good enough for God. The cross says God was so utterly righteous, so utterly righteous that he wasn't satisfied by just people trying their best. absolute fulfillment of the law which Jesus Christ did on the cross. He completely fulfilled. See, Jesus was always saying to the Pharisees, I'm taking the law more seriously than you because you think you can do it. You can't do it. The death of Jesus Christ on the cross gives you a God more gloriously holy than the Pharisees ever had. You understand? More holy than a moralist God. But on the other hand, if you don't believe in a cross, if you say, I just believe God accepts everybody. You have a God who didn't really have to go to the mat or suffer or die to love you. And the cross shows you a God more gloriously loving than a God without a cross. You see, only in the cross is God glorified and you see his radical and ultimate beauty. The stars, the moon, the mountains, they show you the glory of God, but not like this. only the cross shows you a God so holy he had to die and so loving he was glad to die. And if you see the glory of God, it'll be a beauty. It'll attract you. It'll change you utterly in every way. I tell you the truth. Unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. Now what we're going to do is we're going to take a time of confession. Come musicians Please come Thank you What we're going to do is we're going to take I knew they were there somewhere

I'm going to pray We're going to close our eyes and we're going to pray I'll pray first

And then at the end At the end of my prayer There's going to be a time of silent confession And I want you to pray Silently after that

response, a confessional response that we'll sing. That's why we needed the musicians. Even though I'm sure you were just, you're so musically literate, you wouldn't have needed them, but just for, just for, you know, make it a little better. And after that, we will stand for our final song. But let's, let's, let's take a moment to try to ask God to really bring this into our lives. Let's pray. Our Father, first of all, we would confess to you that we haven't really let the cross shape us. Many of us give lip service to the fact that there is a cross there, that Jesus died for us, but we haven't thought out the implications for how we spend our money, for who we befriend and spend our time with, for how we spend our time. We're not living that sacrificially. We're not thinking as much about our neighborhood as we should, about our neighbor as we should. We're not thinking as much about the needs of others. We haven't really let the thought, the cross, change us. We admit that. Secondly, we haven't really let the cross attract us. We haven't thought deeply enough about how much we must be loved. And as a result, some of us are always anxious, always unhappy, always grumpy, always feeling miffed and always feeling unhappy and always having our ego hurt. We pray, Father, that you would forgive us for not being attracted by the cross shaped by the radical foolishness of the cross. And in our hearts now in silence, we confess this to you.
