children, but she had an Egyptian maidservant named Hagar. So she said to Abram, the Lord has kept me from having children. Go sleep with my maidservant. Perhaps I can build a family through her. Abram agreed to do what Sarai said. So after Abram had been living in Canaan 10 years, Sarai, his wife, took her Egyptian maidservant, Hagar, and gave her to her husband to be his wife. He slept with Hagar, and she conceived. When she knew she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress. Then Sarai said to Abram, You are responsible for the wrong I am suffering. I put my servant in your arms, and now that she knows she is pregnant, she despises me. May the Lord judge between you and me. Your servant is in your hands, Abram said. Do with her whatever you think best. Then Sarai mistreated Hagar, so she fled from her. Lord found Hagar near a spring in the desert. It was the spring that was beside the road to Shur. And he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going? I am running away from my mistress Sarai, she answered. Then the angel of the Lord told her, go back to your mistress and submit to her. The angel added, I will so increase your descendants that they will be too numerous to count. The angel of the Lord also said to her, You are now with child, and you will have a son. You shall name him Ishmael, for the Lord has heard of your misery. He will be a wild donkey of a man. His hand will be against everyone, and everyone's hand against him. And he will live in hostility toward all his brothers. She gave this name to the Lord who spoke to her. You are the God who sees me. For she said, I have now seen the one who sees me. That is why the will was called Ber-lai-roi. still there between Kadesh and Bered. Early the next morning, Abraham took some food and a skin of water and gave them to Hagar. He set them on her shoulders and then set off and sent her off with the boy. She went on her way and wandered in the desert of Beersheba. When the water in the skin was gone, she put the boy under one of the bushes. Then she went off and sat down nearby, about a bow shot away, for she thought, I cannot watch the boy die. And as she sat there nearby, God heard the boy crying, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What is the matter, Hagar? Do not be afraid. God has heard the boy crying as he lies there. Lift the boy up and take him by the hand, for I will make him into a great nation. Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. So she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink. God was with the boy as he grew up. He lived in the desert and became an archer. while he was living in the desert of Paran his mother got a wife for him from Egypt

let me just say two quick things before I get into the text one is I won't be able to do a Q&A tonight I'm sorry I really would like to about this one but my Sundays sometimes get complicated second thing I want to know is if I get preaching real good I wonder whether George, Bobby and Ellie will stand up for me too

All right, just one, it's only fair. Now, we're looking at the history, the life of Abraham as we read it in the book of Genesis. Genesis. And, you know, what's intriguing is that three major world religions look at Abraham as the model for courageous living, authentic living, faithful living. But today, we come to see that whatever the ultimate reason that Abraham triumphs, it's not because he's made of some kind of better material than we are. Because here we see Abraham as a deeply flawed and very, very fallible human being, and that's putting it mildly. Because this passage, this story is a more brutal story than the English translation really lets you see. The English translation sort of prettifies this and keeps you from seeing the rawness and the brutality of it. And in fact, if you're a sensitive contemporary reader, you're going to ask, some people are certainly going to look at a story like this and say, what is this doing in the Bible? This is disgusting. This condones slavery. This demeans women. This is awful. What kind of, this is the heroes of the faith acting like this? This is confusing. This is offensive. Settle down. We're going to have to read it carefully, though, because it's true on the surface. It certainly looks like all that. And because it's a story, it has characters, and there's four characters, really, not counting Ishmael, who's not exactly a character. You have an exploited slave, a barren woman, a stupid man, and a mysterious friend. And each one teaches us something, so let's look. First of all, we have an exploited slave. Now, Now, this is hard. This is hard. Verse 1 tells us what's going on. God has promised Abraham and Sarah that he would bring salvation into the world through their descendants, and that means they have to have a son. They will have a son. But verse 3 tells us they've been in Atanan for 10 years, no son. And finally, in verse 2, when Sarah says, says, the Lord has kept me from having a child. Go then. What she's doing is she is saying, in spite of what you tell me, Abram, about God being for this child, that God is going to help me, I don't see it that way. I see him as opposing me, and therefore let's do something else. Let's not wait for him anymore. And what she suggests is not her own invention. She says, go sleep with my maidservant and perhaps I can build a family through her. Now what she's suggesting was common, legal, completely culturally acceptable. And what she was saying is, I have a maidservant. I will give you her as a kind of secondary wife. You notice in verse four it says, wife took her Egyptian maidservant, Hagar, and gave her to her husband to be his wife. And when she got pregnant, if she got pregnant, which she did, the children of Hagar would be Sarah's children. And that's why she's able to say, legally, perhaps I can build a family through her. Now, at this point, the English translation prettifies things and keeps us from seeing the brutality of the situation. Robert Alter, the great expert in Jewish comparative literature that teaches at Berkeley, this is what he says about this in his commentary on Genesis. He says, the tradition of English versions that render this term handmaiden, maid, or maid servant imposes a misleading sense of European gentility on the sociology of the story. the fact is that Hagar belongs to Sarah as her property. And the ensuing complications of their relationship all build on this fundamental fact. Now, what Robert Alter is saying, you see what I mean by saying, why he says the term maidservant and all that kind of prettifies it up. When you think of a maidservant, you think of someone who comes into the house and does the cooking and cleans up, you know, and you pay. No. The reason that Hagar's children would be Sarah's children Hagar is owned by Sarah. The reason that Hagar has children and Sarah has children is because she's Sarah's property, and that means her children will be Sarah's property. And if you think that's bad, it gets worse. Because verse 5 and 6 are so vivid and raw, if we read it carefully. Look, it says, when she knew, when Hagar knew she was pregnant, she began to despise spies tells us a great deal. What happens now is because of what Sarah has done, everything gets complicated, deeply complicated. First of all, this woman who was just a subservient handmaiden, subservient slave, now she's getting a status inside the community because she's bearing Abraham's child and she no longer can grovel. She no longer, you know, in Asian cultures, for example, you don't look right in the eye, right? If you're an inferior, you don't look right in the eye of the superior. My guess is she started looking Sarah right in the eye. It's all kinds of ways in which she could no longer be subservient. And it's not just that the sociology of it, as Robert Alter says, it's the psychology of it. To say the least, Sarah would have had deeply ambivalent and conflicting feelings about the new bond of intimacy between her former handmaiden and slave, you see, and her husband. And so she bursts into, and see, this is where, again, the English translation kind of hurts us a little bit. She bursts in verse 5 and says, you are responsible for this wrong, which is kind of unfair, all right? But then she says, look carefully, I am suffering. I put my servant in your arms. Well, that's not what it says in Hebrew. That's a euphemism. The English translator puts in there, because literally it says, I put my servant girl in your lap. I put my servant girl between your legs. The reason she's using this graphic statement is it shows the rawness of her emotions. It shows her despondency. It shows her anger. It shows her deep humiliation. It shows her despair. She comes and she says, I am suffering. I put my servant girl between your legs and this is what I get for it. And then Abraham, in this unbelievable callousness, look what he says in verse 6. Your servant is in your hands. Do with her whatever you think best. She's still your slave, he says. Look at this. Look at this great hero of the faith, all right? He says, what are you getting all bent out of shape about? She's still your slave. Treat her as a slave. Do whatever you want. And when it says, then Sarah mistreated Hagar, you know what that word mistreated is? That's a Hebrew word that's used to describe what the Egyptians did to the Israelite slaves in Egypt when they couldn't make bricks fast enough. And you know what that means? Sarah beat her. Abraham says, she's still your slave. Do what you want with her. You know? If your life's getting complicated, take her in hand. She goes back and starts beating her, and Hagar runs. Now, what's the moral of this story? And here's where people start to get very confused and very, very upset. They say, what is going on here? These are supposed to be the heroes of the faith. We're supposed to be reading the Bible and looking at these moral exemplars. And look at this. Look at how the women are being demeaned. Look at how slavery is being condoned. Look at all the exploitation. Look at all the oppression. Look at all the injustice. This is ridiculous. And Abram is just fine with it. And Sarah is just fine with it. And many people say, this is why I cannot take the Bible. This is the reason why I believe that faith and religions that are rooted in the Bible

backward. I am confused. I'm oppressed. These heroes of the faith, how am I supposed to emulate them? This is ridiculous. This is disgusting. Stop for a minute. Just stop for a second. Do a little bit of analysis. Why are you offended and why are you disgusted? I would like you to at least consider this theory. My theory is it's because you have not come to the text neutrally. You haven't come objectively. You haven't really come open. You've already come having been sold and having bought a view of what the message of the Bible already is. Before you've even heard it. Before you've really even read it. And what most people think the Bible's about and what Christianity's about they think the Bible is a book of virtues. It's a series of stories with morals to them. It's a series of stories of moral exemplars that show us how we ought to live Emulate those moral exemplars. God will bless you. And that's what people think the Bible's about. That's what people think Christianity's about. And when they read the book. They begin to read the Bible. Already having their mind made up. About what it's about. Without actually listening to it. They say. This is ridiculous. Yes. Of course it's ridiculous. Yet. That's what the Bible's about. But look at this text. This text proves to you. The Bible is not a book of virtues. It's a book of gospel. It's not a series of stories. Of moral exemplars. It's a record of God's intervening grace into the lives of people who don't deserve it, who don't seek it, who continually resist it, and who don't even appreciate it after they've been saved by it. Or, look, what is this teaching us? This is teaching us that the very best human beings in the history of the world are moral and spiritual failures, that they can't rise above their own culture. They can't rise above the brutality of their own times. And they can't escape the self-centeredness of their own hearts. But God continues to come to them. And He continues to not give up on them. And He continues to patiently speak to them. And to help them. And to aid them. And to save them. And to rescue them. Again and again and again. So you see. Look. If you're deeply offended by this. Consider the possibility. It's because you have already Bibles other than what the Bible itself says it is. You may think that the message of the Bible is give God a righteous life and then God will bless. And so, hey, where's the righteous life? What's the moral of the story? But the message of the Bible is not you give God a righteous life and then he owes you. But that God comes to you, all of us, always by sheer grace, and then we owe him. In other words, is the Bible mainly about you and how you should be, what you should be doing. Is it mainly about Him and what He has done. Which is it. And it's mainly about Him and what He's done. If it's a gospel. If it's a record. Of how God continually puts his grace in the lives of people. Who don't seek it. Who don't deserve it. Who don't continually resist it. Who don't appreciate it. Even after they've been saved. Then there's nothing surprising about this. Is there. One more quickie. Before we go on. To the other. Three. one more thing we can learn about from this first figure, this exploited slave. There's an amazing thing that God does when he speaks to her the first time. In verse 9, he actually says, go back to your mistress and submit to her. You know, the one who's been beating you? Go back to her. Now, if you say, oh my goodness, how socially retrograde, you're missing the point. Why do I want you to go back? Why does God want her to go back? Verse 9, because of verse 10, because I want to bless you and I want to make you a great nation. Now, you have to remember that in that culture and at that time, that would be the greatest dream of any man or woman. In other words, God is coming and saying to Hagar, I'm going to give you more than you ever dared ask or think, but the way to get it to is by you going back. Now, as readers, we know why. See, we're the readers and we have the all-knowing view of the narrator. We know this, that at the moment that God talks to Hagar the first time, her life is headed for a dead end because she's a fugitive slave. At the very best, she's never going to settle down. She's always going to be looking over her shoulder. At the very worst, she's going to be caught, destroyed, maybe killed. So here's what he says. I'm going to give you the freedom you want, but you've got to go back. And see, we actually know, as the readers, that she goes back. God says, I'll protect you there. She has Ishmael. And when Sarah's jealousy in chapter 21 reasserts itself, we didn't print that part in the bulletin, Sarah says to Abram, cast out the bondwoman and her son. And Abram, very unwillingly, but he does it, he sends her out. And that's what you have at the last part of the text that we have printed. Abram now sends her out. This time, they're physically, she and Ishmael are physically on the verge of death, but God comes through, shows them a well, and saves them again. But now she's free. She's really free. Now, here's the point. God sometimes calls us to do things that are extremely difficult, yet they're on the way to some greater blessing, but at the moment, we cannot see the whole picture. We have no idea why. Can you live with a God like that? In other words, God will give you what you would have asked for if you knew everything he knows, but you don't. God says to her, I want you to go back into a situation of extreme difficulty, and this is the way I'm going to get you to the blessing. But she can't see that, but she goes. Can you live with a God like that? If he is God, if he's God, of course that would be the way he'd be. But do you live that way? Are you willing to see the extremely difficult situations that God very often keeps you in are ways to blessing, but you can't see them? Are you able to trust him? are able to handle a God like that. So first, that's what we learned from this exploited slave. Now let's look at the barren woman and the stupid man. You know, Hagar is obviously, in a sense, the protagonist. She's the one who has been harmed. But now we have the perpetrators. And the perpetrators are Sarah and Abram. Now let's look at Sarah for a second. I called her a barren woman, and some of you are wincing, maybe, and you should be. Because we're we're more and more dropping that term. And I think we ought to. Because you see, the term barren woman, barren woman is saying, if you are infertile, if you cannot bear children, you're a failure as a woman. You know, to call a woman barren, who cannot bear children, is to say she's a failure as a woman. And we've moved away from that, and here's why. Because we today say, isn't that awful that old traditional culture, and of course it's not just our past, but it's also many cultures in the world today still. Isn't that awful that kind of culture is so oppressive to women? That culture would look at a woman and say, you're a failure as a woman if you don't have children and a family. Thank goodness we don't live in a culture like that. We don't live in an oppressive culture, do we? We live in a culture that says you can be whoever you want to be, and you can marry whoever you want to marry. Oh, do we live? Listen, I don't want anything I'm about to tell you be interpreted as me saying, oh, let's go back. But here's what I want to ask you. When you see these stories, you're looking into a traditional culture in which the family comes before the individual. The group comes before the individual. And back then, marriages were arranged. Why were marriages arranged? Because the group, the family, decided who you would marry because the criteria for who you married was that it helped your family. You married the person who enabled your family to fare well in the world. And the group made that decision. So you didn't make your own decision because the needs of the family came ahead of the needs of the individual. But now we live in our modern Western culture. And now the needs of the individual, the freedom and the desires of the individual are ascendant over the needs of the family and the group. And I'll be the first to admit that many, many good things have come from that. But let me ask you this with the greatest sensitivity. Please, because I know plenty of people who've been involved in this. Let me ask you this with sensitivity. Yes, that culture is very oppressive to women. was, no doubt about it. But now our culture, of course, says you can be anything you want to be. You know, we're almost sure, the experts tell us almost for certain, that when Hagar and Sarah were alive, women didn't have trouble with eating disorders. Because the expert culture, expert people will tell us that in traditional cultures today, there are still cultures like this in the world that women don't have a problem with eating disorders, by and large. Why not? not. Because you see, there is no such thing as a culture that says you can be whoever you want. Every culture has a definition of barrenness. Every culture says unless you have that, you're nobody, you're nothing, you're a failure. And in tribal traditional cultures, you had to have family and children. That's how you knew you weren't barren. That's how you knew you were somebody. That's how you knew you had worth and significance. But now we say, oh, today we can marry anyone we want. nah. Today you're free to marry anyone you can attract. And you see, in a modern individualistic culture, the culture is saying to you, you better be good looking. You better be successful. You better be smart. You better be popular. You better be this. You better be that. There has never been a culture that didn't say. You've got to be this or you're nothing. Every culture tells you something. And you bring it in. And you hate yourself if you don't achieve what your culture's told you. And you say, I don't like the way mainstream culture puts all that emphasis on this and this. I've joined a little subculture over here that doesn't believe in that. But now you have your subculture. And your subculture's going to tell you something. And whatever your culture tells you, you've got to be to be a worthwhile person or else you're barren

you take into yourself and you hate yourself if you don't achieve it and you beat yourself up if you don't achieve it but it's not just a cultural and psychological transaction it's a spiritual one look at sarah in verse two she says the lord has kept me from having children go sleep with my handmaid servant maybe i can build a family through her you know

a religious person. She believed in God. She prayed. She practiced her religion. But when push came to shove, when she had to choose between trusting God, staying with God, you know, continuing to trust in his promise, or getting a kid, she was religious until push came to shove and she had to choose between God and the baby. What did she want? The baby. And this is what this means. When your culture tells you have to have this or you're nobody, and every culture does that, it's not just that your culture is socially constructing you, your identity, as the postmodern theorists say, and they're right. Something deeply spiritual is going on. You take that into yourself, and that becomes your real God, your real salvation, you know, so your real significance. Don't you see? That's what's happened to Sarah. Sarah drops the religiosity and shows that the real thing she's after, the real thing she's got to have is she's going to be a significant person, is what her culture told her. And I'm just saying this. The irony of the narrative is she's the slave too. She's got an inward slavery. She's inwardly changed. That's it's the irony. Here's Hagar. And she's literally the slave. But Sarah's a slave too. Now what's the point? The point is, what are you a slave to? If you don't think you're chained, you're very chained. If you don't think, well, I'm an individual. No, you're not. You're part of a culture. Some culture. Maybe an anti-mainstream culture. Subculture. You're something. Your family. Your friends. Your subculture. Your culture tells you. You've got to be this or you're barren. Everybody's told that. And we take it inside because we're not sure we got to convince ourselves and other people that we're okay. We take it into ourselves and it becomes, it becomes our God. It becomes our salvation. That's what we're being told. And you are chained until something can convince you that apart from that, you really can be loved. unloved. We're chained. She's chained. Do you see that? That's the irony of the narrative. Third figure. So how are we going to get out of that? What are we going to do about that? Okay, let's look at our third figure. And the third figure is the stupid man, Abraham. And, you know, verse 3, for many years I missed this because the modern translations say what they say. say. Verse 3, it says, Abram agreed to what Sarah said. But what it literally says in the Hebrew is Abram hearkened to the voice of his wife. And every commentator, Jewish, Christian, liberal, conservative, every commentator says that was an unmistakable signal from the narrator that Abram is the one who's screwing up the most royally, that he's having the big fall and he's having the big lapse. Why? Because that's exactly the word-for-word thing that's said in Genesis 3 when it says, Adam, hearken to the voice of his wife. In other words, Abram is falling, not because he's listening to his wife, but because he's doing the same thing Adam did. And what is that? You see, these two women are two approaches to the blessing. If he says, I'm going to get the blessing of this son through Sarah, he's going to have to receive it as a complete act of grace. He's going to have to wait for a miracle have kids. But if he tries to achieve it through Hagar, that's something he has the human ability to do because maybe Sarah's infertile, but he's not. So Hagar is a way of works, and Sarah is a way of grace. Hagar is a way to get God's blessing through achievement. Sarah is a way of getting in God's blessing through receivement, okay? In Hagar, he can get God's blessing by performing his own power, but with Sarah, he's going to have to wait passively just to receive some divine intervention into history. But that's exactly where we are, don't you see? In fact, Paul knew about it. Paul comments on the Hagar-Sarah story in Galatians 4 when he says this, listen. He says, He says, listen, you who want to save yourselves by obeying the law. It is written that Abram had two sons. One by the slave woman. The other by the free woman. His son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way. But the son of the free woman was the result of the promise. You see, Abram had two things put in front of him. Save yourself by works. Or wait and be saved by grace. And he went to save himself by works. He says, I'm going to get the blessing and when you do that, everybody's life blew up. Everybody's life blows up. Why? Because it's trying to earn your salvation through works, which is the basic reason for our inner enslavement. We've taken something, we've said, if I achieve that, then I'll not be barren. But that creates this enslavement. That's why Sarah's doing ridiculous things, nutty things, hurting herself, doing desperate things. That's why everybody's life is blowing up. so how are we going to be freed into the way of grace from our inner bondage and the answer is look at the last figure there is the estranged the probably the exploited one exploited slave the barren woman the stupid man and finally the mysterious friend now who's the hero of the story. You have a victim, Hagar and Ishmael. You've got the perps, the perpetrators, got Abraham and Sarah. But what's interesting, at the end of the first part, when Hagar is on her way to a dead-end life as a fugitive slave, in comes someone and turns her life around. And then the second time, when she and Ishmael are out and they're about to die of starvation and thirst and exposure, in comes somebody and turns their life around. And it's this, the hero, you know? Who's the hero of this story? This mysterious figure, the angel of the Lord. Now, why is this figure so mysterious? Two reasons. First of all, the first thing that's so mysterious about this figure is that this is really unlike any other angel we've ever seen. There are angels that show up, you know, and do the annunciation to Mary, and they're at the tomb of Jesus and they talk to John in the revelation of St. John, right? Okay. But all of these angels always are very explicit, I'm not the Lord. You know, one of the funniest, I know this sounds funny. It doesn't maybe seem funny to you, but it's funny to me. One of the funniest places in the Bible is where an angel has shown up and he's talking to John in the book of Revelation. and it says John fell down to worship the angel and the angel said, get up. And I find it funny because it's almost, it looks to me like, you know, he's freaked the angel out, you know, and I think that's pretty funny. And the angel says, get up. Why? He says, I'm a created being like you. I'm not God. Don't treat me like God. Don't talk to me like I'm God. But this angel's different. First of all, this doesn't say an angel of the Lord. that says, the angel of the Lord. And look how weird it is. In verse 10 and 11, the angel said, I will make you a great, right? He's talking like he's God. He's doing the very thing the other angels never do. And yet other times he talks as if the Lord, he says, the Lord will bless you. And other times he'll say, I will bless you. But you see, even Hagar knows at the end, she's utterly amazed when she says, have I seen the one? The one I talked to was the Lord. That's really weird, but there's something even weirder about it. Every other time before, and most of the times afterwards, whenever God's presence shows up, it's traumatic. Remember when God appeared to Abram in Genesis 15 a couple weeks ago, we talked about it? What do you have? You have in Genesis 15, when God shows up, there's darkness, and there's dread, and there's blaze, and there's smoke, right? It's a horrible situation. It's frightening. It's awesome. When God comes down on Mount Sinai, there's thunder, there's lightning, there's earthquake. When God begins to speak from Mount Sinai, his very voice is too much for people to a bear and they run away and they say to Moses, stop it. When God shows up to Isaiah, his train, you know, he's high and lifted up and his train fills the temple and the smoke filled the temple. But look carefully here. None of that. If this is the Lord,

look how accessible he is. Look how ordinary he is. There is no sense of thunder and lightning. there is no in there's no evidence of any kind of major traumatic uh manifestations not only that but we're not even sure from what you can tell it looks like in the very beginning Hagar wasn't even sure she was talking to something special he is so ordinary he is so accessible and that was the whole point Hagar says have I really seen the one who sees everyone she says whence this grace? How is it possible that, why am I still alive, she's saying? Why am I still alive? How could God have come that near? And the God who sees everyone, have I actually seen him? Have I been able to, how could this be? And that's a good question. This figure, this mysterious figure, is God with all of his glory, comes so near, and yet the creator of the universe, able to get into a dialogue with a fugitive slave woman and say, hey, where are you going? What's wrong? This accessibility, this ordinariness, how is this possible? Well, years later, Malachi chapter 3, verse 1, Malachi the prophet prophesied that the angel of the Lord would someday come to the temple. He says, the one you seek, the angel of the covenant, will come to his temple. And in Matthew 11, verse 10, Jesus quotes that verse and says essentially, that's me. What he's saying is I'm the one, through me, the glory of God can come near in grace and be safe. Well, how could that be? It's like this. I've been meditating all, quite a while now, on the place where the angel says, has heard the cry of the boy. When Ishmael is dying, poor Ishmael, thrown out of his father's house, his life is just one long experience of rejection. And now he's dying at the end. It seems to be at the very end of his life. And he cries out. And what does the angel say? day, the Lord has heard the cry of the boy. Why? Because centuries later, another poor woman got an angel who came and said, you shall bear a son and he shall be called. But when this young son was born into the world, he also experienced nothing but rejection. He came to his own, and his own received him not, and at the very end, even his father forsook him. But here's where there's a difference between Ishmael and Jesus. That when Jesus was at the very end of his life, when he was stretched out on the cross, he cried to God too, didn't he? He said, my God, my God. But God did not answer him. God let him sink. Why? Well, this is the answer. This is the answer. Abraham does not deserve to be the father of a multitude. Sarah does not deserve to have a child. And Hagar and Ishmael, they're not particularly virtuous people. Look, he shall be a wild donkey of a man. That's hardly a great resume. That's not some noble person. They don't deserve all this help. They don't deserve all this salvation. They don't deserve to have their cries heard. They don't deserve to have God come back again and again and again even though they're so stupid. Why does God keep hearing their cry? Because he didn't hear cry. Jesus Christ came and took what we deserve. He took what Abram deserves. He took what Sarah deserves. He took what we deserve. God did not hear the cry of his boy so that he, through Jesus Christ, could hear all the rest of our cries. So that he could be both just and justifier of those who believe. Does that move you? Does that change you? Does that become the central thing of your life? God is really saying in this text, you will always be a slave to your culture and to the identity that culture gives you until your heart is completely convinced that I love you, that you are worth loving as you are, not on the basis of any performance at all. And that's the only thing that's going to really, really convince your heart about that is to see what God was willing to do for you. His boy cried and he sank so that all the others could cry out and got here. Only then will you get that inner freedom. Only then will you not be a slave. And only then will you not oppress other people. If you know that as much as I love my children, as much as I love preaching, as much as you love your career, as much as your art is important to you if you're an artist. Or your business is important to you if you're in business. whatever. These things just become good things. They're no longer your masters. They're no longer the things that you've got to have or else I'm barren. And then, and then only do you have the inward freedom. You see, the inward freedom. Only then are you not a slave. Now what are you supposed to do with that inward freedom? Here's one last thing to say. This mysterious figure does not only show you the way to inward freedom. It shows you what you're supposed to do with it? What are you supposed to do with your inward freedom? What if you get this new release, this new identity that is so stable and so filled with God's love that you're able to no longer be, have to listen to what your culture tells you? What do you do with that inward freedom? Now do you move out and you reach all the goals in life and you live a happy life and a comfortable life and you have peace in your private world? No. Look at God. What is his concern here? Think about this. Hagar is an Egyptian, not a Hebrew. Okay? Hagar is a woman, not a man, a slave, not free. But not only that, you've got to remember this. Hagar and Ishmael are not in the chosen line. They don't show any particular faith in the promise of God to Isaac and Abram. We know that they move off into a whole different direction. And yet God is concerned about their exploitation. He is concerned about them. You know, Walter Brueggemann, a commentator on Genesis, says this about this whole story. It's amazing. He says, God is not exclusively committed to Abraham and Sarah. That's what this is teaching. His concern is not confined to the elect line. There is such passion and such concern for the oppressed even for the troubled and the exploited who are outside of that line. Here's what this means. What are you supposed to do with your inward freedom? You get inward freedom so you can look outside and work for the outward and inward freedom of anyone out there who's oppressed, no matter who they are. You're not supposed to take your inward freedom and just have a happy life with it. You look at people who are outwardly and inwardly, spiritually and socially and economically and psychologically oppressed and broken. And you say, out for them because he laid himself out for me. There's the picture of the Christian life. You know, one thing that's amazing is Hagar gets so excited that God sees her. And she should be. This is the God who sifts stars through his hands like sand. So if you have a God that great, she was so excited that God noticed her. A God that big, stars like sand, that he notices me. And she was extremely excited. But how much more excited should you be because you know something she didn't know? God says to you through the gospel of Jesus Christ, notice you. I'll tell you how important you are. I died for you. Now, if Hagar was excited, how should you be? If Hagar found that really changed her and sent her back, sent her back into that situation, trusting in a God like this, How much more should you be willing and able to face anything knowing that he did that for you? Let us pray. We thank you, Father, for this story that shows your concern for the outward freedom of all the exploited in the world and the way that inward freedom can come to us through faith in the gospel. And we ask only this, that you would help us as we partake in the Lord's Supper, that you would really and truly help us to know this inward freedom in a deeper way so that we can share your concern for the exploited and the oppressed in a more extensive way as well. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.