The story of Mary's anointing of Jesus' feet, and then an explanation of the principles behind the incident, which is found a little later in the chapter, verses 23 to 26. So I'm going to read chapter 12, verses 1 to 8, but also verses 23 to 26 of chapter 12. Six days before the Passover, Jesus arrived in Bethany, where Lazarus lived, whom Jesus had raised from the dead. Here a dinner was given in Jesus' honor. Martha served while Lazarus was among those reclining at the table with him. Then Mary took a pint of pure nard, an expensive perfume. She poured it on Jesus' feet and wiped his feet with her hair. And the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume. But one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, who was later to betray him, objected. Why wasn't this perfume sold and the money given to the poor? It was worth a year's wages. He did not say this because he cared about the poor, but because he was a thief. As keeper of the money bag, he used to help himself to what was put into it. Leave her alone, Jesus replied. It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. You will always have the poor among you, but you will not always have me among you. Meanwhile, pardon me, verse 23. And Jesus replied, The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. I tell you the truth. Unless a kernel of wheat falls to the ground and dies, it remains only a single seed. But if it dies, it produces many seeds. The man who loves his life will lose it, while the man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Whoever serves me must follow me, and where I am, my servant also will be. My Father will honor the one who serves me. This is God's word. What's it mean to be a Christian? One good definition is a follower of Christ. I noticed recently the new Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of the Episcopalian Church all around the world, was asked in Time magazine, what is a Christian? And he said, it's someone who follows Christ. And what he was trying to get at is even though, of course, to be a Christian, you have to assert assent to certain doctrinal truths and propositions, Christianity is far more than that. It's not less, that's a foundation, but it's more. It means to follow Christ with all of your heart and all of your will and all of your mind. But what does it mean? Jesus makes here some of the most startling and radical kinds of comments on what it means to follow Christ. And I think if we got it from anyone else's lips, we'd have to reject it. Anybody else but Jesus himself telling us, this is what you've got to do to be a follower of Christ, we'd have to say, that's ridiculous, that's extreme, it's too much. But because it comes from Jesus, we've got to put up or shut up. What happens here, well, if you were at the 10 o'clock service, last week I used an illustration and a different connection, only at one of the four services. And I'm going to resurrect it and bring it back because it so perfectly illustrates what Jesus is saying. If you were here at this service last week, you remember this. There was a young man not too many years ago now who was taking a trip on the river in Maine, and he was on a raft, and he saw a dam come up in the river. He thought he could navigate it. He went over the dam, but he overturned and fell into the water. Now, the backwash at the base of the dam created a whirlpool. And because that whirlpool was pulling him in, he tried to swim to shore, or he tried to swim downstream, and he couldn't do it. Because the water was so cold, he was in great danger, and there was a group of people who were watching this from the shore. They were helpless. And he struggled away from the whirlpool, but the whirlpool kept pushing him down, pulling him down, and he never, ever could break free from it, but he never actually went down until he died of hypothermia. The minute he died, his body was sucked down into the base of within five seconds, had popped up 10 yards downstream, free from the current, where he could have swum to shore. The point is that the current that he thought would drown him would have saved him. The point is, by trying to save himself, he killed himself. The solution to the problem was counterintuitive. The apparent death was the actual way of salvation. Jesus Christ says here's what it means to follow me. You have to hate your life to find it. You have to lose your life to discover it. Following Christ is counterintuitive. What Jesus Christ demands, what he'll demand today as we look at it, will seem to your intuition, to your natural intuition, to be the death of joy, freedom, options, and potential. And yet actually, it's the birth and freedom and options and potential. See why I had to use that illustration again. It's too perfect. Now, what are actually the principles of following Christ that we can see here in this incident of Mary anointing his feet and also in the statement that Jesus makes explaining the principles behind the incident? Let me begin to list them to you. First of all, following Christ means abandoning your pride. Very important first. Can't go any further unless you come to grips with what this means. Mary has done several disgraceful things here. First of all, she was washing and anointing Jesus' feet, and in that dusty, nasty, hot climate, dealing with people's feet was such a lowly and disgusting task that many, in most municipalities, it was illegal to make your slaves do that. It was too demeaning to ask a slave to do such a thing. But on top of that, Mary also untied her hair. And for a woman to untie her hair and let her hair down in public was also a disgrace. Surely you realize the strict rules there are of a woman's hair can be shown in those Near Eastern countries. It's not just an Islamic thing. It was a Near Eastern thing. And for her to pull her hair down and to untie it was, again, something that women just didn't do. It was a disgrace. And then to take the hair, not use a towel, to take the hair. And with her hair, anoint and clean Jesus' feet was even more demeaning. What is Mary doing? Here's what she's saying. She's looking at Jesus and she's saying, I don't care what anybody thinks. I know who you are and I know that you deserve all my honor. And there is no act of devotion which is beneath my dignity. There is no act of devotion that I care what anyone else thinks about when I do it. I don't care what anyone thinks. I know who you are, and I know I must honor you with everything I have. Now, the word pride, she abandoned her pride. Now look, the word pride can be used to mean a lot of good things, but it can also be used to mean a lot of bad things. And I'd like today, just for the moment, not to pick on the word pride because it can mean good things, but today I'd like to use it to denote a bad thing. And that is a deep heart, the Bible says, is there. It's there naturally. It's an impulse. It's a trait. And it says to God, to the world, to life, but especially to God, you owe me. That's what I mean today by pride. It's that impulse that says to the world, world, life, God, you owe me a better life than I've got. Anybody see the interview with Katharine Hepburn last week in the New York Times? Very interesting, she gives tremendous testimony to this impulse. She talks about it. The impulse that's deep in every human heart, the sense that God owes me a good life. God owes me, the world owes me life, but God owes me. When that impulse meets with success, and when that impulse meets with disappointment, the impulse takes different looks, different forms, but it's basically the same thing. Catherine Hepburn says that when she first arrived, she was living down on 51st Street back in 1931 when she first arrived she first made it she says when I arrived I dropped my husband she says I was a pig he was wonderful I was a pig it wasn't it wasn't like he had a problem I had about I was a pig I used him I dropped him and then she said she said she found that most people when they arrive when they become successful they do that she says they become takers they feel like they deserve, because of their specialness, to help themselves to the world, to take and use people. She says, later on in life, if you've got any kind of character, you begin to realize what you've done and you become a philanthropist. And she comes right out, she gives perfect testimony. She says, that's what happens when you arrive. In New York, most of us have, you know, rubbed elbows with people who used to not be anybody, but now are somebody. and they don't have a lot of use for us anymore. And if you're bitter and you're cynical, you don't know your own heart. This is in everybody's heart. It's just that when your deep impulse to say, God owes me, I deserve this great life, I deserve to be able to use it, I deserve, I'm so special. When that impulse meets with success, it turns into shallowness and manipulation. Kate Hepburn said so. and therefore if you are a person who's had some success and you want to come to Christ you've got to abandon your airs of dignity you've got to not say well if I become a Christian if I go to church will it be the kind of people I want to stick around with it is my kind of people how will it look to my peers my dear friends look at Mary wiping his feet with her hair until you say I don't care what anybody thinks I know who he is and what I owe him. Until you drop the idea that God owes me a great life, until you drop the idea that you deserve this wonderful life, until you get rid of your areas of dignity, you can't follow Christ. God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Now, on the other hand, if this impulse, God owes me a good life, if it meets with a disappointing life, what happens? There is nothing that turns you into a more self-righteous person than to have a disappointing life. Nothing. Because you say, life is unfair. God is unfair. Things are unfair. I'm as good as the next person. Why should I be at this stage in my life where I am now? There is nothing that makes you more self-righteous than that. Why? Because you see underneath that impulse God owes me has now met with disappointment. It doesn't turn you into a shallow superficial person. It turns you into a self-righteous, angry, bitter, cynical person. Now, if anything, maybe this second condition is a little better than the first condition because at least in the second condition you realize that your pride is draining you of your humanity, draining you of your compassion, draining you of your understanding. At least you know you're losing your humanity in the former condition you don't even realize you have. But the fact is, Jesus Christ says, If you want to follow me, you have to die to live. You have to relinquish your right to happiness and only then will you get happiness. You've got to stop saying to God, You owe me. Whether you're saying that from the upside of life or whether you're saying that from the downside of life, you've got to abandon pride or you cannot follow him. You've got to say, God, you owe me nothing. I owe you everything. And until you say that, there is absolutely no way that you can proceed. Religiosity, coming to church, reading the Bible, praying. Deep down inside of you, there's an impulse that says, God, if there is a God, owes me a better life than I've got. Or unless you've got a great life. God, if there is a God, owed it to give me this life. Because after all, I'm special. you can acknowledge it, until it begins to dawn on you, you owe him everything, he owes you nothing. Until that dawns on you and your humanity starts to come rushing back to you and you come and you begin to get a tender heart again, a deep heart, you cannot follow him. Secondly, following Christ, okay, the first thing is you've got to be able to say, Father, you owe me nothing. Lord, I owe you everything. That's Mary's attitude. That's her humble stance. Nothing is beneath my dignity. Until that happens, you will not awake. You will not come alive. Okay, secondly, following Christ means, we said, abandoning pride. Secondly, it means discerning his death. Why is it that Mary is doing what she's doing? Motivation is absolutely crucial to following Christ It's not just important what you do it's important why you do it Your motivation means everything for whether you're really a Christian or just a moral religious person What does it mean to follow Christ externally from the outside Well it means you're trying to please him It means you're trying to do what he says It means you're seeking to emulate him and follow his example Right? All those things. But the question is, why? And unless the answer is Jesus' answer here, the Bible's answer, you're not a Christian. You may be very moral, you may be very religious, but you're not a Christian. See, there's a lot of reasons why you might try to emulate Christ. One of them I call the nostalgia purpose, the nostalgia motivation. You were raised in a church. And so coming to church and emulating Christ and deferring to Christ just makes you feel somehow right. And when you're not coming to church, you just somehow don't feel right. That's all. It's nostalgia. It's just a sense of what you're used to. And that's one reason that some people say, I follow Christ based on the way they were raised. There's another way, there's another purpose I would call it the bargaining motivation. Some of you are emulating Christ because you're trying to cut a deal with God. Somehow you feel like, look, I need his protection. I need his help. When I get in trouble, I want to know that he answers my prayers. So I'll emulate him. I'll try to obey the Ten Commandments. I'll give to the poor. I'll come to church. That's the bargaining motivation. Some of you have got a guilt trip motivation, and the guilt trip motivation goes like this. You are trying desperately to convince God and yourself that you are a person of worth. And you don't believe it. And so you come and make all sorts of moral efforts and religious efforts and you feel like if I try real hard, maybe, we'll both believe that I really am a person of value and worth. None of those motivations will make you a Christian. All those motivations will either wear you out or burn you out or they'll let you down. Motivations are either too half-hearted or too crushing into the ground and you'll burn out. None of them are the ones that we're talking about here. Mary. Why did Mary, Jesus says, do this? Why is she doing it? Look at verse 7. Leave her alone, Jesus replied. It was intended that she should save this perfume for the day of my burial. She didn't understand exactly, but somehow Mary's faith and her love for Jesus had penetrated and perceived something that his disciples yet didn't know. She realized that he was going to die. She realized that he was going to die for her. And so when she got down and she started to anoint his feet, what she was saying was, I don't understand how, oh Lord, and I don't understand why exactly, but I realize that you're doing something for me. And it overwhelms me. If she knew the hymn, what she would do is, if she just knew the words, she would have gotten down on her feet and she would have said, as we're going to sing later on, were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. This is the dynamic. If this is not the thing that drives you to follow Christ, you're not a Christian. You're discerning his death. There's a supernatural power, a supernatural mainspring, like in the old watches, or the old clocks, you have a mainspring. The mainspring was grateful joy for the fact that Jesus Christ had died, and because he had died, your guilt is taken away, your sins are forgiven, you're blameless in the sight of God, you now have unconditional love from him. It's all been accomplished for you. Until you understand that, until the motivation, the mainspring of your heart, says, were the whole realm of nature mine, that were a present far too small. Love so amazing, so divine, demands my soul, my life, my all. Unless that is the thing that drives you, you will either, other motivations will let you down or crush you. This is what Mary was being driven by. See, the other approaches, where you say, I need to try to emulate Christ because it'll pay, a worthwhile person because then maybe God will listen to my prayers. That, it won't work. You'll be constantly fighting against your natural instincts. You'll want to lie, but you're not supposed to. And so you'll want to be pure, but you won't be. And it's a little bit like taking a piece of metal and it's bent this way. So you say, I guess I'll bend it back this way. And you know, when you just bend metal, it puts tremendous stress on it and it might break. The real way to change the shape of metal is to heat it. And while it's soft, change it. And then when it cools off, it'll be perfect. My dear friends, the things that you want to change in your life, if you want to become more like Christ, there's a kind of motivation that's like bending, in an artificial, mechanical way, the metal of your character. But if, on the other hand, you take the grateful joy that comes from discerning his death, knowing what he's done for you, then you're going to find that will actually change you. It will change you from the inside, in a sense, it'll heat you, it'll mold you, it'll really reshape you, instead of just bend you in an artificial way. There are people here, I know, because I talk to you, after every service, and there's people here who just don't get it, they say things like this, they say, I'm no good, I could never keep it up, I can't follow, I couldn't keep it up, I don't deserve anything. There's no way I could keep up all that. You don't know what following is yet, do you? You see, you're saying the reason that I need to follow Christ is so that I can be acceptable. And Jesus says, you fool. I love you. Come here, my love. I bore the blame, like we sang last week. My love, come here. Stand before the throne, absolved. My love has met the law's demand. If you understand that, He draws you in that way. If you discern his death, then you can follow Christ. If you don't discern his death, if that's not the mainspring in your life, if you don't really get it, if you don't believe it, if you don't accept it, then you're just a moralist, then you're just going to be bending and hurting yourself trying to be more like Christ. Following Christ means abandoning pride, saying, you owe me nothing. I owe you everything. and secondly, following Christ means discerning his death. Until you see that he owes you nothing, you'll never see that he's given you on the cross everything, a clear conscience, a future ablaze with glory and hope, the power in the present to change. Do you see that? You owe me nothing, I owe you everything and on the cross, you've given me everything. Thirdly, following Christ, we said it means abandoning pride, It means giving him all you have. Now, let's be understanding of Judas here. Do you know how much this ointment was? This ointment, the text says, was 300 denarii. 300 denarii was an entire year's wages. Can you imagine, any of you in this room, loving someone so much that when you go out to buy them a birthday present, you are willing to buy something that is equal in cost to your entire annual income. Can you imagine loving somebody that much? We can understand Judas, can't we? Here's Judas. What is he saying? He says, Hey, get a sense of proportion. I mean, devotion to Christ is all right, but you're being fanatical about it. What does Jesus say? Jesus is not nonplussed. He knows that in light of his sacrifice there is no such thing as over extravagance when it comes to devotion. A real follower of Christ is like an accountant that has developed an entirely new set of software for doing accounting. It says in Matthew 13 what that new set of accounting principles is. It says when a follower of Christ is like somebody who when he finds the pearl of great price is willing to sell everything that he has in order to get that pearl, because he knows that pearl is worth more, hundreds, thousands of times more than all that he owns. So he knows that when he gets that pearl, he'll have something far more. So with joy, he gives up everything he has. Now think about this. Following Christ costs lots of things, but a follower is somebody who has spiritual accounting procedures, so you always give up what you've got with joy. There's a new attitude you have toward everything. Jesus Christ is saying here, don't follow me until you have an understanding of my death so that there is nothing in your life that you would not be willing to give up for me. Until that, you don't understand. You don't have the new spiritual accounting procedures. Your attitude toward all of your things, the things that seem so secure and safe and valuable, should be totally changed. For example, following Christ could cost you a relationship, principles go like this. The love I lose for Christ will be nothing like the love I will get from Christ. So new spiritual accounting procedures. You see, the person who finds the pearl of great price with joy sells everything he has. With joy. Not with begrudgingness, with joy, because he realizes what he's getting. Following Christ always costs you money. See, because the Bible defines finds generosity different than the world does. The Bible says, until you find yourself giving away 10% of your income or thereabouts to the church, to people in need, to ministries that help people and spread the kingdom of God, until you're at least giving away 10% of your income, you're not yet being generous in biblical proportions. Now, a lot of people have trouble with that. People who have never discerned the death of Christ think that is ridiculous. I know of a husband and wife, a Christian couple, they both have a salary and they each make approximately the same thing. They live on one salary and give the other away. When the rest of their family got wind of it, they got on airplanes and they came to talk to them and said, we have to talk some sense into these people. Were the whole realm of nature mine? Not just one salary mine. That were a present far too small. It also may cost you comfort and security. purity. Following Christ may mean that you fall afoul of certain kinds of people who you need to be in with professionally. But the new spiritual accounting procedures say what? I sell everything I have with joy to get that pearl. You say, the security that I'm losing is nothing compared to the security I'm gaining. One of my teachers at seminary told us this story. where he told us about when he was a minister, there were two young women when they got out of college that went to his church, decided to go into missions. They decided to go work in third world countries doing community health and development and to start new churches. They wanted to go into missions. And the parents of these two women came to this minister, who later became a teacher, and said, these are just girls. You're an adult. Talk some sense into them. Don't they, you see, they need to get a job. PhD. They need to get some security. And the minister said to them, and told us many years later what he said to them, he said, let me get this straight. We're all in this little ball of rock called earth and we're spinning through space at millions of miles an hour. And if we don't happen to run into anything, it doesn't matter because underneath every single one of us, someday a trap door is going to open and we're going to fall off. And underneath are the everlasting arms of God are nothing. And maybe we need a master's degree for a little security. Come on. When you've seen the king in his beauty, when you've seen the pearl, like Mary, when you've discerned, like Mary, when you've looked all the way into his heart and you've seen the absolute light of his being, you have a whole new spiritual accounting process. And friends, listen. The things that you thought were so valuable it's like when Jesus shows up it's like the stars go out because of the sun and these things that seem so valuable that seem to really have your heart they become expendable and for the first time in your life when the Lord rises with healing in his wings in your heart you'll become people of generosity and the things that you felt were so important to your security when they begin to fade in the light of Jesus glory and grace for the first time you'll become people of courage and principle you'll be fazed by nothing but truth and love you won't be scared of anything Don't you want to be people like that? Following Christ is like a seed dying. And when you die, when the seed goes under, it blossoms. It doesn't really die. It becomes itself. The watery grave you think is going to be the end of you is the beginning of you. There's a courage. Unless you follow Christ, you have not got courage. You have not got security. You have not got generosity. Generosity. One more thing. Lastly. Following Christ means it means abandoning pride, it means discerning his death, it means giving all you have, but also it means giving all you are. See, ultimately God doesn't want your things, he wants you. The hardest thing to give is in. A friend of ours some years ago a shepherd family in the mountains of North Wales. And when she was up there, she saw what the shepherd had to do. Every so often the shepherd had to take all of his sheep and throw them into a vat of antiseptic. Otherwise the parasites would get them. And so what he saw, she watched this guy come to his sheep that he loved very much, pick them up, throw them into the vat, and as they were screaming and kicking, and they tried to get up to the side, he would snarl at them and snap at them and push them back down. Keep them underneath. You know, nose, ears, and eyes underneath the antiseptic until it was all over, and then you let them out. And she sat there and she said, you know, I know what they feel like. I got a shepherd that seems like sometimes does that to me. And she said, how I wish I could have expressed to them the reason behind why the shepherd was doing that. but she said I realized that they would never understand the knowledge was too wonderful for them it was too high for them they could not attain to it and yet you know what they had a trust why they didn't understand the pattern they only understood obedience they didn't understand what the shepherd was up to but they knew the shepherd there's no place where Paul says I know what my redeemer is up to whom I have believed. If in your life you say, I obey the shepherd if, if this and this and this happens, I'll obey if. If there's any ifs in your life, if there's any conditions on your obedience, you are the master and he is the servant. You have never actually obeyed at all. If you obey conditionally, if you obey when it looks practical, if you obey when it looks like it's going to pay off, you're the master and he's the servant and you're making him make applications. He says, by the way, would you mind obeying this particular commandment? Well, you say, I'll think about it. Until you take all the conditions off your obedience, you have never really given them yourself. You've given them things. The hardest thing to give is in. My dear friends, your heart was built for him. That's why Jesus says it's not until you go underground, until you are willing to discern his death, to abandon your pride, to give him everything you have will you ever find out who you really are? Will you ever sprout? Will you ever blossom? He says, unless the seed goes in, it remains alone. But if the seed goes in, not only do you blossom, but it says, my Father will honor him. The one who follows me, my Father will honor. Can you imagine what it must be like to have the Father, with all of his omnipotent greatness, honoring us? That's worth everything. I ask you this. Do you remember when Samuel asked Eli, Samuel said, Eli, somebody's calling me. Somebody's calling me. I think God's calling me. And Eli says, when God calls you the next time, say, speak, Lord, for thy servant heareth. Hmm? When God calls you, what do you say? Speak, Lord, thy servant heareth, or do you say, what do you want? What do you want now? Of course that's funny, but that's the attitude of your heart, the attitude of my heart. It says in Colossians 1, Jesus Christ is preeminent over the cosmos. The reason the cosmos is a cosmos and not a chaos is because He's preeminent. Is your life a cosmos, or is it a chaos? If it's a chaos, isn't it because He is not preeminent? When He speaks to you now, don't say, What do you want? say, speak Lord for thy servant heareth. Let's pray. Father, we go to you and in the breaking of the bread and the giving of the cup, we would say to you, we give you everything we have, we give you everything we are. We take the conditions off of our obedience. Father, we ask that you would enable us by your spirit meet us as we do that and speak to our hearts and flood it with your love and your concern and your care. We know on the authority of your word that anyone who comes to your feet like Mary will not perish. No one ever perished there. So we come. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.
