1 John chapter 2, and I have to apologize, this is my fault, but I'm going to read to you a few verses that aren't printed. I'd like to make my remarks tonight, I'd like to do the teaching on a slightly larger section of that epistle than I told the office staff to print up, so it's all my fault. But I'm going to read to you from 1 John chapter 2 verses 3 to 11, not just 7 to 11, but 3 to 11. I'm sorry. If you have a Bible with you, you can read that whole thing. Otherwise, just listen. I'll refer to it. You're not in any, you're not going to be in any kind of disadvantage. So it's 1 John chapter 2 verses 3 to 11. We know that we have come to know him if we obey his commands. The man who says, I know him, but does not do what he commands is a liar and the truth is not in him. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know that we are in him. Whoever claims must walk as Jesus did. stumble. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness. He does not know where he is going because the darkness has blinded him. We know that we have come to know him. Let me remind you where we are. When you read 1 John, this first letter of John, he starts right off in the first four verses telling us about his main reason for writing this church. And his main reason for writing is to tell us it's possible to have fellowship with God. It's possible not just to know about God, but to know God, to share in his life, to have a relationship with him, to actually have personal dealing with him, to have an intimate relationship with the triune God, the Lord of the universe. That's what John says is possible. And he does that, he tells us that, he announces that in the Then we began to look at chapter 1, verse 5, all the way over to chapter 2, verse 2. We've been looking at that for a few weeks. And in that section, John immediately says, if you want to have fellowship with God, you've got to believe the message. See, in verse 4 he says, we write this to make our joy complete. We want you to have the fellowship with the Father and the Son. Our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Then in verse 5, he immediately says, this is the message we have heard from him and declare to you. So if you want to have fellowship with God, there's a message. And you have to believe that message. Now, he calls it the message here, but elsewhere in the Bible, of course, it's called the gospel. And what is the gospel? What's the message? He says that God is light, holy, and perfect. Secondly, that we are sinful. We don't just do sinful things, but we have a sin nature. as Jesus, our God-son, has become the one who stands before the Father and speaks to the Father on our behalf. For the last couple of weeks, we've talked and thought about that together. We said, what does it mean that Jesus is our advocate, the one who stands there for us? And we said, what that means is that Jesus is our legal proxy, that Jesus is our legal representative, that when you believe in him, this is what it means to be a Christian, When you believe in him, that you have a legal relationship so that anything he achieves or loses, we achieve or lose. So that anything that he does becomes true of us as if we'd done it ourselves. So we said that Jesus is our advocate, he's our legal proxy, he's our representative both in the past and in the present. In the past, on the cross, he died, took the punishment for sins. What does that mean? If he is our advocate, if he is our representative, if he is our federal head, all those words we use, if he is our substitute, that means that we died that death. That means that we are as free from the guilt of our sins as if we'd already spent eternity in hell. Because he did on the cross. And if he did it, we did it. You see, what does it mean to be a Christian? What it means is that death is our death. We are as free from sins as if we died the death. But he's not only our substitute in the past. He's also our substitute in the present. In other words, it's not only that his death has become ours, but his life has become ours. It's not only that he was our proxy on the cross, but he's our proxy now, which means that when the Father looks at us, name before the Father. And he sees his perfect righteousness. And we, as I said, we are just as free from our sins as if we had actually spent eternity in hell as Jesus did on the cross when he took the wrath of God. But we are just as loved and honored as if we had done all the wonderful deeds that Jesus has done of love and compassion and courage, as if we were as perfectly faithful as he. His life is our life. His death is our death. The message. Now, John says, if you don't understand this message, if you don't know this message, you can't have fellowship with the Father. And that means, what I think John is saying here, and I'm going to keep on bringing this up all the rest of the year as we look at 1 John, John is telling us that Christianity is not merely objective or merely subjective. It is entire. It is both. And virtually any other approach to religion, apart from the gospel, will always try to make religion either all objective or all subjective, all externals or all internals. And what John is saying is, not just that it's both, but he's actually saying the two of them cannot be separated. Before Christianity, is subjectively true in us, it is objectively true for us. And if Christianity is objectively true for us, it will be subjectively true in us. The reason that there's a subjective connection, fellowship with God, is because there's an objective connection that we are one with God because of Jesus. Those things go together. Now, you're going to find, let me put it this way, you're going to find if you try to hold on to the biblical gospel, that people who hear what you believe are going to assail you from what I call the left or the right on this. Now, I'm not talking about politics. But I think you'll see why I use the metaphor, the characterization of it. I said there's attacks from the left and there's attacks from the right. There's attacks from the side of people who really believe that religion is completely subjective. objective and you'll also be attacked from people who really believe religion is just objective. And almost everybody falls in that category unless you understand this glorious gospel. See, put it this way. On the right, let's say, on the right, it's your left, it's my right. On the right, you've got people who say that really religion is mainly a matter of externals. These are people who say Christianity is a cultural expression. I'm Italian, therefore I'm a Christian. I'm Irish, therefore I'm a Christian. You're Arabic, therefore you're Muslim. There are people who say that's basically what Christianity is. It's a cultural expression. It's a heritage. It's a code of morals. It's a way of practice. These people will always be, these people who say that's what Christianity is, and they say they're a Christian, therefore, always be very offended if you even ask them, are you a Christian? They'll say, of course. Why are you asking me such a thing? And they will always, here's what's interesting, though they'll be offended by that, they will never want to discuss their religion. They'll say, ah, my religion is a very private thing. I don't like to talk about it. And here's why. Sometimes it really is true. Sometimes you really have a person who temperamentally is very sensitive and very shy. But often, the reason people say, of course I'm a Christian, it's my heritage, it's my family, it's my moral code, it's the way I live, and they don't want to talk about their faith, they say it's a private thing, I would never try to talk to someone else about it, is because they have no internal spiritual life at all. If your faith is a living thing, living things are always getting better or worse. Living things are expanding where they're are shrinking or they're changing shape, you see? I mean, if you have a living faith, if you have a living faith that this week your faith got better or it got worse, I mean, it's alive. It changes. It's advancing or it's regressing or maybe it's just changing in its shape. It's getting stronger in some ways and weaker in other ways. There's something to talk about. There's advancement. There's giving. There's taking. There's waxing. There's waning. But there are people who, their understanding Christianity is a kind of matter of externals. It's how I live my life or my heritage or my family and so on. There's no internal spiritual life at all. But on the other hand, on the left, you could say, here's my left, you've got another mindset. And these are people who see Christianity and religion as something completely subjective, something, it's all a matter of the personal. It's all internal. It's only internal. These are people who say, well, now everybody has to decide what is right for them. And nobody could ever say that their religion is objectively true. I got a letter after one of the service, one of the special friendship services we do in the evening sometime last year. I got a letter from a person who had come and he said, I'll tell you what so offended me about your whole presentation. And he said, in a respectful way, but he said, I'll tell you what offended me. He said, if you'd gotten up and just bore witness to the fact that you've had faith in Jesus, that he was the son of God, he was raised from the dead, that's fine. I would have said, hey, I respect that. You know, there's a lot of what you say, you know, sounds internally coherent. But when you tried to show me that it was true for me too, he said, that's offensive. When you try to make this objective case, that's offensive. In other words, people will say, well, yes, Christianity is true for you. It may not be true for somebody else. But do not insist that Christianity is true like gravity is true. Well, how is gravity true? Gravity is true in this way. Whether you believe it or not, it is in force. And if you break it, it will break you. You can either adapt to it and live a pretty decent life, albeit a rather earthbound one, or you can decide to deny it and say it's not true for me, but it is. Ah, you see that from the left they say, ah, Christianity isn't true like that. But you know, here's the great thing about Christianity. Every alternative, every attack, everybody who scoffs, everybody who's offended, they do so from a platform that is less rich. You see, every, from what I can understand, I look at this? People who criticize Christianity are criticizing it because Christianity is too rich. It's too complex. Ah, you see, Christianity is really subjectively true. That's reducing it. Christianity is all externals. That's reducing it. Every alternative to Christianity is one dimensional. Every alternative to Christianity is too simple. As soon as people say, that's a that's a pat answer. And it's a patter answer. If you say everything's a pat answer and nobody can know, that's easy to say. That's simple to say. In other words, I don't have to exercise my judgment. Maybe this is really absolute truth, maybe this is not. Ah, there's no absolute truth. That sounds real cynical, that sounds real world-weary. It's too easy. And it is a pat answer. You know, you don't even have a basis in your own system to say it. But worse than that is it just means you don't have to do any thinking anymore. Anybody who criticizes Christianity. It does so because Christianity is too rich, I think. And that's what John is saying. It's objectively and subjectively true. It's entire. It's complete. Now, both kinds of folks who dislike Christianity, either from that side or from this side, it's all externals, it's all internals, really can't stand this next statement. John makes a statement and over the next few chapters he goes to show us how that statement works out and how it's true. He says in verse 3, we know that we have come to know him. We know that we have come to know him. John is saying here, he's actually giving us another great doctrine. He's about to expound another great doctrine and that great doctrine is the doctrine of assurance. He is saying that it's not just possible to actually have an intimate relationship with God. It's not just possible to know him personally, but you can know that you know him. There can be a certainty. There can be a powerful and deep confidence. There can be assurance that the Lord of the universe loves you. It's possible for a Christian to read the verses that say, I will never leave and forsake you, and read that verse and say, I know that's true of me. I know that we know him. Now, there are many people who are offended by the very idea of this. And one of the ways you can tell whether a person understands the biblical gospel is whether they believe that this kind of assurance is even possible. Now, let me start right off by saying, and tonight is certainly only the first time that we introduce this idea. There will be other, about this whole wonderful doctrine of assurance. In many ways, much of what I'm saying tonight is a kind of introduction. I mean, I don't mean to say it won't stand on its own, but it's just the beginning of our look at this. But you certainly can be a Christian and not be sure you're a Christian, and I'll show you why. And John is about to show you why. You can be a real Christian and not be sure. But that's not the issue here at first. The issue is there are people who say, it's not even possible to be that sure. It's not even possible to be like that. It's arrogant. It's impossible. It can't happen that you can be absolutely sure that would you die tonight, God would receive you. You can't be absolutely sure that God loves you infallibly. You can't be absolutely sure of that. It's not even possible. That's one of the ways you can tell whether or not this person grasped the gospel. And here's what I mean. left for a minute. On the right, the person who thinks of Christianity as mainly external tends to be, for one reason, very, very unhappy with this idea that we can be sure. You know why? Because by and large, people on the right who see Christianity as an external thing, a matter of codes and going to church and taking part in, you know,

Christian celebrations and festivals and so on, and living up to certain moral codes, people are never sure that they're Christians because they know they don't always live up. If Christianity is a matter of externals, well, who goes to church enough? Who lives up to standards enough? See, who does that perfectly? Well, nobody does. And as a result, people on the right say, nobody can know these things. We all fall short. We can't be sure. Well, certainly not before Judgment Day can we be sure. And so people on the right, because they don't believe and they don't understand the gospel of God's grace. They don't even think it's possible to be sure. But people on the left, now it's interesting. At first, if you talk about people who have a completely subjective view of religion and they say religion is completely mystical, it's completely subjective, there's no referent outside of yourself. You and you alone can decide what is right or wrong for you. You and you alone put your own religion together and then that religion is valid and that religion has integrity for you, those people at first will often say they have assurance. They'll say, well, I don't know what's true for you and I don't know whether Christianity is true, but I know my religion is right for me. But that's not really what the doctrine of assurance is. The doctrine of assurance is that there is an object of truth, There's an object of spiritual truth like gravity. There's an object of spiritual reality like gravity which is enforced whether you believe it or not, which will break you if you don't believe it. And that ultimate reality, God himself, you have found and he loves you and he accepts you and you have nothing to fear anymore. And if you talk to the person on this side who says Christianity is all subjective and you say, do you believe in that kind of certainty, There's an object of truth and I've found it! They'd say, nobody can say that! Nobody can believe in that! Nobody can know like that! That's arrogant! And the person... it's interesting that the person on the right and the left, for utterly different reasons, will both say I would never want to try to convince somebody else of my faith. I don't talk about my faith. I wouldn't try to persuade. I wouldn't try to witness to somebody. For different reasons! Not only that but for different reasons they would both say I was so arrogant to even talk about being sure of your salvation. That's because they have truncated understandings of religion. That's because they've only got half a religion. And they don't believe it's possible. But let me tell you, friends, the Bible continually comes out and tells us, assurance of your salvation is the great engine. It's the great dynamic. If you don't have it, much of what the Bible says is available to Christians for living daily life is not yours. I didn't say, let me go back and say this again. You can be saved, you can be a Christian and not know it, not be sure of it because of inconsistent living and things that John goes into and talks about for the rest of this chapter and a big part of the rest of the book. But unless you have that assurance. You're not tapped into the resources that the Bible says are there for Christians. You can't live the life the way the Bible says a Christian can live a life. The great doctrine of assurance is found all through, for example, Romans 8, the peak of Romans 8. What is the peak of it? Paul says, for I am persuaded. That's just, again, there's an It's an English word that doesn't bring forth the sense of the original. I am convicted. I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present nor things to come nor height nor depth nor anything in all creation, he says, will be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. What is that? How could Paul do the things he did? How could he face what he faced? Because he was absolutely sure. nothing can separate me from the love of God. He says in 2 Timothy 1, he says, I'm persuaded again, you know, I said, he said, I know whom I have believed and I am persuaded, I'm convicted that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. But you know, any of you, some of you I know come to the morning services as well or have upon occasion, and you know, this fall, we've been looking at Hebrews 11. And Hebrews 11 is all about the great men and women of the past, Old Testament saints, who lived these tremendous lives of faith. And when you go through and look at them, you'll see what a life of faith means to the writer of the Hebrews, is these men and women had the ability to stand up and spit in the eye of the world and were absolutely fearless. You know, here's Noah. God tells Noah, Noah, I mean, in a sense, he says, God tells Noah, Noah, I want you to build an ocean liner in the middle of Kansas, right? And so he does. And everybody comes and laughs at him. So what? What is, you know, he builds it for years and the flood doesn't come. Everybody laughs at him. So what? Noah does it anyway. And he stands against the world. He doesn't care what the world thinks. And in the end, he's vindicated. And you go again and again through the text, and you see Abraham doing incredible things. Moses doing incredible things. God said, Moses, Moses, go to Pharaoh and say, the most powerful man on the face of the I want your entire free slave labor force. I'm going to walk them out. I'm taking them out. And Moses, I want you to go, and I want you to tell Pharaoh you're going to take them out, and then when he refuses, then you take them out anyway, knowing that the most powerful army in the world is going to come after your band of slaves. Broken people, people without resources, people without money, people without any kind of military ability of their own. go. You know, go ahead. And he did. And Abraham did. And don't get the wrong impression that Noah and Abraham and Moses were just these, you know, they never had a doubt. They never had a problem. Off they went, you see. And they never flubbed up, and they never broke down, and they never had any doubts. That's not true. You go and read it. But there is a secret to them all. As I've been reading Hebrews 11 over and over again this fall, I still think It's probably in verse 2. It's a verse that, ironically, I never really preached much on at all in the morning series because it's not attached to one of those guys. But it says in Hebrews 11, verse 2, it says the reason that they had these great lives, it says, because they had the commendation that they pleased God. Now, the word commendation is a very weak word, an English word, I mean. It doesn't give you the sense of the original. The word commendation, what's it make you think of? You know, a watch, you know, after 20 years of service to the railroad or something like that, a commendation, you know, a certificate, great. That's not what the word means. It's the Greek word martyria, from which we get our word martyr. Well, even that's a problem because the word martyr in someone who dies for a cause. That's not the meaning of it. This word means an authoritative witness in a courtroom situation. The theme, you might say the scene that the Hebrews writer is setting goes like this. Imagine you're on trial, and you've been charged with something, and you're trying to make your case, and all of a sudden in walks an expert witness, or in walks an eyewitness. And you know, up until this person walks in, the case has been in doubt. But this person sits down and he's sworn in, let's say, and says, I was there or I have this expert evidence. And this person's martyria, this person's testimony, an authoritative witness, something that comes in and proves it. And Hebrews 11 too, it says, you want to know how Noah did what he did? Moses did what he did. You want to know how Noah did what he did? They knew that they pleased God. They got a witness. They got a testimony. They had evidence. They knew that they knew him. And as a result, they could face anything. Jesus is ready to go into the wilderness. He's going to face a tremendous, tremendous three years of incredible ministry and tremendous opposition and a crushing burden of pain and loneliness and isolation. What does God do? He sends the dove when he's baptized by John and down comes a voice. What is it? This is my beloved child. I'm well pleased with you. He gets the witness. He knew he pleased God. But you see, what it's saying is that God gives that not just to Jesus. you know I can never I'm continually going back and some of you are saying yes too often I'm continually going back to that one spot in the Fisher King where the single girl who feels that she's awfully klutzy and nobody will love her but she's been watched by Robin Williams the homeless man and he's been watched and he cleans himself up and he takes her out and she says you won't want to go out with me again will you because everybody knows I'm a klutz and he says, I've been looking at you and I've been inspecting you and I've been watching you for a long time and I love you. I know what people say about you. I know what you think about yourself but they're wrong. You're great. I love you and I will never leave you. She looks at him and she says, are you for real? You see, she's been inspected and she got a witness that she was pleasing and just, I mean, just on the romantic level that just takes you to the sky. but we're talking about something much more profound than that. Her self-image was completely retooled by that statement. And oh, you know, I look at her and I say, oh, don't let him be what he's going to be to you. He can't be with you forever, and he is not the authoritative witness, and don't build your life on this. There's somebody else who can say the same thing and who won't leave you and who is the only eyes that count the only opinion that matters. They had this witness, Moses, Abraham, Noah, that they pleased God, that God was absolutely satisfied with them. Now, don't you see what it means is the objective truth that we've been talking about, that Jesus is our legal proxy, can become subjectively real, and you are so convinced by the objective truth that Jesus is who he said he is, and he did what he said he did, and the subject of it, you see the fruit in your life, and you know you've connected with him, that you can come to the place where you say, I know that I know him. And if you do, then you can spit in the world's eye. Who cares what anybody else says? Who cares? Come, let hell open up. Let it. What can it do to me? See? Let this happen, let that happen, and let this fall, let that fall. Let it. What can it do to me? I please God. Now, John goes to tell you how you can know this. And we go on. But I need to actually end right here because you say, well, how can I know this? Well, that's what the rest of the book is about. But just to go on out, you see there's both objective and subjective and there's a cumulative effect. And assurance, which is so important to a Christian, is a cumulative thing. It's subject to degrees. Sometimes it's very high. Sometimes it's kind of abiding. Sometimes it's chronic. Sometimes it's acute. Sometimes it's powerful. Other times it's sort of peaceful. But John says, you can know that you know if you're passing three tests. I'll just tell you what they are, and then we'll go into them in future weeks. Number one, if you know that you know him, Obey his commands. By the way, when you're in love and you get a love letter, you don't just look in that love letter for things that your lover says I would like you to do or things that I would like you to change. You don't just look for overt directions, do you? You look for even hints of what will bring that person pleasure and you make the changes. Because here's how you know you love somebody. If you say I love somebody but you're using them, don't love them. You might need them. You might hunger for them. You might need their love but you don't love them. If you love somebody, you get pleasure out of giving pleasure. You're yearning. You're longing to find out what pleases that other person and you're quite willing to change. You're quite willing to say, I'd like to do this but if this pleases you, you get so much pleasure from giving pleasure that the old pleasure you got from this particular behavior or practice, ah, your lover wants you to do something this. You know, your loved one wants you to do this instead. So you do it. Why? Because the pleasure you get in giving pleasure is far greater than the pleasure you had in the practice to start with. That's just the way love works. If you are in love, you do what pleases the other person. And so right away, John says, here's one of the ways you can tell whether you're kidding yourself or not. Are you changing? Are you growing? Do you love to do what God commands? Do you work at it? Then secondly, the second test is do you love your brother and your sister? It says if you say you walk in the light, if you say you know him but you hate. See, it's possible for a person to be obedient to a moral code without any kind of real internal change going on and experience of God's love. But on the other hand, if there's really this internal change going on, you're going to get less selfish. You're going to get less irritable. You're going to find your heart going out to other people in a way it didn't before. Do you grow in love? The third test is a faith test. And it doesn't mean, it's a doctrine test. It's an understanding test. Do you understand the gospel? Do you see the evidence for the gospel? Do you realize that Jesus died for you and you're saved strictly by grace and not by works? If you lack assurance, dear friends, tonight, if you don't have this at all, test yourself. Number one, it could be a truth problem. You may not understand that you're saved by grace. You might be either to the left or the right in your understanding of the gospel. And if you're to the left or the right of the gospel, if you're totally into subjectivism or if you understand Christianity as being doing a lot of good deeds, you're never going to have this assurance. You don't understand the gospel. That's the first problem, possibility. But you say, oh, I understand that. Okay, then the second possibility is that you have a bad conscience. You're not doing what you should do. You see, it says, right there, it says, if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete. If you're disobeying God, if you're asking this question, well, how much can I get away with and still go to heaven? You're not coming at this the right way. If you understand what he's done for you, you seek to obey him. But if you're not obeying him, you've got a bad conscience bad conscience will hurt, destroy, undermine your assurance. The third thing is, are you bitter? Are you bitter or indifferent to somebody around you or people around you? A loveless heart blocks assurance. A disobedient conscience blocks assurance. A faulty understanding of the gospel blocks assurance. But if you've got them all clicking, if you've got all those things tells us, if you understand the gospel and you look at it, and if you're obeying, and if you're showing love in your relationships, and through all this you're seeking God, God will sometimes gently, sometimes powerfully come in and give you the commendation, which is assurance. And then, come what may, you know that you know him, and nothing else matters. God only matters. and what a powerful and great life you will live if that's true of you. It's available. Let's ask for it. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for giving us this word. Thank you, Father, for giving us this testimony. Thank you for making it available to us. Some of us here remember times in which we sense that commendation and we had that great assurance and we had that power and we've lost it and we're asking why. Forgive us for those things that we let creep in and we let separate us from you. Some of us don't even understand the gospel that we're off to the left or the right in works righteousness or in subjectivism. Oh Father, I pray that tonight you would show people who are there that's the reason why they don't know what John is talking about they don't know the power of it they don't know the greatness of it they don't know the balance of it they don't know the richness of it. Let them see that and come to you now and say, show me the way. Show them. Show us all. Take us in. Through Jesus, the way, the truth, and the life. In his name we pray. Amen.
