We're looking at this great prayer of Jesus to his father in John 17. It's long, extended, 26 verses, and we learned quite a bit from it. We started looking at it last week, and we saw that in the first five verses, Jesus prays for himself. Now, we should all be very interested in these next verses, because everyone sees, you can see from verse 6, that he begins to pray for his disciples. And even though he clearly has in mind his 12 disciples who are right there, in verse 20, which isn't printed for you, in verse 20, he says, Father, my prayer is not for them alone. I pray also for those who will believe in me through their message. And what that means is Jesus very deliberately is saying, everything I'm praying for my apostles, I'm also praying for everyone who will ever believe through their message, which is us or anyone in the history of the world, including today, including in this room, who has ever believed in Christ. So what we have in verse 6 to 19 is what Jesus thinks is the most important thing to pray for us. Now, what is the gist of this prayer? What is he actually asking for? Now, actually, there's an awful lot in here, and if you break it down, you could find many, many things. But what's the main thing? And the main thing, which might not jump out at you right away because the word doesn't show up except in several different forms, the main thing is this. Jesus is praying for our holiness. Real spirituality is most concerned about that, our holiness. The word in verse 17, 18, 19, it comes up over and over again. And the word sanctify comes from the Latin word sanctus, which means holy. So sanctify means to make holy. And so the gist of his whole prayer is this, holy Father. Make them holy, keep them holy. That's what it's all about. Make them different in the world, make them holy, and keep them holy. Now, we've got a challenge. Because this word, sanctified, sanctification, holy, holy. This is just not, this is not something that our culture finds very appetizing at all. As I've often said, there's an enormous amount of interest right now in spirituality, and if you go into any bookstore at all, any bookstore, not just religious bookstores, Catholic, Protestant, Christian bookstores, if you go into any bookstore, go to a Barnes & Noble or a Borders or whatever, and you go in and you'll see huge amounts of shelf space devoted to books on spirituality. But recently, when I was preparing for this sermon, I recently went in and looked for the kind of words you find in the titles and the subtitles of the book. And what do you got? Well, let me just show you the words that you come up over and over. Faith, that's a positive word. Faith, hope, spiritual, spirituality, vision, soul, joy, and love, okay? Faith, hope, spiritual, spiritual, spirituality, joy, vision, soul, love. Holy wasn't there. Sanctified is never there. Sanctified. And when you think of sanctification or the word sanctified, you think of austere. You think of grimness. You think of asceticness. You think of something pinched and narrow and very off-putting. However, as we will see, since that's our challenge, all these books about Jesus, so many of these books have to do with Jesus, and what do we learn about Jesus, and all these books about Jesus never mention the Word Holy, never mention Sanctified, never. And yet we see here that is utterly different than the Jesus that we know in the Bible. What we're going to have to do is we have to do three things. We're going to and say, why is it important? Why should we even talk about this? So, why is holiness important? And secondly, what is it? We have to get Jesus' content rather than just the connotations that we might have from our experiences here. And thirdly, how does it ignite? Pardon me, why is it important, what is it, and how does it ignite? night. First of all, why is it so important? Why should we care about this? Why should we be talking about this? Now, I want to press this, even though I'm not defining it yet. That's the second point, but let's press this for a little bit. When we look here, we see, especially in verse 19, in fact, in the whole prayer, we see something absolutely amazing. Jesus is essentially, all about holiness. Jesus says here that holiness is not only the goal of his life, but it's the dynamic of his life. It's the goal and the dynamic. First, what do I mean, the goal? Look at this, verse 19. I sanctify myself that they may be sanctified. Now, we're going to see in a minute that sanctified means to set yourself apart for one thing, to be focused on one thing. But you would know that even if you didn't know the word sanctified, here's what you know. These are like his last words. He's about to die. He knows he's about to die. Have you ever been with somebody who knew they were about to die? I guess that's one thing pastors do get to do over the years. And I have been, and many of you have been too. If you are with somebody who knows they're about to die, they know this is the end. They don't talk about the weather. they talk about only those things that for them are the most critical the most important you know they know this might be the last time they talk to you so they have to say something to you know now what is the most important thing to Jesus this is the end so what is he talking about with his last breath his last prayer for his disciples what is he asking for what's on his heart you know what is what is it that he's and you see and when he says, I sanctified, I set myself apart for this. This is what he's saying. My whole life has been about this. Even my death is about this. Everything I've done is about this. I put myself completely on the line for this. What is it? Our holiness. He's saying here, I've only got one goal. There's only one thing I'm about. I'll push you this further, this far. Anybody who understands the words when he says, I sanctify myself for their sanctification. He is saying the meaning of my life is their holiness. The meaning of everything I do, the meaning of everything I have

is the holiness of my followers, the holiness of my believers, the holiness of my brethren.

Now, what does that mean? I'll tell you what it means. It means it doesn't matter whether you know you're a Christian. It doesn't matter whether you know you're not a Christian. It doesn't matter whether you're not sure if you're a Christian. If you want to have anything to do with Jesus, you've got to be willing to let him make you holy. I'm not saying you've got to be holy before you come to him. I'm saying that if you're going to come to him, you're going to have to deal with that. I mean, if somebody says, the meaning of my life is art, and you say, oh, I'd like to get to know you. They say, great, let's go out. Let's talk about art. Oh, I don't want to talk about that, but I want to get to know you. I just told you the meaning of my life is art. If the meaning his art, and you want to get to know that person even from the very beginning. You're going to have to hear something about it. Jesus is saying, if you want to have anything to do with me, and this says a lot about those books. If you want to have anything to do with me, you've got to be willing to be sanctified. That's all I'm interested in. I got one thing on my mind. It's the meaning of my life. That's amazing. But that's not all. I mean, in other words, how can you have a relationship meaning of his life to make you holy unless you are come saying, I don't know what this means, but do it. So, but that's not all. He doesn't just say that the goal of his life, the goal of his whole life is holiness. He also says that the dynamic of his life is holiness. Now look carefully. He says, I sanctify myself. Now right before that, verse 18, very interesting. He says, says, as you sent me into the world, I have sent them into the world. Now, I want you to know that next week's message is all about that, but we have to still look at this in this way. When Jesus says, I was sent into the world, that, you know, the Latin word for sent is missio. That's the reason we still, in English, have a little word missive. A missive was a letter, you know, I sent. And mission, and emissio means sent. And therefore, when Jesus says, I've been sent into the world, what he means is he says, I have a mission. Now, what was Jesus' mission? Well, you know, the book of John elsewhere tells us things about it. John 3 says, God so loved the world that he sent his son that he might bring everyone eternal life. And in John chapter 12, Jesus says, when I die, I will draw all men to myself. We all know this. This isn't a surprise. Jesus' mission was to come into the world and attract people to God through his loving sacrifice. Jesus' mission was to attract people to God. And now he says in verse 18, I want to send my followers into the world in the same way. I want to send them in to attract people to the Lord. Okay, fine. What does he send them in with? What did Jesus come in with to do that? What was his only equipment? What does he send his followers with? He's sending his followers into the world, and he's only asking his Father for one thing for them. What is it? What does he send them into the world with? Did he say, Father, I'm sending them into the world. Please give them a good book on how to handle intellectual objections to the faith. Father, I'm sending them into the world. Father, please give them good books on evangelism. Father, I'm sending them into the world. Please give them great program. What does he say?

The only thing he asks for is holiness

because that was the dynamic of his life. Let me put it to you this way. Let me impress you another way.

A lot of you have friends that you really care about, and you say, oh, they're so blind to this or that trouble. If only I could reach them. Some of you have children. They're so little that they're trouble yet. I mean, they're not having any problems yet. They're trouble. Pardon me. They're immediately trouble. But I mean, maybe they're so little that they have no problems in their life yet. Or maybe they're a little older, and you see problems. And you say, oh, if only I could reach my children. If only I could make sure that they understood who God is and who Christ is and how they should be living and what wise things are and so on. So you look at your children and you want to reach them. And you look at your friends and you want to reach them. Well, Jesus came into the world and only had one thing. Let me tell you what your friends need from you more than anything else. Let me tell you what your children need from you more than anything else. They need your personal holiness.

What was it that attracted people to Jesus? Jesus, his courage, his wisdom, his love, his insight, his self-control, his humility, his poise, his sensitivity, his joy, his patience, right? That's what attracted people to him. He was unbelievably attractive. He was unbelievably, it was his moral beauty. When he sends you and me into the world to help other people, the way he came in to help other people, what does he send us in with? What's the only thing we need? Holiness. That is the only thing that's... Why? Because why should your friends listen to you? Why should your children listen to you? Why should your friends or your children even know what you're talking about unless there's something remarkable about your life?

I mean, you know, here's a silly example. I mean, what if you're out on the street and you're coughing, you're hacking. Somebody comes up to you and he looks at you and he goes, you need my doctor, Dr. John Doe. He's really helped me. And he walks away. Are you going to go to that doctor? Got it? You see, you say, if only I could, if only we could help the people around. them to see the light. My friends, I want them to see the light. Jesus says, the only thing you need, the main thing you need is holiness. Because what holiness is, is the moral beauty of God, the radiance of God's character. Why should, unless people see you having remarkable, if you're not remarkable, if your own poise, your own courage, your own love, your own wisdom, wisdom, your own self-control, your own joy, if it isn't remarkable, why should they ever listen to you?

I mean, whatever else you think is more important than holiness isn't. You know, obviously most of you, and maybe none of you, are ministers, I suppose, but just to let you know, I'm a minister. I'm a pastor. So what do I want? I want people to believe. I want people to grow in Christ, right? So what do I do? I don't pray because I'm too busy running around making sure everybody's getting into programs. And there's an old minister, I mean, well, I mean, at least that's how I started, and still to some degree it happens to me. But years ago, I was just riveted. I was just convicted. I was just pierced when I read a sermon by a minister to ministers, and in that sermon he said, what your people need most from you is your personal holiness. In fact, I'll press you a little bit here. See, holiness is not just not grimness and austerity and unattractiveness. Holiness is more than that. The Bible says the holiness that Jesus had was traumatic beauty. It was threatening attractiveness. See, Jesus not only was his beauty the thing that attracted people to him, it's also the thing that surprise you. People who are physically beautiful know this. There might be a couple of you here. People that are physically beautiful know this. What they say is they know that on the one hand, if you're drop-dead gorgeous, everybody wants to be with you. On the other hand, you threaten people terribly. On the one hand, people always want to be next to you, and your doors are opening all the time. People are also always stabbing you in the back, and they're jealous of you, you, and they hate you, and they're threatened by you. And that's the way it is. Jesus Christ's holiness was the dynamic of his life. It's the thing that got him to be able to attract people in, but it's also the thing that got him killed. Holiness is threatening beauty.

It's traumatic, unsettling, remarkable character. It's the dynamic of Jesus' life, and he says it's It's got to be the dynamic of your life. It's the most important thing in his life. It was the dynamic for everything. It should be the most important thing in your life.

Now, that's what, that's the first point. In fact, you know, I don't want to, obviously, you can't stop there because that could just sort of lead you in despair. Oh, my word, you say, now what do we do about it? But do you see that? Verse 19 is remarkable.

Jesus' goal in life is for your holiness. and the dynamic of everything he ever did was his own holiness.

Has it got that priority for you? Okay, now that's the first thing, why it's so important. The second thing we learn now is what is it? And actually, this is also very important because one of the problems we have is when we think of holiness is we think of just a long list of rules and trying as much as you can to be good. But it's very important to see that the Word actually has three senses, three aspects of meaning. They're all three here, and you have to understand them if you're going to understand the way to holiness. Holiness consists of three things, a single eye, a united heart, and a new community. A single eye, a united heart, and a new community. Follow with me, okay? First of all, single eye. Now, that's a kind of archaic word, but you'll see what I mean in a minute. The word sanctified has, sometimes people think of sanctification as a process by which you more and more become a good person or a loving person or like Christ. And that's true, but that's not the primary meaning of it. And you can see that's, or at least that's not the original meaning of it, the original sense. In the Old Testament, inanimate objects were often called sanctified. For example, Mount Sinai is said to be sanctified. How can a mountain be sanctified? When a chair was put into the tabernacle, it was called sanctified. Well, how can a chair be sanctified? Some of us are going to look at it and say, man, the chair is ahead of me. How can a chair be sanctified? But actually, if you want to see, if you want to understand this original sense most vividly, verse 19, Jesus says, I sanctify myself. Now, you have to ask yourself a question. Why does Jesus need to be sanctified? Why would he need that? Especially in light of the fact that John chapter 8, verse 46, in that spot, Jesus says, I have never sinned. He looks at his enemies and he says, who among you can prove me guilty of sin? So, Jesus claims to be sinless. Now, if he's claiming to be sinless, then what does it mean to be sanctified? And why would he need to be sanctified? Well, the original word means, the original meaning of sanctification means to be set apart for one thing and one thing only. To be utterly focused on one thing. And this is where you get the connection with the English word. To be wholly set apart. To be wholly focused on one thing. That's the word sanctify. That's what sanctify means. let's get a couple of, let me give you a perfect example. This is a perfect example really almost. Imagine an athlete that says, I'm going to train for the Olympics. I want to be in the Olympic Games three years from now. So what does she do? Here's a woman. She says, I'm going to be an athlete. I'm going to make the Olympic Games three years from now. What does she do? What she does is she sets herself apart for that. Wholly. That does not mean she only trains for the Olympics. You hear me? To say she's wholly set apart for the Olympics doesn't mean she's only training for the Olympics. She does other things. She sees friends. She calls up people and says, How are you doing? She goes to a movie. She's not only training for the Olympics, but if she's wholly set apart for it, it means though she's not only training for the Olympics, everything is subservient to that goal. She may not be doing only the Olympic training, but everything else she does is subservient to that goal, be made subservient to that goal, it's ditched. Think. Where she lives is determined by the training. Why? Because you have to train in the right climate or with the right people. So where she lives is determined by the training. What she eats is determined by the training. Every minute of the day, her entire schedule, work, sleep, everything is determined by the training. Everything is made subservient to that one overarching goal. Another way to put it is this. wholly set apart means that every single fiber of you, every single piece of you, every single inch of you is stuffed down into a laser beam headed right for one thing.

And it doesn't mean you only do that, but anything else that can't, anything that can't be made subservient to it is ditched because there's no competition. There's one supreme goal. When Jesus says, I sanctify myself for the salvation, redemption, purification, and holiness of my people. What he was saying is, I see the path that I have to go down in order to accomplish that, and I'm going to go down it like a thunderbolt.

I see the path I have to go down. I'm going to go down it like a thunderbolt. Now, what does this mean? Now, let's give me a minute here to press this home. The execution, when you set yourself apart for God, when you say, I'm going to be holy, the execution of that, to say, God, His service, obeying and loving and serving Him, is no longer one thing among many in my life. It's the supreme thing. And anything else that cannot be made subservient to that goal is ditched. When you say that, you've sanctified yourself, in a sense. When you say that, you've set yourself apart.

And that is not actually subject to degrees. Think about this with me for a second. Execution is subject to degrees. I mean, you may not be very good at it. You may fall down on it. But you either have made the determination that I will unconditionally obey God, or else you are holding yourself back. And you're saying, I'll obey if. You're either saying, I'll obey no matter what, or I'll obey if. You're either saying, I will obey God whether I understand what's going on. I'll obey God no matter what he sends into my life. I'll obey God whether what the Word of God says makes sense to my rationality or not. I'll obey God no matter what the world's opinion says. I'll obey God unconditionally. Then you set yourself apart. Holy. But if you say, I'll obey God conditionally, I'll obey God if you haven't done it. This is the reason why holiness is no option because it's an either or. There's no middle ground.

Either you are using God or you have given yourself for God to use you. Nothing in the middle. Please follow me. Either you are using him or else he's using you. And there's nothing in the middle. Let me give you an example of this. What if somebody says, and I know you have, what if you say, you know, I was a pretty good Christian. I was really trying hard to obey. And all I asked for was this, and it was taken from me. So why in the world? Why would God let these awful things happen to people who are trying so hard? So I've just given up on it. I mean, actually, there's plenty of people in the world who say, I tried to be a Christian, but look at this awful stuff, and look at the injustice, look at this. So what they really said was this, I wanted something, I was trying to be good, I didn't get it, so I've had it. Now, Now, here's what it means. If you say, if I obey God, but that means I'll lose this boyfriend or girlfriend. I'll obey God, but it means I won't make it very well in the career. I'll obey God. And if you realize you've got to choose, and you disobey God for the career, or you disobey God for the boyfriend or girlfriend, or you disobey God for the marriage, what you're really saying is, my God is the marriage. That's the end. That's the goal. And the Lord obeying him is just a means to the end. So you're using God. When you say, I'll obey if, that's not obedience at all. It's retailing. Will this profit me? And if it's no longer profiting me, I'm out. There is no either or here. You either have determined to give up your right of self-determination or you've kept control of your life and you're using God. Either you said, God, use me, or else you are using him, one or the other. Any conditions, any at all, any at all. You haven't set yourself apart. Now, you think somebody says, that's terrible. You mean, you mean you, what do you mean? You should never lose your right of self-determination. Well, let's move on to the second point. The second point. Look, either you're smarter than God or God's smarter than you. Either he knows better than you what's good for you, or you know better than him. There's nothing in the middle. Either you're going to be conditional on your obedience because you think you're smarter, or else you're going to be unconditional because you think he's smarter.

either you're going to be unconditional in your obedience because you say, I have given myself for your use, or you're going to be conditional because you're saying, I'll stick with you as long as you're useful to me. One or the other. There's nothing in the middle at all. That's the reason why we're not talking in this first sense about sort of a gradual purification. We're saying, who's your Lord? Who's your master? Which is it? You've got one. Now, that brings me to the second point, though. The first point is, holiness is wholly setting yourself apart, singleness of mind, putting God absolutely first, ditching all competition. But then the second aspect of sanctification means there is a gradual wholeness to your heart that grows. The first sense, which is setting yourself apart for God, giving Him unconditional obedience, gradually, bit by bit by bit, it mends your heart.

You know, one of the reasons, there's a great place in Psalm 89, where the psalmist says, yes, unite my, pardon me, Psalm 86, where it says, the psalmist says, unite my heart to praise your name. Putting God first, praising him, unites your heart. What do I mean? Well, here's what I mean. Becky Pippert, in her book, Out of the Salt Shaker, says something that I've so often. Becky Pippert says, look, you are not Lord of your life. Something is. Whatever is most important to you. So she says, for example, if the approval of people is the most important thing to you, more important than God, then you're controlled by what people think. If romance and love is more important than God, then you're controlled by...you're a lover. But you're not controlling yourself, you're controlled by the Lord of your life. Example, if you say, I'd like to obey God, but if I did, it would hold me up to ridicule.

People, you know, would hold me up to ridicule. Here's what Becky Pippard's saying. Either God is using you or somebody else is. But if you have said, God use me unconditionally, then nothing else can use you. You see, if you decide, I don't want to obey because I look stupid, what that means is the approval of people is controlling you. If you say, Oh, I know I really probably shouldn't do this, but I don't want to lose this lover because I'm hoping someday that he or she will marry me. I shouldn't do this. So you disobey God to hold on to your lover. But what's that mean? That means you are being used by love. You're being used by this person. You've given your heart to this person utterly. And therefore, your heart's divided. Why do you get so scared sometimes? Because your heart belongs to something that might desert you. God would never desert you, but you haven't given him your heart. You haven't given him it utterly. You're using God to get these things, but then these things have control over you, and your heart will be divided. But if you have singleness of purpose to say, I will obey you and you alone unconditionally, slowly what will happen is your heart will be free. Verse 15 where Jesus says, I don't pray that you'll take them out of the world. I pray you'll protect them in the world. Jesus does not see holiness primarily as refraining from sin and temptation. He is saying, if you're holy, you can go through the world and you're impervious to the desires of the world. You don't look to the world for your affirmation. You don't look to the world for your salvation. You don't look to the world for your identity and your comfort. And so you can look at the world and you're free. There's a freedom of heart.

Holiness is not saying, oh, I really shouldn't worry so much. I'm a Christian. I've got to not worry. not, I shouldn't be so resentful of this person. Holiness is not, why am I so scared? I should overcome this. I shouldn't be so scared. Holiness is not just talking to yourself like that, that sometimes that's the best you can do, and maybe you should do that. But the ultimate reason, what holiness actually is, because I have not allowed anything else to have title to my heart, because I've given God unconditional obedience, that means there's nothing else that has control troll over me. And bit by bit by bit by bit, I'll become more like Jesus, who wasn't scared of anything, who wasn't resentful of anything, who wasn't worried about anything. You can only be worried and scared, sort of riven in your heart, when things you feel like, I've got to have them. But you see, what does it mean to be holy? You look at anything in the world and you say, I enjoy you, but you're not my life. Jonathan Edwards, when he was a young man, one day he had a revelation of what holiness was about, and he called it a calm ecstasy. I want you to know I've been meditating on this. He was a young man, and when he wrote this in his journal, he says, we are apt to think since childhood that holiness is a melancholy, morose, sour, and unpleasant thing, but it is It is a calm ecstasy. It makes the soul love itself, and it makes the soul sense that the whole world, the sun, the fields, and the trees are congratulating, embracing, and singing to it. Now, you know, that may seem a little opaque to you, and it certainly did to me for a while, but here's what he's saying.

Edwards is saying he realized that when he actually looked at God and said, only you are my salvation,

Before he did that, he looked at the world, and he was always looking for affirmation from it. He looked at people, and he was looking at affirmation from it. He didn't preach. See, he was a minister. Jonathan Edwards did not preach for the joy of preaching. He did not tell truth for the joy of telling the truth. He did not minister to people just for the beauty and the preciousness of the people. It was about him. He was doing it so he could feel good. He was doing it so he could feel needed. He was doing it so he could feel superior. He was doing it so he could feel competent. But when he actually said God is not a means to the end of getting competence and success and love and approval.

God is his own end. God is absolute in my life. I set myself wholly apart from him. He began to look at the world and he says the whole world began to sing to me. I began to enjoy the world for itself. It became beautiful for itself. the first time I could enjoy people for themselves, not like, well, what's in it for me? I didn't need that. And holiness is this amazing unity of heart, this amazing freedom of spirit that comes. When Isaiah saw God in his holiness, you remember in Isaiah 6, Isaiah had a vision of God in the temple, and we're told his train filled the temple. temple. And one old commentator said, you see, the thing that Isaiah realizes, there's not room in the temple for anything but God. Your heart is a temple. To be holy means there's not room for anything else in that temple. If your heart is ever divided, if your heart is ever fails to be whole, if your heart is always riven with fears or resentment or discouragement, it's because there's something else in the temple. It's because you haven't set yourself apart. In the first sense, and therefore you're not finding a united heart or a growing united heart in the second sense. Now, there's one more aspect to what holiness means. You can't read this individualistically. He doesn't say only that I have sanctified myself so that you might be sanctified individuals, so you might be holy and happy individuals, so you might have this radiance of being in character. Look at verse 11. He says, I will remain in the world no longer, but there in the world I'm coming to you. Holy Father, protect them so that they may be one. So he's not just talking about them as individuals. He wants them not just to be holy people. He wants them to be a holy people. Did you get me? Sorry. I don't know if that was clear. He doesn't want them just to be holy persons. He wants them to be a holy people. And if you are going to be holy, you have to see that you're called not just to be a holy individual, but as 1 Peter 2.9 says, you're called to be a holy nation. Now, the word holiness, we've already seen, means separated. And what does that mean, to be a holy nation? It means that as a community, we're utterly different than the world. We're a different community. We're an alternate society.

I want you to know in America, not only most people, but most really genuine Christians, when they come to church, they're coming as individuals to enjoy the music, to enjoy the inspiration, to enjoy the teaching. preaching. You're not coming to be a community, because what would be a Christian community, a holy community? It would mean there's something different about every single part of your life. In fact, you see, when 1 Peter 2.9, when Peter says, you're a holy nation, he uses actually the Greek word ethne. Now, he's talking to Gentiles and Jews and Greeks and Romans and Africans, and he says, you are wholly ethnic. What's that mean? It means you are a whole new culture, a whole new society. The way men and women get along, the way sexuality is used and held up and expressed and experienced, the way the races get along together, the concern for the poor, the way you spend money on yourself and the way you give it away than the rest of the world. Does the world look in at a particular church and say, look at how unselfish they are. Look at how much better the different racial groups get along. Look at how healthy the families are. Look at how they spend their money. Look at how generous they are. Until the world looks into a community of Christians and sees an alternate way of being human, an alternate way of running a society, until you are that solid with other Christians that you actually are talking about these things. And you're thinking these things out and you're beginning to get distinct, which is what holy means. You're not a holy people yet. And we're not. I think the average person coming to Redeemer, if anybody sat down and said, well, let's talk about how much money you spent on yourself and how much you give away and how involved you are with the poor and whether you're working on cross-cultural friendships, you know, would say, wait a minute, you're being pretty nosy. But that shows that you don't understand. And maybe they are, by the way.

Those, I'm not defending the motive of the person who might ask you those questions, but what I am saying, if you in principle don't like that, if you're that individualistic, you don't understand what it means that Jesus said, I want you to be holy.

I want you to be a holy nation. You're not holy unless you have a single eye, a united heart, and you're called into a new community. Now, the last thing, fairly brief, but incredibly important. word. Holiness does not happen simply by trying hard, but in verse 17, 18, and 19, we have, in a very brief little nutshell, we understand here what will ignite holiness. You know how often the Bible calls holiness fire? Remember when God's holiness shows up in the burning bush? He's burning, and Moses comes in, and God says, take off your shoes. This is holy ground.

And therefore, for holiness to ignite in our lives takes two things. Just like in everything, you know, you have to have fuel at a certain temperature and oxygen. If you have fuel, even if it's really warm, where there's no oxygen, no combustion. If you have oxygen and you have no fuel, no combustion. You have to have two things. And the two things that are here, and you've got to have them together. Verse 17 and verse 19, what do you got? 17, you've got truth. Sanctify them in the truth. Thy Word is truth. That means the Word of God brings you a vision of holiness. It's in the Ten Commandments. It's in the example of Jesus. It's in the nature of God. And you look at the Ten Commandments, and you look at the nature of Jesus. You look in the Word of God, and you see the vision of what you can be, the vision of what you should be. And that inspires you, and that's the first part of ignition. ignition, but it begins to weigh you down. It begins to oppress you, and there won't be ignition unless you have the other thing. You have to have this explosive interaction of truth, and verse 19, what is it? Grace. Why? In verse 19, and one commentator, Don Carson, helped me see this week. Don Carson says, let's remember this. The word sanctify has an original, original, original, original meaning. And Jesus is probably using it in that… You know what the original etymology of the word sanctify means? It's to cut, it's to be cut off. See, holiness means to be separated unto. I'm going to separate myself off the Olympics. I'm going to go and train. See, the original word sanctification meant that you're willing to wholly focus yourself and to be cut off. But you see, in Genesis 15, God shows up and says to Abraham, him, I'm going to make your people great and your children great. I'm going to give you a son, and out of your loins will come the Messiah that will save the world. And Abraham says, how do I know? How do I know you'll bless me? And then God says, cut an animal in half, several animals. And suddenly he appears in a torch, a smoking torch, and he passes through the pieces. And he says, I promise to bless you. And Abraham was astounded, and you should be astounded. And the reason we're not astounded is we don't remember this. In those days, when you were going to sign a contract, they didn't have pen and paper. You didn't have a little notary public, a little seal or something like that. Here's what they would do. They'd cut an animal in half, and they'd walk between the pieces. And this is what it meant. If I don't accomplish what I have said, may I be cut off myself. He was identifying with the animal. And usually, human beings would do this before God, but God never does this before human beings. For God to go through the pieces, God was saying, I will bless you, I will save you, I will redeem you, I will make you holy, I will make you blemishless. I'll remove all the pain and the imperfections from your heart. And I will do it even if it means I have to be cut off myself. And the book of Isaiah tells us that's exactly what had to happen. When Jesus says, to make you sanctified, I sanctify myself, what he's saying is, I will be cut off. I will take the punishment you deserve. We're going to bless you. My Father and I are going to bless you, even if it means, and it does mean, I'm going to be cut myself. and when you look at the Son of God, the Lord of the universe saying, for their sake, see, literally, it says, I know the NIV says, for them, I sanctify myself. Verse 19, the old authorized version says, the old King James says, for their sake, I have cut myself off. He's cut off from the Father. He's cut off from joy. He's cut off from love on the cross, God's cross. And when you see the truth, what you should be, and then you see the grace, what he's done, ignition. If you don't see the holiness that God calls you to, and you just hear, oh, Jesus died for your sins, no ignition. There's no, that, you know, that's light without heat. On the other hand, if you just hear, you need to be holy, better try harder, better try harder, and you don't know what he's done for you, and the extent of what he's done for you, and how he has guaranteed your salvation. Not that he's going to help you a little bit. just fill in the gaps, but he's done the whole thing. He's been cut off for you. If you have truth without grace or grace without truth, no ignition. Truth without grace, you're just weighted into the ground at the very worst, at the very best, you're a Pharisee. Grace without truth, and you just say, well, yes, I know Jesus died for me. That's his job. But together, and only together is there ignition. Look at him and say this. Oh, Jesus, my brother, my prince, my shepherd, my high king, how could I fail to give myself utterly to you when you've given yourself utterly for me? From that thought springs holiness. From that thought, truth, grace, ignition, explosion. Put that thought on your heart. For their sakes, everything I have done, everything I am doing now, I was willing to go to the uttermost just so you could be cleansed, just so you could be perfect, just so you could be radiant and glorious. The thought of that will give you all the power you need and the thought of that will give you all the hope you need. When Jesus Christ says, I put my whole life on the line to make you holy and happy, what that means is there should be nobody in this room that ever gives up on themselves.

Say to Jesus tonight, you sanctified yourself for my sake. I will sanctify myself for yours. You were cut off from everything, everything good, so that I have the power to cut myself off from everything bad. Okay, I will. Let's pray. Give us enough joy in what Jesus has done for us to pray that prayer.

help us to be combustion chambers for the truth and the love and grace, for the knowledge of what Jesus did, so that holiness will ignite in our heart and our hearts will be united to praise your name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.
