We are picking up a series that some of you know really was left off almost a month ago. And therefore, I need to quickly remind you, we've been looking in the book of Ephesians at what Paul says about spiritual warfare, that we wrestle not as Christians with flesh and blood only, but with powers and principalities, and we're talking about the devil. Now, what I want to do is take you to the first text in the Bible that has to do with the devil, and to talk to you a little bit about what it teaches us as part of our series. This is Genesis 3. I'm going to read to you the classic text on the devil from Genesis 3, and I think I'll read

until I think I should stop. Genesis 3 verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the wild animals that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, we may eat fruit from the trees You must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. You will not surely die, the serpent said to the woman, For God knows that when you eat it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food, and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it. She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it, too. Both eyes were opened, and they realized that they were naked, so they sewed fig leaves together and made coverings for themselves. Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the Garden in the cool of the day, and they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the Garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said, Where are you? He answered, I heard you in the Garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, so I hid. And God said, Who told you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from?" The man said, The woman that you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree and I ate it.

17 words to get to the verb I in that sentence.

Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? And the woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate. She was more direct. She got to I quicker. And so the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all the livestock And above all the wild animals, you will crawl on your belly and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, but you will strike his heel. This is God's word. Now, you know, preaching is not acting.

We preachers always have to remember that. And therefore, sometimes you read a text and you consider a subject and you prepare for it and it fills your heart with a certain kind of exuberance and you want to get up there and yell and you just want to get people to see it and you're so enthusiastic. And sometimes you read a text and you think about a subject and all it does is make you subdued. And that's what this one has done for me. Maybe my mood will change sometime through. But that's not where... Right now, it makes me feel very subdued when I consider our subject. Our subject is temptation. You see, I don't want to recap much, but it has been a month. It's actually been five weeks in some ways since we really were in this series in earnest. We've been reading in Ephesians 6 about the devil. And what we've learned is that God shows us that there's both a supernatural and a natural side to evil. Evil is multidimensional. There's evil inside me. I am deceived. I am angry. I believe lies. I am dishonest with myself and with other people. sin inside me, and there's sin beside me, outside me, that is people have sinned against me, I've been hurt, I've been oppressed, I've been abused, but then there's evil above me, and there that is there is supernatural evil too, with the Bible says, there's personal supernatural evil, there's a hierarchy of personal, evil, supernatural, intelligences in the world, called demons, the reason we want to get this across, and this is the fundamental premise everything we're saying in this series, is that Christians are not simplistic when they talk about evil. It's people who are not Christians that are simplistic. Christians say that evil is a complex thing. There's the psychological aspect of evil that's inside. Remember, evil inside me. There's the sociological aspect of evil, how I'm treated, and there's the spiritological and supernatural and demonical aspect to evil, and our problems are very complex, and unless we all these different sides to them, we're never going to understand what's really going on. You see, the non-Christian points of view are actually simplistic. The person who laughs at the idea of the devil is the one who's really simplistic, not the Christian. Because the Christian says evil's complex, your problems are complex, your depression's complex, crime in New York City is complex. Because there's a lot of different evil agencies at work, and make some sense of them, you're not going to be able to deal with them. Otherwise, all you know is things are a wreck, and that's about it. Everything's a blur. My teenage son has a Christian book. It's a pretty interesting book, and the title is, I don't remember dropping the skunk, but I do remember trying to breathe.

Now, the idea is, I think, that this is the way a lot of us basically can think about our lives. I really don't know what I did. In fact, I can't even remember what I did, and I don't know who did what to me. All I know, all I can remember, is coming to.

All I can remember, I came to, and everybody around me was dead, and I was half dead. A lot of us have periods of our lives, a lot of us have family problems, a lot of us have career problems, a lot of us have personal problems, and we look and we say, it was a wreck, it was a disaster, it was a holocaust, it was a battle. I don't remember what I did, the skunk, but I do remember trying to breathe, I'm not sure what happened!" The Bible is seeking, when it talks about the devil, and it talks about the world, and it talks about the flesh, the world, the flesh, and the devil, the sociological, the psychologically, and the spiritological aspects of evil, it's trying to show you who the players are, trying to turn you into a doctor, in a sense, putting you into med school so that, you know, us non-doctors look at someone who's sick and all we can tell is, this person is dying, but I don't know why. Someone who goes through medical school, supposedly, has been taught all sorts of things so that you can see symptoms, and you can isolate factors, and you can tell what causes are so that you can treat them.

And therefore, the Bible is saying that evil is multi-dimensional, and the devil is always involved in your problems, and there are always various aspects to them. Evil is multi-dimensional. Now, we spent a few weeks figuring that out and getting that out, and I just spent three about it just because plenty of you probably weren't here when we did that. Then we said, we began to say, we now have to look at the general strategies, the general strategies that Satan uses, just as a good doctor would want to know the various sorts of ways that a particular kind of virus attacks the body. You know, a good doctor who's trying to figure out the roots and the causes of a particular disease or a particular painful condition has been taught, hopefully, how a particular strain of virus or bacteria attacks the body. In the same way, you've got to see what the scripture says about how Satan attacks. Don't forget, if anybody's out there saying, I don't believe I'm in the middle of New York City and somebody's going to tell me about how Satan attacks me, I want you to know that you're the one, not us, you're the one who's got a simplistic, a reductionistic view of things. Someone who may really not know why things have gone wrong in your life, all you remember is when you came to, and you still don't know what went wrong. wrong. Christians are not people who say it's simply a matter of the devil. Christians are never people who say it's simply a matter of psychology or sociology or demonic oppression. Instead, Christians say it's a complicated interaction of these things. We have to understand how each kind of disease or each kind of virus attacks the body. Now, how does Satan attack? Somebody, a few of you have been reminding me that like six weeks ago, some of you actually to sermons, which is really unfair. Because then you come back and say, you know, six weeks ago, you said there were three basic strategies that Satan uses, and you've never even mentioned the three. You know, you got into one, and what are they? Well, I may have actually mentioned them, but I never explained them. I said there's actually two that are paired up, and they're the two I really want to deal with, and then there's a third. And the third I can just mention, and they all have to do with lying. I did say that, didn't I, six weeks ago? The basic strategy that is, you might say, the foundation strategy behind all of the strategies is the lie. The word diabolos, diabolical, the word devil, means deceiver or liar. And the basic way that Satan deals with us is in the mental field by lying to us. Now, counselors know the power of a false belief system. In fact, I think most counselors will tell me ultimately, what counseling is, is finding out what person's belief systems are out of accord with, you know, with healthy functioning, and actually changing belief systems, you know? A lot of people hate the fact that Christians evangelize, so, what I don't like about Christians is you're trying to change people's beliefs, the fact is you can't get over any of your problems without changing your beliefs, in fact, the way you counsel people, the way you help your friends, is by changing their beliefs, you know, if you, if you, for are just absolutely afraid to ever open up to anybody because you were hurt, and now you open up to anybody, you're miserable, you're lonely, you're alienated, why? Because you believe that if you open yourself up to people, you'll be hurt, now that's a false belief, that's just not true, if you open yourself up, sometimes you'll be hurt, but not all the time, look at how your life is being controlled by a lie, how the heck are you ever gonna get better, how are you ever gonna get better, Don't impose your beliefs on me. I mean, there's actually no way that you'll ever get better unless somebody challenges your belief system. And ultimately, when we say Satan is a liar, we mean that all Satan's strategies are basically matters of lying. If he gets you to believe what he wants you to believe, he's got power over you. Otherwise, he just doesn't. There is no other kind of power. He can't, you see, as we say, he attacks us not with his fangs but with his falsehoods. the great teachers have been saying for years. Now, the three sub-strategies were deception, accusation, and temptation. Deception, accusation, and temptation. Now, I'm not going to really spend a whole week on deception. I gave you one week on accusation. Remember, this is right before Christmas. And tonight, I would like to give you kind of an overview of his other basic strategy, temptation. What about deception? I'll tell you what deception is, but I can just tell it to you kind of briefly. I don't want to spend an entire evening on it. Somebody, you may come up and twist my arm and convince me to. So maybe this might be a great surprise. One of the things the New Testament says is a major strategy of Satan is to get us to believe false doctrine. In 1 John, which is all about discerning spirits. Have you ever read 1 John? It's always talking about discerning false spirits, discerning evil spirits. here's how you can tell. Here's how you can discern a false spirit in the church. If the spirit does not admit that Jesus Christ is God come in the flesh, you would be shocked and surprised at how many times the New Testament talks about Satan trying to deal with us by getting us to believe false doctrine. Now, you know, modern people certainly would have a lot of trouble figuring that out because modern people are all for freedom of inquiry. Doctrinal rigidity is a very bad thing. According to the New Testament, that very cultural mindset is a demonic triumph. See, in the first John, the way you tell a false spirit is bad doctrine. The way you tell a false spirit is heresy. That's the reason why in first John it says, if you hear somebody saying Jesus Christ was just a great man but he was not God you know that is a demonic spirit it says in first John well you know there's a lot of churches in major metropolitan areas of New York uh New York and other pipe places in United States in fact in some places it might even be a majority of churches where that's just that's just a given understanding or if you believe that nobody's gonna challenge you and yet first John says if you believe that Jesus was is just a human being and nothing else, that's a demonic spirit. You know, Galatians talks about the fact that if an angel from heaven, a person, Satan can make himself look like an angel of light, and then it says, if an angel from heaven would come and tell you that you're saved, not by the grace of Jesus Christ, but you're saved by going to church and doing good works and taking the sacraments.

It says, if an angel told you that, Paul says in Galatians, you need to kick him out. You need to show him the door. You know he's not an angel, but he's a lying spirit. So in the passage I just read to you, Satan comes to Eve and says, eat that tree and you will be as God. Now the tree was the knowledge of, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And so Satan's original lie was, you don't need God in order to understand the world.

Harvard University, when it was founded, had an insignia on it. And you know what's on it. Three books, right? Those of you who've gone to Harvard or those of you who've ever seen a Harvard insignia, it's three books in it. Okay? And it says veritas, meaning truth. truth. You know right now, if you see it in Signia, all three books are open. You know that originally when Harvard University was founded as a Christian university, one of the three books was closed. Because the founders were Christians and they knew that through science you can learn a lot of truth, but you can't actually ultimately learn all truth except by divine revelation. Some of truth has to be disclosed to you through the word of God. Without God, you can't know everything that you can know about the world. That was something that Harvard University believed, and somewhere around 1870 or 1880, they had moved so far away from the Christian understanding of Revelation. The Christian understanding of Revelation is you can't possibly know everything that you need to know about yourself, you can't possibly understand the world without the Bible, without Revelation. Somewhere around 1870 or 1880, they opened that book on their insignia. Why? they believed the original lie. The original lie is you can go eat the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you don't need it. In fact, you don't need God to learn everything there is to know about good and evil. So you see, bad doctrine, according to Scripture, has a demonic origin. If you don't believe the Bible is the word of God, if you don't believe Jesus is the Son of God, if you don't believe from God, if you don't believe in the supernatural, if you don't believe in the new birth, if you don't believe you're saved by grace alone, you are under the influence, according to the scripture, of demonic spirits. That's a triumph. So you shouldn't you know, there's a place in C.S. Lewis' book, The Great Divorce, where there's this, there's a modern clergy ghost who lives in hell. And one of his friends, another clergyman who's in heaven, comes to see his old friend who's now in hell. And you know, the friend in hell says, you know, I don't really know why I'm here and why you're in heaven. You know, we both were in the church together, we both preached the word. And the minister from heaven said, you know, in as nice a way as possible, don't you realize you didn't believe in Jesus? You believed in being good, but you thought Jesus was just a great guy, you know, and you didn't. And, you know, the minister from hell says, well, I don't understand why I should be in hell for that. Why should I be excluded from heaven for that? I mean, free inquiry, you know, is important. And doctrinal rigidity is a terrible thing. And the minister from heaven says, well, don't you believe there's any sins of the intellect? And the minister from hell says, yes, of course, narrow-mindedness and prejudice.

And the minister from heaven says, what about rebellion? What about a refusal to listen? Whenever Jesus Christ spoke, he started by saying, amen, amen.

Now, in the King James, the old authorized version, very often in the gospels you hear Jesus say, verily, verily, I say unto you. Now you realize how weird that is, because what he was actually saying is amen, amen, I say unto you. When somebody preached in a synagogue, back in those days, the elders would sit on the front row, like this, I'm wondering if my elders would do that, they would sit on the front row and they would listen to the preacher and they would fold their arms and they would listen to see whether what that preacher was saying was right, with the word of God or not. So they would sit there like that, you know, with their beards flowing. I guess you guys need to grow beards too, and sit up there and listen to me. And when the preacher was done, the elders would say, amen, as a way of saying this was right, as a way of approval. They sat in judgment on the doctrinal accuracy of the preacher. Jesus Christ would start his sermons. Amen, amen. What does that mean? He's saying, I take away your right to judge me. I have absolute authority over your beliefs. You're not there to tell me whether I'm right. You may not weigh my teaching. You may not listen to what I say and decide, does it fit in rightly? You know, like the minister who once said, Jesus Christ said, and rightly so, I think. Jesus says, you're not allowed to do that.

I have authority over your beliefs. I have authority because I'm the author of your heart and the author of the world. You must listen to me. You must believe me. And for you to reject things that he says as not being in accord with the modern spirit is a triumph of demonic strategy.

Doctrinal falsehood? Amen. Oh yeah, that's different. Doctrinal falsehood is serious. you're actually getting into the area of a spiritual warfare when you when you begin to talk about things like that deception accusation and temptation accusation we talked about last time accusation and temptation go hand in hand there's two parts of the gospel the first part is you're a sinner you owe god everything you owe it to love him with all your heart soul strength and mind and you ought to love your neighbor as yourself and you don't that's the first half the bad news. The good news is that you are loved, that Jesus Christ has died for you, and you're completely accepted. The hymn that we sang this morning at the 10, 11, 30, and 4 o'clock was so wonderful. It says, you know, in thee, we come, O Christ, to thee. In thee we face our maker unafraid. Absolved we stand before the throne. Thy love has met thy law's demand. Thy law has Thy love has met thy law's demand. Jesus Christ has come and has lived and died in our place. And therefore, you are completely accepted. All the requirements of the law have been fulfilled. See, there's the good news and the bad news. You know how I like to say it. The bad news is you're more wicked and evil and cut off and alienated from God than you ever dared believe. But at the same time, you're more loved and accepted and valued and cherished than you ever dared hope. That's the gospel right there. Now, the two demonic strategies of accusation and temptation are actually ways of attacking one side of the other with lies. Accusation is to attack the second part, to get you to misbelieve that you're accepted. Accusation is a way that he comes on into your conscience and says, you call yourself a Christian. Look what you've done. How could he ever accept you? That's accusation. He's trying to get you to disbelieve the good news. In temptation, he's attacking the bad news. The bad news is that there is a God. He's a holy God. You owe him. There are standards. There is a law. Sin is a breaking of the standards, and it is a serious offense. Accusation is he attacks God loves you. You're more accepted and loved than you ever dared hope. Temptation is he attacks you are wicked. You are sinful. You have to seek to please him. And the two things go together. Because you see, the real reason I believe Satan tempts is eventually to accuse. And I think I mentioned this a few weeks ago. They always are like a one-two punch. On the way into a sin, Satan is saying to you, go ahead. He's a forgiving God. He can always forgive you. I mean, he'll forgive you. So on the way in, he says, go ahead. You can always be forgiven. And as soon as you get into the sin, he'll say, how could God forgive a wretch like you? You see, there's always two lies that always go together. The tempting lie is, go ahead. You know, gosh. I mean, after all, why would, you know, God can always forgive you, and besides that, there's other people that do it and so forth. On the way in, he makes sin look tremendously easy. On the way out, he makes sin look incredibly hard. On the way in, he makes you deny God's holiness. is on the way out, he makes you deny God's love to keep you down. They always go together. The temptation is part of the overall strategy. And here we see the classic case of it. Let me just show you the basic outline. You might see the structure of temptation, and then I'll try to show you some ways for you to prevent it happening to you. Here is how the virus attacks the organism. First of all, look carefully. The first thing that Satan does to try to get you to disobey God is not the first thing. You might say temptation doesn't start when you disobey God's command. It starts when you resent it. If you look carefully, you'll see something very interesting happening. If you read Genesis 2, which we didn't, but if you read Genesis 2, you'll see that what God has actually said to them is you can eat anything in the garden, but just don't eat that tree there, that one, just that one. Satan comes along and says, has God said you must not eat from any tree in the garden? So the first thing Satan does is he exaggerates the severity. The first thing that Satan does is instead of accentuating the positive, hey, God's given you a world and you can eat anything. This is a perfect world. And look at all this. Look at all this. Garden of Eden. Unbelievable. And you can walk with God in the cool of the day and speak to him face to face. Incredible. We're not totally sure why he won't let you eat that one tree, but for goodness sakes, what a small thing to ask in light of all this. That's not how Satan ever comes in. He never, ever, ever, ever starts with a note of gratitude. He always comes this way. Is it true what I've heard?

that God says you can't eat of any tree in the whole garden. And you see, Eve immediately recognizes, of course, that's an exaggeration. I'll show you how she responds in a minute, but here's the first point. Temptation almost always starts with self-pity. That's what it is. He's arousing self-pity. What is self-pity? Self-pity is a refusal to be grateful, a refusal to take a look at all the things that God's done and all the things that he's given. Temptation always starts there. You might say it's a soil in which the seed of sin will not grow unless it's planted in the soil of self-pity. There's got to be a feeling like, how hard a life I have. And how hard a life God has given me. Is it true what I've heard? That God has said you can't eat any of the trees of the garden? Instead of coming in and saying, it's unbelievable what a great place this is. why he wouldn't let you do that. Instead of putting that one prohibition in perspective, he immediately starts off by trying to prod Eve into self-pity. Now look how she responds, though. You know, you say, well, she corrects him, doesn't she? He says, the woman said to the serpent, we may eat from the fruit of the trees of the garden. But God did say, you must not eat from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. Now, by the way, there's no place where God says you must not touch it. She's already, in the most subtle way, entered in to the spirit, if not yet the content of what Satan has already done. You know, in other words, she's already starting to feel sorry for herself. She's already exaggerating the severity of what God has done and has said.

It starts small, but the point is this. you've entered into temptation, you've given in, in a sense, to temptation, not when you disobey the command, but when you sit there and start to resent it and start to say, I've got a hard life. This is unfair. The commandment of God is not wise. The commandment of God does not exhibit wisdom. If you look at the difficulty of her life with humility and you say, look, we talked about this in the morning service, didn't we? so a lot of people say it's very hard for me to trust god because i don't know what he's doing i don't like what he's doing my life isn't going very well it's very hard to i know i'm supposed to trust god i know i'm not supposed to feel sorry for myself but it's very hard now what i tried to say this morning is what i'm going to say now it's a very good possibility that your inability to trust god it's actually an unwillingness to mistrust your own judgment In other words, there's a certain stubbornness in this. The reason that you are having a lot of trouble understanding why things aren't going very well in your life is because you are so doggone sure of how they have to go, you are so sure exactly about what you've got to have and where you've got to be and what you should be having by now, so you are absolutely sure, that's the only possible reason, your unwillingness to doubt your judgment is the reason why you're having trouble trusting God, and it's the There's a reason why you are prone to temptation, because you are only prone to temptation if you feel sorry for yourself, and you really mistrust God because you trust your own judgment so well. That's where the temptation starts. That's the reason why there's a place where Jesus says to his disciples, Watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. It's entering into temptation means when you start to actually listen to the lies of Satan. And they start so subtly, don't they? Don't you see? He hasn't asked her to do anything except to feel sorry for herself and to lose the perspective of gratitude and joy that she once had or that she should have. That was the beginning. It starts so subtly.

Second, the real lie. I mean in others the first lie is feel sorry for yourself the first lie is Forget your gratitude your grateful perspective in other words you've entered into temptation If you haven't praised God this morning, it's I mean you're just duck soup already if you haven't forced yourself back into the real the Proper perspective is saying look at what God has done for me. Look at where I'm going. Look at who he is to me. Yes, this and this, but look at what I've already been guaranteed. Look what He's already saved me from. You see, sin is the tendency to lose that perspective. It just dies automatically unless you're continually revving it up and restarting the motor every day. It just dies. That's what Bible study and prayer is for. That's what worship is for. Unless you get that perspective, you are already entering into temptation. In a sense, you've created the soil in which the seed can come in. That's the first step. The second step is the real lie, and here's what the real lie is. It's in verse 4 and 5. You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good from evil. So here's the big lie. Obedience is limiting, and disobedience is actually liberating. so he says God is trying to keep you down if you obey him you will never reach your potential you will be missing out and I know When I look at people in the eye, and I say to them that what you really need is not just to be What you really need is not just a kind of general relationship with God you need to go flat out You need to obey him completely and utterly you need to surrender everything to him you need to obey him unconditionally in people's eyes. They say, someday, maybe. But first, I want to live. What do you think that is? That is this lie still operating in the hearts. Once it's sunk into Adam and Eve, you know, you've got to remember that Adam and Eve are the first parents of the entire human race. It's been transmitted. We've all got it. It sank into their hearts. And when it sank into their hearts? Obedience is limiting. Disobedience is liberating. You will miss out. You know that. Now, I mean, to some degree, one of the reasons why a lot of people think that is the church itself. Very often we preach a negative message. What does it mean to be a Christian? It means don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I did preach this mission. One of these don't, don't, don't type missionaries, well-meaning, went to try to convert the chief of a cannibalistic tribe

and the chief, you know, was very old, sat there and said, well, let me get this straight. If I'm going to be a Christian, that means I've got to stop. I have to stop attacking my neighbor and attacking these people in the other village and killing them, right? Yes. And I have to stop eating them, right? Yes. And I have to stop raping their wives. Yes. Okay. He says, well, look, I'm 80 years old. I don't have any teeth, so I can't eat them anymore. I'm too slow to chase them anymore. I don't have much interest in raping them anymore. I'm already a Christian. To be old to be a Christian is the same thing. And that's the fault of the church. But beneath that is the lie of Satan that underneath it really does believe it. When I say to people, the best thing you can do to really develop your potential is to obey unconditionally, whether you want to or not. You know, the early Christians were absolutely astonishing to the Roman world because the early Christians were characterized by two very unusual aspects of lifestyle. One is they did not have sex outside of marriage, and two is they tithe their income. They shared generously. And the Roman world looked at them and said, are you crazy? Just the way the New York world looks at you if you are characterized by those two things. Are you crazy? You're going

No sex outside of marriage? You're going to be lonely. You know, I was listening to that old Simon and Garfunkel, the big, bright, green pleasure machine. There's that one line in it, back from the late 60s, one line in it says, do you sleep alone when others sleep with theirs? You know, the world looks at you and says, God, you're going to have a lonely, alienated life. You're going to miss out. See, a lot of you are not obeying God in this particular sexual area because of this lie.

what is the lie? The lie that says, if you really obey, you're going to miss out. You're going to limit yourself. You're going to cut yourself off from so many possibilities. See? God knows that if you eat of it, if you disobey him, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God. You will reach your own potential. And that's why there's a lot of people who say, you know, I'm interested in Christianity, but to go all out, to go completely obedient, unconditionally obedient, whole way maybe later i want to live first and i want you to know something if you believe that you can never you know say well maybe i'll turn to christ later you can't possibly turn to christ if you see him as what you're seeing him as now and that is a means to an end you see christ as maybe a way to be happy right now you see some other ways to be happy that look like they're more liberating than Jesus way. The fact is Jesus is not a way to be happy, Jesus is happiness. You don't believe that and that is the problem. See what Satan was trying to say to Adam and Eve, what he's trying to get them to believe, is that you really will never actually find everything in the face of God. What you're looking for in sex, as we've talked about before, sex is just an It's just an earthly hors d'oeuvre that gives you some small understanding of what it's like to be in complete union with your maker and your brother and your friend and your husband and your king. We've talked about this in past evenings. You know, it's incredible how risque the Bible is when it comes to this. The Bible says, what do you do in messing around with sex when you've got glory here? What are you doing messing around with materialism when you've got glory here? God is your life. God is not a means to be happy. He is happiness. He is his own happy ending, all by himself.

What am I going to say to you here to close up? Temptation is always a series of lies. It starts not when you disobey, but when you just resent His commands because you lack perspective on who he is and you don't see that he is life itself Then of course the lie will always come in and say if you obey that you're going to miss out Now and also you have to realize that Satan uses different lies on different people but basically they're all derivatives of this and take a look and look at the areas where you are the most tempted, and look at the areas where you know you find yourself continually missing God's will. Why? Listen to your heart, listen to the voices, Someone is saying something to you when you are on your way to one of these sins, listen to what the cognitive therapy, the rational emotive therapy, is called self-talk, but you see, Christians are wiser, some of that, it may be self-talk, but some of that may be satanic talk. It's difficult to know. What is it that's being said on the way in? Think about it. It's derived from Genesis 3. It's derived from these lies. And here is what you have to do in order to deal with temptation. Just a couple of things before we close. Just a few things. Number one, when you fall into temptation, and even when you fall into sin, remember this, the real purpose of temptation is accusation. The real purpose to get you to sin is to get you to think that he's rejected you. And that's why John Newton says, a bush on fire, a Christian who has fallen into temptation is a bush on fire but not consumed. This emblem or this symbol is generally applicable to the state of the Christian in his present life, but never more so than when he's in the fire of temptation. Satan's malice is not abated, and though he is met with millions of disappointments, he still, like Goliath of old, defies the armies of God's Israel. He challenges the stoutest and desires to have them, that he may sift them like wheat. But though they are weak, Christians' Redeemer is mighty, and they are forever secured by his love and intercession. The first thing you've got to realize, and Satan can even use this one on you, but the point is, on the way into a temptation, you have to say, how can I do this to my maker? When Joseph was being grabbed by Potiphar's wife, you know that in Genesis 39? She was after him. She was lusting after him. He was young and sleek. So his master's wife comes and grabs him and says, lie with me. You know what he says? He says, how can I do this great wickedness and sin against God and my master? What he immediately does is he gets his perspective. He thinks and says, the love and my relationship with my master in heaven and my master on earth is life itself. How can I do this thing? But on the way, once you're down there at the bottom, I want you to realize that the worst thing you can do once you have sinned is then to let him do the double whammy on you and to keep you down there by saying, well, you might as well keep on sinning because he's never going to let you back out. You will always be a second-class Christian, you will never really be accepted by him, so hate yourselves, and that's one of the easiest ways to have a lack of self-control. Everybody knows where addiction comes from, but the total lack of self-control comes from a total lack of self-confidence and a total lack of self-esteem, so you see, temptation leads to that accusation, but the accusation will keep you in the temptation, so the first thing you must do, if you have sinned, if you have let him tempt you, don't let him

Secondly, find out what the lies are. Write them down. Listen to what your heart's saying. Write the things out and give an answer to them. And walk around with that answer. You know, we've talked about this before. If you're being tempted, it's because Satan has put a lie on video. You're sitting there, you know, the illustration I very often will use is, The doctor says to you, you're going to die if you keep eating steak. You've got to have a low-fat diet. So you know two things. Steak is wonderful. It tastes great. And the other thing is, if I eat it, I will die. Those are two things. And are you going to engage your heart in one or the other? The point is, when you see the steak in front of you, it's on video. You say, look at that steak. On audio, kind of vaguely in the background, is another truth that says if you eat this steak, you will be hurting yourself. You will be setting yourself up for a heart attack. How are you going to resist eating the steak? It's really quite simple. You've got to put what your doctor said on video as well. Simple as that. So you see what you need to do is, as you're looking at the steak, close your eyes for a minute and picture yourself clutching your heart, falling to the ground.

that's how you deal with temptation of course it is what do you think josiah was saying what do you think he was doing when he says how can i do this great evil and sin against god why was he able to get away from potiphar's wife potiphar's wife probably looked pretty good there's two things he could have done he could have looked at potiphar's wife and he could have put her on video or he could have looked at his father and his master and looked at their face when they find out and put that on video and what did he do he put his father and on video. It's up to you. Find out what those lies are and put the biblical answer, put what God would say down there, and just put that on video when the time comes. One more thing. Argue against the temptation, but never argue with it. Listen, when we suffer a temptation to enter into us, we enter into temptation. When it knocks at the door, we are free. But when a temptation comes parley with the heart, reasons with the mind, entices and allures the affections, be it a long or short time, we've entered into temptation. How do we know if we've begun to listen to the devil? By the long solicitations, by causing the mind frequently to converse with the evil, the soul begins to grow familiar with it, not to be startled as formerly, but rather inclined to say, it's only a little one. You see, the first stage of temptation, I said, was self-pity. But actually, the second stage of temptation is to begin not to say, I'm going to do it, but begin to say, well, why not do it? And as soon as you've begun to talk with the temptation and argue with it and say, well, make your case, you've actually set yourself up for it. The third stage is, I'm going to do it. First stage is, isn't my life hard? The second stage is, well, make your case. And the third stage is, okay, remember who you are if you really want to overcome temptation. temptation. He that is satisfied with the kindness of God, as with marrow and fatness, that is every day entertained at the banquet of God's love, hath a holy contempt for the baits and allurements that lie in prevailing temptations, and therefore is safe. Let's pray. Elders would sit on the front row like this. I'm wondering whether my elders ought to do that. They would sit on the front row, and they'd listen to the preacher, and they'd fold their arms, and they'd listen to see whether what that preacher was saying was right, whether it was in accord with the word of God or not. So, they would sit there like that, you know, with their beards flowing. I guess you guys need to grow beards, too, and sit up there and listen to me. And when the preacher was done, the elders would say amen as a way of saying this was right, as a way of approval. They sat in judgment on the doctrinal accuracy of the preacher. Jesus Christ would start his sermons, amen, amen. What does that mean? He's saying, I take away your right to judge me. I have absolute authority over your beliefs. You're not there to tell me whether I'm right. You may not weigh my teaching. You may not listen to what I say and decide, does it fit in rightly? You know, like the minister who once said, Jesus Christ said, and rightly so, I think. Jesus says, you're not allowed to do that.

I have authority over your beliefs. I have authority because I'm the author of your heart and the author of the world. You must listen to me. You must believe me. And for you to reject things that he says as not being in accord with the modern spirit is a triumph of demonic strategy.

Doctrinal falsehood? Amen. Oh yeah, that's different. Doctrinal falsehood is serious. You're actually getting into the area of spiritual warfare when you begin to talk about things like that. Deception, accusation, and temptation. Accusation, we talked about last time. Accusation and temptation go hand in hand. There's two parts of the gospel. The first part is you're a sinner. You owe God everything. You owe it to love him with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind, and you ought to love your neighbor as yourself. And you don't. That's the first half of the gospel. That's the bad news. The good news is that you are loved, that Jesus Christ has died for you, and you're completely accepted. The hymn that we sang this morning, or this at, you know, was so wonderful. It says, you know, in thee, we come, O Christ, to thee. In thee we face our maker unafraid. Absolved we stand before the throne. Thy love has met thy law's demand. Jesus Christ has come and has lived and died in our place, and therefore you are completely accepted. All the requirements of the law have been fulfilled. See, there's the good news and the bad news. You know how I like to say it. The bad news is you're more wicked and evil and cut off and alienated from God than you ever dared believe, but at the same time, you're more loved and accepted and valued and cherished than you ever dared hope. That's the gospel right there. Now, the two demonic strategies of accusation and temptation are actually ways of attacking one side or the other with lies. Accusation is to attack the second part, to get you to misbelieve that you're accepted. Accusation is a way that he comes on into your conscience and says, you call yourself a Christian. Look what you've done. How could he ever accept you? That's accusation. He's trying to get you to disbelieve the good news. In temptation, he's attacking, the bad news. The bad news is that there is a God. He's a holy God. You owe him. There are standards. There is a law. Sin is a breaking of the standards, and it is a serious offense. Accusation is he attacks, God loves you. You're more accepted and loved than you ever dared hope. Temptation is he attacks, you are wicked. You are sinful. You have to seek to please him. And the two things go together. Because you see, the real reason I believe Satan tempts is eventually to accuse. And I think I mentioned this a few weeks ago. They always are like a one-two punch. On the way into a sin, Satan is saying to you, go ahead. He's a forgiving God. He can always forgive you. I mean, he'll forgive you. So on the way in, he says, go ahead. You can always be forgiven. And as soon as you get into the sin, he'll say, how could God forgive a wretch like you? two lies, they always go together, the tempting lie is, go ahead, you know, gosh, I mean, after all, why would, you know, God can always forgive you, and besides that there's other people that do it, and so forth, on the way in, He makes sin look tremendously easy, on the way out, He makes sin looks incredibly hard, on the way in, He makes you deny God's holiness, on the way out, He makes you deny God's love to keep you down, they always go together, the temptation is, is, is part And here we see the classic case of it. Let me just show you the basic outline. You might see the structure of temptation, and then I'll try to show you some ways for you to prevent it happening to you. Here is how the virus attacks the organism. First of all, look carefully. The first thing that Satan does to try to get you to disobey God is not the first thing. You might say temptation doesn't start when you disobey God's command. It starts when you resent it. If you look carefully, you'll see something very interesting happening. If you read Genesis 2, which we didn't, but if you read Genesis 2, you'll see that what God has actually said to them is you can eat anything in the garden, but just don't eat that tree there. That one. Just that one. Satan comes along and says, has God said you must not eat from any tree in the garden? So the first thing Satan does is he exaggerates the severity. The first thing that Satan does is instead of accentuating the positive, hey, God's given you a world and you can eat anything. This is a perfect world. Look at all this. Garden of Eden. Unbelievable. And you can walk with God in the cool of the day and speak to him face to face. Incredible. We're not totally sure why he won't let you eat that one tree, but for goodness sakes, what a small thing to ask in light of all this. That's not how Satan ever comes in. He never, ever, ever, ever starts with a note of gratitude. He always comes this way. Is it true, what I've heard?

That God says you can't eat of any tree in the whole garden. And you see, Eve immediately recognizes, of course, that's an exaggeration. I'll show you how she responds in a minute, but here's the first point. Temptation almost always starts with self-pity. That's what it is. He's arousing self-pity. What is self-pity? Self-pity is a refusal to be grateful, a refusal to take a look at all the things that God's done and all the things that he's given. Temptation always starts there. You might say it's a soil in which the seed of sin will not grow unless it's planted in of self-pity. There's got to be a feeling like, how hard a life I have, and how hard a life God has given me. Is it true what I've heard? That God has said you can't eat any of the trees of the garden? Instead of coming in and saying, it's unbelievable what a great place this is, but it sure is kind of puzzling why he wouldn't let you do that. Instead of putting that one prohibition in perspective, he immediately starts off by trying to prod Eve into self-pity. Now look how she responds, though. You know, you say, well, she corrects him, doesn't she? He says, the woman said to the serpent, we may eat from the fruit of the trees of the garden. But God did say, you must not eat from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. Now, by the way, there's no place where God says that you must not touch it. She's already, in the most subtle way entered in to the spirit if not yet the content of what Satan is already has done she's you know in other words she's already starting to feel sorry for herself she's already exaggerating the severity of what God has done and it said it starts small but the point is this you've entered into temptation you've given in a sense to temptation not when you disobey the to resent it and start to say, I've got a hard life. This is unfair. The commandment of God is not wise. The commandment of God does not exhibit wisdom. If you look at the difficulty of your life with humility and you say, look, we talked about this in the morning service, didn't we? A lot of people say, it's very hard for me to trust God because I don't know what he's doing. I don't like what he's doing. My life isn't going very well. It's very hard. I know I'm supposed to I know I'm not supposed to feel sorry for myself, but it's very hard. Now, what I tried to say this morning is what I'm going to say now. It's a very good possibility that your inability to trust God is actually an unwillingness to mistrust your own judgment. In other words, there's a certain stubbornness in this. The reason that you are having a lot of trouble understanding why things aren't going very well in your life is because you are so doggone sure of how they have to go.

exactly what you've got to have and where you've got to be and what you should be having by now so you are absolutely sure that's the only possible reason your unwillingness to doubt your judgment is the reason why you're having trouble trusting God and it's the reason why you are prone to temptation because you're only prone to temptation if you feel sorry for yourself and you really mistrust God because you trust your own judgment so well that's where the temptation starts. That's the reason why there's a place where Jesus says to his disciples, watch and pray that you enter not into temptation. It's entering into temptation means when you start to actually listen to the lies of Satan, and they start so subtly, don't they? Don't you see? He hasn't asked her to do anything except to feel sorry for herself and to lose the perspective of gratitude and joy that she once had or that she should have. That was the beginning. It starts so subtly.

Second, the real lie. I mean, in other words, the first lie is, feel sorry for yourself, the first lie is forget your grateful perspective. In other words, you've entered into temptation if you haven't praised God this morning. I mean, you're just duck soup already. If you haven't forced yourself back into the proper perspective of saying, look at what God has done for me. Look at where I'm going. to me. Yes, this and this, but look at what I've already been guaranteed. Look what he's already saved me from. You see, sin is the tendency to lose that perspective. It just dies automatically unless you're continually revving it up and restarting the motor every day. It just dies. That's what Bible study and prayer is for. That's what worship is for. Unless you get that perspective, you are already entering into temptation. In a sense, you've created the soil in which the seed can come in. That's the first step. The second step is the real lie, and here's what the real lie is. It's in verse 4 and 5. You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good from evil. So here's the big lie. Obedience is limiting,

and disobedience is actually liberating. See, he says, God is trying to keep you down. If you obey him, you will never reach your potential. You will be missing out. And I know when I look at people in the eye and I say to them that what you really need is not just a kind of general relationship with God. You need to go flat out. You need to obey him completely and utterly. You need to surrender everything to him. You need to obey him unconditionally. look in people's eyes. They say, someday, maybe. But first, I want to live. What do you think that is? That is this lie still operating in the hearts. Once it's sunk into Adam and Eve, you know, you've got to remember that Adam and Eve are the first parents of the entire human race. It's been transmitted. We've all got it. It sank into their hearts. And when it sank into their hearts? Obedience is limiting. Disobedience is liberating. You will miss out. You know that. Now, I mean, to some degree, one of the reasons why a lot of people think that is the church itself. Very often we preach a negative message. What does it mean to be a Christian? It means don't, don't, don't, don't, don't. I did preach this mission. One of these don't, don't, don't type missionaries, well-meaning, went to try to convert the chief of a cannibalistic tribe

stop attacking my neighbor and attacking these people in the other village and killing them, right? Yes. And I have to stop eating them, right? Yes. And I have to stop raping their wives, yes, okay. He says, well, look, so I'm 80 years old. I don't have any teeth so I can't eat them anymore. I'm too slow to chase them anymore. I don't have much interest in raping them anymore. I'm already a Christian. To be old to be a Christian is the same thing.

You know, and that's the fault of the church. But beneath that is the lie of Satan that underneath it really does believe it. When I say to people, the best thing you can do to really develop your potential is to obey unconditionally, whether you want to or not. You know, the early Christians were absolutely astonishing to the Roman world because the early Christians were characterized by two very unusual aspects of lifestyle. have sex outside of marriage, and two, is they tithe their income. They share generously. And the Roman world looked at them and said, are you crazy? Just the way the New York world looks at you, if you are characterized by those two things. Are you crazy? You're going to miss out. No sex outside of marriage? You're going to be lonely. You know, I was listening to that old Simon and Garfunkel, the big, bright, green pleasure machine. There's that one line in it, back from the late line and says, do you sleep alone when others sleep with theirs? You know, the world looks at you and says, God, you're going to have a lonely, alienated life. You're going to miss out. See, a lot of you are not obeying God in this particular sexual area because of this lie.

What is the lie? The lie that says, if you really obey, you're going to miss out, you're going to limit yourself, you're going to cut yourself off from so many possibilities. capabilities. See, God knows that if you eat of it, if you disobey him, your eyes will be open and you will be like God. You will reach your own potential. And that's why there's a lot of people who say, you know, I'm interested in Christianity, but to go all out, to go completely obedient, unconditionally obedient, the whole way, maybe later, I want to live first. And I want you to know something if you believe that you can never you know say well maybe i'll turn to christ later you can't possibly turn to christ if you see him as what you're seeing him as now and that is a means to an end you see christ as maybe a way to be happy right now you see some other ways to be happy that look like they're more liberating than jesus way the fact is jesus is not a way to be happy, Jesus is happiness. You don't believe that, and that is the problem. See, what Satan was trying to say to Adam and Eve, what he's trying to get them to believe, is that you really will never actually find everything in the face of God. What you're looking for in sex, as we've talked about before, sex is just an echo. Sex is just an earthly hors d'oeuvre that gives you some small understanding of what it's like to be in complete union with your maker and your brother and your friend and your husband and your king. We've talked about this in past evenings. You know, it's incredible how risque the Bible is when it comes to this. The Bible says, what are you doing messing around with sex when you've got glory here? What are you doing messing around with materialism when you've got glory here? God is your life. God is not a means to be happy. He is happiness. He is his own happy ending. All by himself.

And what am I going to say to you here to close up? Temptation is always a series of lies. It starts not when you disobey, but when you just resent his commands because you lack perspective on who he is and you don't see that he is life itself.

And of course, the lie will always come in and say, if you obey that, you're going to miss out. And also you have to realize that Satan uses different lies on different people, but basically they're all derivatives of this. And take a look, and look at the areas where you're the most tempted. And look at the areas where you know you find yourself continually missing God's will. Why? Listen to your heart. Listen to the voices. places, somebody is saying something to you when you're on your way into one of these sins. Listen to what the cognitive therapies, the rational and motive therapies, call self-talk. But you see, Christians are wiser. Some of that may be self-talk, but some of that may be satanic talk. It's difficult to know. What is it that's being said on the way in? Think about it. It's derived from Genesis 3. It's derived from these lies. And here is what you have to do in order to deal with temptation. Just a couple of things before we close, just a few things. Number one, when you fall into temptation, and even when you fall into sin, remember this. The real purpose of temptation is accusation. The real purpose to get you to sin is to get you to think that he's rejected you. And that's why John Newton says, Temptations, oh pardon me, a bush on fire, a Christian who has fallen into temptation but not consumed. This emblem or this symbol is generally applicable to the state of the Christian in his present life, but never more so than when he's in the fire of temptation. Satan's malice is not abated, and though he is met with millions of disappointments, he still, like Goliath of old, defies the armies of God's Israel. He challenges the stoutest and desires to have them, that he may sift them like wheat. But though they are weak, Christian's redeemer is mighty, and they are forever secured by his love and intercession. The first thing realize. Satan can even use this one on you, but the point is, on the way into a temptation, you have to say, how can I do this to my maker? When Joseph was being grabbed by Potiphar's wife, you know that in Genesis 39? She was after him. She was lusting after him. He was young and sleek. So his master's wife comes and grabs him and says, lie with me. You know what he says? He says, how can I do this great wickedness and sin against God and my master? as he gets his perspective, he thinks and says, the love and my relationship with my master in heaven and my master on earth is life itself, how can I do this thing? But on the way, once you're down there at the bottom, I want you to realize that the worst thing you can do once you have sinned, is then to let him do the double whammy on you, and to keep you down there by saying, well, you might as well keep on sinning, because he's never going to let you back out, you'll always be a second-class best Christian, you'll never really be accepted by him, hate yourself, and that's one of the easiest ways to have a lack of self-control, everybody knows where addiction comes from, the total lack of self-control, comes from a total lack of self-confidence, and a total lack of self-esteem, so you see, temptation leads to that accusation, but the accusation that will keep you in the temptation, so the first thing you must do, if you have sinned, if you have let him tempt you, don't let him accuse you, secondly, find out your out what the lies are. Write them down. Listen to what your heart's saying. Write the things out and give an answer to them and walk around with that answer. You know, we've talked about this before. If you're being tempted, it's because Satan has put a lie on video. You're sitting there, you know, the illustration I very often will use is the doctor says to you, you're going to die if you keep eating steak. You've got to have a low-fat diet, okay? So you know two things. Steak is wonderful. It tastes great. And the other thing is, if I eat it, I will die. Those are two things. And now, are you going to engage your heart in one or the other? The point is, when you see the steak in front of you, it's on video. You say, look at that steak. On audio, Video, kind of vaguely in the background, is another truth that says, if you eat this steak, you will be hurting yourself. You will be setting yourself up for a heart attack. How are you going to resist eating a steak? It's really quite simple. You've got to put what your doctor said on video as well. Simple as that. So you see, what you need to do is, as you're looking at the steak, close your eyes for a minute and picture yourself clutching your heart, falling to the ground.

that's how you deal with temptation of course it is what do you think josiah was saying what do you think he was doing when he says how can i do this great evil and sin against god why was he able to get away from potiphar's wife potiphar's wife probably looked pretty good there's two things he could have done he could have looked at potiphar's wife and he could have put her on video or he could have looked at his father and his master and looked at their face when they find out and put that on video and what did he do he put his father and on video. It's up to you. Find out what those lies are and put the biblical answer, put what God would say down there, and just put that on video when the time comes. One more thing. Argue against the temptation, but never argue with it. Listen, when we suffer a temptation to enter into us, we enter into temptation. When it knocks at the door, we are free. But when a temptation comes parley with the heart, reasons with the mind, entices and allures the affections, be it a long or short time, we've entered into temptation. How do we know if we've begun to listen to the devil? By the long solicitations, by causing the mind frequently to converse with the evil, the soul begins to grow familiar with it, not to be startled as formerly, but rather inclined to say, it's only a little one. You see, the first stage of temptation, I said, was self-pity. But actually, the second stage of temptation is to begin not to say, I'm going to do it, but begin to say, well, why not do it? And as soon as you've begun to talk with the temptation and argue with it and say, well, make your case, you've actually set yourself up for it. The third stage is, I'm going to do it. First stage is, is it my life hard? The second stage is, well, make your case. And the third stage is, okay, remember who you are if you really want to overcome temptation. temptation. He that is satisfied with the kindness of God, as with marrow and fatness, that is every day entertained at the banquet of God's love, hath a holy contempt for the baits and allurements that lie in prevailing temptations, and therefore is safe. Let's pray.
