The scripture reading comes from Luke chapter 6 verses 19 through 26 and 30 through 35. And the people all tried to touch him because power was coming from him and healing them all. Looking at his disciples, he said, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Blessed are you who hunger now, for you will be satisfied. For you will laugh. Blessed are you when men hate you, when they exclude you and insult you and reject your name as evil because of the Son of Man. Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, because great is your reward in heaven, for that is how their fathers treated the prophets. But woe to you who are rich, for you have already received your comfort. Woe to you who are well fed now, for you will go hungry. Woe to you who laugh now, for you will mourn and weep. Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for that is how their fathers treated the false prophets. Give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. Do to others as you would have them do to you. If you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners love those who love them. And if you do good to those who are good to you, what credit is that to you? Even sinners do that. And if you lend to those from whom you expect repayment, what credit is that to you? Even sinners lend to sinners, expecting to be repaid in full. But love your enemies. Do good to them. And lend to them without expecting to get anything back. Then your reward will be great. most high because he is kind to the ungrateful and wicked. This is God's word. In the month of June, we're going to be looking for weeks at what the Bible says about our attitude or what our attitude should be toward money and our possessions. And we're each week going to look at a passage out of the gospel of Luke. Actually, one week it'll be in Acts. Acts, but of course Luke wrote both Luke and Acts. And this author probably talks more about money and possessions than any other one biblical author. So we're going to look at that for four weeks. Tonight, we're just going to frame up the series fairly brief by looking at a concept that's It's, you know, all through the New Testament, but often hard to put your finger on and define. When Luke talks about money, he so often does so in the context of the kingdom of God. He talks about the kingdom of God. Here in verse 20, he starts right off saying, you are the ones who inherit the kingdom of God. Now, what is that? That's what I want to talk to you about tonight. I give you an overview, and that'll prepare us for what we are going to get into the next few weeks. But when the Bible says the kingdom of God is coming, it means the king is coming. Jesus is coming. The king is coming. But when a king comes, the king always brings a kingdom, dumb, meaning an administration. So for example, if a team gets a new coach, or if a corporation gets a new CEO, or if a department gets a new manager, when you get a new leader, you also get a new way of doing things, a new administration. The leader brings his or her priorities, Priorities, things that the leader thinks are important. The administration has its own motivations, its own dynamics, its own priorities, its own values. And, of course, each kingdom produces a certain kind of person. And what we have in this passage is a contrast between Jesus' kingdom and the way the world operates. in verses 20 to 23 where Jesus is saying, blessed are you. He's talking obviously about you are the ones who receive the kingdom of God. But in verses 24 to 26, the woes are about, even though the word kingdom isn't being used there, it's contrasting. It's an alternate way of living. It's the kingdom of this world. Michael Wilcock wrote a great little commentary on the book of Luke. And when he gets to this chapter, he says this, in the life of God's people will be seen, first of all, a remarkable reversal of values. God's people will prize what the world calls pitiable and suspect what the world thinks is desirable. And that's what we have here. And all I want to do is show you, first of all, the world's values, or you might call it the world's kingdom. And then secondly, look at Jesus' upside-down kingdom, which I'm calling an upside-down kingdom, because it's almost the reverse of what the world thinks is normal human life. And then all I'll do is close with an encouragement and a warning. Okay, first, the world's kingdom. Verses 24 to 26 pronounces woes on a certain way of life. And when you see the word woe, you might right away think he's talking about the word woe means condemned, you're condemned, or you're cursed. But that's not true. Because when someone in olden days used to say, woe is me, the person was not condemning himself, but was pitying himself. And the word woe means alas for. Jesus is expressing pity for people who are living in this way. He's saying, oh, you have no idea what's going to happen to you. Now, what is this way? What are these priorities? What are the values of the world's kingdom? What Jesus is pronouncing a woe on are four things. He says, woe to you if you prize and if you make a priority four things, power, comfort, success, and recognition. see first of all power woe to you who are rich richness isn't the only form of power but it's one of the main ones getting power over people power over your life power over the world secondly it says woe to you who are well fed that's a word that literally means to be to have your physical desires satiated full

thirdly woe to you who laugh now wait that looks like he's saying woe to you who are happy because the word laugh is a Greek word that means to gloat. And it's a word that actually means to gloat because you've won. So he's actually saying, woe to those who make a priority of, set their hearts on power, comfort, success, and recognition. Woe to you when all men speak well of you. Celebrity, recognition, acclaim. Now, you say, wait a minute, is he saying a woe, woe to anybody who has those things? No, you heard me say the kingdom of this world is seen in that these are bottom line identities. And the way I know that, the way we know that is verse 24. It says, woe to you who are rich for you have already received your comfort. That's the word parakleo, paraklesis. And it's a very important Greek word in the New Testament. It means deep consolation, deep solace and comfort. But it's a word that Jesus uses to describe the Holy Spirit. And so, if you're a member of the kingdom of this world, not necessarily if you're successful. He's not putting a woe on anyone who happens to be or anyone who happens to be a claimed. What he's actually saying is when these things are your comfort, when these things are your bottom line identity, when these are the things that you really live for, and they're the things that even if you may believe in God, you may believe in Christianity, you may come to Redeemer and take notes of the sermons. But if you're actually living for power and comfort and success and recognition, you're a member of the kingdom of this world. That's what he's saying. and he says, if you set your heart on these things this way, they will disappoint you because though you are well-fed now, you will go hungry. Though you laugh now, you will mourn and weep. He doesn't explain that. He doesn't say when that's going to happen, this life, next life, whatever. What he's actually saying is that if you set your hearts on these things, if they're They're your comfort. They're your paraklesis. They're the deepest consolation you have. You will be disappointed. I pity you, says Jesus. Okay, now that's the world's kingdom, and maybe that's common sense. I'm not sure that's news to anybody. If you live in New York City, you know that's what the world's about. You know that's what turns all the cranks. You know, it's those are the things that people really think are important and live for. But when Jesus describes his kingdom in verses 20 to 23, what he says there is rather startling. It's not at all something that you look at and say, yes, I knew that. No, it's very counterintuitive because here's what he says are the people who inherit his kingdom. He says, blessed are the poor, the hungry, the grieving, and the excluded. Now, what does that mean? Now, some people say it's simple. What it's saying here is Christians are people who seek those things. That's it. But it's a little too simple, and it is too simplistic. Not only does that not fit in with the way in which he spoke to people, he spoke to the rich young ruler. He said, give all your money away. He spoke to Zacchaeus, and he was happy with 50%. Other people had never brought it up, even some wealthy people like Nicodemus. And what this means is if somebody takes that and says that Jesus is saying, you must not be successful if you're a Christian. You must not be popular if you're a Christian. You've got to be persecuted. You've got to be poor. It's difficult to square that with everything else in the Bible. And besides that, I have to tell you, the few people that I've ever met who believe that, think of what would motivate you. to say, as a Christian, I'm going to seek to be persecuted. I'm going to seek to be poor. What would motivate you? You know, one thing that would motivate you is pride. So you'll feel noble, better than all those comfortable Christians. You're a real Christian. Or another motivation would be fear. I'm afraid of having things. I'm afraid of recognition. I'm afraid of success, which means they're still, to some degree, controlling you. Now, Jesus isn't saying that Christians seek poverty and seek persecution. Then what is he saying? You get a little bit of a hint of it when you try to compare the woes and the blessings. You know, when Jesus says, woe are you who are successful, woe to the successful ones, he's not, what is he saying? We just said that. He's saying, though success looks great on the surface, it really could be a source of terrible woe. so when he says blessed are you who are poor, blessed are you who are persecuted, blessed are you who are grieving I think he's saying the same thing he's saying on the surface these look awful but they actually could be a source of blessing here's

after reflecting on this passage for many years here's what I think some of the things are that Jesus is saying through it first of all first he is saying that difference between a member of his kingdom and a member of the world's kingdom is that actually Christians can take poverty, they can take persecution, they can take grief. They are not so... members of Jesus' kingdom are not so tied to power and comfort and success that if they lose them, their life is over. See, one of the ways you can tell you the difference, One of the ways you can tell what kingdom you're in. Okay, everybody? Here it is. One of the ways you can tell what kingdom you're in. Is how do you deal with grief? How do you deal with financial reverses? How do you deal with loss of reputation? How do you deal with it? If you're in the world's kingdom. That is your comfort. That is your identity. That's it. That's your reward. See? And therefore. If you lose those things. You've got nothing left. Nothing. You're in meltdown. There's no way it's intolerable. Whereas if you're in the kingdom of Jesus, you can handle those things. And very often, they can be a source of blessing. You say, how could that be? Well, think for a second. In the book of Luke, you know, I'm immersing for a month, we're immersing ourselves in Luke and his thought. There's a parable that actually uses the same basic idea. It's the parable of Lazarus and the rich man. man. Luke chapter 16. Remember, Lazarus and a rich man, they're living, then they die. When they die, Lazarus goes to heaven, the rich man goes to hell. Lazarus is up in the bosom of Abraham, right? You remember at one point the rich man says something to Father Abraham. Remember what Abraham says? He says, my son, to the rich man in hell, you've had your comfort. comfort. Same idea, okay? Same book, Gospel of Luke. What Abraham is saying to the rich man is,

your riches was more than just riches. It was your comfort. It was who you were. And that probably is the reason why we have this curiosity in the parable. It's the only parable in which you have two main characters, the rich man and Lazarus. One has a proper name and one isn't given he's just the rich man. And years ago, I heard a great sermon on this that I think it did a pretty good job of explaining this, and it fits in with what Luke is saying here. See, it's one thing for you to be a father or a mother, to be an artist, a dancer, a businessman, a businesswoman, a rich man. That's fine. But when that's the main thing you are, when that's your comfort, when that's your identity, when it's your meaning in life, deepest solace. Then do you realize you're either a father, a mother, a dancer, an artist, a rich man, or you're nothing. If you lose, if you lose your wealth and you're a rich man, there's no you left. You're a rich man or nothing. You don't really have a name. That's all you are. If you build your life around your children as a father or a mother and something goes wrong with them, there's nothing left of you. You go into meltdown. There's nothing else. You have no other identity. You've got nothing in the future. See, verse 23 says, Rejoice in that day and leap for joy because great is your reward in heaven. Christians say, Look, okay, I'm losing my riches but I've got real riches in the future. I'm losing my reputation but I've got a real reputation in the future. Christians say, I'm not just my money. I'm not just my children. I'm not just my art. I'm not just these things. I've got a name. But see, the rich man is in hell because that's all he is. He's a rich man or he's nothing. Do you have a name or are you just dancers and artists and businessmen and women and mothers and fathers? You see? The way you can tell the difference between a person who's in Jesus' kingdom and a person who's in the world's kingdom is that people in Jesus' kingdom, when the poverty hits, when the persecution hits, when the grief hits, it's not the end of the world. We can grow. We can deal with it. we can even value the experience of suffering because we know it's going to produce something in us but if you're in the world's kingdom it's lights out here's another thing I think Jesus is saying when he says those who inherit the kingdom are the poor and are the grieving and are the persecuted some people have always said it's weird isn't it that in the Sermon on the Mount Matthew 5 it says blessed are the poor in spirit But we Americans like that part because it spiritualizes it. Ah, poor in spirit. A Christian is someone who's humble and repentant. Right. But then you get over to Luke 6 and it doesn't say that. It just says, blessed are the poor. Okay, which is it? Well, think of it like this. You cannot become a Christian. You can't even be in the kingdom of God unless, spiritually speaking, you get poor. You grieve and repent. you come out from the crowd. In other words, all these things in this list has to be true of you spiritually or you don't even get into the kingdom of God. You don't become a Christian by saying, oh, Father, look at all the good things I've done. Please now bless me, reward me, and take me to heaven. No, no. You know better than that. What it means to become a Christian... what it takes to become a Christian is to say, Father, I am spiritually bankrupt. I've got absolutely nothing in my life that earns or merits your salvation, but please, I'm grieving, I'm repenting, I'm declaring bankruptcy. My only hope is your free grace salvation. Save me through your costly grace. That's what it means to become a Christian. And therefore, a Christian does have to do all these things spiritually. But I tell you this, the reason why Matthew and Luke are where they are, is one of the ways you know that you have become poor in spirit, that you're no longer into works righteousness, that you know that you've been saved by grace, is that when you see materially poor people, you don't disdain them anymore. You don't look down at them. You value them. You care about them. You stand with them. One of the ways you know you have grieved in spirit, you've been repentant. You've really, really had your heart broken by a knowledge of your sin. and you've been resurrected and reconstructed by his grace. That you are not hard-hearted to grieving people. When you see people grieving, your heart goes out to them. You know, there's a couple, a bunch of places in the Bible where it says what it means to become a Christian. What it means to become a real believer is God takes away your heart of stone and gives you a heart of flesh. And so I think the other things Jesus is saying here when he says the kingdom of God goes to the poor and goes to the grieving and goes to the persecuted. every person who becomes a Christian even enters the kingdom has to be true of them spiritually and if that is true of them spiritually then their attitude toward the poor and the marginal and the oppressed of the world is radically changed. And you know why? Verse 23 because you rejoice in this day you can rejoice in spite of all your problems because you know about your reward in heaven. Verse 23 in its context but all this talk about the poor and all that is a complete refutation of Karl Marx. Because Karl Marx said, oh, you don't want to tell people about they're going to go to heaven someday. That's the opium of the people. They're not going to work for justice in the world. They're not going to make the world a better place if you tell them that, you know, they're going to have a pie in the sky by and by. Karl Marx says, no, no, no, no. That idea of heaven means that you aren't going to work for justice here. And that's just not true. Somebody wrote it this way some years ago. This text, Luke 6, shows that Karl Marx is wrong. Think about this, everybody. If this world is all there is and all my comfort must be found in this life, then if fighting injustice means I lose my job or lose my reputation or lose my life, I'm not going to do it. I can't do it because this life and its wealth is the only life and wealth I've got. I'm not going to fiercely fight injustice if it means I'm going to get killed because this is it. This is all I've got. But if this life, this wealth, and this material comfort I've got is not all there is. You know, if I've got something waiting for me guaranteed at the end of time, then I'm free to blow the whistle. I'm free to make waves. I'm free to stand up for injustice even though it costs me. So the gospel is not the opium of the people. salts. Now, what is the sign that you're in the kingdom of Jesus? One, we said that you do not, you don't melt down when the troubles come. Two, you have become spiritually poor yourself to enter. Three, you care about the poor and marginalized. And number four, it's what you do with your money. Now, this is all we're going to say this week about this, but I want you to see why I put in verse 30 to 35, on your sheet, which comes a little further down in Jesus' sermon, this is one of the signs of people who are in the kingdom. It tells you, verse 30, it says, give to everyone who asks you, and if anyone takes what belongs to you, do not demand it back. Now, when you first read that, you know what it looks like, don't you? It looks like it's saying, you mean when I go outside here, somebody asks me for money on the streets of New York, I got to give it to them. Now, maybe you should, maybe you shouldn't, and maybe sometimes you shouldn't, sometimes you shouldn't, but that's, I'm not going there because that's not what this is talking about. The word here for give has to do with loaning. In fact, you can see later on in the paragraph, it's talking about lending. And you say, what? Yeah. In those days, loans were not usually business loans, investment loans. That economy was different than ours. When someone because they needed a loan. It usually meant they were in real trouble. So if you were a person of means and somebody came to you and needed a loan, would you give it to them or not? It all depended on the Greco-Roman patronage system. That entire society operated on a patronage system. Which, by the way, there's a good number of cultures in the world that work this way too. The patronage system worked like this. If I was a person of means and someone came and said, I'm in trouble. Can you help me? Well, a smart, savvy person, a patron, was very happy to give loans as long as they were strategic for him or her. The patron says, okay, this is a person who knows this, this, this, this person. This is a person who can open these. This is a person who has this kind of skill. I want this person to owe me. I want this person to owe me a favor. So I'll do something for them. In the future, I can get a favor from them. And so that's how you worked your world out. You gave and you loaned and you helped people as long as it was strategic for you. And that way, that's how you lived your life. You knew who to write. You knew who to call. Or did they call? You knew who to talk to. Say they carry your pigeon. You knew who to talk to when you had a need because these are the people you had lent to. And Jesus Christ in verses 30 to 35 is completely blowing up the whole patronage system. He's destroying it. He says, if you're a Christian, how dare you do it that way? You don't give to people because they can give back to you. You don't do the patronage system. How dare you? Think of yourselves. Look at the mercy, look at the help that God gave you. There's absolutely no way God gave you something because he needed some favor from you in the future. It was free, so you do not do it that way. And so Jesus is saying, if you're in my kingdom, you're going to be not only radically generous. But you are going to break the boundaries of your culture. That is, every culture says, this is okay. If you want to give charitable giving, you do it like this, do it like that. But Jesus says, my believers, my disciples are going to be so radically generous. It's going to outrage. It's going to shock the people of their day. Is that happening to you? One of the ways you know you're a member of the people of God, of Jesus' kingdom, is that you're so free because of the way in which you rejoice and your future reward. You're so free from needing all these things that you're radically generous. So radically generous that if a friend... If you're in the kingdom of God and your accountant's not in the kingdom of God and they see what you are giving away, they're going to think you're nuts. And if they don't think you're nuts, you're maybe not in Jesus' kingdom. They're going to say, you should be investing that. You should be saving that. You should be doing this. By the way, if you're an accountant and you're in the kingdom of God, no offense. I don't want anybody to think I think of the accountants or not, but you know what I'm saying. Jesus' principle here is whatever your culture's norms are for charitable giving, you will blow through those. Christians will always seem outrageously generous, promiscuously generous, insanely generous. Is that our reputation? I told you I was going to end with an encouragement. And a warning. Here's the encouragement. The whole thing rests on verse 23. The reason why you can handle poverty. The reason why you can handle persecution. The reason why you can handle trouble. The reason why you can stand up. And stand with the people. Who are also being persecuted. Or hurt. Or marginalized. wise. It's all because you know you've got real riches. You've got real reputation. You've got real honor. You've got real love. You've got real joy waiting for you at the end of time. But how can you be sure? How can you be certain? Actually, I think the hint is in verse 19. In verse 19, it says, it's the reason why I kept it in there, and the people all tried to touch him because power was coming out from him and healing them all. I love all the places where Jesus heals people and makes them whole by losing strength, by losing power. power. Remember that place in Mark chapter 5 verse 30 where the woman with a hemorrhage touches him? Just inadvertently, you know, he's just going through the crowd and she just walks, comes over and touches him and she's healed. And he says, power has come out for me. Who touched me? It's pointing to the cross. The way we get whole is that Jesus gets broken. The way we get strength does it. He gets weak. The way we get power is that he loses power. In other words, Jesus Christ, all these woes fell upon him. You know, he was perfectly rich, but he became poor so that we might become rich. He was perfectly happy, and he became a man of sorrows so we could have eternal joy. He was perfectly in and loved, and he became an outcast. He was persecuted. He was destroyed so that we could be brought into the family of God forever. forever. That's how you know. That's how you can be certain. That's your word of encouragement. But here's the word of warning. And I thought I'd end with a word of warning because my personality is I always try to end with encouragement. So I thought for one week I'd end with a note of warning. Daniel chapter 5 tells about a dying kingdom. Belshazzar was the leader of the city of Babylon. on. And he must have known that Cyrus the Persian was showing up with an army and that there was no way that he could stop it. So what did he do when he knew? What did he do? He threw a party. That's what you do. Belshazzar, he knew that he was being invaded, so he threw a party and he brought all of his people together and he got out his concubines and he got out his wine and they were laughing. And they were toasting each other. And they were acclaiming each other. And they were satiating all of their sensual, you know, desires. And then in the midst of all this merrymaking and all this festivity, suddenly handwriting begins on the wall. Remember, an invisible hand starts to write on the wall. And basically, the handwriting says, says, your days are numbered. And that very night, a new kingdom came in and they were all destroyed. Some years ago, I remember reading, I was reading a commentary by Earl Ellis on Luke 6, and he referred to Daniel 5 and said, it's a good passage to read if you're reading what Jesus says here in Luke 6. And I said, what? But here's what he says. Think about it. it. Are you someone who basically lives for power, recognition, comfort, success? Is that what you're living for? Are you a typical New Yorker? Is that what you're living for? Your days are numbered. That kingdom's days are numbered. When Jesus Christ showed up and began to do his miracles and lived and died and then rose again from the dead, that's the handwriting on the wall for the world. I don't want you to be like Belshazzar, living the way the world wants you to live. The days of that kingdom are numbered, and then your days will be numbered. No, no, no. Become poor. Grieve, weep, repent. See what Jesus Christ has done for you. Enter his kingdom and begin to live in the upside-down way that he wants you to live, not in the way the world wants you to live. Let's pray. Our Father, how grateful we are that you have given us this blueprint for how you want us to live. But ultimately, it's not a matter of just summonsing up our strength in order to live this way. We need the gospel through worship to be brought home to our hearts. We need to see your beauty. One of the main ways to do that is in the Lord's Supper, and we pray that you would meet us right now and make us more and more conformed to the image of your Son, in whose name we pray. Amen.