To share with us tonight are Lori and Adam Abramowitz. They're from New York City. Adam attended Yeshiva, a private Hebrew school, and also went to Scarsdale High School. The family is in the plumbing and heating business. Also, Adam went to SUNY at Brockport. Lori grew up in New York City. and she went to the University of Pennsylvania and then received her MBA at Wharton and works at First Boston in institutional bond and sales. So without further ado, Laurie and Adam, would you come up and share with us? Thank you. Can you all hear me? Well, George is a very difficult act to follow. He has such a beautiful voice. I suppose if I don't sing, I should be okay. Anyway, growing up, I was always very goal-oriented and very much of an overachiever. And I always thought that anything I set my mind to do, I could accomplish, and I was very successful. I went to very good schools, and I had set my eyes on Wall Street, and I wanted to work at First Boston. And after receiving my MBA, I was able to get the job that I had so much desired. had it made because everything I had set my mind to do I had accomplished. And I really thought that I was very much in control of my life and in my circumstances, but God had something different in mind for me. I was working at First Boston in 1987 when the stock market crashed, and that was a very interesting experience because we all sat there and watched just the market go down and down and down, and all these people were losing millions and millions of dollars, and the firms were losing and millions of dollars. And I realized that really, as hard as you work and as much as you think you're in control of your circumstances, really God is in control. And it was just a very humbling experience for me. And after that, I saw people lose their jobs. And I became very nervous because I had worked so hard to achieve what I had achieved. And I was really afraid that it was all going to disappear. And I became very anxious and very nervous. And during that time, I had a friend who worked at First Boston with me, and she was a Christian, and she was not nervous the way I was. And I asked her, I said, why are you not nervous? And she said, well, it's very simple. God is in control of my life. I pray to him, and I've asked him about these things, and he has given me the peace which transcends all understanding. I said, really? And she said, yes. And you just can't be anxious about things. You just have to pray to God and present your request to him and he will give you peace. I said, well, who is this God that you're supposed to pray to? And she said, it's Jesus Christ. And I said, really? And she said, yes. And if you read the Bible, you'll see that. And so I began, even though I was Jewish and I wasn't really willing to accept the fact that Jesus was God, I really wanted this peace that she spoke about. And I would do anything to get rid of these terrible stress headaches that I had. So I was willing going to go to these Bible studies as long as it'll help me get rid of these headaches. So I did that, and I began going to Bible study and really praying to God to take away a lot of this anxiety. And I can't say that happened immediately because I had not yet accepted Jesus as my Savior. And it took about 18 months of really reading the Bible and really understanding the promises that he made in the Bible about giving us this peace which transcends all understanding that I began to realize that if I wanted to get this peace, I really had to put my faith in him as my savior. And so I then, in 1988, in the summer of 1988, I prayed to him that he would come into my life and that he would take control of my life and that he would give me this peace that I had so much desired. And I can't say that I felt this great peace immediately after praying that prayer, because I was still very much in control. But the more I gave up control of my circumstances to him, and the more I trusted him and prayed to him, the greater the peace that I experienced. And I just would like to share with you one other story, in where I really trusted God, and he was very faithful to me. And that has to do with my husband, Adam. I have mentioned that I was from a Jewish family, and I was very much attached to my Jewish background and heritage, thought that I was sort of this freak because I was Jewish and I believed in Jesus. And there was really nobody else out there like me. And I really wanted to get married. And I just prayed to God that he would bring me a husband. But not only would he bring me a husband, but he would bring me a husband who was a Jewish believer. And I really thought it was impossible because it's hard enough in New York City to find a husband, let alone a Jewish husband who believes in Jesus. And I know that many of you can attest to that. In any event, I just kept praying and praying that God would bring me this Jewish husband who believed in Jesus. And after about six months of praying this, I really began to give up hope. And what happened then was I just got very upset. And again, I lost that peace that I had wanted so much because I tried to take the situation in my own hands. And that didn't work. But just when I was giving up hope, two different people that I knew had called me in the same week. to me that they had met someone who was a Jewish believer and his name was Adam and that they thought that he would be someone I would like to meet and I didn't know at that time that Adam was going to be my husband but I certainly was encouraged by this

and again when I met Adam I didn't know that he was going to be my husband but in any event it became clear to me shortly after we met that he really was the man that God had chosen for me and I was very thankful that God had listened to me and heard my prayers and I would just like to say that what this experience has taught me is that you really have to trust God in all areas of your life even when something seems impossible that nothing is really impossible for God to accomplish

applause

My name is Adam, and I too. I too, like Lori, am from a Jewish family. And I grew up going to Hebrew school and being bar mitzvahed. And in my family, there was never much talk concerning Jesus except if it wasn't a curse word or if it was to speak derogatorily about how the Christians have persecuted us or how the Christians have mistreated the Jews. It was always in that context that I had heard about Jesus, and I had grown up with that in the back of my mind, never experiencing any anti-Semitism myself, but knowing from history and from what my parents and family have always said that the Christians are out to persecute the Jews. So I didn't grow up with a favorable viewpoint or attitude toward Jesus. There was, however, a point in my life where I was really searching for God. and it was about the days when I was in college about ten years ago and I really sense in my life a need to know why I was here on this earth what my purpose was in life where I came from where I was going why we know why did God put me here what did he have in store for me and without the answers to those felt very empty. And without God in my life, I felt very lonely, very empty, and very unloved. And I didn't know if I would ever find those things for my life. And so I was concerned. And so I remember walking down campus one day and just looking at the beautiful trees

sky, and just knowing that there was a God up there somewhere. But why is it that he was so far away? He was like in outer space somewhere, like zillions of miles away from me. And, you know, I had learned in Hebrew school that God had spoken to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and to Moses and to various people, and I had believed that. But I didn't understand why God wasn't speaking to me or why he didn't seem to be speaking today to anybody. And so I began to ask God to, you know, to show me what life was all about, why I was here, and what my purpose was, and what he had planned for me, and who he was. It was just a simple prayer from my heart. It wasn't a formal prayer, but it was sincere. Shortly thereafter, for the first time in my life, the gospel was presented to me, that God, in fact, loved me so much that he sent Jesus to die on a cross for my sins, to take away my sins and give me a relationship with God. And it made sense intellectually, but it was the part about Jesus that kind of got in the way. And I really, you know, that was the first time I had heard Jesus presented in that way, and wasn't particularly for him or against him. I just didn't know. And I wondered if I would ever know and how the person that was talking to me thought he knew. So anyway, life went on and other people came into my life who basically shared the same message with me at key points in my life. And, you know, I felt like God was trying somehow to get through to me. I had been praying all this time for God to show himself to me, and now my prayers began to change. I was saying to God, if Jesus is the way to you, then that's what I want. And if he isn't, then keep me as far away as possible. And God brought a man into my life who opened up the Old Testament and started to show me the prophecies about the Messiah. Messiah, how the Messiah would be born in Bethlehem. He would be from the tribe of Judah. He would be born of a virgin. He would be despised and forsaken of men, and one who was a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense to his own people. And although I didn't know much about Jesus, those things I knew were true. I knew that he was in fact rejected by the Jewish people for no apparent reason and that he was a stone of stumbling to them and that the other points were also true. And so I really began to consider this could possibly be true and I felt like I was on the brink of something very exciting. And so I began to read the Bible. I began for the first time to read

people say, don't ever read that book. It's like, they'll never open that book. But I wanted to see what was in there. And in it was such sincerity and such truth and such love that I knew it couldn't be what people had told me, that it was just like a bunch of lies or made up. It just rang home with the ring of truth. But still, I needed to be sure. I prayed more and more. And through different people, and even when I would turn on the TV, I would hear the gospel. Wherever I turned, God was somehow bombarding me with the message. And I had been praying that he would show me, and I really felt like he was working through all these things. And I finally came to a point in my life where I said, this is true. I was just, I mean, I can't explain to you just how God does that. But I think for each individual it's different. but I needed to be convinced and He convinced me in the way that I needed to be convinced and when I felt sure I said to God, I said I believe that Jesus is the Messiah and that He did die as an atonement for my sins and I know that I'm a sinner and I need His forgiveness and I want to get right with God I want to be brought back into fellowship with God had committed my heart to God through Jesus,

something changed almost instantly, like as if the lights were turned on. And I'll never forget that experience. I walked outside. I had something inside of me that was never there before. There was a love and a joy and a peace that was supernatural. And I knew that something had happened to me. And I was blown away. very excited, and I knew that all this was true, and it was amazing to me that for so long, you know, growing up and reading the Bible and growing up in Judaism and never knowing that, like, what was least likely to be true really was true, that this Jesus really is the Messiah of the Jew and the Savior of the Gentile. He's the Lord of Jew and Gentile alike. And having come to the Lord, as you could probably well imagine, I experienced a lot of persecution in my family, very intense persecution, which is a whole other story in and of itself. But through all that, God has so strengthened me that I know that he's real, know that he lives within me by his spirit I know that he'll never leave me or forsake me and I know that there's nothing that he'll put in my path that he won't give me the grace to live through no matter what and there's just a great sense of peace and security to know that God loves me and that he called out to me from amongst all the souls on the earth just to get my attention and have me come to him. And he does that for everyone. He's constantly calling. He's like a shepherd who goes out and seeks the lost. And I was lost, and he found me, and I'm very grateful. Thank you. Here's what I'd like to do tonight. We've been talking about the stresses of worry, the stresses of pressure. Did you hear the one about the guy that said, I've figured out how to handle worry in my life. And his friend said, how do you do it? And the guy says, I pay somebody to worry for me. And the guy says, that's incredible. How much do you pay him? He says, well, the man is just great at what he does, and he charges $10,000 a day. And his friend said, good night. How are you ever going to pay him? And the guy says, that's his worry. It's not my worry. but actually the as we saw last night and this morning the Christian approach to worry is a little bit more like the true story of the man who was tapped by King Edward, oh I forget who anyway it was one of the British kings at one point tapped a man and said I need you to go on this voyage to be. You're the one with the skills. You're the one with the expertise. I want you to go on this voyage. And you'll be away for at least six months to a year. But you're the only one that can accomplish this voyage. And the man looked at the king and said, I'm sorry. I'll be ruined if I do that. My business will go under. And the king looked at him and said, you mind my business. And I'll mind your business. And of course, when the king, the richest man, most powerful man in the kingdom says, I'll mind your business, you don't worry anymore. Now, when the scripture says, seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and everything else you need will be added to yours as well, what is God saying? See, a Christian is somebody to whom God has said, you mind my business and I'll mind your business. And that's how a Christian deals with worry, not with a $10,000 a day guy. Now, we've looked at that and we've looked at pressure, what I'd like to do is I'd like to look with you tonight at the sliver that has to do with losses and grief. And there's a sense in which what I'm talking about tonight is general enough that you could call it growing through stress. But actually, what I'm trying to do, if you have Bibles and you want to follow me, I'd like to turn to Hebrews 12, and I'd like to show you what the Bible says is the proper response to not the anticipatory stressors. That's the things that might happen. The worries. And not so much even the performance stressors but the problems that come into your life. The suffering. The evil. The decay. The death. The tragedy. The difficulty. The troubles that come into your life. What are you going to do about them? The stresses that come. They're inevitable. What are you going to do about them? Let me just read you these first 13 verses of Hebrews and then pull out for you some important principles. Number one, I mean verse 1, chapter 12. Therefore, since we're surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles, and let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us. Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter of our faith, who for the before him endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful men so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood, and you have forgotten that word of encouragement that addresses you as sons. Make light of the Lord's discipline and do not lose heart when he rebukes you, because the Lord disciplines those he loves and he punishes everyone he accepts as a son. Endure hardship as discipline. God is treating you as sons, for what son is not disciplined by his father? If you are not disciplined and everyone undergoes discipline, then you are illegitimate children and not true sons. Moreover, we have all had human fathers who disciplined us and we respected them for it. but how much more should we submit to the Father of our spirits and live? Our fathers disciplined us for a little while as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good that we may share in His holiness. No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees, make level paths for your feet, so that the lame may not be disabled, healed. Unfortunately, as I read through there, I realize there's a lot more in here than I need, that I have time to say tonight. All right, look. In the book of Job, it says, man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. And what Job is saying is you got two laws, two laws, not just tendency, but laws. Sparks go up and you're born to trouble. we know this and i made reference to it earlier but let me press this upon you again the only thing you can be sure of is death and decay romans 8 says that um uh we live in a world that's subject to decay it says that all nature is subject to decay what that means is why is that why does the flower as beautiful as today eventually why is it on the garbage heap tomorrow. Why do we wrinkle? Why do we weaken? Why do I lose my hair? Why are we all subject to decay? Let's go a little further. Everything you've got, you're going to lose. That's a law. That means eventually you lose your friends. That means eventually you lose your health. That means you can never hold on to great times when you've got all the people together and everything just right. Things decay. Things unravel. Things come apart. Everything does. it's true emotionally, it's true socially. And it's the only thing you can be sure of. Ooh, somebody says, what a cheerful way to start. Tonight. Man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. That's the only thing you can know about. And so what I said this morning is, think about this. The only thing that you really should be preparing for that you know you're going to have to face is death. Therefore, and the decay and the loss of all things that you love. Can you face death with hope, without fear, with regret? If you're not sure about that, it seems silly to be preparing for anything else. You're preparing for retirement, or you're preparing for a career, or you're preparing for a promotion. The only thing you really know about is death, and therefore, and the decay, and stress. That's the only thing you really know. And therefore, you should be preparing for that first. And I want you to also realize that the same sun that softens wax, hardens clay, same beams, same heat, same.it's the same rays. And you see some people who undergo the stress and undergo the losses and undergo the griefs and undergo the sufferings of this life, and you see some people turning softer and sweeter because of it. It says in 2 Corinthians 1, Paul says, We are good at comforting people because we've suffered. Because we've suffered, we find ourselves, Paul says, growing more compassionate, more tender, more wise, more deep. And because of that, because of our suffering, we find ourselves far better, far more useful, far more helpful people than we ever used to be. And yet you also know that there's people who also have gone through those griefs and those sufferings and those losses who have become tighter and harder and more bitter and more cynical. Why? Because, you see, suffering doesn't do a thing to you. It depends. It's your response to suffering. Grief doesn't do anything to you. It's your response to grief. You are not passive in this. How you respond to the stresses and how you respond to the losses and how you respond to the troubles will determine whether or not you become softer and more sweet and more comforting and more deep and more sensitive and more useful to people, or whether you become the opposite, harder and more bitter and more cynical. Suffering will make you either more human or less human. It just won't leave you where you are. So that's what stress will do. So don't you want to know how to make sure that you're getting softer and more human rather than harder and less human? Now, there's plenty of places where the Bible talks about it, but here's maybe one of the best. It's right here. And I'd like to point out that this passage tells us that if you want to be sure that the stresses and griefs and losses that are inevitable in your future and my future, you know, the younger we are, those of you who are younger, you know, in some ways this is just an idle threat. The older you are, the more you realize, yeah, that's the way life is. if you want to face that in a way that makes you grow through the stress and grow through the suffering, I propose there's at least three things in the passage that you've got to believe, you've got to grasp, you've got to appropriate, you've got to rest on. Three principles. Number one, the first one is that there's an order to suffering. There's an order to things. In verse five, six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. It's amazing how often it comes up. that continually reoccurs, and it's called, it's the word discipline. And the word that it translates, it's an English word, of course, but the Greek word that the writer used was the word gimnasdo, G-Y-M-N-Z-D-O, which sounds like and looks like what? Gymnasium, because that's exactly what it means, actually. Well, that's not the only word. In other words, but there's also a word, pardon me, the main word for gymnasto is the word in verse 11, where it says that no discipline seems painful at the pleasant time, but painful later on and produce a peaceful fruit of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it. That's the word gymnasto. The word discipline most of the time that you see in the passage is the word paideia, from which we get our word pedagogy, which means teaching. So you've got two words. And it says, you know the messes in your life. You know the struggles in your life. The losses. The grief. All the troubles that are coming into your life. They are a Paideia. Which means they're a curriculum. Or they're a Gymnasa. Which means they're a regimen. Now the first principle is. And you can't deal with suffering. Unless you understand and grasp this. And you can't get past it. You can't move. You can't do an end run around it. When your life looks disorderly. disorderly because your order has broken down. Your plans have broken down. It doesn't mean that there is no order or that there is no plan. We have the audacity to believe that since our agenda has broken down, there is none. Since our order and our plan and our method has broken down, there is none. The Bible instead says, no, even the evils that are coming into the life are part of a curriculum, part of a regimen, part of a plan. Now, we have to be very, very careful about something here. First of all, there's a number of places where the Scripture talks about God's hatred for evil and even His hatred for death. It's interesting, for example, when Jesus Christ stands outside the tomb of Lazarus, we're told He weeps, even though He's about to raise Lazarus from the dead. He's upset, He's distressed. In fact, there's a place where it talks about Him at the tomb of Lazarus snorting in anger. It's pretty interesting, isn't it, Jesus Christ is God, He claims to be God, and He can be mad at death and not be mad at Himself. See, on the one hand, we're told in the Bible, we've referred to this before, that God numbers our days. Isn't that true? That means that God has a plan for you, whether you're to live to be 43 years and five months and six days old or not, that's part of God's plan. He's numbered your days. And yet the thing that's cutting your days off death is a traumatic thing. It's a natural thing. It's an aberration. It's something God hates and something God wants to deal with. God will use for his purposes many of the things and the evils that he hates. Now, the reason I think Christians need to keep this in mind is that there's this very delicate balance between, on the one hand, saying, our life is out of control. All these things that happen in our lives are accidents. We don't say that. We don't teach that. with suffering if you believe that. It's another thing to say that God, in some kind of gleeful way, instigates all the evil, wicked things. The reason Jesus Christ came to die was to eliminate the pain and the suffering and the death in this world. So God has a kind of ambivalent, in the Bible, God has a very interesting and delicate relationship to evil. We're told he's not the author of evil, and yet you might say he's the arranger of it. If you belong to him, that means that he is going to, in a sense, monitor the evil in your life. He's going to make sure that the way things happen in your life, the way it happens to fall into your life, is part of his paideia, part of his curriculum, part of his training. That means that Romans 8.28 really is true. All things work together for good to them that love God. I think I referred to this last night, but it went by awfully fast. And I saw some puzzled looks. Romans 8.28 means that when you decide to stop trying to be the center of the universe, when you stop trying to be your own God, your own master, your own boss, calling the shots, deciding what's right and wrong, making your own decisions on the basis of your goals. When you stop trying to be your own God and when you stop trying to be the center of the universe and when you start saying, Lord, I'm serving you. You're my master. Romans 8.28 means when you stop trying to be the center of the universe in another and strange and wonderful, mysterious way, you become the center of the universe. Everything that's happening in your life, everything that's happening in the world is happening for you. Now, we don't understand that. In fact, the modern mind doesn't like that. We like the back-to-the-future movies. We like the idea of time travel, saying, you know, this is bad, but if we go back and we stop this person from having this fight, then everything will go well. We like the idea of thinking that we've really got control over our history. Actually, it's much more complicated than that. You know, actually, the real science fiction, I think, that gives you a more Christian understanding of history is there's that one Ray Bradbury short story in which time travelers come back into time and they're told, don't touch anything, don't talk to anybody, don't do anything. And one of the time travelers accidentally steps on a butterfly. everything changes, because you see, everything is so intricately related. Everything is intricately related, and the Bible says that God and God alone can work all that out for good. Now, one story I like, you know, people like to laugh, well, some of you will laugh when I tell you, and it's a fun story to tell you, because every so often God pulls the curtains away and gives you a glimpse of Romans 8, 28, that there's an order, that there's a training, meaning, that there's a method to this, that the universe is not a car without a driver. For example, those of you who go to Redeemer, you ought to be extremely happy about something, Watergate. Any of you ever heard this one? Yeah, you see, look, the reason that I started Redeemer was because a group of people in my denomination asked me to come to New York. The reason I was in that denomination was I made a decision in seminary to go into that denomination. The reason I went to.I made that decision was the last semester of my last year, there was a professor that I took two courses from that convinced me that this was the school. this was the denomination. This was the kind of. it basically convinced me to be a Presbyterian. That's all. Because you have to make a decision. You've got to make a decision at some point. The problem is, being a Christian, you can sort of wander around the universe and say, this is the best church in town, I'll go to it. One of the problems with being a minister is you've pretty much got to put your feet down somewhere, and you've got to find a fraternity to belong to, and then sort of stay in it. So I decided on that last semester to become a Presbyterian because of this one teacher. His name was Andrew Lincoln. He had just come to the seminary at the very last minute in my last semester, and he almost didn't make it because he was English and he couldn't get a visa. Couldn't get a visa to come here and teach. They weren't letting him into the country. But just about three or four days before they had to start classes without him, we were able to pull some strings to get him here. Why? Because Mike Ford, Gerald Ford, who was then the President of the United States, his son was at the seminary. He was a student at Gordon Conwell Seminary. And when Mike found out that we couldn't get Andrew Lincoln into this country for some reason, he said, well, let me talk to somebody. And he pulled a string or two with somebody, and there he was. Why was Mike Ford able to do that? Because his father was president. Why was his father president? Because of Watergate. Why was there a Watergate? Because a night watchman one night happened to go by and notice a door ajar. Now, what if, you know, what if he'd gone to the bathroom instead? What about those of you who are Christians because of Redeemer, for example? Don't you see how intricately related all this is? So you can say, man, oh man, I'm so glad that white watchman didn't go to the bathroom. room. Because then everything, you see, what does Romans 8.28 mean? It means Watergate happened for you. But see, that's just one little way in which occasionally the blinds are open and it just boggles your mind when you consider all the intricate relationships. Now, there really is only this possibility. Either there is a personal God who's in the driver's seat of the universe, and he is driving it. And he's got an order to things. Or else the universe is totally out of control. Now, everything's happening through blind chance. We see that everything is interrelated. And we see that ultimately, since everything is interrelated, it's silly to talk about you having any real control over things. If there's a God in heaven, a personal God who is in control of things, you choices. And He can work through and in your choices. But there is no God in heaven. It's silly to talk about any kind of real freedom. It's silly to talk about any kind of real purpose to things. This text tells us a Christian is somebody who knows that his father is behind the wheel. A Christian, therefore, knows that there's an order to things. A Christian doesnt panic. That's why that great place in Luke 8 when Jesus is asleep in the boat and his disciples see this tremendous storm come up and they're scared to death. They say to Jesus, don't you care that we are perishing? And Jesus comes up and he rebukes the storm and it goes, it's all still. And he turns around and he says, where is your faith? And he doesn't say you need more faith. He says, where is it? Get it out. It ought to be here. What did you do with it? Now, what he means

know the universe is not out of control. You've seen it again and again and again. You've seen what I've said to you. You've seen my promises. You never have a right to panic. If you know God personally, and you know that He's in charge of things, that there's an order to things, you never, ever, ever have a right to panic. On the other hand, if you don't know God, or if there is a God, why aren't you panicky? You see, and why is anybody in the middle? completely inconsistent, a total lack of thoughtfulness. There shouldn't be anybody in the middle. That's where almost all of us are. You Christians, you're kind of scared. And those of you who are not Christians, you feel kind of secure. Both of you are dead wrong. Don't you see that? First principle is there's an order to things. The second principle, and I kind of already refer to this, this is not just a general kind of order, but you see, the bad things that to your life are not just simply a plan, but a paideia or a gymnasta. That means a personal training program for you. Not only is there an order to things, but there's a personal beneficial purpose for these things. These things are here and designed to make you, to make you holy. It says, for example, in verse 10, what does it say in verse 10? In verse 10, it says, our fathers disciplined us for a while as they thought best, but God disciplines for us for our

Or, down in verse 11, it says, No discipline is pleasant, but later it yields a harvest of righteousness, or character, godly character. Or even down in verse 13, it says, This is all so we might be healed. Now, the reason I'm making a distinction between saying there's an order to things and there's a beneficial personal purpose that God has, is there's a tendency, I'm speaking especially to my Christian buddies, and listen, Christian friends, there's a tendency when bad things happen, you got sick, or there's been some kind of disaster, or you've lost your job, or something like that. There's a tendency to say, I know there's a purpose in this, because I know, I've been told that there's an order of everything. So the problem is you look around saying, I wonder what it is. You know, what are the historic reasons? It's sort of like, you know, I broke my leg on the way to the audition, so I didn't get the part, but now I'm in the hospital, so maybe I'm supposed to meet a nurse. And I'm going to marry her and we're going to live happily ever after. Maybe that's God's purpose. You see, you shouldn't guess about the historic purposes of things. It's fun every so often when you see a train of events I gave you on why I got the Redeemer all the way back to Watergate. But you see, there are probably zillions of historic reasons why you have the troubles in your life that you do. trying to guess about the historic purposes. You need to know about God's personal purpose for your character growth right now. The reason the thing is in your life, the reason the troubles are in your life. There's maybe all sorts of historic reasons. Things that God wants to get done. You know. Maybe he doesn't want you to get that job. Because he's got a better job for you. That's fine. You can. You can talk about that. Who knows. The thing you have to know right now. Now is, He is working on my heart. He is working on my character. He is working on my righteousness. He is working on my healing. See that? He is working on my good. Now this is not cheerful news. Because what it's saying is. That troubles are necessary for us. To mature and develop. Into strong people. So you see. The first principle. There's an order to everything. And there's all sorts of historic reasons. Why God lets things happen. but you shouldn't guess at that. The second principle is there's always a personal plan, a Paideia or a Gi missile for your spiritual growth. To make you the person you want to be. You don't like being impatient. He's about to make a patient. You don't like being selfish. He's out to make you unselfish. You don't like being scared. He's out to make you a secure person. You don't like. You don't like being nervous. He's out to make you a calm person. You don't like being bitter. He's out to make a forgiving person. and you don't like. See, that's the purpose behind troubles, for sure. There's probably other purposes, but the one you know is he wants me to grow. Now, the reason it's not cheerful is because. Well, what it really is saying is you're never going to either know yourself or know God, which is the two things you have to know in order to grow in your character, unless you have some knocks and some wax. There's a place where Amos was a bruiser of sycamore fruit. You know Amos the prophet? His job was he was a bruiser of sycamore fruit. You ever wonder what that means? I'll tell you. There was a kind of fruit on the sycamore tree that would not ripen unless it was hit. it. You had to take a rod and you had to hit the fruit because when you hit it, it released the juices inside and in a few days or weeks it would ripen. It wouldn't ripen unless you hit it. I'm suggesting there's an analogy here. You're suffering, you're having troubles, you're having difficulties in your life, you need to be whacked in order to ripen. How explain the fact that the reason you're going through this is for your healing, it's for your good, it's for a harvest of righteousness. Now, I already mentioned this, but I'll just suggest the two ways in which you need troubles in your life in order to grow into the person you really want to be, and there's almost no way you can do an end-run around it or avoid it. First is, without troubles, you really don't know who you are, you really don't know yourself. Why is it so often when a doctor wants to know what condition your heart really is in, he gives you a stress test. Have you ever had one of those things? It doesn't feel very good. He has to put you under stress to know what you need. Or a good gym coach. He gets the guys together, a good gym coach, he gets the guys together, and he's trying to whip them into a team. Well, he's got to know where they need training. So what he does is he does laps around the track and he gives them some weightlifting and he watches carefully to see where they collapse.