Today's scripture reading is from Exodus chapter 40, verses 20 through 37. He took the testimony and placed it in the ark, attached the poles to the ark, and put the atonement cover over it. Then he brought the ark into the tabernacle and hung the shielding curtain and shielded the ark of the testimony, as the Lord commanded him. Moses placed the table in the tent of meeting on the north side of the tabernacle outside the curtain and set out the bread on it before the Lord as the Lord commanded him. He placed the lampstand in the tent of meeting opposite the table on the south side of the tabernacle and set up the lamps before the Lord as the Lord commanded him. Moses placed the gold altar in the Tent of Meeting, in front of the curtain, and burned fragrant incense on it, as the Lord commanded him. Then he put up the curtain at the entrance to the tabernacle. He set the altar of burnt offering near the entrance to the tabernacle, the Tent of Meeting, and offered on it burnt offerings and grain offerings, as the Lord commanded him. He placed the basin between the tent of meeting and the altar and put water in it for washing, and Moses and Aaron and his sons used it to wash their hands and feet. They washed whenever they entered the tent of meeting or approached the altar, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then Moses set up the courtyard around the tabernacle and altar and put up the curtain at the entrance to the courtyard. And so Moses finished the work. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it and the glory of the Lord had filled the tabernacle. In all the travels of the Israelites, whenever the cloud lifted from above the tabernacle, they would set out. But if the cloud did not lift, they did not set out until the day it lifted. This is the word of the Lord. We're looking at the book of Exodus, and today we come to the last, the very end of the book of Exodus. And we see Moses setting up the tabernacle for worship. The tabernacle consisted of a rectangular curtain that created a courtyard. It did not have a roof. In the middle of the courtyard, there was another rectangle, a rectangular tent. It had a roof. And the outer, the front, when you walked into it, the front room, the larger room was the holy place. It had the bread on the table. It had the lampstand, the light. then behind at the heart of the heart, the inner sanctum of the tabernacle, was the Holy of Holies. And it was separated from all the rest by a thick curtain. And it's natural for a lot of people to read all this and say, what a lot of hocus pocus. Or even if you don't say that, when you get near the end of Exodus, after all the action in the beginning of the book, all this detail about the tabernacle seems pretty ho-hum, but you're missing the point. You really are missing the point. And we actually alluded to this, I think, the very first week when we started the book of Exodus. Unless you understand the significance of the tabernacle, you don't understand the point of the book. You don't see its whole narrative sweep because the story of Exodus starts in slavery, but it doesn't end. It's not completed until you get to worship. because the point of the book of Exodus is everybody puts their ultimate hope in something. Everyone gets their identity ultimately from something. Everyone lives for something, and whatever you live for, whatever is the most important thing in your life, you serve. And if that thing is not God, if there's anything else more important or essential in your life than God, you are controlled by it. You are still a slave. Not until you are bowing, ravished by the glory and the presence and the beauty of God, not until God is the most important and central thing in your entire life, are you really liberated. See, that's the whole point. Until you get to worship, you're still not free. And that's the point of the book of Exodus, and that's the reason why this is the climax of it. This is the end, the climax of the story. So if you don't understand the tabernacle in a way, you don't know what God's doing in history. So let's take a look at what we learn from the text about the tabernacle. We're going to ask four questions. Why, how, who, and where. The why of the tabernacle, the how of it, the who, and the where. First, why? Why do we need it? Why do we even need a tabernacle? Now, we have to stand back for a second. Every civilization, every culture up until very recently have had temples or the equivalent. You see, the tabernacle was essentially a portable temple. When the children of Israel got to a settled place, they built a temple. Every civilization has had something like it, some kind of shrine, some sort of equivalent to it. because every civilization and culture until our present time has always believed two things. Number one, that there's another world, that beyond and above are behind, you might say. The natural world is the supernatural world. Above and behind the material world is the spiritual world, the transcendent ultimate reality with a capital R. And the second thing that all civilizations believe was that there was some kind of barrier between them, that there was a gap that needed to be bridged, a chasm, or a barrier that needed a door cut through it. We needed mediation. We needed help to get into contact with that other world. Of course, every civilization, every culture had different kinds of priests and different kinds of rituals and different sorts of spiritual processes and had very, very different things. but they all agreed on those two things, that there was another world, that there was glory, there was supernatural, there was the divine, there was something beyond this world, and there's a block, there's something that we need in order to help us get through to it. Now, I said up until the present time, because we live in the first time in history, and the modern Western civilization is the first civilization in history that has said this. you don't need to know anything about that other world in order to live effectively and account for this world. You don't need to know. There may be something out there, there may not be. The official point of view of the Western world is in order to understand this world, in order to account for this world, in order to live well in this world, you do not need access to that. You do not need to understand it. You don't need it. Everything in this world can have a natural world explanation. Everything that we see in this world has a natural, empirical, this world solution. No matter what the problem, no matter what the issue, no matter what it is, it's either psychological or physiological or sociological or empirical in some way. We never need recourse to spirit or soul or God in order to understand, explain, or solve the issues that we have right here. Everything can be reduced. You can see through it. Ancient people needed to talk about religious stuff, but we can see everything has a natural cause. We can see through it. We can see what it really is. It's really this or it's really that. Now, so we don't need tabernacles. We don't need temples. Oh, yeah. Things are changing. Now, this is a big subject, and I don't want to go afield. There is definitely a resurgence of faith, a resurgence of spirituality world, after 100 years of optimism, after 100 years of optimism that says you really don't need any contact or any recourse to that other world in order to understand or live well in this world, more and more people are beginning to realize that's impossible. You can't. So, for example,

up until 60, even a few years ago, the existentialists were the first ones that they begin to say, if there is no other world out there, or if we can't know anything about another world, then everything in this world is meaningless. Meaningless. We can't solve things. We can't understand things. One philosopher, just to make the case as clear as I can, I use this as my favorite illustration. One philosopher who said this. He said, how do you decide whether it's a good or a bad watch? You have to know what it's for. You have to know what it was built for, what it was designed for. For example, it's terrible at hammering nails. Don't try. If it's terrible at hammering nails, but it's very good at telling me the time. Therefore, until I know what it's built for, what it's designed for, it's impossible to even talk about whether it's a good or bad watch. Now, says this philosopher, his name is Alistair MacIntyre, by the way. He says, we're the first civilization in history that believes that this world is not the product of the supernatural world, that we weren't created. We believe we just happen. We're just sort of an accident. It just happened. There is no purpose. We weren't designed for any purpose. But if that's the case, it is impossible to talk about right and wrong or good or bad. Impossible. Just as it's impossible to talk about a good or a watch being good or bad, unless you know what it's for, it's impossible to talk about a good or a bad human being or a good or bad act, human action. So, for example, if this life is all there is, if this world is all there is, if we don't know anything about any other world, can we say it's wrong to trample on human rights? It's wrong to oppress people. He says it's impossible. That's absolutely impossible. How can you say that? You're just pulling that out of the air. Robert Jarvik, the inventor of the artificial heart, he knew it, and this is what he said. He says there are no basic human rights in reality. They are conventions we agree to abide by. All we know is that we are part of nature. There is no scientific basis for thinking we are better than any other part of nature. We have no more basic rights than viruses, other than those that we create for ourselves with our minds. Now you see, if there is no thing else besides this world, he's right, and there's no answer. But you know he's not. You know that's not right. Ah, and look what's happening. If you have a premise that this world is all there is, that leads you to a conclusion that therefore there are no such things as human rights. Human beings aren't valuable. If you have a premise that leads to a conclusion you know isn't right, why not go back and revise the premise? We know there's something out there. We know that there is another world. We know it even if consciously we want to admit it, we live that way. Absolute cynicism about the presence of another world, because we don't need a bridge. We don't need mediation. We don't need contact with that or understanding of that to understand and work in this world. Isn't true. If this world is all there is, everything you can just see through. Everything just comes down to power or everything comes down to psychology or everything, everything. And C.S. Lewis put it very famously what that means. He says you cannot go on explaining away everything forever or you will find that you have explained explanation itself away You cannot go on seeing through everything forever. The whole point of seeing through something is to see something else through it. It's good, for example, you can see through a window because the garden beyond is opaque. But if you could see through everything, if everything was transparent, a wholly transparent world would be an invisible world. So to see through everything would be the same as not to see. Now, let me show you what I mean, what he means. Nietzsche says every truth claim is really just a power play. If that's true, then so is that, so why should we listen to it? So is his. We'll go a little further. Freud says everyone's view of God is really just a psychological projection helping you deal with your guilt and insecurity, but if that's true, then so is his view, so why should we listen to it? one more if evolutionary biologists if as they say everything your mind tells you about morality and about love and about beauty if everything your mind says about that is really just a chemical reaction designed to pass on your genetic code so you can't trust it so is what their brains tell them about the world and therefore we don't have to listen to what they say to see through everything is not to see and if you are utterly and absolutely cynical about the reality of another world, that's where you end up, but we know there is an ultimate reality,

something you can't see through. We know there is something there that can't be reduced to just psychological, sociological, and physiological or empirical causes. We know there is a reality with a capital R. And we know we need it. And therefore, we need a temple. We need a tabernacle because of the glory, because there's glory out there. Without glory, everything in here is chaff. Everything in here is ephemeral. Everything here is meaningless. So that's why we need a temple or a tabernacle, number one. Number two, how then does the tabernacle work? How does it work? And the answer is it cuts a pathway through the barriers to God. Now, look at this whole passage. I mean, all at once. You see the flow of it? The flow of it is Moses is putting the tabernacle together, and God insists that he does it from the inside out. Look at that. He starts off by putting the Ark of the Covenant, which was the only piece of furniture in the deep center, the deepest center of the tabernacle, which is the Holy of Holies. Then he puts up the holy place, and he has the bread, and he has the light. Then he moves out into the court. You see that? The outer court where you have the altar for the burnt offerings, and you have the laver for the basin for washing, and so on. What we actually see here is God is very deliberately opening a way into his presence because over the Ark of the Covenant, God's glory dwells. Now, last week we talked a little bit about this, that the glory of God, the presence of God, the face of God is the ultimate experience. Moses hungered for it. Psalm 16 says, In thy face is fullness of joy. In thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. And what that means is all the pleasures, all the joys, all the beauties, all the loves you've ever sought are in this. Or all those that you've ever experienced are just dew drops compared to this, which is the ocean. But there's curtain after curtain after curtain, thing after thing, altar, basin, thing after thing, barrier after barrier between you and that. In other words, the message of the tabernacle is that there's a way of getting back. There's a way of getting into the very presence of God. There's a way of actually experiencing the very glory of God. But there are barriers after barriers. Now, a lot of people would say, well, that's like maybe primitive people were like that, but we don't feel like that about God. You know, I mean, primitive people needed temples and tabernacles. That's right, but we don't. We're different. No. No, we're not. There's not many things that I'm really an expert on. You know, I went right into the ministry. I didn't do anything else. I was a kid, then I became a minister. So the only thing I've been doing for years and years and years now is I'm a religious professional. But there's one area that I know something about. I have talked to hundreds, literally hundreds of people who have been on a spiritual journey, people trying to get into God. And I have noticed this. This is across the board. That people in the beginning, when their understandings of God are very vague and nebulous, God is very attractive. Very attractive prospect. The idea of connecting with God is very attractive. And so there's every indication that I can just walk right in. But as they begin to read, as they begin to study sacred texts, as they begin to reflect, as they begin to use, you know, the various sorts of spiritual resources, as their concept of God becomes particular, particular, as their understanding of God becomes a little more sharply focused, something happens. And what I find interesting is they begin to feel the barrier. And it doesn't matter what their age or what their culture, it doesn't matter. It's across the field. For example, in general, this is generalizing, but in general, I found that older generations and people from more traditional cultures come up against it like this. Older people and people from traditional cultures feel that there's nothing more important than being good. You need to be a good person. And as they begin to get closer to the real God, as their conception of God begins to get more particular, they begin to feel unworthy. They begin to feel that they'll never live up. They begin to feel a kind of threat. They begin to feel a barrier. You know what's going on? They're having a radical traumatic experience of spiritual smallness and they shrink back. And then there's other people. You say, well, what about people from modern western culture? What about you know post-modern people who don't think it's all that important to be good people? Who believe the most important thing is to be free to be who you want to be and who you choose to be. They also very often are extremely ready to go and, you know, let's find God. But as they get closer and as their view of God becomes more particular, something happens to them too. You see, they want a real God. Of course you want a real God. If you have a God that you think you just made up, that's not going to help you very much. I mean, a God that you just made up. You need a real God to tell you that you're valuable and

If you don't have a real God, if you don't have a real God, he's not going to be of much help. But if you have a real God, uh-oh, you begin to realize this God will have a will of his own that might cross my will. And younger people, people who say the most important thing, see, older people, the most important thing is to be good, they get an experience of radical traumatic spiritual smallness. They feel unworthy. But younger people and more modern people get the same thing. I'm not going to be free. I'm going to start losing control. And they begin to feel a threat. They begin to feel a barrier. They also experience radical, traumatic, spiritual smallness across the board, across the generations, across the cultures. It's there. The tabernacle was absolutely right. There's curtain after curtain after curtain. In fact, C.S. Lewis puts it really well when he says in his famous sermon, Weight of Glory, he says, our lifelong longing to be reunited with something in the universe from which we now feel cut off, to be on the inside of some door that we have always seen from the outside, is no mere neurotic fantasy. It's the truest index of our real situation. We have a sense that in this universe we are strangers. We have a longing to bridge some chasm that yawns between us and reality. there's a door on which we've been knocking all of our lives that we want to open. How do you account for that? See, it's real. You know, it's very silly to look at these ancient primitive people and say, oh, they had this sense that there were barriers between them and the reality of God. I can just pray. Yeah, to a God you've made up, to a God that's very vague, but I tell you, the closer you get to the real God, the closer you get to God of particularity, you begin to feel it. And the Bible accounts for this, by the way, and it's very germane to our understanding of this text. The Bible tells you how that happened in the beginning. Genesis 2 and Genesis 3. God created heaven on earth, the Garden of Eden, and he put us into the Garden of Eden, humanity. And He walked with them. They had His presence. They had the glory. They had an unmediated, undiluted experience of His presence. And therefore, every other relationship was right. Their relationship with nature was perfect. There was no disease or death. Their relationship with each other was perfect. They were naked and unashamed. That meant there was no hiding. There was no fear. There was no spinning. There was just perfect love and delight and mutual communication. And the relationship with themselves, in a sense, was perfect because they experienced nothing but joy. See? In the garden, heaven on earth, God's unmediated, undiluted presence. Because they had it, everything else was right. Every other relationship was right. Cultural, spiritual, psychological, and social. And when humanity decided we were going to be our own lords, our own gods, our own masters, all of that fell apart. And the Bible signifies what happened by saying that as Adam and Eve left the Garden of Eden, God, as it were, put a cherubim, an angel, at the door of the garden with a sword. And the sword represented the fact that the relationship between this world and that world is broken. But this is all what the tabernacle is about. Because if you, and I'm not saying you need to, but just take it from me because it's incredibly tedious. If you read the previous 15 chapters, if you read from chapter 25 all the way to chapter 40, most of which is about the details of how the tabernacle is supposed to be devised and designed and built, you will see there are cherubim and even palm trees everywhere on the curtains, on the veils, on the doorposts everywhere. Why? Cherubim? Palm trees? This is what God is saying when he builds the tabernacle. I have landed. I am coming back. This broken world with all of its cultural brokenness, its social brokenness, its psychological brokenness, all of this, I'm coming back. And I have built a prototype of the Garden of Eden. I'm in the center of that and I'm opening a way in, you will be able to come back. You'll be healed again of all these things. That's what the tabernacle is about. It's the promise of that. That is astounding. This is not just a little synagogue or church or mosque or something. The tabernacle is God saying, I have landed. I'm coming back and I'm opening a way in again. Now listen, when you realize how incredible this is, you'll immediately realize that this tent the very thing God is promising. It must be, see, common sense says this must be the sign of something, but this can't be the thing itself. And to drive that home, when the children of Israel went into exile into Babylon, while they were there, they had a prophet named Ezekiel. At the end, chapter 48, there is a vision that Ezekiel shared with the children of Israel, and he said, the temples we've had, the tabernacle we had, is just a sign. There is a temple coming. It will be enormous. It will be vast. In the vision, he says, for example, you know how in the old tabernacle and temple, only one high priest used to be able to go back into the Holy of Holies, and he had to, you know, once a year, only once a year on Yom Kippur, and he had to be, he had to shield his eyes for fear that he would see the Shekinah glory and it'd kill him, and he was the only one that came back one day a year like that. I see a vision of a temple, says Ezekiel, in which all of us can go in, and we can see the glory face to face, and have it full up, and be utterly healed. And not only that, not only will it be an enormous temple, not only will it be a temple in which everybody's a high priest, he says, but on top of that, it will not just have Jews in it. this is in Ezekiel 48, it'll be for all the nations. This prophecy is probably the reason why when Israel came back from the exile and they rebuilt the temple which had been destroyed by Nebuchadnezzar, we're told in the book of Ezra, chapter 3, verse 12, that the old timers, the old people, the people who had been probably almost like teenagers or children when they'd been taken into exile, and they had seen the older, Solomon's temple, that when the old-timers saw the temple that they built when they came back from the exile, they wept, and they were not weeping for joy. The text says they wept because they said, it's even smaller. This can't be the thing Ezekiel was talking about. This can't be the thing that the tabernacle was really about. Where is the way in? Where is the promise that the tabernacle and the temples, and obviously this temple too, is pointing to? Where is it? And that brings us to our third question. Why do we need a tabernacle? Because there is glory. How does the tabernacle work? It cuts through barriers into the presence of God. Who, number three, is the tabernacle pointing to? And only now that you see the enormity of the promise of the tabernacle, do you understand the enormity of the claim, the one thing Jesus Christ said that got Him killed? You know, Jesus said many, many outrageous things. We all know about many of them. But only one thing was dragged out at His trial. Only one thing led to His execution, You know which one it was? You can read about it in Matthew 26, verse 61, I think it is. This man said, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up again. And he was talking about himself. Do you understand what it means now when Jesus says, I am the temple? I, my death and resurrection, I am the temple. I'm the way into the heart of things. Do you realize the enormity of the claim? When John, the gospel writer John, says in John chapter 1 verse 14, and the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us, and we beheld His glory. Now, you know, in all of your translations, it'll always say, and the Word became flesh and lived among us, or the Word became flesh and dwelt among us. But the actual Greek word that John uses there, which is very deliberate and very obvious, he says, the Word became flesh and tabernacled among us, and we beheld His glory. Do you know what the claim is? Do you realize that this is beyond just Jesus Christ saying, I'm God? He's not just saying, I'm God. When He says, I am the temple, I am the axis mundi, I am the way in, He's saying two things. Number one, first of all, He is saying, when He says, I am the temple, He is saying, He is God. Because that's one thing in the temple, one thing in the tabernacle, was the Shekinah glory of God. When the glory of God comes down in its fullness, it is so white hot that even Moses can't go in. Moses could not enter the tent of meeting because the cloud had settled upon it. And yet, remember, this is something that kills on contact. We saw this last week. And Jesus has the audacity to say, I am that. But that's not all. Now, I hope in these last couple of minutes, I hope this sinks in. When Jesus says, I'm the temple, when John says he is the temple, he's the tabernacle, he is saying something more than just saying, I am God. You say, how could there be anything more? There is. He's not just saying, I am the God on the other side of the gap. I am the God on the other side of the barrier. He is saying, I'm also the way over the gap. I am the way through the barrier. I'm not just the Shekinah glory in the heart of it all. I'm the sacrifice. I'm the priest. I'm the basin. I'm the altar. I'm the bread. I'm the lamp. I'm everything. I fulfill it for you. See, you say, how could this be? Take the thread, pass it on through the centuries. Go back to Genesis 2 and 3. When Adam and Eve were cast out of the garden, what is put at the gate to paradise. What is put at the door between heaven and earth? A sword. The only way back into the heart of God is go under the sword. Someone has to pay. Pay for all the blood. Pay for all the sins. Pay for all the wrong. The only way back in is through a sword. That's at the middle of the bridge. That's right in the center of the doorway. between the two worlds. And that's the reason why when you go to the tabernacle and temple, how could the high priest ever go back into the holy place? He had to go into the sword. The holy of holies, he could only go one day a year, Yom Kippur, but he had to go with a sacrifice. Someone had to die. There had to be blood. An animal, of course. But now when we get to Jesus Christ, you will find that at the moment of his death, all of the gospels use tabernacle or temple imagery significance the momentousness of what has happened. And you can't understand, and I can't understand the momentousness of what has happened unless you understand the promise of the tabernacle. Because look, when Jesus died on the cross, what did he say? It is finished. Now what's he talking about? When did the glory come? When did the glory come in? Look it, at verse 33, Moses set up the courtyard. He was doing all this. And so Moses finished the work. God was saying, I'm going to show you how to set up a pathway into my presence. And when Moses finished the work, down came the glory. And when Jesus Christ died on the cross, he said, it is finished. What is he saying? He says, now it really is finished. I have completed the way in. I have built the real tabernacle, the real pathway in, of which Moses was just creating a symbol. And the minute he said, it is finished, Matthew and Mark says, the veil of the temple was ripped from top to bottom by two great big hands, as it were, invisible hands, as if someone way up there was saying, we won't be needing this anymore. Hebrews chapter 10 says, therefore, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, his body opened for us through the curtain. Let us draw near to God with full assurance of faith. I can't say it more radically than this. Christians are not nice people who have been reformed through moral effort. They are radically regenerated at the root people because that thing, the Shekinah glory, that thing which shook mountains and which killed on contact is now come into us. Explodes in our life now, not as a fatal, not as a traumatic, but as a life-giving, the life-giving thing. Listen, if somebody says, how could this be? how could that possibly be? How could the thing that killed on contact, how could the thing that shook the mountains and all that, how could that possibly be? When Jesus Christ died, the veil was ripped. In it comes. We have the access. The way is open. The real way is open. You say, how could that be? Well, remember this, and this is from last week, but even if you weren't here last week, we can recall it. When Moses said, show me your glory, God says, I will declare my name to you. So the very essence of his glory was what he says in Exodus 34, 6 and 7. And when he declares his glory, he says this, I am forgiving, but I never let sin go unpunished. Never. I am absolutely loving, and absolutely just. And you see, when John in chapter 1 says, the Word became flesh and dwelled among us, and we beheld His glory, glory as of the only begotten of the Father, he adds, full of grace and truth. And that is a deliberate reference to the fact that when God told Moses about His glory, He did the same thing. He says, I'm completely gracious and completely true. I'm totally loving and totally just. I forgive and I refuse to let any sin go unpunished. And when you hear him say that to Moses, you say that's impossible. And yet God says, unless you understand how I can be both, you'll never see my glory. This is the essence of my glory. Now, do you know why? It's only in Jesus that we can behold that glory. It's only understanding what Jesus has done that the glory comes? Here's a novel in which a young man who's a Hindu at the moment is talking to a priest. This is The Life of Pi, which is a book that's out right now. And this is a passage I want to read to you. Father Martin told me a story. And what a story. The first thing I felt was disbelief. What? Humanity sins, but it's God's son who takes the blame and pays the price? That a God should put up with adversity, I could understand. Adversity, yes. Treachery, yes. Humiliation? Death? I couldn't imagine Lord Krishna consenting to be stripped naked, whipped, mocked, dragged through the streets, and to top it off, crucified, and at the hands of a mere human to boot. I'd never heard of a God dying. Matter fell away, but divinity should not be blighted by death. It's wrong. It was wrong of the Christian God to let his avatar die. Was it a fake? Was he just shamming? Was his death real? Father Martin assured me that it was. But once a dead God, always a dead God, even resurrected. The son must have the taste of death forever in his mouth. There must be a certain stench even at the right hand of God the Father. The horror must be real. that upon himself, why not leave death to mortals? Why make dirty what is beautiful? Why spoil what is perfect? Love. That was Father Martin's answer. You see the glory? We beheld his glory full of grace and truth. I'm utterly gracious and utterly truthful. Here we have a Lord so true and just that he had to die. Couldn't just let us off. But so loving, and gracious that he was glad to die. This is so much more glory than just simply a big, immense God. This is so much more glorious than just a multicolored God. This is the glory. And God, when he says this to Moses, he says, you'll never be transformed until you see my glory. Now we understand why you can only see the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ in its purest and most transforming form. now where can you find the tabernacle, okay? If he's the tabernacle and he's opened a way in, where is it? How do we connect to it? Three things, three things, three practical things. Number one, first you'll find the tabernacle in a grace-based relationship with God. What do I mean by that? Well, now notice something. In the old tabernacle, on the way in to getting to meeting God, to do things. There was the labor. You had to wash. That was like confessing your sin. There were the offerings, which meant you had to bring your substance to serve God and other people. And then there were the prayers. In other words, on the way in, you had to do good deeds and care for other people and pray and live in a good way on the way in. But in the tabernacle that Jesus Christ has created, it's all reversed. Do you understand that? Because religion is, I do good, therefore I'm accepted. I get in. But Christianity is, I'm accepted. I'm in. Therefore I do good, which means that in the old tabernacle and in traditional religion, religion, you can see that you have to do all these good deeds on the way in to God. In other words, good deeds had centripetal force coming in. But in Christianity, if you understand that Jesus is the tabernacle and temple, you'll know that he has done it all for you. He is the laver, so you're clean in him. He is the priest, so you're accepted in him. He is the sacrifice, so you're completely pardoned in him. He is everything, which means he says, It is finished. Stop trying to be your own priest. Stop trying to do your own sacrifices, which means now that all of our good deeds we do on the way out, not on the way in. We've been accepted. We know him. It's not like we do good so that we can be accepted, but because we're accepted, we do good, and we move on out into the world with gratitude and joy. And the things we do, which look very much the same way as somebody who's doing it on the way in, on the outside, but inside it's all the difference in the world. Now, there's a lot of ways of doing that. The secular person says, I'm going to live a good life. That way I know I'm a good person. Then I can really feel good about myself. The religious person says, I'm going to do good. That way God will take me to heaven. It's basically the same thing. It's centripetal in its force. You're doing good on the way in, and you're going to find it a grind, and you're going to find that all your good deeds are really about you. They're not about the people you're helping. You're doing it because you need it. But the gospel puts a power and joy at your center. You're already in it, so why are you helping people? Because you want to be like the one who did all that in love. Joy, gratitude, you're doing it for their sake, not for your sake. People who are doing good deeds on the way in feel superior to people who aren't doing it well, or they feel inferior to people who are doing better than they do, but on the way out, it doesn't matter. You see, you're not self-righteous, you're not insecure. Where do you find the tabernacle now? In an absolute grace-based relationship with God through Jesus Christ, number one. Number two, the second place you find the tabernacle is in intimacy with God. The Bible tells us that what we've been saying is true: in Jesus Christ, we can know God face to face now. We're all priests. We don't pay one man to go back once, one day a year to go back and maybe get a glimpse of the Shekinah glory. We can go in. Paul says, we behold His glory. John says, we behold His glory. What does that mean? It means at least this, at least this. Charles Spurgeon said this years ago in one of his sermons. He says,

lately. I can tell you this. I want this because it's available, and it's available because the perfect priest, the perfect sacrifice has opened a way all the way into the heart of things. The tabernacle is in a grace-based relationship with God. Secondly, the tabernacle is in face-to-face communion and fellowship, which has been open for us. And here's one last thing. that we, because I said Christians, are people who have actually received now the Shekinah glory of God in their own lives. The Bible actually says we are the temple. 1 Peter 2 says we are the temple, built of living stones. But notice, by the way, Peter, when he says that, doesn't say, I am a temple and you're a temple, so we're all a bunch of little temples. We're all built into a temple, and here's what this means: at least our community is supposed to be a place of beauty. We are the tabernacle. The community of believers is the tabernacle. And all of the work that Moses put in to making the tabernacle beautiful — because it was heaven on earth, it was going to show the world that God is coming back, that God is going to land and we're going to have a garden again, we're going to be a paradise — that work has to go into our relationships. Moses had to make every single thing about the tabernacle beautiful. Precious stones, precious metals, gorgeous curtains, incredible colors, brilliant, beautiful. Everything in the tabernacle had to be beautiful. Now, all of that detail and all of that work has to go into our relationships. The way we get along, the way we love each other, the way we have friendships across racial barriers, the way we share our money with each other, we are supposed to now show the world the beauty of the place where God's presence dwells. We are supposed to show how, at least partially now, because we've begun to experience the presence of God, all of those alienations are getting healed. Our relationship with culture, our social relationships, our psychological relationships, and our cultural relationships. Put all of the concern and all of the detail and all the love that Moses put into making the tabernacle beautiful into making our relationships beautiful, our friendships beautiful, our community beautiful. That's where you'll find the tabernacle now. That's available too now. Come to Jesus. He'll take you all the way in. As the Word says, Now there have been many priests, but they have died. But because Jesus lives forever, he has the permanent priesthood. Therefore, he is able to save to the uttermost those who come to God through him. Let's pray. Thank you, Father, for opening a new and living way through Jesus into the heart of things. And we ask now that you'd help us to understand how we are supposed to live that out and help us to walk with you. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.