The scripture reading tonight comes from the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 6, verses 1 through 15. Be careful not to do your acts of righteousness before men, to be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your Father in heaven. So when you give to the needy, do not announce it with trumpets, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and on the streets, to be honored by men. I tell you the truth, they have received their reward in full. give to the needy. Do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret. Then your father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and on the street corners to be seen by men. I tell you the truth. They have received their reward in full. But when you pray, go into your room, close the door, and pray to your father, who is unseen. Then your Father, who sees what is done in secret, will reward you. And when you pray, do not keep babbling like pagans, for they think they will be heard because of their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. This, then, is how you should pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us today our daily bread. This is the word of the Lord. We're going through the book of, we're going through the Sermon on the Mount each week. week, and now we come to the most famous part of the most famous sermon in history, which is the Lord's Prayer. And it would be very, very possible to profit from crawling through the Lord's Prayer one word at a time, week after week after week, and that makes perfect sense. You know, throughout history, when the catechisms of the church have been created, catechisms was a way of trying to put all of Christian teaching into a compendium that you could bring new converts through so they could grasp Christianity. Virtually always, catechisms were based on the Apostles' Creed, the Ten Commandments, and the Lord's Prayer. That if you could master and understand every word of the Apostles' Creed, the Ten Commandments, and the Lord's Prayer, it was thought, rightly, you could master the essence of the Christian teaching and the Christian faith. And therefore, it would be very profitable for us to go through the Lord's prayer very slowly. But sometimes, only when you take a top-level view, you stand back, you look at the whole prayer, and not only the whole prayer, but the context, the things that Jesus says before and after, do you see some of the teaching that Jesus is trying to get across about prayer, some crucial teaching, and that's what we're going to do tonight. night. However, the thing we've got working against us with the Lord's Prayer is the familiarity. We know it too well. Years ago, when I was in my very first church in Virginia, there was a, one of my elders lived in a little house right alongside the train tracks, and the train would come by literally somewhere between six to ten feet away from his living room wall. And the first visiting him, the train came by and it sounded like it was coming through the door. And I said, what's that? I said, and they all said, the family said, what's what? Because if it goes by three or four times a day, year after year after year, you don't hear it anymore. Now, the Lord's prayer is far more dynamic than a train coming through your living room wall. As powerful an image as be. The Lord's Prayer is dynamite, and yet we don't know it. We don't feel it. I'm not saying we shouldn't memorize it, but you should memorize it with understanding, and let's take a step in that direction. Let's see what Jesus tells us here about the foundation for prayer, the substance of prayer, and then the key to having a rightly founded, substantial, effective prayer life. life, the foundation for it, the substance of it, and the key to it. First, the foundation for prayer. When I lived in Pennsylvania, some of you, if you're my age especially, you might know that there's an interstate highway that goes from Pittsburgh to Lake Erie, and for many years it was not completed in one little stretch, year after year, because they found it so difficult and it was difficult to build across the swamp because it was so deep. And they would keep building things and finding that they had sunk. Sometimes even their equipment, their tractors would sink. They'd leave it on a piece of what they thought was dry land and it would sink overnight. They had trouble finding a foundation on which to build. And many times I've had people say to me something like this. They said, you know, my life is sinking and when I pray, my prayers just sink with me. Prayer is not helping me. I'm not sensing God. It's not changing my life. And when somebody says something like that, there's many things that could be going on. But one of them might be you don't know the foundation for prayer because Jesus gives us a dynamite prayer here, a dynamic understanding of prayer, but it's based on a foundation. foundation. You have to have that right foundation. What is that foundation? Well, you can see it in these first eight verses leading up to the prayer. And here Jesus is actually talking to his disciples and he's looking at the religious leaders of the day and he's saying, don't be like them. And he uses a, as a test, giving to the poor, verses one to four, and prayer. Now, I want you to see how this is very startling, actually. I want you to see that Jesus is not saying, don't be like them because they don't give to the poor and they don't pray. Jesus is not saying, I want my disciples to give to the poor in prayer and pray, not like these people over here who don't give to the poor and they don't pray. No, no, no. They give to the poor and they pray. In fact, they pray diligently. And yet Jesus says, I don't want you to have their attitude. I don't want you to have their orientation of heart. I don't want you to have their motivation because it's absolutely deadly. The reason they do things and the way in which they do things. It's not the external acts of righteousness or acts of piety, like giving to the poor in prayer. He says those are fine. But he says it's not enough just to be doing them. Everything turns on why you're doing them. And what's going on in your heart. As you're doing them. And what are those things. Well notice. He says the religious leaders. When they give to the poor. First of all. They want a reputation. They're giving to the poor. To get a reputation. They want to be honored. But then they also. It also says. When Jesus says. Don't let your left hand. Know what your right hand is doing. That's a metaphor. What does it mean. To let your left hand know what your right hand is doing means to congratulate yourself. So here's your right hand over here giving to the poor. And the left hand is saying, good job, right hand. And to let your left hand know what your right hand is doing means to congratulate yourself. And so here are people. They're giving to the poor. But they want their reputation. And they're filled with a kind of patronizing paternalism toward the poor. And a lot of self-congratulation on the inside. how they pray. Again, it says, when you pray, don't be like them because they love to pray standing in the synagogue, which means the congregation, and they think that they will be heard for because of their babbling, their many words. Now, babbling is a word that means it's intense, lots and lots and lots of words, very intense. And so here we're told these people think that because of the intensity of their spiritual devotional actions, God will have to hear them. He will have to bless them. And when people see how prayerful they are, people will also bless them. Now, what is Jesus saying? Jesus is saying there's two ways to live a moral life, to give to the poor, to do moral actions, to pray. There's two completely different ways. One is you can do it to control God and to control people. You're doing it to get control of their regard. You're saying, if I live like this, then people will have to bless me. They will have to admire me. God will have to listen to me. God will have to hear what I'm saying. God will have to bless me. Or you can do it as a response to free grace. You can do it just because you have been given everything. And in gratitude and joy, you just simply want to respond with prayer given to the poor out of gratitude, not out of a desire to control. Now you say, okay, now wait a minute though. So you're saying Jesus' disciples are supposed to be doing it just for the joy of it, not in order to get things. But doesn't it say over and over again, you must seek the reward. Be careful not to do your acts of righteousness before men, men. Verse one. To be seen by them. If you do, you will have no reward from your father. But let me point out something. Over and over and over again. Jesus says, I want you to remember that you get rewarded by your father. Verse one. You'll get no reward from your father. Verse four. Then the father will reward you. Verse six. Then the father will reward you. Verse eight. Then your father will give you what you need. I want you to see a boss and a father both reward, but in completely different ways. A boss and a father reward in completely different ways. Okay, bosses need something to get done in their company, so they advertise. And then you can apply. And if you're qualified, you'll get the job. And if you work hard and do the job they have hired you to do, you'll get paid. You'll be rewarded. And if everything works right and you're doing your job and the job is the job that needs to be done, then the company makes a profit. Reward. The boss rewards you. You're rewarding the company. And so it goes. But fathers and little children, it's completely different. First of all, if you are a son or a daughter, if you're a child in a family, whether you got there by adoption or whether you got there by biology. I want you to know you did not apply for the job. You were not qualified for the job. And you were there because you were chosen by grace. You were there by sheer grace, by the action of the parent. And inside a family, if you say to your five-year-old or your seven-year-old or your a three-year-old. If you say, I want you to do something for me. And they do something for you. Are you really profiting? Or put it this way. If your little daughter comes up to you when she's six years old and she says, Mommy, I really want a dollar bill. Can you give me a dollar bill so I can buy you a present? She's got her eye on something. I want to buy you a present. And if that moves you and you say, oh. And then you give her the dollar bill. She goes and buys. You're are not a dollar to the good. I just want you to know. You're not a dollar to the good. The way a parent rewards a child is utterly different than the way a boss rewards an employee. And Jesus is saying, and here's the point. Jesus is saying, I want you to pray. But I want you to pray. I'm calling you to the kind of prayer. And the requirement for that prayer is a grace-based family relationship with God as father. A grace-based family relationship with God as father. If you have a relationship with God as a boss, so that you say, quid pro quo. I'm doing this. Now God owes me. That produces a completely different kind of life and a completely different kind of prayer life, then if you see that you have been chosen by grace, that you have a family relationship, that is you have a grace-based relationship with God as a Father, that's the reason why the very, very, very first word in Jesus' paradigmatic prayer is Father, our Father. And why he says Father over and over and over again. Look, God is a creator, so he owns you. God is the king, so he rules you. But if a king or a president is your father, and if you're a little child, and that king or that president or that billionaire or that potentate is your father, then all of that power is gentled toward you. All that power is exercised in a way of love and tenderness toward you. That power is not intimidation. And it's all done through grace. You cannot profit your father. And everything your father showers on you. Is by grace. Now that's going to create. Two different kinds of prayer life. And two different kinds of people. Because if you have a boss relationship. With God. Let's talk about the differences. First of all. If you have a boss relationship. With God. You might be religious. But almost everything. You do. Is in public. For example. Are you church goers. If you're a church goer. When you're here. You're praying. You've been through prayer. You stand. And you pray. do you have a rich private prayer life do you spend much more time secretly all by yourself in prayer during the week than you do standing and praying here see if you don't if this is the main place that you pray you've got probably a boss relationship with God not a father relationship with God. Or take a look at the attitude. Think about the fact that these religious leaders, through their quid pro quo relationship with God, have constructed a self-image based on the image of themselves as a good person. That's how they know they're okay. That's how they know no, God will listen to them. That's why they want people to regard them. I'm a good person. I'm a decent person. I've worked very hard. I care for the poor. I pray. I'm a devoted person. So your self-image is based on this idea of yourself as a good person, which means it's a fragile self-image. Because when people criticize you or when you fail, that's the reason why you go back and forth between anxiety and self-righteousness. But if you have a family relationship with God, if God is not your boss, but he's your father, then your self-image is not on you being a good person but on being a loved person. You know a five year old a six year old on the knee of a father. Sometimes the kid's good sometimes the kid's bad but the kid's loved. In fact as those of you who are fathers and mothers know when you've got a little kid who's actually acting bad and acting up and kind of going off the rails your heart is more engaged. You are unconditionally loved. And that is a self-image that is absolutely rock solid. That can't change. And so you're not touchy. You can handle criticism. You can handle failure. And look at the difference in the prayer lives. If you have a boss relationship with God, prayer is mainly about getting things, getting things, babbling intensely. I need this and this. After all, you owe me. As we're going to see here in one second, The prayer that Jesus calls us to, though it has petition in it, there are places to ask. Of course you ask your Father. Of course you do. And yet, the main purpose of prayer is fellowship. It's relationship. It's friendship. Look how much is given to adoration and confession. Repentance. Why? Because if the main reason you pray is a relationship, if you're in love with somebody, buddy. You get together what? To tell them how much you admire them and to make sure that there's nothing going wrong in the relationship. That's adoration and repentance. And if you have a prayer life that gets bigger when you have a problem and you start to pray, petition, asking God for things. And when things are going well in your life, your prayer life kind of goes to nothing. That's a boss relationship with God. Based on the idea, basically prayer is about getting things. but if you have a grace relationship with God, it's all about the relationship. And therefore, let's move on now. You see, what's the foundation? A grace-based family relationship with God as Father, not simply using the name Father like it's a magic formula, but to objectively have a family relationship with Him and to subjectively understand what it means to have a family relationship with him. Now, let's look at the prayer itself. If that's the foundation, what actually happens in the Lord's Prayer? And as I said before, we could easily crawl through it one verse, you know, one, no, not verse, one word at a time. But I'd rather stand back and I'd like to show you that since the Lord's Prayer is a paradigm for all prayer, let's notice four things that Jesus wants you to do when you pray. There's adoring, accepting, asking, and rebelling against the evil status quo. Couldn't think of another word that started with an A. There's adoring, there's accepting, there's asking, and there's rebelling against the evil status quo. First, there's adoring. It's pretty hard to miss that Jesus doesn't let you get to ask for your own needs for a long time through this prayer. The prayer is practically half over before you're allowed to do that. You start, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, before you even get to give us this day our daily bread. So what's going on in the beginning? Well, as I said, if you have a family relationship with God his Father, then one of the things you want to do is you want to praise Him. You want to adore Him for all He is. For the beauty of who He is. For the beauty of it. So what are you saying to Him? You're saying you're heavenly. Which means you're infinite and transcendent. You're majestic. Secondly, you're saying you're holy. You're haloed. You're holy. You're pure. Thirdly, you're saying He's personal. Haloed be your name. about the fact that our God has a name. He's not an impersonal force that kind of, you know, the life force in everything. He's got a name. He's a person. He's somebody who you can talk to. You can talk back in his word. He's a person you can love and be loved by. And so what are you doing? And then, of course, he's our father. Our father. My father. Intimate. What are you doing? Here's what you're doing. Adoration is probably. I'm hedging what I'm saying a little You're supposed to do a lot of things in prayer, but I will go so far as to say adoration is probably the main thing you should do in prayer, which is a little scary for some of us since it's very often something we hardly do at all. And yet, let me show you why there's nothing more practical. Do you know what you really need? You need to plunge yourself into the fullness of who he is existentially until your heart is dazzled by who he is, until your heart is reminded who he is. Until your heart is reminded. See, for example, you have in your mind, let's say, you believe in God. Do you believe in God? Great. And do you believe in a loving God? Great. And you say, well, I believe that God loves me. Great. And then along comes criticism. Along comes rejection. A relationship breaks up. Along comes failure. And you feel like I've lost my reputation. And you're devastated. part. Why? Because you've lost this person's love or these people's love or you've lost these people's love. And you know God loves you, but it's of no consolation. You know why? Because his love isn't real to your heart. It's not existentially real. It's abstraction. You ever notice that if you're doing something and you hear something on audio only, you can kind of tune it out. But if you're trying to do something, you're trying to watch something on video, it's almost impossible to tune it out. And let me tell you what prayer does. does. It takes the love of God, the greatness of God, the power of God, the wisdom of God, which in most of us, if you believe in God, it's on audio and in prayer puts it on video. So that suddenly I'm plunged in the prayer time into who he is, the fullness of who he is, and his love becomes more real than the rejection. And I can handle it. And I can hold my head up again. What could be more practical than that? And yet that's the first thing that we're supposed to be doing in prayer, adoration. But not only adoring, secondly, accepting. Thy will be done. You know, I always shiver a little bit when we get to thy will be done. And I always feel this little bit of dread that creeps on me, and I want to share that with you. I want you to be just as creeped out by that term as me. I would like to share what I have. Do you know what you're saying when you're saying thy will be done? You're saying at least this to God. Because where do you get his will? You find his will in the Scripture, the Bible. You also find his will when you look at what's happening in your life, because the Bible says all things work together for good to those who love God and called according to his purpose. Romans 8.28, or Joseph speaking to his brothers in Genesis 50, when they had this horrendous life, and yet he looks at them and he says, you meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. One of the ways you can see God's will is stuff happens in your life, and he's sovereign over your life, and things happen. When you say, thy will be done, you're saying at least this, Lord, I will obey everything you say, in your word, even if I don't like it, and I will accept everything you send into my life, even though I don't understand it. You see why I shiver? See why I hope you will shiver next time? And you say, huh, why would I say that? Why would I? Now that you show me what I'm saying, why would I say that? I'll tell you why. Because you need deep rest for your soul. sleep is, rapid eye movement sleep. It's the deep sleep that you've got to have a couple hours a night if you're going to wake up refreshed. This is the REM of the soul. Because this,

most kids, let's just say, imagine a 17, a seven-year-old boy, a seven-year-old boy sitting by his father in a car and they're driving along. And as you pull up to a parking place, The little boy looks up and says, Daddy, let me drive. And so what you do when the father turns and says, well, now, honey, you have to understand you can't drive because, first of all, your feet can't reach. And besides that, you can't see up. And because you don't have the reflexes and because in this state you're not allowed until a certain age. And it would be very bad. And you just can't do it. So he cries. And he weeps. And he says, I don't understand. Of course, you're seven. Of course, you can't understand. but most kids have some idea that I'm a child and that's an adult. And adults understand these things. And even though he doesn't understand and even though he gets upset, he accepts the child-adult distinction. And so they go into the house. But there are some kids, and we know about this, that they're not in touch with reality. They do not accept the parent-child, the idea that I'm a child and you're an adult. Children who, as soon as the father's back is turned, will grab the keys, in spite of what he's been told, run over into the car, put them in the car, turn on the ignition, take off, and die. There are kids like that, we know. Spiritually, the Bible says all of us are more like that second kid than we are like the first. We do not accept the creator-creature distinction. distinction. We're out of touch with reality. And therefore, we're always mad. And we're always scared. Because things in life aren't going the way they've got to go. They've got to go. And there's nothing you need more than this. To lay down the melancholic burden of believing that you know what's best. There's nothing you need more than that. And therefore, when you get into prayer. One of the things you're trying to do. Is to heal your perspective. Heal your perspective. Say, Lord, I feel like I know what's best. That's why I'm mad at you. And I'm upset. I'm scared that you're not going to do things right. But thy will be done. You're getting in touch with a creator creature distinction. You're getting in touch with reality. You're recognizing your limits as a human being. You're having your perspective healed. You're laying down the terrible burden of thinking you know. And that is the way you finally get the deep rest that every human being needs, and that I think you only get in prayer. So first there's adoring. Then there's accepting. Thirdly, there's asking. Oh, finally. Okay. You know, omnipotent Father loves me unconditionally. Great. It's time to get to asking. And we do have things we ask for. Give us this day our daily bread. That's the basics of our daily life, the basic practical needs we need. Forgive us our debts. We need mercy for our conscience when we feel like we've done wrong. Lead us not into temptation. We need challenges. We have challenges out there, and we need strength. So I need strength to face my challenges. I need mercy and a sense of pardon to deal with my conscience and my failures. I need help just to make ends meet and see things happening in the world. But notice, those are sort of vertical. They're like, those are vertical requests, I call them. I'm talking to God. Please things I need. But what about the horizontal aspect? And it's there because it says, forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And at the very end, Jesus makes a major point when he says, if you do not forgive men their sins, your Father will not forgive your sins. Now, here's why this is so important. Prayer is not just vertical. It's not just, I'm asking God for my needs. Prayer must also be horizontal, and that is prayer must affect your social relationships. You should be asking God to put your relationships right, and prayer will put your relationships right. Here's why. When people read this, sometimes they say, wait, if you do not forgive men their sins, your Father will not forgive you your sins. And you think, well, I guess what Jesus is saying here is, if I don't forgive Mr. A over here, Now, when I go and I ask for forgiveness, God will say, no. That's probably not what he's saying. Most commentators think this, that if you don't forgive people, then you won't repent. It's not like if you forgive and if you don't forgive, then when you repent, God won't hear you. No, no. In general, you can't stay angry at somebody unless you think you're better than they are. In general, you can't stay angry at somebody unless you feel you're better, unless you say, I would never do that, which shows you don't know who you are. It shows you've got a boss relationship with God. You don't see yourself as a sinner saved by sheer grace. And Jesus is right. If you, in general, do not forgive other people, that shows a lack of humility on your part. It shows that you don't know you're a sinner saved by grace, that you've been forgiven. And the only reason you've got any relationship with God is because you have been forgiven. So what's beautiful here, not only about what's right here at the end of the prayer, verses 14 and 15, but what started the whole passage before the prayer. If you really know you're a sinner saved by grace and you have a family relationship with God, then when you pray and you drill that family relationship into your heart existentially, it will make it not only easier for you to forgive other people personally who have wronged you, but it'll also put your social relationships right, not just your personal relationships right. Remember how we said that people who help the poor out of a boss relationship with God are self-congratulatory, condescending? How wonderful of me to help you poor people. Listen, when you actually do help the poor with that attitude, they don't appreciate it. And Jesus says, that must be gone in my disciples, if you know you're a sinner saved by grace and you have a family relationship, then you know that you were spiritually bankrupt and you were only saved because of the costly grace of God. And you will never look down your nose at a person. You'll never look down condescendingly on a person who is physically or morally bankrupt. So what Jesus is saying is, when you pray, pray that your personal relationships and your social relationships will be filled with forgiveness and filled with justice. And as you pray, they will be. And lastly, adoration, accepting, asking, and finally,

rebelling against the evil status quo. Jeff's already referred to a couple of quotes in the very beginning. Karl Barth said that when you pray, you are rebelling against the disorder order of the world. And he's referring to the last thing I want to show you in the Sermon on the Mount, I mean in the Lord's Prayer, where Jesus says, pray, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. You see, when God created the world, he didn't create it to be filled with the injustice and the racism, didn't create it to be filled with the sickness and the death and the disease and the hunger that it's in now. You can find that out by going to Genesis 1, 2, and 3. And so when you see that out there, when you see that out there, you need to say, I want to be on the side of God's future. I don't know how quickly God is going to do this or that. We know at the end of time, God's going to put everything right. In the meantime, we're on his side when we pray against it and when we work against it and we ask God to use our prayers to deal with the disorder and what's wrong with the world. You see the genius of this? For most of us, if it wasn't for the Lord's Prayer, most of us would be mad that God's not letting our life go the way we want it to go, and we would just acquiesce in all the mess around us out there and all the suffering out there. But the prayer will turn that around. It'll say, on the one hand, if you pray the Lord's Prayer, it means you will not like the stuff out there that's happening to other people, and it will turn you into an agent against it. You won't acquiesce in it. Meanwhile, you'll become tranquil, and you'll be resting in the knowledge that what's happening in your own life, God is in control. What a genius of prayer this is. But now look, last, just got to say this. We have said that this dynamite, this prayer that if you pray rightly like this, will galvanize your life, get you in touch with reality, give you deep rest, turn you into an agent of change in the world. See, all this great stuff is still based on this conviction. And the conviction is that you are an unconditionally loved child by your father. If you don't have that, if you slide back into this idea that God is my boss and I've got to do all these things and then maybe God will have to do this and that for me. If you slide away from that conviction that you are a unconditionally loved little child of God, who's now your father. If you lose that conviction, then the prayer doesn't work. And you start to lose all these dynamics and all these benefits. But I've I've actually had people say to me over the years, I love it when you use this image of a father and a little son or a little daughter, and that's how he loves us. The problem is it's hard for me to see myself like that because I'm a big mess. I'm not a little child. I've done very bad things. Sure, five-year-olds can do bad things too, but nothing like a 50-year-old can or a 25-year-old. And I've had many people say, how can I be sure he loves me like that? that. How can I be sure I have a father, son, daughter relationship with him? How can I absolutely know it? Well, here's how you can know it. Here's the key to knowing it. Jesus didn't just tell us to pray this way. He prayed this at the climactic moment in history. He prayed the Lord's Prayer. And you know when he did it? In the Garden of Gethsemane and on the cross. In the Garden of Gethsemane, sweating blood, seeing what he was going to go through, the death he was going to die, he falls to the ground. He says, Father,

my soul is sorrowful even unto death. I'm dying under the stress of this pain. If possible, could this cup pass from me, this thing I have to endure? Nevertheless, Not my will, but thine be done. See, there it is. Father, can you give me this? But if not, thy will be done. He prays the Lord's Prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane. And you know why? Because on the cross, he finished the Lord's Prayer when he said, Father, forgive them. One person said once, the one thing that Jesus couldn't pray out of this Lord's Prayer was, us our debts. There's no place where Jesus says, forgive me my sins. Why? Because he was sinless. But do you realize the reason he had to die, the reason he had to drink that cup, the reason he had to say thy will be done was because when he said, Father, forgive him, there was no way for Father to forgive him unless he died. He took all that punishment on himself. And now there's nothing but love for you if you believe in him. All the punishment you deserved, all the wrath you deserved, it fell into his heart. Because he prayed the prayer, the Lord's Prayer, the ultimate Lord's Prayer, in the garden and on the cross. Now you know you can pray this Lord's Prayer, confident that you're unconditionally loved by the Father. This is dynamite. but the dynamite will only ignite and transform your life into a life of stability and gratitude and joy if you have received Christ as Savior and therefore have rights as sons and daughters of the King because you know that what he did on the cross was pray that prayer and by that prayer he saved you so you can pray this prayer every day and have it change your life forever. So why not? Let's pray. Our Father, we ask that you would help us understand this treasure chest, the Lord's Prayer, this medicine chest. It's a medicine chest. It'll heal us of everything that ails us. It's a treasure chest of infinite value and worth. Everything we need is here. But what the key is knowing that because your son prayed, We can trust you and say thy will be done because your son said, Father, forgive my debtors. We're forgiven. Anyway, Lord, there's too much to pray about other than to say, teach us to pray. And teach us to pray in Jesus' name. Amen.